Capture the breezy South Beach glamour with Art Deco furniture, vibrant hues and tropical touches South Beach style inspiration from Homesense Peacock table lamp, €46.99, homesense.ie Sideboard, €1,849, woodesign.ie Rug, €3,330, roche-bobois.com Teal sofa, €949, michaelmurphy.ie Cocktail table, €299, woodesign.ie Glass bookend, €338, reflections-copenhagen.com Artificial plant, €16.99, tkmaxx.ie Mirror, €195, marksandspencer.com Pink shell vase, €20.95, sklum.com Leaf footstool, €155, orianab.com When we think of Miami, thoughts usually turn to the turquoise waters, Latin swagger and Art Deco architecture of South Beach — a melting pot of multiculturalism that swings from Little Havana to Little Moscow and pulsates with vibrant colour that has given it its moniker the ‘island playground’. Developed by entrepreneur Carl Fischer in 1915, the peninsula was sculpted from swamps and mangroves with notable Art Deco architectural lines and curves that still remain today, making it the city with the highest concentration of Art Deco buildings in the world, saving the South Beach skyline from a concrete jungle. But South Beach style isn’t all about 1920s and 1930s Art Deco. It’s also about capturing the breezy spirit of Miami in all it’s wonderful glorious colour; a cool and sophisticated mix of vintage and contemporary glam that reflects the city’s fusion of eras and cultures. Peacock table lamp, €46.99, homesense.ie Leaning into the maximalist glamour is probably best if you want to achieve the look. Think Art-Deco furniture, animal-print textiles, tropical hints, bold colours and plenty of greenery. If you’re feeling brave, use a saturated colour such as teal all over with accents of white to tone it down. Teal sofa, €949, michaelmurphy.ie If you’re not ready for the full Miami makeover, applying vibrant hues like magentas, teals, yellows, oranges, pinks and blues to transparent or soft-sheen materials such as velvet or glass takes the emphasis off but still allows it to look rich. Mirror, €195, marksandspencer.com Miami has a thriving art scene, so nothing is meant to look uniform. The city plays with unique and individual expression, so don’t be afraid to include plenty of personal art and objects — the bigger you go, the better. Look for a statement piece that anchors a room, such as a colourful curved sofa (SLF24, EZ Living, Sklum) or an Art Deco-inspired cabinet (Woo Design, Oriana B) and then work other pieces around it. Sideboard, €1,849, woodesign.ie Create a talking point on the floor with a colourful rug from Roche Bobois. Its contemporary collection ranges from tropical motifs and 1970s retro to misshapen pops of colour and the decorative arts. Rug, €3,330, roche-bobois.com Don’t forget the perfect cocktail table for all those fruity drinks such as Woo Design’s 4-in-1 Bold Monkey cocktail side table with major Art Deco/Miami Vice vibes. Cocktail table, €299, woodesign.ie Art Deco has been floating around the periphery of interior trends since the 1960s, never fully out but comfortable in its permanent position of appreciation. Its sophistication can be found in the sculptural furniture, arc-shaped homewares and abstract wallpapers that have been trending over the last few years, making it relatively easy to nod to the trend without going full Deco. Consider an Art Deco-style mirror (M&S, La Redoute, Oliver Bonas) or look out for a colourful shell vase to hint at that bit of beachside glamour (Sklum). Pink shell vase, €20.95, sklum.com Smoked or coloured glass can lend a 1920s edge. Reflections Copenhagen’s collection of coloured glass objects, from bookends to candlesticks, are designed with Art Deco in mind but with added dimensions that challenge traditional styles, marking them as contemporary. Tropical touches could include a leaf-print wallpaper, cushion or footstool (Oriana B). Glass bookend, €338, reflections-copenhagen.com But why settle for a print when you can fill your home with the real thing? Not green-fingered? Try placing some artificial plants in colourful pots around your home (Homesense, M&S, Woodies). Artificial plant, €16.99, tkmaxx.ie There’s a hint of whimsy about South Beach style that invites you to play. It can be whatever you want it to be — casual, decadent, brassy, gay, straight, elegant but never boring. Leaf footstool, €155, orianab.com Join the Irish Independent WhatsApp channel Stay up to date with all the latest news