Blink-182 have postponed four gigs in the UK and Ireland after announcing that drummer, Travis Barker has had to fly back to the U.S. due to an urgent family matter. The announcement was made by the band via its social media accounts, stating, “Due to an urgent family matter, Travis has had to return home to the States. The Glasgow, Belfast, and Dublin shows are being postponed. More information in regards to his return to Europe and rescheduled dates will be provided as soon as available.” No further information on Barker’s emergency has been provided, however Barker himself took to his Instagram 'stories' over the last 24 hours to post photos of a prayer room, including a photo of a flag reading ‘Together we pray’. Barker’s wife, Kourtney Kardashian is currently pregnant. Due to an urgent family matter, Travis has had to return home to the States. The Glasgow, Belfast, and Dublin shows are being postponed. More information in regards to his return to Europe and rescheduled dates will be provided as soon as available.September 1, 2023 See more The postponed gigs were due to start tonight (1 September), with a two-night run at Glasgow’s OVO Hydro, followed by dates at the Belfast SSE Arena and Dublin’s 3Arena on 4 & 5 September respectively. Blink-182 has a number of European dates scheduled between now and their return to the UK in October. None of these gigs, including the dates in London (11/12 October), Birmingham (14 October) and Manchester (15/16 October) have been affected at this time. The postponed shows would have been the band’s first European dates since the classic Blink-182 line-up of Tom DeLonge, Mark Hoppus and Travis Barker reunited in 2022 following DeLonge’s seven-year absence from the band. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.