National Geographic content straight to your inbox—sign up for our popular newsletters here Literary festivals are all over the UK and Ireland this month, in locations just as appealing as the books they showcase. 1. Hay Festival Set on the beautiful Wales-England border, this year’s packed festival includes travel writer Kapka Kassabova delivering the 2023 Jan Morris Lecture, Ray Mears discussing the British woodland, and Bear Grylls and Ranulph Fiennes celebrating a love of wild spaces. Author-led tours with Wayfair Walks explore the Brecon Beacons, while the Lviv BookForum brings Ukraine’s biggest book festival to Wales. 25 May to 4 June. 2. Guernsey Literary Festival Celebrating bold writing and big ideas, this event includes highlights such as a talk by Susie Dent (from Channel 4’s Countdown) centred on her book An Emotional Dictionary — Real Words For How We Feel, and family-focused drawing classes from children’s illustrator Rob Biddulph. The festival also offers poetry competitions, writing workshops and the chance to stretch your legs on Guernsey’s coastal trails and nature walks. 2 to 14 May. 3. Stratford Literary Festival Novelist Maggie O’Farrell, Professor Brian Cox, comedian Al Murray and poet Pam Ayres: just some of the big names set to converge on the Bard’s hometown to discuss their work. And for visitors, there are plenty of opportunities to get involved, too, including a crime-writing workshop led by Ian Rankin and Elly Griffiths, and writers’ bootcamps culminating in the chance to pitch to a literary agent. 2 to 7 May.  4. International Literature Festival Dublin The Georgian streets that were once fertile ground for James Joyce, W B Yeats and Oscar Wilde welcome Ireland’s leading literary festival this May. The 10-day event celebrates the best Irish and international writers, poets, lyricists, playwrights and screenwriters. Book-themed guided walks are also offered. 19 to 28 May. 5. The Bath Festival This year, Bath’s annual celebration of music and books has the theme ‘Opening Up’. Accordingly, more than 130 talks, workshops and performances will take place in 50 elegant public buildings, with highlights including travel writer Raynor Winn in conversation with Isabella Tree on restoring our natural landscapes. 12 to 21 May.   Copyright © 1996-2015 National Geographic SocietyCopyright © 2015-2024 National Geographic Partners, LLC. All rights reserved