He’s already coming over soon with supergroup Better Lovers, but Greg Puciato is wasting no time announcing another return visit next year… Greg Puciato has announced a 2024 UK and Ireland headline tour. The prolific scene legend will be crossing the pond once again following supergroup Better Lovers’ upcoming headline tour in October – though next time he’ll be focusing on material from his excellent two solo albums Child Soldier: Creator Of God and Mirrorcell. “This is gonna be a really special tour for me,” he says. “You don’t get a lot of first times anywhere, and every first time for me in the UK has been amazing. I’ve been really fortunate. Whether it was with Dillinger on the System Of A Down tour in 2002, or The Black Queen in 2016, or with Jerry Cantrell in 2022, the first time I’ve been over there with anything I’ve been a part of has been a solid memory that I’ll remember forever.  “I already know that Better Lovers this October is gonna smoke too, and now I’m coming right back in March to do whatever the fuck I want, with some really talented and dear friends. Part of me just wants to play noise for an hour straight, but I suppose I’ll play some songs. This ain’t gonna be the same shit as the U.S. tour though, we’re gonna freshen it up each time we’re out, wherever we go, and I intend to dial this one way the fuck up. I’m already excited as shit and it’s six months away. See you there.” Catch Greg – with support from Trace Amount – at the following: March 2024 1 Bristol Thekla2 Nottingham Rescue Rooms3 Leeds The Key Club4 Glasgow King Tut’s5 Newcastle Upon Tyne The Cluny7 Birmingham Hare & Hounds8 London The Garage9 Brighton Chalk10 Manchester Academy 312 Dublin Whelan’s Get your tickets here. Read this: Greg Puciato: “Art comes from a place of abstraction, a feeling that you can’t put into words” News The Every Time I Die / Dillinger Escape Plan boys haven’t calmed it down… News The Every Time I Die / Dillinger Escape Plan / Fit For An Autopsy lads hit these shores in October… News Alter Bridge, Halestorm, Neck Deep, Bob Vylan, Hot Milk, Palaye Royale, Jinjer and more join this year’s Download Festival. Features The Kerrang! verdict on the 50 albums that shaped 2022. Reviews Greg Puciato showcases the many sides of his creativity on excellent second solo effort… The Cover Story Greg Puciato is a perpetual motion machine. His history with The Dillinger Escape Plan established him as a thermonuclear frontman, but his prolific solo work proves that he’s an unstoppable artistic force. As he prepares to release second album Mirrorcell, he pauses to reflect on vulnerability, time, and the importance of joy… News Following excellent debut Child Soldier: Creator Of God, Greg Puciato will be releasing his next solo effort, Mirrorcell, in June… News French synthwave master Carpenter Brut has shared a single featuring Greg Puciato, and announced details of “massive and violent” new album Leather Terror.