Andrew Georgiou has been named has been named Warner Bros. Discovery’s new head of media business in the U.K. and Ireland. Georgiou is replacing former general manager Antonio Ruiz, who was appointed to the position just over a year ago and left to return to Spain, according to the company. Along with this new role, Georgiou will retain his position as president and managing director of WBD Sports Europe. The division operates both Eurosport across Europe and TNT Sports in the UK and Ireland. Georgiou will be responsible for leading Discovery, TLC, Quest, Quest Red, Really, Cartoon Network, Eurosport, TNT Sports and discovery+ in the region. He will also oversee consumer products and home entertainment as well as Warner Bros. Discovery’s local theatrical business. “Andrew has excelled at the business, being both commercially savvy and able to get things done,” Gerhard Zeiler, international president at Warner Bros. Discovery, said. “As we enter another important period during these transformative times for our broader business, I’m looking forward to working even more closely with Andrew to shape our path and best position our company for continued and longer-term success.” “It’s an honour to be asked to take on the U.K. and Ireland with such a proven and seasoned leadership team. My expanded role in many ways mirrors the ambition of the company – to combine and grow our entertainment and sports offering together across our TV networks and streaming businesses,” Georgiou said. “With TNT Sports now live on all linear platforms and discovery+, the streaming home of TNT Sports in the UK and Ireland, and the football and rugby seasons kicking-off there could not be a better time to get started.” Formerly the CEO of Lagardère Sports and Entertainment, Georgiou joined Warner Bros. Discovery in 2019 when he became president of Eurosport. He played a prominent role in the company’s joint venture with BT Group, which led to the creation of TNT Sports. The offering, which is available on pay channels and through the discovery+ app, gives viewers in the region access to premium sports including Premier League, UEFA Champions League, UEFA Europa League, Premiership Rugby, MotoGP, UFC, Boxing and WWE. The post Warner Bros. Discovery Names Andrew Georgiou New Head of UK and Ireland appeared first on TheWrap. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.