Campaign’s Creative Faces to Watch 2020 – Karl Hitti, Creative channel planner, Wunderman Thompson Age: 29 Tarek Haddad, Wunderman Thompson: Karl’s divergent background grants him a unique perspective needed to occupy such a transversal role across the agency. In just over a year and a half, he’s led on and secured several noteworthy businesses – to name but a few: Zomato Gold, Yousef Abdul Latif & Sons Agriculture, Roche Pharma and Adir Insurance. Additionally, he’s helped clients (Spinney’s and SARA Group) carve new paths for their digital communication, successfully supported sister offices on key clients (such as Zain), and developed internal processes to streamline an approach towards content marketing and creation. Career highlights I lit up with a master’s in art direction (ALBA) before leaping into communication design (IED) in lovely Madrid. I then joined Keeward as a creative media producer and strategist, and later developed the roles into a content marketing manager. The result? A slew of innovative content strategies for clients across vastly different industries (UNESCO, Bookwitty, Bookwitty Partner Network, Lebelik, Photomed…). Now I’m at JWT, and the exposure that comes with it grants me the chance to dive into a lot of industries, continually learning, and I don’t see myself slowing down anytime soon (Zomato, YALA, Roche, Spinney’s, SARA Group, Zain…). Guiding principles Have fun; it’s advertising after all. (Tarek Haddad) The best advertising isn’t advertising. (Ajaz Ahmed) Sometimes the questions are complicated and the answers are simple. (Dr. Seuss) Dream job Ari Aster’s Agent. I have obsessed over his work ever since I first saw Midsommar. I believe that it has the potential to ripple into a plethora of other mediums with ease and would love to lead on that. Side hustle I teach the magic of digital communication as my side hustle (ESA, USJ, ALBA, ESMOD). I fell into lecturing naturally, and realised it made me happy to help others grow, so I kept at it. I try to organise independent seminars to help businesses that are just starting to find their footing. Go Back to Main Article: Campaign’s Creative Faces to Watch 2020 © copyright 2022 CampaignME © copyright 2018 CampaignME