The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. A play about the capture and murder of notorious Boston mobster James "Whitey" Bulger will be at the historic Wilbur Theatre for one night only. Massachusetts native Neal McDonough will star as Bulger in the stage adaptation of the true-crime bestseller "Hunting Whitey: The Untold Story of the Capture and Killing of America's Most Wanted Crime Boss." The Wilbur will host the play on May 16, marking the first time Bulger's story will be told on the live stage. The "Hunting Whitey" stage show was written by Casey Sherman and Dave Wedge, who wrote the 2020 true-crime thriller the play is based on. Their story tracks Bugler's 16-year flight from justice, his capture by the FBI in Santa Monica in 2011, his federal trial and his brutal 2018 murder in a West Virginia federal prison. McDonough, who was born in Boston and grew up on Cape Cod, is best known for his roles in "Yellowstone," "Band of Brothers," "Boomtown," "Tin Man" and "Suits." “We are excited to have an actor of the caliber of Neal McDonough leading our cast in the role he was born to play,” Sherman and Wedge said in a statement. “As we did in our book, our goal is not to glorify Bulger, but to expose his true evil while sharing the untold story of his life on the run and showcase those dedicated men and women who finally brought him to justice, as well as expose the corruption behind his jailhouse murder." "Hunting Whitey" will be directed by Ian Barrett, and the cast also features Patty O'Neil, Alison Wachtler, Gary Tanguay and Lin Hult. The play is produced by Sherman, Wedge and McDonough's wife, Ruvé. Two months ago, the U.S. Justice Department's inspector general released a report that stated Bulger's beating death at the hands of fellow inmates was the result of multiple layers of management failures, widespread incompetence and flawed policies at the Bureau of Prisons. In its investigation, the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General concluded at least six Bureau of Prisons workers should be disciplined after its multiyear investigation into how the 89-year-old Bulger was killed in his cell hours after the FBI information arrived at USP Hazelton, a troubled federal prison in West Virginia. The inspector general found no evidence of “malicious intent” by any bureau employees but said a series of bureaucratic blunders left Bulger at the mercy of rival gangsters behind bars. The report did not find evidence of federal criminal violations, focusing instead on prison policies and workings. Bureau officials tried several times to downgrade Bulger's medical status in order to move him to other prisons after he caused trouble at a Florida lockup, despite the fact that he used a wheelchair and had serious heart conditions. News of Bulger's transfer to Hazelton was shared widely among agency officials and quickly spread among inmates before his arrival. Bureau officials failed to take into account or were unaware of Bulger's notoriety in their handling of his transfer despite his well-known history as an FBI asset. “In our view, no BOP inmate’s transfer, whether they are a notorious offender or a non-violent offender, should be handled like Bulger’s transfer was in this instance,” the OIG report said. Bulger led a largely Irish mob that ran loan-sharking, gambling and drug rackets. He served as an FBI informant who provided information on the New England mob in an era when bringing down organized crime was a top national priority for the FBI. He fled Boston in late 1994 after his FBI handler warned him he was about to be indicted and spent 16 years as one of America’s most wanted figures before he was captured at age 81 in Santa Monica, California. He was convicted in 2013 of 11 slayings, as well as extortion and money laundering. Bulger’s transfer to Hazelton, where workers had already been sounding the alarm about violence and understaffing, and placement in the general population instead of more protective housing was widely criticized by experts after his killing. Information from The Associated Press was used in this report. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.