August 19, 2024    Thursday, Dec. 15, 2022 | 2 a.m. Powered by Deep Roots Harvest It’s the giving time of year, and while there are plenty of gift guides out there, this one is highly curated for your closest, cannabis-consuming friends. Long gone are the days of cheesy marijuana swag. Today’s cannabis products are modern, elegant and potent, and there’s an option for everyone on your list. BoomTown Live Resin Dabs and Cartridges An easily packaged, low-smell gift option, BoomTown live resin products are derived from frozen cannabis plants that have gone through a solvent-based extraction process. They come in all forms, including batter, crumble, diamonds, shatter, sugar and cartridges. deeprootsharvest.com Helix Gummies Helix Gummies come in five flavors—from sweet to sour—and are infused with 100% Nevada-grown cannabis. Each container has 100 milligrams of 10-milligram gummies, and indica, sativa and hybrid strains are available. Try blue raspberry for a friend who enjoys sour flavors and freestone peach for those who love sweets. deeprootsharvest.com Prospector Distillate Cartridges and Disposables Perfect gifts for the discrete consumer, these vapes come in a variety of strains, including XJ-13 and Wedding Cake. deeprootsharvest.com Gunslinger Cured Resin Dabs Unlike live resin derived from fresh frozen flower, cured resin comes from mature and flowering cannabis plants that are dried. These dabs are available in batter, crumble, shatter and sugar, and are good gifts for dabbers who enjoy the unique flavor profile and potency of cured resin dabs. deeprootsharvest.com Cheeba Chews High-quality cannabis oil is the main ingredient of these sweet chews, known for their potency, texture and unique blends. Varieties include a sleep CBN/THC option. These are great gifts for friends beginning to dabble in cannabis, as well as those already using cannabis for specific reasons. The 1:1:1 CBG/CBD/THC “be happy taffy” is ideal for beating the holiday blues or anxiety. deeprootsharvest.com Bluebirds flower and prerolls Cultivated in Mesquite, all Bluebird flower is grown to the highest standard with state-of-the-art grow systems. If you want to wow someone, a quarter- or half-ounce will do the trick. Consider gifting multiple grams or prerolls for a DIY cannabis tasting set. deeprootsharvest.com Levo II Infuser You can infuse anything with a Levo II infuser, which also decarboxylates whatever you’re prepping for infusion—turning any oil into an herby, botanical-rich creation. This is the gift for at-home chefs in your life, including cannabis-based chefs. levooil.com High-tech grinders For the cannabis connoisseur who has everything, check out a high-tech grinder for absolute precision. The Kannastor GR8TER Jar Body Grinder has multiple plates for adjustable grinds that you can customize for your exact purposes. ryot.com Ashtrays Hop on the wave of chic, high-end ashtrays for a beautiful gift option. Seth Rogan’s brand Houseplant has several funky ashtrays that double as art, including a midcentury modern standing ashtray that continually sells out. Check out Edie Parker for luxe tabletop lighter/ashtrays for the fanciest friends. houseplant.com, edieparkerflower.com Water pipes Imagine the joy of unpacking a brand new water pipe on Christmas morning. Check out Session Goods for cool glass options or Summerland Ceramics for handmade ceramic pieces. sessiongoods.com, welcometosummer.land Personal care products There are many CBD and THC personal care products that will relax and delight anyone. Check out Baskin Wellness for high-potency creams, Lord Jones CBD-infused oils and bath salts, and Flora + Bast for full-spectrum, high-efficacy facial care products. baskincbd.com, lordjones.com, floraandbast.com Rolling trays Check out the Raw classic rolling trays—they appeal to anyone, you can find them in dispensaries or shops, and they offer a pop of nostalgia. rawthentic.com Rolling paper When did rolling paper get so cute? Check out Etsy for printed options, including cottage-core papers and cones. Bespoke Post also has quality, aesthetic rolling paper options. etsy.com, bespokepost.com 
More photos »
 Follow us: © Las Vegas Sun, 2024, All Rights Reserved