Abundant sunshine. High 94F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 A clear sky. Low 64F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 20, 2024 @ 12:43 pm   West Kern Oil Museum Director of Volunteers Greg Mudge shakes the hand of Steve Bonner, Senior Vice President for Global Clean Energy and General Manager of the Bakersfield Renewable Fuels production facility in front of the newly donated safety exhibit items.  Global Clean Energy and Bakersfield Renewable Fuels joined the West Kern Oil Museum to unveil an exhibit featuring refinery safety equipment just in time for Boomtown Days. “The West Kern Oil Museum is proud to accept this donation from Global Clean Energy and Bakersfield Renewable Fuels,” Don Maxwell, Board Chairman said. “The new exhibit shines a light on the focus toward safety that the petroleum and refining industries have taken to ensure our communities are safe as they provide the fuel that powers our everyday lives.” The new exhibit features historic fire safety gear, fire extinguishers, computer monitoring systems and other pieces from the former petroleum refinery on Rosedale Highway in Bakersfield. The site was purchased by Global Clean Energy in 2020 and is currently being retrofitted to process plant oils into ultra-low carbon renewable fuels. With the retrofit, the facility will play a key role in the burgeoning green energy economy that is growing rapidly in Kern County. “Safety is ingrained in our culture and what better way to reinforce this message than by providing the West Kern Oil Museum with historic refinery safety equipment?” Steve Bonner, Senior Vice President for Global Clean Energy and General Manager of the Bakersfield Renewable Fuels production facility said. “As we work to retool the former petroleum refinery off Rosedale Highway into a renewable fuels production facility that produces chemically identical renewable fuels from plant oils, we realized we had an opportunity to share the historic equipment on site and highlight some of the public safety measures in place at these facilities. We are proud to contribute these items to the West Kern Oil Museum.” The new exhibit comes just in time for the Museum’s Boomtown Days celebration, which will take place on Saturday, October 14th from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm and will feature a tri-tip BBQ lunch, Fall Vendor Fair, Heavenly Harvest Pumpkin Patch, local art show, family-friendly yard games, and the newly donated safety exhibit. Admission to the event is free. The West Kern Oil Museum, located near Highway 33 and Wood Street in Taft, is a treasure trove of information about the history of the petroleum industry.  Maintained and operated entirely by volunteers, the West Kern Oil Museum includes indoor and outdoor meeting spaces, vintage office, shops, and equipment, a fire house, a tent house, a shotgun house, a transportation building, a tool house, a library and a gift shop. For more information on Boomtown Days or the West Kern Oil Museum, visit www.WestKernOilMuseum.com. For more information on Global Clean Energy visit www.GCEholdings.com.  Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: