By Carla McKeown/Breckenridge Texan The staff at Boomtown Burgers was joined by the Breckenridge Chamber of Commerce and other community members on Tuesday, Aug. 8, for their official ribbon-cutting ceremony. Cheyenna Wimberley is the manager of Boomtown Burgers, which is owned by her grandparents, Tim and Stephanee Russell. (Photo by Tony Pilkington/Breckenridge Texan) The new restaurant is located at 1318 E. Walker St. It is owned by Tim and Stephanee Russell and will be operated by their granddaughter, Cheyenna Wimberley. “I’ve worked in restaurants since I was 19, all over the place,” Wimberley said. “My grandfather was looking for an investment, and I guess he thought I’d be the best one to run it for him.” Boomtown Burgers offers a breakfast and lunch menu and is open from 6 to 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. six days a week — Sunday-Tuesday and Thursday-Saturday (closed on Wednesdays). The restaurant has two dining rooms, one of which can be reserved for meetings, parties, etc., Wimberley said. Additionally, there is a drive-thru window. The breakfast menu includes burritos, biscuits, croissants, cinnamon rolls, muffins, as well as coffee, tea, fountain drinks and bottled drinks. For lunch, the options include a variety of burgers, sandwiches and salads, and side orders of fries, tater tots and onion rings, as well as drinks. Blue Bell ice cream is also on the menu. “We’re going to try and offer something no one else in Breckenridge offers,” Wimberley said, adding that the restaurant will be trying out new menu items from time to time. “We’re trying to make it as fast and convenient as we can; that’s why we have the grab-and-go breakfast items. And, our lunch items will be quick and efficient for people on their lunch breaks.” The “Boomtown” in the name of the restaurant refers to nickname Breckenridge earned in the early 1900s when oil was discovered in the county. The walls of Boomtown Burgers feature many old photos of Breckenridge, many from the “boomtown” days. The staff of Boomtown Burgers includes, from left, Merry Pendleton, Chasity Cameron, Traci Russell, Cheyenna Wimberley, Calie Morrow and Clint Carey (not pictured). (Photo by Tony Pilkington/Breckenridge Texan) Cutline, top photo: The staff of Boomtown Burgers gathered with members of the Breckenridge Chamber of Commerce and other community members for a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Tuesday, Aug. 8. The restaurant is located at 1318 E. Walker St. (Photo by Tony Pilkington/Breckenridge Texan)      