
  Boomtown Fair styles itself as 'not your average festival'  a place where music, theatre, gaming and amusment parks collide in a temporary world with spectacular sights and sounds.
 
  Organisers promise you'll dance late into the night and discover pop-up parties, secret rooms, huge art installations and unlock hidden experiences. It's fresh, creative and genuinely a little bit different - including the aim to create a temporary community that inspires kindness, not competition, towards each other and the planet.
 
  This year marks the 15th Boomtown Fair and runs from August 9 - 13 at the Matterley Estate near Winchester - making an easy weekend for curious north Londoners.
 
  There’s a strong emphasis on “living theatre” rather than just bands and DJs playing to sun-dappled party goers so here are five reasons you should broaden your mind at Boomtown.
 
Spectacular sets and music sets are part of the appeal of the festival  (Image: Jody Hartley)
 
Anticipate The Acts 
 
  Boomtown has built a formidable reputation of closely safeguarding the musical line until the last minute. It’s not the big name stars party goers need to be lured in with, but they’re rarely disappointed. In recent years, Lauryn Hill, The Streets, Underworld and Gorillaz have all wowed the crowds. 2023’s line up is due to drop soon with one of the great dance anthem acts, Prodigy, already announced. Strong rumours abound that Cypress Hill will also be announced to celebrate the upcoming 50th anniversary of Hip Hop.
 
Sound system culture away from the choked streets of Notting Hill 
 
  Boomtown isn’t just about the big acts and the site is split into eight distinct districts, each with its own theme and ethos. Open-minded Londoners have long loved discovering sounds and subcultures they knew nothing about, without any effort in one weekend in the countryside, happily away from the choked streets of Notting Hill… 
 
The festival is billed as Living Theatre with eight different districts to explore  (Image: Derek Bremner)
 
Explore Living Theatre
 
  Although music and partying are key to Boomtown’s appeal, the festival proudly considers itself as living theatre with 15 years of informing an ongoing narrative. This year’s story is entitled “Chapter Two: The Twin Trail” and weaves AI, “systems of control”, and a rebirth of society into the story. The Boomtown team ask “Is our story one of control, fear and isolation, or one of freedom, love and connection? It is time to go deeper, walk the Twin Trail, and conduct a revolution of the mind.” One for philosophers then (or those fond of mushrooms).
 
Spectacle and live music with a sustainable edge at Boomtown Fair  (Image: Jody Hartley)
 
Dress Up 
 
  With theatricality at its core, it’s unsurprising that Boomtown encourages its citizens to express themselves through costume, create their own character, and become part of the story. This year’s theme is “Duality”, based on the balance of opposing forces like fire and water and night and day. Expect out-there costumes.
 
Feed your sustainability
 
  When considering what to pack, the festival suggests you think hard about where you’re sourcing your fashion - part of a wider green commitment that will see Boomtown become a festival run entirely on renewable energy, leaving minimal impact on the local environment.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.