
			By Tom Tapp, Matt Grobar  
UPDATED, 4:15 PM: A Los Angeles judge today denied a motion to dismiss a screenwriter’s lawsuit stemming from a dispute over credits for James Caan‘s upcoming final film, Fast Charlie, finding that the case did not infringe on the defendants’ First Amendment rights.  
	Boomtown Media Partners and Fast Charlie Nola and being sued in L.A. Superior Court by Lee Goldberg and his company, Adventures in Television,, alleging breach of contract and seeking declaratory relief. Read details of the case below. 
PREVIOUSLY, July 19:  Screenwriter Lee Goldberg is suing two production companies in a dispute over the late James Caan‘s last film, the crime drama Fast Charlie.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					Francis Ford Coppola Honors His 'Godfather' Star James Caan: "Will Never Be Forgotten"		
			















	News
	



	
		
					2024 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming		
			





 
Fast Charlie is director Phillip Noyce’s take on Victor Gischler’s Edgar Award-nominated novel Gun Monkeys. It centers on Charlie Swift (Pierce Brosnan), who has worked for aging mob boss Stan (Caan) for 20 years, skillfully operating as a prolific fixer and efficient hitman. When a rival boss moves to eliminate Stan and his entire team, he fails to get Charlie. Now on his own, Charlie will stop at nothing to avenge his friend, and has no plans to leave anyone alive.




			Watch on Deadline		




 
	Goldberg and his company, Adventures in Television, brought the lawsuit in Los Angeles Superior Court on Friday against Boomtown Media Partners LLC and Fast Charlie Nola LLC, alleging breach of contract and seeking declaratory relief. 
	Representatives for the defendants could not be immediately reached. 
	Goldberg has written for Psych, Monk, Diagnosis Murder and Baywatch. He claims he entered a written contract in March 2021 with Boomtown Media to obtain the option to acquire the motion picture, television and ancillary rights to Gun Monkeys, a screenplay authored by Goldberg based on the Gischler’s novel of the same name. 
	All monies due Goldberg’s company were to be paid to Goldberg if a film was made based on Gun Monkeys along with credits in the main titles, home video packaging and other areas, according to the suit. 
	Goldberg believes Boomtown assigned its rights to Fast Charlie Nola, which in April 2022 began shooting Fast Charlie, a movie based on Gun Monkeys, but the plaintiff was not paid the agreed-upon purchase price or provided through his company the first opportunity to make any revisions to the script.

	








 
	The New Orleans-shot film has wrapped, but has not yet been released. Goldberg and his company want a preliminary injunction stopping the defendants from distributing Fast Charlie available until a determination is made regarding the plaintiffs’ rights to writing and co-producer credits. The suit also seeks compensatory damages. 
	Caan died July 6 at age 82 and was known for playing in films such as The Godfather, Thief and Brian’s Song. 
	The Fast Charlie ensemble also includes Gbenga Akkinagbe, Morena Baccarin and Toby Huss. Richard Wenk (The Magnificent Seven, The Equalizer) has a screenwriting credit on the film, with Daniel Grodnik (Bobby) and Mitchell Welch (Chain of Command) serving as producers. Screen Media’s David Fannon and Seth Needle, Foresight Unlimited’s Mark Damon and Tamara Birkemoe and David Nagelberg served as its EPs, with UTA Independent Film Group arranging financing. 
	Screen Media holds worldwide rights to the pic, and is looking to release it in early 2023. 
City News Service and Erik Pedersen contributed to this report. Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	