The time has come, and Netherrealm has finally announced it is working on a new Mortal Kombat title that will act as a reboot of the franchise, Mortal Kombat 1. This article will get you up to speed on what Mortal Kombat 1 is. How it came to be, what it’s all about, and every piece of information that has been confirmed so far. As new information is released, we’ll update this article, so be sure to stop by often as new info is always being released. That said, here’s what we know about Mortal Kombat 1.  Mortal Kombat 1 is a reboot of the acclaimed Mortal Kombat gaming franchise that has been ongoing for 30 years. Since this is a reboot, many things are changing, including the fighting system, lore, and more. So far, Netherrealm has been hush on the details and will be revealing bits and pieces as we get closer to the release date. That said, they have revealed one new bit of info, the Kameo Fighters, which we’ve talked about further in this guide. Normally with a reboot, everything changes up, so you don’t have to. However, things are different with Mortal Kombat 1. I do recommend that you play either Mortal Kombat 11, or Mortal Kombat 11 Ultimate and Mortal Kombat 11: Aftermath. Both games explain how the Mortal Kombat 1 reboot came to be. Or, at the very least, watch a YouTube video that explains it, as we do feel that understanding the cause makes Mortal Kombat 1 make more sense. So, here’s the funny thing. If you did play Mortal Kombat 11, you’d know that due to Raiden, Fire God Lui Kang was created. This is the same character who went on to visit Great Kung Lao and train him for the events to come. Now, in a recent Kommunity Chat, Ed Boon has stated that Mortal Kombat 11’s story has no bearing on Mortal Kombat 1. Despite that, we definitely see Fire God Lui Kang appearing in the Mortal Kombat 1 trailer. He goes on to say that Mortal Kombat 1 is a new beginning. Of course, this could be Ed Boon being himself, and it wouldn’t be the first time he’s “not been truthful” about the series, and we believe this is him just not trying to give away too much. If Lui Kang did go back in time and change the events of the time, this reboot would be the story of that. This would be a new story, would be a new beginning, since he’s gone back to the beginning of Mortal Kombat for Earth Realm. Oh course, the biggest hint is that in the trailer, Lui Kang specifically says, “In my new era.” So, this has to be the same Lui Kang, and he is making it known that this is all his doing, which would be due to the events in MK11. We’ll have to wait and see how this all plays out.  Below is a list of all of the characters that have been confirmed to be available in Mortal Kombat 1. Shang Tsung is also returning, as a preorder bonus, that hopefully will be available to everyone at a later date or as an unlockable character. The Kombat Pack, which comes with the Premium and Kollector’s Editions of the Mortal Kombat, will add early access to six several characters from Warner Bros.-owned IPs.  Thanks to a mistake on Amazon Italty’s part, we know that those characters are Quan Chi, Omni Man, Ermac, Peacemaker, Takeda, and Homelander. The Kameo Fighters will be non-playable characters that can be called in during matches and will provide assists. Thanks to the recent Mortal Kombat 1 gameplay reveal during the 2023 Summer Game Fest, we have a bit more information regarding the Kaemo Fighters. When players pick their main character, they will also have to pick from the available Kaemo Fighters. They are not random as we originally thought. Kameo Fighters also share the same health pool as your main character. If they take damage, it will be reflected in your health bar. Kaemo Fighters will be required to perform a breaker, as well as all three bars of your meter. Confirmed Kaemo Fighters include Scorpion, Sub-Zero, Sonya Blade, Kano, Goro, Kung Lao, Stryker, and Jackson “Jax” Briggs. Quan Chi, Omni Man, Ermac, Peacemaker, Takeda, and Homelander will also be added as with the Premium and Kollector’s Editions of the game. They also are able to perform Fatalities! We’ve spoken to several people who’ve played the Mortal Kombat 1 demo during the Summer Game Fest, and it would seem that the character variations, which gave characters a number of unique attacks based on the selected variation in Mortal Kombat X and Mortal Kombat 11, are not returning for Mortal Kombat 1. This was also offically confirmed by the official Mortal Kombat Twitter account that variations weren’t coming back. Kameos have replaced the variation mechanic. — Mortal Kombat 1 (@MortalKombat) June 10, 2023  Yes. The announced Mortal Kombat release date is September 19, 2023. Preorders are currently live, and anyone who preorders the game will get beta access in August 2023, and early access on September 14, 2023. Best Buy Mortal Kombat 1 Standard Edition – PS5 – $69.99
Best Buy Mortal Kombat 1 Premium Edition – PS5 – $109.99
Best Buy Mortal Kombat 1 Kollector’s Edition PS5 – $249.99 Best Buy Mortal Kombat 1  Standard Edition – Xbox Series X|S – $69.99
Best Buy Mortal Kombat 1 Premium Edition – Xbox Series X|S – $109.99
Best Buy Mortal Kombat 1 Kollector’s Edition – Xbox Series X|S – $249.99 Best Buy Mortal Kombat 1 Standard Edition – Switch – $69.99
Best Buy Mortal Kombat 1 Premium Edition – Switch – $109.99 Amazon Mortal Kombat 1 Standard Edition – PS5 – $69.99
Amazon Mortal Kombat 1 Premium Edition – PS5 – $109.99
Amazon Mortal Kombat 1 Kollector’s Edition – PS5 – $249.99 Amazon Mortal Kombat 1 Standard Edition – Xbox Series X|S – $69.99
Amazon Mortal Kombat 1 Premium Edition – Xbox Series X|S – $109.99
Amazon Mortal Kombat 1  Kollector’s Edition – Xbox Series X|S – $249.99 Amazon Mortal Kombat 1  Standard Edition – Switch
Amazon Mortal Kombat 1  Premium Edition – Switch Gamestop Mortal Kombat 1  Standard Edition -PS5 – $69.99
Gamestop Mortal Kombat 1 Premium Edition – PS5 – $109.99
Gamestop Mortal Kombat 1  Kollector’s Edition – PS5 Gamestop Mortal Kombat 1  Standard Edition – Xbox Series X|S – $69.99 
Gamestop Mortal Kombat 1 Premium Edition  – Xbox Series X|S – $109.99
Gamestop Mortal Kombat 1 Kollector’s Edition – Xbox Series X|S – $249.99 Gamestop Mortal Kombat Standard – Switch – $69.99
Gamestop Mortal Kombat Premium – Switch – $109.99 Mortal Kombat 1 will be released on PS5, Xbox Series X|S, Switch, and PC (Steam, Epic Games Store). The PS5 and Xbox Series X|S versions are being handled by Netherrealm, Switch is being handled by Saber Interactive, and the PC versions (Steam, Epic Games Store) by QLOC. Sadly, this will not make an appearance on the PS4, or Xbox One, despite the game being developed for the Nintendo Switch. While it hasn’t been confirmed, Mortal Kombat 1 could be one of the first fighting games to use Unreal Engine 5. Yes, Mortal Kombat 1 Unreal Engine 5 goodness, and a better move than using Unreal Engine 4, and its well-noted issues. It is definitely a UE game engine, as mentioned in several pieces of advertisement, but it merely states Unreal Engine. Nope, not as of yet. That’s a good question, but we don’t know. Netherrealm did mention that Mortal Kombat 1 will include a new fighting system, which could include a simplified controller setup, nothing has been announced. However, seeing how newer fighting titles such as Street Fighter 6 and Tekken 8 are adding this, we could see the same for Mortal Kombat 1. There are three SKUs for the game: Standard, Premium, and Kollector’s Edition.  While there has been mention of a new fighting system, there haven’t been any details revealed as of the release date. Mortal Kombat 1 will include crossplay and cross-progression, but not until after the game is released. Netherrealm hasn’t revealed exactly when these will be added, but they are supported. Mortal Kombat 1 will utilize rollback netcode, and it will be implemented at launch. Keith has been a fan of geek culture and video games ever since his father gifted him his first gaming console many decades ago and has used this love of for the genres to start The Outerhaven. Keith keeps follows on the ongoings of videogames, anime, comics and technology, and while he has been writing about these topics for the past 14 years, he has been a gamer and tech guy for 30 years. In case you haven't noticed, Keith is also a black gaming and technology journalist. You can find him on Twitter or you can contact him via email: Keith@theouterhavene.net  About   Contact Us   Work With Us   Podcast-Signup   Privacy Policy   Review Policy     
					Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.				