30 years since they last visited the country, influential Madchester outfit Inspiral Carpets have announced their return to Australia. The veteran English group will celebrate their 40th anniversary with a national tour throughout July and August 2023. Inspiral Carpets formed in 1983 and rose to prominence later in the decade alongside contemporaneous Mancunian acts The Stone Roses and Happy Mondays. They released their critically-acclaimed debut album, Life, in 1990 and their second, The Beast Inside, in 1991. The band’s one and only Australian tour came in 1993, by which time they’d released their third album, 1992’s Revenge Of The Goldfish. Inspiral Carpets released their fourth album, Devil Hopping, in 1994 but were dropped by their label, Mute Records, in 1995 and split up shortly thereafter. The classic lineup of vocalist Tom Hingley, guitarist Graham Lambert, keyboardist Clint Boon, bass player Martyn Walsh and drummer Craig Gill got back together in 2003 for a couple of UK tours. Original vocalist Stephen Holt replaced Hingley in 2011 and the Carpets released their fifth album, Inspiral Carpets, in 2014. The band parted ways again in 2016 following Gill’s death at the age of 44. Lambert, Boon and Holt will be joined on the upcoming Australian tour by drummer Kev Clark and bass player Jake Fletcher. Saturday, 29th July – Rosemount Hotel, Perth, WA Thursday, 3rd August – The Triffid, Brisbane, QLD Friday, 4th August – Manning Bar, Sydney, NSW Saturday, 5th August – Croxton Bandroom, Melbourne, VIC Tickets on sale now. Paul Ryder, Founding Happy Mondays Bassist, Dies Aged 58 Love Letter to a Record: The Deenys on Oasis’ ‘Live Forever’ ‘Too Many Nose Beers’ – Music Feeds Readers Review Oasis’ ‘Be Here Now’ The post Inspiral Carpets Announce 2023 Greatest Hits Tour – Their First Australian Shows in 30 Years appeared first on Music Feeds. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.