By Keith Griffith For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:58 EDT, 16 June 2023   |  Updated:  03:20 EDT, 16 June 2023      67 View  comments  Disney's Chief Financial Officer Christine McCarthy is stepping down to take family medical leave, and will help search for a long-term successor, the company said on Thursday. McCarthy, 67, has been with the company for more than two decades. She became CFO in 2015, and is widely viewed as a key ally of Bob Iger, after helping to engineer his return as Disney CEO last year. On recent calls with investors, she has also touted Iger's push to cut some $5.5 billion in annual costs through layoffs and spending cuts for TV and movies. She will continue to serve as a strategic adviser to ensure a successful transition as Disney conducts a search for a permanent replacement, the company said in a statement.  McCarthy's husband has been ill in a healthcare facility for some time, but her abrupt departure came as a surprise to some colleagues and associates, the Wall Street Journal reported. Disney's Chief Financial Officer Christine McCarthy is stepping down to take family medical leave, and will help search for a long-term successor McCarthy, 67, has been with the company for more than two decades. She is widely viewed as a key ally of Bob Iger (above), after helping to engineer his return as Disney CEO last year One person close to her said they were not aware of dramatic changes in her life recently, according to the Journal. Kevin Lansberry, currently chief financial officer for Disney's parks, experiences and products division, will serve as the company's interim CFO starting July 1. 'Although I am leaving the CFO role, I look forward to helping with the transition and will always be rooting for the success of my extended Disney family,' McCarthy said in a statement. In a profile for Smith College's alumni publication, McCarthy talked about battling sexism and pay inequities early in her career and juggling the demands of work and raising two children.  She also survived two bouts with breast cancer, in 2000 and again in 2015, shortly after being named Disney's CFO. 'I have promised myself that I can and will get through anything,' McCarthy told the publication. McCarthy was instrumental in setting the stage for Iger's return to the helm of Disney last year, by setting in motion the ouster of his predecessor, Bob Chapek. In November, McCarthy went directly to Disney's board and expressed her lack of confidence in Chapek, after the company suffered a disastrous financial quarter. In November, McCarthy went directly to Disney's board and expressed her lack of confidence in Bob Chapek (above), setting in motion his ouster and Iger's return Disney's share price so far in 2023 is seen above. Concerns about turning Disney+ to profits have weighed on the stock She reportedly told the board that she was unhappy with the way Chapek had communicated with investors during the November 8 conference call. Chapek was fired and Iger, who led the company from 2005 through 2021, returned from retirement to take charge once again. McCarthy had been a regular presence on Disney earnings calls, including last month, when the company faced questions after its flagship Disney+ streaming offering shed about 4 million subscribers.  Disney's streaming unit posted a loss of $659 million during the quarter, though that was a smaller loss than analysts had expected, and $400 million less than the prior quarter's loss. Overall, Disney posted profits of $1.27 billion for the quarter that ended on April 1, on revenue of $21.81 billion. But investor concerns about the struggle to turn Disney+ profitable weighed on the stock. To boost profits, Iger has vowed to slash $5.5 billion in annual costs, including a $3 billion reduction in spending on non-sports content. Iger heaped praise on McCarthy as she resigned to take family medical leave Disney laid off about 7,000 workers in several rounds of cuts this spring, and the shakeup included the ouster of Marvel Entertainment chairman Isaac Perlmutter, Iger's longstanding nemesis. In contrast to Perlmutter's unceremonious defenestration, Iger heaped praise on McCarthy as she resigned to take family medical leave. Iger in a statement on Thursday called McCarthy 'one of the most admired financial executives in America.' 'Christine has served as a key strategic anchor during a period of great transformation,' Iger added. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group