The Rounds CEO Tim Rice Halifax-based The Rounds, a closed social network for Canadian physicians, has launched its Learn, Share and Give campaign, which will donate up to $5,000 towards the fight against pancreatic cancer. The company said about 5,500 Canadians are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer each year. For each Canadian physician who joins The Rounds’ Pancreatic Cancer Community, the venture will donate $5 toward Canadian pancreatic cancer charities. “With 23,000 physicians and growing in The Rounds network, we are confident in our ability to spread awareness in the medical community, to better patient outcomes and provide a quicker diagnosis for those living with pancreatic cancer,” said Tim Rice, company CEO, in a statement. The Rounds (whose corporate name is Boondoc Technologies.) is also partnering with national organizations, including Craig’s Cause Pancreatic Cancer Society. “Professional development opportunities will focus on signs and symptoms, diagnostic pathways, treatment and clinical trials,” said Stefanie Condon-Oldreive, Founder and Director of CCPCS. “This community has the potential to save lives." The Rounds allows physicians across specialties to learn, share and discuss healthcare in a secure, physician-only network.  The Rounds and QID, its sister network for pharmacists around the world, has seen strong growth during the pandemic. The Boondoc team has done targeted exercises to increase medical knowledge in its infectious diseases group, Entrevestor reported in a previous article. These include four live webinars (each attended by 25 to 100 physicians) and five sessions that the team calls “Ask Me Anything.” In these sessions, an expert responds to questions over a five-day period, and these have attracted 1,200 to 2,000 doctors, who can log on whenever it suits them. The company had revenue of about $750,000 in its fiscal year for the year which ended in August 2019. We acknowledge the financial support of the Government of Canada. © Copyrights 2020. All rights reserved.