Lynn Calder is the new CEO of INEOS Automotive and there are other management team changes, too  Lynn Calder has been appointed as the new CEO of INEOS Automotive. She leads the energy giant’s automotive start-up which recently started series production of the Grenadier 4X4 at the former Smart factory in Hambach, France. Calder takes up her new role with immediate effect after six years in the INEOS Group, including multiple CEO roles. She was formerly in private equity. The company says that Calder’s appointment completes a new, strengthened leadership team for INEOS Automotive marking the transition from engineering project to commercial business. Hans-Peter Pessler – formerly a senior executive from Magna Steyr in Austria that manufactured the G-Wagon for Mercedes – takes up a new permanent role as COO of INEOS Automotive, responsible for all engineering and operations. Phillippe Steyer remains as President of INEOS Automotive SAS, responsible for manufacturing, SHE (Safety, Health and Environmental management) and supply chain. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Ashley Reed, Chairman of INEOS Automotive Limited said: “We’re in the automotive industry for the long haul.  The team has done a great job leading the engineering programme and overseeing the set-up of manufacturing. Now, as it goes into full commercial mode, Lynn and Hans-Peter will take us forward in the next stage of the company’s development.” Lynn Calder said: “It’s an exciting time to be taking the reins. The team and the Grenadier itself have come a long way, and yet we’re still only at the beginning of creating a global automotive business. I love a challenge, and with bold plans for the future, I’m looking forward to the adventure ahead.” Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Just Auto : Just Auto Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Automotive Industry News & Analysis | Market Research - Just Auto 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024 By clicking here, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and consent to us collection your details for the purposes of your enquiry