Never miss an episode! Subscribe now! Girls Gone Hallmark Reviews, News and Everything Hallmark Podcast (hallmark): Play in new window | Download (Duration: 23:03 — 21.1MB) | Embed  Subscribe! Apple Podcasts | Spotify | RSS | More Join Megan and Wendy as they share their review of  “Autumn in the Vineyard” starring Rachel Leigh Cook and Brendan Penny. This heartwarming movie tells the story of a couple who reunite years after a high school romance and who now own competing vineyards. With beautiful scenery, a touch of drama, and of course, a happy ending, “Autumn in the Vineyard” is a must-watch for all Hallmark movie lovers. So, grab a glass of wine and dive in with Girls Gone Hallmark. We’re excited to hear your thoughts and would greatly appreciate a 5-STAR review on Apple Podcasts. Let other Hallmark movie fans know why you love our podcast and why they should give us a listen. Write your review here (hot tip: use your Apple Podcast app). Join our Girls Gone Hallmark Facebook Group! Tons of great people – just like you – who love Hallmark movies. We’re talking new movies, favorite movies, actors, Hallmark gossip, and so much more. Free to join, so click the link below or search “Girls Gone Hallmark” in Facebook Groups. Don’t miss out on: Girls Gone Hallmark – A Group for Hallmark Movie Fans We had a lot of thoughts on “Frozen in Love” – Listen Here More Brendan Penny? Listen to our review of The Wedding Cottage Get ready to welcome the fall season with your favorite Hallmark movies and Girls Gone Hallmark! This season, we are bringing plethora of fan favorites that you wouldn’t want to miss. Stay tuned as we release brand new movie reviews every Tuesday. Make sure to subscribe to our podcast, so you never miss out on any of our exciting reviews. Hi! We’re Girls Gone Hallmark! Megan is a longtime fan of Hallmark’s Countdown to Christmas while Wendy only just started watching Hallmark movies in 2020. Don’t miss out on our twice weekly Hallmark movie review podcast: Tuesday Fan Favorite Hallmark movie reviews and Thursday New Hallmark movie reviews. Exclusively on the Girls Gone Hallmark podcast. Subscribe today! 

				Read More A Merry Scottish ChristmasContinue
 
 

				Read More Love in Glacier National: A National Park RomanceContinue
 
 

				Read More As Luck Would Have ItContinue
 
 

				Read More The Way Home Recap S2 Ep5Continue
 
 

				Read More Don’t Forget I Love YouContinue
 
 

				Read More Just One KissContinue
 
 © 2024 Girls Gone Hallmark