Never miss an episode! Subscribe now! Girls Gone Hallmark Reviews, News and Everything Hallmark Right after wrapping up a month full of weddings, we get an announcement about new movies coming to the Hallmark channel in March! Let’s take a look at what we can expect from the Hallmark Channel March Lineup. In March we’ll get five new movies from the Hallmark umbrella!  The Hallmark Channel will air three original movies. Hallmark Movies and Mysteries has two new movies, including the launch of a new mystery series! Game of LoveStarring: Kimberley Sustad and Brooks DarnellPremieres:Saturday, March 11 Story: A board game designer and a marketing consultant have to work together on a game designed to help players find romance. First Impression: An artsy type meets corporate exec feels like classic Hallmark, but here at Girls Gone Hallmark, we’re Kimberly Sustad stans. We’re certain that Darnell and Sustad will knock this out of the park.  Winning TeamStarring: Nadia Hatta and Kristoffer PolahaPremieres: Saturday, March 18 Story: A former pro soccer player finds her purpose again with the help of a small town coach.  First Impression: We’re both excited for a soccer movie AND a Polaha moment. Picture of Her — (technically this is the “Spring Into Love” kick off)Starring: Rhiannon Fish and Tyler HynesPremieres: Saturday, March 25 Story: A woman finds herself on the cover of a magazine and sets out to find the (hot) mystery photographer.) First Impression: Everything Tyler Hynes touches turns to gold. Plus, we’re excited to see Rhiannon Fish straight off of her Sister Sleuth series.  Unexpected GraceStarring: Erica Durance, Michael Rady and Erica TremblayPremieres:Sunday, March 12 Story: A. young girl starts a pen pal relationship that sets of a chain of events effecting the lives of three people.  First Impression:  We assume Michael Rady and Erica Durance are two of the three people effected by these letters? Tell us more.  Ha! Hi Shan. I wish I was knee deep. I am, in fact, so much deeper than knee I’m having trouble seeing over the top of it. This is going to be a fun year. A VERY fun year. The Cases of Mystery LaneStarring: Paul Campbell and Aimee GarciaPremieres:Sunday, March 19 Story: A husband goes behind his lawyer wife’s back to learn to become a private investigator and finds himself amidst a murder investigation. The two need to work together to solve this mystery, but they’ll need to trust each other first. First Impression: YAAAAS PAUL CAMPBELL IN A MYSTERY SERIES. Hallmark’s newest series will continue into March! If you’re not watching the saga of the Landry women, we think you’re missing out! Listen to our recaps of The Way Home! We’ve watched and reviewed every Hallmark movie of 2023 so far! Give our reviews a listen! Our current favorite way to watch Hallmark Channel movies is via Frndly TV. This app has 40+ channels, both live and on-demand, including all three Hallmark Channels! Our favorite feature is the 72-Hour Look Back which allows you to scroll BACKWARD in the guide to watch or record anything you might have missed over the last three days.  You can start a 7-day free trial and see which channels are available here! Hi! We’re Girls Gone Hallmark! Megan is a longtime fan of Hallmark’s Countdown to Christmas while Wendy only just started watching Hallmark movies in 2020. Don’t miss out on our twice weekly Hallmark movie review podcast: Tuesday Fan Favorite Hallmark movie reviews and Thursday New Hallmark movie reviews. Exclusively on the Girls Gone Hallmark podcast. Subscribe today! 

				Read More Curious Caterer: Grilling SeasonContinue
 
 

				Read More Countdown to Christmas 2022 PreviewContinue
 
 

				Read More Everyone’s Favorite Dasher: Erik AthavaleContinue
 
 

				Read More Will There Be a Season 2 of Ride on Hallmark?Continue
 
 

				Read More Welcome to Mama’sContinue
 
 

				Read More The Wedding Veil JourneyContinue
 
 © 2024 Girls Gone Hallmark