The Bose Portable Smart Speaker is our pick for the best Bluetooth speaker overall award within our tested best Bluetooth speaker roundup. Read on to learn why we recommend it. Out of the 10 Bluetooth speakers I recently evaluated for a roundup of the best Bluetooth speakers, I found the Bose Portable Smart Speaker outperformed the competition time and again. This speaker earns the distinction of the best Bluetooth speaker overall for its well-balanced audio and robust features. This review digs deeper into what makes the Bose Portable Smart Speaker stand out. Indoors or outdoors, the Bose Portable Smart Speaker provides a wonderful listening experience. The Bose Portable Smart Speaker produces surprisingly rich and full 360-degree audio with crystal clarity and an impressive level of bass. This speaker can easily fill a small to midsize room with booming sound. And when you also consider its lightweight elegant design and versatile features, it’s easy to see why this portable Bluetooth speaker stands out from its competitors. Amazon Battery life: Up to 12 hours | Weight: 2.3 pounds | Size: 7.5 x 4.7 x 4.1 inches | Mobile app: Bose Music (iOS/Android) | Waterproof rating: IPX4 | Audio type: Mono, 360-degree | Connectivity: Bluetooth and Wi-Fi Best for: Skip if: The Bose Portable Smart Speaker’s simple, rounded design is immediately reminiscent of an old-fashioned lantern, complete with a handle on top. But instead of producing bright light, it generates a powerful sound that fills a midsize room with ease. It weighs just 2.3 pounds (including battery), so it’s easy to pick up and carry between rooms or take outside. The speaker’s seamless aluminum grille looks modern and easily fits with the décor in any room. It comes in a solid black or silver housing. Although it’s water-resistant, its IPX4 rating is not high enough for me to recommend taking it into the bathtub or swimming pool. This speaker works best when you place it in the center of a room or position it on a desk or shelf. It’s also useful during small group gatherings outside. The Bose Portable Smart Speaker is lightweight, portable and water resistant. It’s easy to recharge with the supplied USB Type-C cable, and a full charge takes about four hours. Bose also sells an optional charging cradle ($29), which I found to be a convenient accessory. I could charge the speaker in its cradle while I listened to tunes at my desk—and it was always ready for action whenever I wanted to take it elsewhere. The battery provides up to 12 hours of continuous listening. While the speaker looks and sounds great sitting on a desk, nightstand or shelf, it’s IPX4 water-resistance rating means you can take it outside confidently and not worry about light splashes of water. I found the speaker’s handle made it easy to grab and take anywhere. However, when it’s just sitting on a desk, I could fold the handle down, so it’s virtually out of sight. On top of the speaker is a series of intuitive flat buttons. These buttons are ideal if you happen to keep the speaker within arm’s reach. However, it’s just as easy to control the audio via the speaker’s app when streaming from a mobile device from up to 30 feet away. The Bose Portable Smart Speaker has intuitive controls built-in, but also accepts voice commands or ... [+] can be controlled via the Bose Music app. This speaker stands out for its integrated Wi-Fi, Google Chromecast, Apple AirPlay 2 and Spotify Connect, which means you don’t need a mobile device to stream from popular music, podcast, or audiobook streaming services—like Amazon Music, Apple Music, Pandora, Spotify and more. Plus, it responds to voice commands, so you have another way to control music (along with the top-mounted buttons or app). Another feature I love is that the Bose Portable Smart Speaker supports Bose SimpleSync. You can use it in conjunction with almost any other Bose speaker or Bose TV soundbar. This allows you to listen to the same music, at the same time, in different areas within your home. The speaker grille wraps around the entire speaker, which is logical since the speaker produces 360-degree audio. I found this design does an exceptionally good job at evenly distributing the audio in all directions while maintaining volume and clarity. The three passive radiators generate just the right amount of bass, which also resonates throughout the listening space. For most portable Bluetooth speakers, the lack of stereo sound is a major drawback, especially when listening to highly produced music. I didn’t find this to be the case with the Bose Portable Smart Speaker. Bose effectively enhances the mono audio to make it sound more robust—whether you’re standing in front of, behind or to the sides of the speaker. The Bose Portable Smart Speaker generates rich, 360-degree sound with surprisingly strong bass. When listening to podcasts or audiobooks with a strong emphasis on spoken dialogue, voices sounded nuanced and clear—whether I was 1 foot or 10 feet away from the speaker. I was blown away, though, by the vibrant clarity of music. Bose does an excellent job transforming mono sound to 360-degree audio, tricking the ears into thinking the listening experience is immersive. At close range (less than 3 feet), pop music sounded good. When I stepped farther away from the speaker and boosted the volume, this allowed the audio to bounce off the walls, floor and ceiling to widen the sound field, with no distortion. Like most Bluetooth speakers, this Bose model can’t achieve the same depth and perspective as you might get from premium wireless headphones or earbuds that support spatial audio, or from a true multichannel surround-sound setup, such as that provided by the best soundbars. But out of the field of 10 portable Bluetooth speakers I tested, this one did the best job creating an impressively good soundstage for music that filled the listening space. During my testing, the Bose Portable Smart Speaker did the best job at producing room-filling, satisfyingly rich audio. While all the speakers did an excellent job playing podcasts and audiobooks, few generate truly impressive music quality. Only the Sonos Move came close, but I was much more impressed with the overall sound quality of the Bose Portable Smart Speaker. The Bose and the Sonos are both larger in size and offer higher-quality components than some of the other models I tested. The Bose Portable Smart Speaker earns the best Bluetooth speaker overall nod for its portable, stylish design and its impressive, room-filling sound. I paired the Bose Portable Smart Speaker with an iPhone 14 Pro Max and evaluated its sound quality by streaming music from services that included Apple Music and Spotify. To see how it sounded indoors, I evaluated the sound quality from both five and 10 feet away, and I tested it from various positions to gauge the 360-dsegree sound. I performed similar tests outside to see how the speaker handled outdoor environments. The Bose Portable Smart Speaker fits nicely on a shelf or desk when it's not being carried around. During my testing, I also selected a series of popular podcasts and audiobooks. I chose pop music from Katy Perry, Harry Styles and Charlie Puth. Their respective songs offer plenty of complex audio production that includes stacks, harmonies, hype tracks and instrumental tracks. This kind of audio is meant to bounce between the left and right audio channels or create an immersive listening experience when played on devices that support spatial audio. I’m not new to testing audio gear: I’ve been covering consumer technology for more than 25 years, for publications like AARP The Magazine. During my testing, I consulted with two experienced music industry professionals: Drew Ryan Scott (a singer, songwriter and multiplatinum music producer) and Eric Racy (a mixer and engineer who’s worked with artists like Katy Perry, Troye Sivan and Kelly Clarkson). We discussed the key features they look for when choosing a Bluetooth speaker and what you can expect from the listening experience. Priced at $400 (less when on sale), the Bose Portable Smart Speaker is one of the most expensive Bluetooth speakers I tested. When considering its performance and features—including its design, size and battery life—the Bose Portable Smart Speaker met or exceeded my expectations for all the criteria. I’d recommend going with a portable Bluetooth speaker (as opposed to a handheld design) if you want to fill a room with sound that a small group can enjoy together. However, if you’re constantly on the go and want a durable and waterproof speaker you can easily carry and use just about anywhere, choose a higher-end handheld speaker, like some of the others included in our tested best Bluetooth speaker roundup. 