Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account  Follow us All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. Sometimes the Scandinavians just do it better. There's nothing wrong with admitting defeat to our northern European cousins when it comes to decadent, minimalist design, and there's even less to grumble about when it comes to the flurry of quality audio ware hopping across the North Sea. If it's headphones you're after, we'll point you in the direction of Denmark's Bang & Olufsen, but if it's speakers and hi-fi systems, then it's Swedish-bred Audio Pro that's deserving of your attention.  Over four decades of development in the speaker arena have led to the birth of the Pro G10, a wireless smart speaker that oozes confidence, runs Google's rock-solid smart control and delivers an exceptional sonic punch from what is a rather handsome form factor. But does the snub on Amazon's Alexa cause enough inconvenience to guide you towards offerings from Bose or Apple?  Sunnier weather inevitably points our vitamin-D-starved brains towards garden parties and outdoor beer sessions, and we all know that a gathering is only as good as the soundtrack that accompanies it. There's an overwhelming number of solid speakers around right now from B&O, Apple, Bose and others, so unsurprisingly, you'd be wondering why you'd opt for Audio Pro's Lesser-Spotted G10. Aside from the smart felt design, the audio quality alone is enough to earn Audio Pro its spot among the greats.  Rather than reinventing any sound-based wheels, Audio Pro nails the basics. The G10 has a small tweeter, a powerful long-throw 3-inch woofer and two passive radiators to smooth out the low end of your tracks for a weighty, crisp bass that doesn't lose itself when the volume is cranked up. It attacks your tracks with the sort of capable confidence found among the top tier of speaker makers, with clean vocals, a thumping bass and ripping mids that stay clear of mud from either side of the range. Are there any audio downsides? Well, if the music presented to you doesn't quite hit the right spot, there's no equaliser to tinker with your tunes, but unless you're a control freak, you likely won't even want to fiddle with the already-excellent performance when slowly nodding along to Pink Floyd's "Comfortably Numb".   Amazon The now-traditional design ethos of cylindrical speakers allows for a complete 360-degree stage, ideal if you're hoping to place this musical beast as a centrepiece to your party. Still, it's worth mentioning the rear of the speaker is hard-plastic, so be sure to place your least-favourite guests there lest you lose a smidge of coverage from that specific angle.  Google is always keen to help you bounce around your playlists with a simple voice command or you can tap into the smart home management via the Google Home app to pair up multiple speakers for a wider soundstage or open up the option to control multiple smart devices through the speaker's microphone. Once that's done, you can utilise Google Chromecast and Apple AirPlay to stream your favourite tracks from the wide range of apps or from your iPhone; basically, the entire world's selection of tunes is available for you to jam to.  There are only so many ways to make a speaker look good, but the G10 is a handsome bit of kit made specifically to blend quietly into the background of your decor until summoned to raise the volume. It's taller and thinner than Apple's HomePod, but replicates the fabric-covered outer shell that has become synonymous with modern aesthetics. Our only grumble is that there are only two uninspired colourways – light grey and dark grey – so if you're after a splash of personality, this model might not be the one for you.  The roof of the speaker houses a plethora of buttons and lights that are, initially, overwhelming to navigate. Power, volume, skip, pause/play, Bluetooth, AirPlay and source-switching are all laid out before you, while there are four LED at the top to highlight the volume and pulse when Google is responding to requests, and a further three LED lights at the bottom. It's rather busy for our taste, but once you've rigged it all up, you'll likely be taking advantage of voice control to stay well clear of the device itself.  So where does the Audio Pro G10 sit in the long list of top-quality smart speakers? Given that a number of brands are making concerted efforts in 2023 to revamp the wireless music game (think the revitalised HomePod Mini or the Sonos Era 100) the G10 is a surprising proposition to produce the soundtrack for your next big get-together.  It's a sophisticated, well-designed smart speaker that dominates the space with powerful sonic performance and modern smart features but also gently sinks into the atmosphere to let the music speak for itself. It's not garish, unusual or particularly noteworthy to the average party-goer unless you've got a keen eye for the Scandi quality that pervades most of Audio Pro's gear. At just under £300, it's relatively middle-of-the-pack for cost, but more than earns its keep for its Google Home integration.  Audio Pro G10 is £279 and available at audiopro.com, amazon.co.uk, selfridges.com & currys.co.uk See More Stories Condé Nast Britain © 2024 Condé Nast