Bad news for fans of gun-toting killer robot. Massachusetts wants to make your Black Mirror fantasy illegal. This week, two state senators proposed a first-of-its-kind bill that, if passed, would prohibit the manufacture, sale, or use of robots with mounted weapons. The bill would also put in place new safeguards prohibiting law enforcement or others from using robots to threaten or physically restrain someone. In other words, Robocop could have his hands tied if the bill becomes law. “This bill puts reasonable guardrails around the use of robots to harass members of the public and bans the weaponization of this technology by those without strict oversight, while also introducing rules for law enforcement to bolster public trust,” Massachusetts state senator Michael Moore, one of the bill’s co-authors said in a statement. Read more LeBron James, wife and 2 associates named in federal PED investigation Sopranos star Drea de Matteo says ended up on OnlyFans because she wouldn't get vaxxed Cyberpunk 2077’s 2.0 Update Feels Like A Different Game Tesla's Carmaking 'Breakthrough' Also Comes With Plenty Of Downsides Everything We Saw At PlayStation’s State Of Play Event “The only thing that will stop a bad robot with a weapon is a good robot with a weapon,” the company said. Being a state bill, the legislation would only apply to robots used or deployed in The Bay State. That’s still potentially significant though, because Massachusetts is ground zero for advanced robotics innovation, with Boston Dynamics, iRobot, and MassRobotics all calling the state home. Boston Dynamics in particular has spent several years trying to convince the public its at times spine-chilling arsenal of advanced machines isn’t intended to harm humans. The company has spoken out forcefully against pranksters who have armed its Spot, dog-like robots with a paintball gun and even signed onto an open letter pledging not to willfully weaponize its robots. pic.twitter.com/8BjVXhfZjP — Boston Dynamics (@BostonDynamics) February 20, 2021 “Advanced mobile robots are incredible tools that can enrich our lives and keep people safe, but makeshift efforts to weaponize general purpose robots threaten public trust and acceptance of this emerging technology,” Boston Dynamics Vice President of Policy & Government Relations Brendan Schulman said. Law enforcement’s use of robots has moved from the television screen to reality for some thanks to several recent high-profile examples. Late last year, San Francisco lawmakers revered a vote that would have let local police use explosive-equipped remote-controlled drones to kill suspects in certain circumstances following fierce public backlash. Police in New York City similarly cut a contract with Boston Dynamics short in 2021 after its Spot quadruped robot was spotted emerging beside police outside of a public housing unit. New York Mayor Eric Adams, himself a former cop, welcomed four of the robots back onto the police force earlier this year. Massachusetts could serve as a bellwether for other states looking to pass their own similar robot restrictions. And while the Massachusetts bill offers up some of the clearest regulations on potentially lethal bots so far, it still has its limitations. For starters, the bill provides an exception for bomb squad officials using robots to disable explosives. The restrictions also don’t apply the US Department of Defense, its many contractors, or other companies that obtain a waiver from the state’s attorney general to test anti-weaponization technologies. Update, 2:15 p.m. EST: Added statement from Throwflame. More from Gizmodo He couldn’t afford to sue DC Comics, so Bill Willingham put Fables in the public domain Castlevania’s Emancipation Of Isaac Stole The Entire Show Studio Behind EA's Magical FPS Game Lays Off Half Its Staff After Low Sales Antoni Porowski Only Invited 1 'Queer Eye' Guy to His Bachelor Party Honda Needs To Bring Back The Element, Damnit Sign up for Gizmodo's Newsletter. For the latest news, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Click here to read the full article. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.