There is no room for error when you are implanting medical devices in the human body. A person’s life is at stake. “Our purpose is to provide innovative devices that improve the lives of patients, and product safety is critically important,” said Brian Newcomer, a product owner at Boston Scientific, the medical device company that prides itself on advancing science to transform lives. Boston Scientific started out more than 40 years ago as a small company that provided steerable catheters for use in less-invasive medical procedures. Today, the company’s portfolio includes devices and therapies to help physicians diagnose and treat complex cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, oncological, neurological, and urological diseases and conditions. Now that Boston Scientific is implementing SAP S/4HANA and its segmentation capabilities, the life science supply chain can be orchestrated from a single plan view in collaboration with all the stakeholders including compliance, marketing, and quality teams. “Every day I come to work excited about what I hear in the hallways as people talk about all the cool things they are developing and delivering,” said Newcomer during an exclusive interview with SAP BrandVoice on Forbes.com. As a product owner his job is to serve internal stakeholders so that they can better serve the patients. The main task is to manage the product backlog in alignment with the product road map. Regulatory compliance in different geographies is a key priority. Regulations issued by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the US are different from those issued by the European Medical Device Regulation (EU MDR) that governs the production and distribution of medical devices, which are not the same as those in China or Japan, or elsewhere. “We are dealing with a constantly changing environment,” Newcomer explained. “All our data, our source of truth, comes from our SAP solutions.” Using existing legacy Enterprise Resource Planning Systems for orchestrating a supply chain while enforcing the regulatory compliance requirements is challenging, resulting in many inefficiencies and risks due to numerous processes that are performed manually. Now that the company is implementing SAP S/4HANA and its segmentation capabilities, however, the life science supply chain can be orchestrated from a single plan view in collaboration with all the stakeholders including compliance, marketing, and quality teams. “Segmentation enables us to manage country level distribution much more efficiently,” said Newcomer. “Having a more standard instance of SAP solutions gives us better insight into our data, helping ensure that we can meet regulations country by country, down to individual materials and components.” The solution helps product teams holistically manage the regulatory life cycle master plan. It enables digital collaboration across all stakeholders. It allows users to visualize the inventory by regulatory change and identifies risks of excesses or shortages. Automating processes enables employees to spend more time doing their real jobs. Instead of constantly double checking the accuracy of their data, for example, engineers can spend more time responding to the changing medical device landscape. Instead of doing admin work, engineers can focus on designing robust, holistic devices and producing the necessary documentation, protocols, evaluations, and quality checks. It also frees them up to provide training and guidance to technicians and other project support personnel. “My job is to ensure we have the right software in place, so our R&D engineers can focus on delivering innovative devices,” said Newcomer, who actually started his second career with Boston Scientific after retiring from the army. Newcomer is a keen participant in the activities sponsored by the Boston Scientific Foundation, one of which is helping veterans who are unhoused or living in strained circumstances. “We are encouraged to go out in the community and volunteer,” he said. “That’s enabling me to close the loop between my daily job and the impact it has on the community.” Closing the loop is something Boston Scientific does well. Moving from a linear to a circular economy in the world of medical devices is neither easy nor speedy. While patient safety and product reliability are paramount in the business, the need for recycling best practices in healthcare is gaining in importance. “By increasing efficiency within our manufacturing, distribution, and return processes, we are able to spend more time on improving programs aimed at better managing overall product lifecycles,” Newcomer concluded. Follow me on Twitter @magyarj 