
        Please do not leave this page until complete. This can take a few
moments.
       Due to our new system upgrade, we are requesting all existing users to update their password. Create a new password Forgot your
                    password ? Marlborough-based Boston Scientific Corp. announced on Sunday that it made a partial offer to buy a majority stake in Chinese medical technology company Acotec Scientific Holdings Limited, an interventional medical device company. Boston Scientific will reportedly pay roughly $523 million for 65% stake in the company. The deal for the purchase is anticipated to occur in the first half of 2023, but is subject to acceptance and approval by Acotec shareholders and other conditions set forth in related filings. Acotec makes drug-coated balloons as well as radiofrequency ablation technologies, which treats cancer in a minimally invasive procedure using electrical energy and heat to destroy cancer cells, and thrombus aspiration catheters, as well as more than 20 other products in various stages of development. The announced agreement comes at the end of a busy year for Boston Scientific. In the last year the company has made four acquisitions and closed one. The company acquired Apollo Endosurgery Inc., a Texas surgical device company, for $615M in November. It acquired Obsidio, Inc., a South Carolina-based medical materials developer August. In June it entered into a definitive agreement with Synergy Innovation Co. Ltd to purchase approximately 64% of M.I. Tech Co., Ltd, a publicly-traded Korean company. In February it bought Baylis Medical Co. Inc of Montreal. Over the past two years, Boston Scientific announced nine acquisitions.
  Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register This website  uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Our privacy policy To ensure the best experience on our website, articles cannot be read without allowing cookies. Please allow cookies to continue reading. Our privacy policy