
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Mid-East.Info)  Dubai, UAE – BOTIM, the region's first Ultra app, has announced a strategic collaboration with musafir.com, the UAE's leading online travel agency, to provide a more straightforward and reliable process for visitors to the UAE to apply and receive tourist visas. The agreement was signed by Abdallah Abu Sheikh, CEO of BOTIM and Co-Founder of its parent company Astra Tech, a UAE-based technology development and investment group, and Sachin Gadoya, co-founder and CEO of musafir.com.
The most notable beneficiaries of this collaboration include India, Pakistan, Russia, Kazakhstan, and Egypt, as demand for 30-day and 60-day single-entry visas is exceptionally high from these countries. With these applications being more affordable than alternate options, they are commonly used by expatriates who reside in the UAE and wish to bring their family or friends for a visit from abroad, as well as tourists in MENA that are looking to vacation in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and other emirates. This seamless process will eliminate the need for extensive searches, emails, calls, and endless hours of browsing websites to find reliable visa services, which have been major hindrances for visitors to the UAE.
BOTIM in collaboration with musafir.com will now provide a seamless user experience, with users requiring only a few clicks to submit applications for tourist visas. The simple four-step process entails selecting the relevant visa service, providing personal details, collating the necessary documentation, and proceeding with payment. A standard turnaround time (TAT) of 24-72 hours will provide added convenience, as most mainstream solutions typically maintain a TAT of 3-5 days. BOTIM users will also benefit from an express service to have their visa processed within a 24-hour timeframe, all while being reliably safeguarded from the risk of scams. With Musafir.com's extensive knowledge and expertise in UAE tourist visa processing, they will ensure that the visa application process is smooth and efficient for the applicant. Furthermore, upon arriving in the UAE, visitors can get free internet calling, mobile top-ups, recharge services, and more.
Abdallah Abu Sheikh commented:“Our mission has been to deliver the region's first Ultra app, and after acquiring BOTIM earlier this year, we have actively worked to upgrade its capabilities to serve as the bedrock of this world-revolutionizing project. Our collaboration with musafir.com reinforces this vision, adding another element to BOTIM's diverse and growing functionality. As a homegrown brand, we are deeply invested in the UAE ecosystem, and our alliance with musafir.com will help us stay connected with our loved ones and run everyday transactions seamlessly. We are proud to say that BOTIM is an app of the people and for the people.”
Sachin Gadoya, added,“We are excited to be partnering with BOTIM , as a homegrown UAE travel brand, we have always been committed to creating seamless user experiences for anyone wishing to travel to the UAE.” Our partnership is a first of its kind in the UAE and will enable customers to request a visa in a few taps and receive it in hours.”
Once a user's application form has been submitted, confirmation will be provided via message on the BOTIM app. Users can subsequently track their application status to monitor whether it is accepted, in progress, or rejected. The result of visa processing, whether accepted or rejected, will be dispatched to users once again via the BOTIM app, while a PDF version, which can be saved and shared, will accompany it. The Musafir.com-powered visa application is officially live on BOTIM, and users can apply now.
About BOTIM:
Astra Tech commenced its quest to create an Ultra app by acquiring the Central Bank of the UAE licensed fintech, PayBy, in 2022. Soon after, it acquired BOTIM, renowned for VoIP across the MENA region. The intention is to transform BOTIM from a communication app into the bedrock of the Ultra app. Through the app, BOTIM intends to offer its users a full suite of digital services, including fintech, government, pharmaceutical, retail, and many more services. The Ultra app will enhance the digital lives of BOTIM's users by offering seamless and convenient access to day-to-day services. Established in 2017, BOTIM operates in 155 countries, offering free chat – including group chats, free video, and voice call – including group calls, P2P money transfers within UAE, phone recharges and bill payments locally and internationally, gaming, health features, and Quran recitation. PayBy powers all fintech payment solutions provided by BOTIM.
About musafir.com:
musafir.com is the UAE's leading online travel agency. musafir.com was founded by Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdullah Al Thani and Sachin Gadoya in August 2007 to serve leisure customers, branching out into business travel in 2017. musafir.com has a presence across three countries: the UAE, Qatar & India. Offering flights to over 3,000 destinations, hotel stays at more than 1 million properties around the world, holiday experiences and much more, services provided by musafir.com include search & bookings on numerous flights and hotels, UAE tourist visa (application & assistance), international tourist visa assistance, and holiday packages. Since its inception, musafir.com has served over a million customers through our flagship website & branch network. MENAFN02032023005446012082ID1105696527 Dubai, UAE – BOTIM, the region's first Ultra app, has announced a strategic collaboration with musafir.com, the UAE's leading online travel agency, to provide a more straightforward and reliable process for visitors to the UAE to apply and receive tourist visas. The agreement was signed by Abdallah Abu Sheikh, CEO of BOTIM and Co-Founder of its parent company Astra Tech, a UAE-based technology development and investment group, and Sachin Gadoya, co-founder and CEO of musafir.com. The most notable beneficiaries of this collaboration include India, Pakistan, Russia, Kazakhstan, and Egypt, as demand for 30-day and 60-day single-entry visas is exceptionally high from these countries. With these applications being more affordable than alternate options, they are commonly used by expatriates who reside in the UAE and wish to bring their family or friends for a visit from abroad, as well as tourists in MENA that are looking to vacation in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and other emirates. This seamless process will eliminate the need for extensive searches, emails, calls, and endless hours of browsing websites to find reliable visa services, which have been major hindrances for visitors to the UAE. BOTIM in collaboration with musafir.com will now provide a seamless user experience, with users requiring only a few clicks to submit applications for tourist visas. The simple four-step process entails selecting the relevant visa service, providing personal details, collating the necessary documentation, and proceeding with payment. A standard turnaround time (TAT) of 24-72 hours will provide added convenience, as most mainstream solutions typically maintain a TAT of 3-5 days. BOTIM users will also benefit from an express service to have their visa processed within a 24-hour timeframe, all while being reliably safeguarded from the risk of scams. With Musafir.com's extensive knowledge and expertise in UAE tourist visa processing, they will ensure that the visa application process is smooth and efficient for the applicant. Furthermore, upon arriving in the UAE, visitors can get free internet calling, mobile top-ups, recharge services, and more. Abdallah Abu Sheikh commented:“Our mission has been to deliver the region's first Ultra app, and after acquiring BOTIM earlier this year, we have actively worked to upgrade its capabilities to serve as the bedrock of this world-revolutionizing project. Our collaboration with musafir.com reinforces this vision, adding another element to BOTIM's diverse and growing functionality. As a homegrown brand, we are deeply invested in the UAE ecosystem, and our alliance with musafir.com will help us stay connected with our loved ones and run everyday transactions seamlessly. We are proud to say that BOTIM is an app of the people and for the people.” Sachin Gadoya, added,“We are excited to be partnering with BOTIM , as a homegrown UAE travel brand, we have always been committed to creating seamless user experiences for anyone wishing to travel to the UAE.” Our partnership is a first of its kind in the UAE and will enable customers to request a visa in a few taps and receive it in hours.” Once a user's application form has been submitted, confirmation will be provided via message on the BOTIM app. Users can subsequently track their application status to monitor whether it is accepted, in progress, or rejected. The result of visa processing, whether accepted or rejected, will be dispatched to users once again via the BOTIM app, while a PDF version, which can be saved and shared, will accompany it. The Musafir.com-powered visa application is officially live on BOTIM, and users can apply now. About BOTIM: Astra Tech commenced its quest to create an Ultra app by acquiring the Central Bank of the UAE licensed fintech, PayBy, in 2022. Soon after, it acquired BOTIM, renowned for VoIP across the MENA region. The intention is to transform BOTIM from a communication app into the bedrock of the Ultra app. Through the app, BOTIM intends to offer its users a full suite of digital services, including fintech, government, pharmaceutical, retail, and many more services. The Ultra app will enhance the digital lives of BOTIM's users by offering seamless and convenient access to day-to-day services. Established in 2017, BOTIM operates in 155 countries, offering free chat – including group chats, free video, and voice call – including group calls, P2P money transfers within UAE, phone recharges and bill payments locally and internationally, gaming, health features, and Quran recitation. PayBy powers all fintech payment solutions provided by BOTIM. About musafir.com: musafir.com is the UAE's leading online travel agency. musafir.com was founded by Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdullah Al Thani and Sachin Gadoya in August 2007 to serve leisure customers, branching out into business travel in 2017. musafir.com has a presence across three countries: the UAE, Qatar & India. Offering flights to over 3,000 destinations, hotel stays at more than 1 million properties around the world, holiday experiences and much more, services provided by musafir.com include search & bookings on numerous flights and hotels, UAE tourist visa (application & assistance), international tourist visa assistance, and holiday packages. Since its inception, musafir.com has served over a million customers through our flagship website & branch network. MENAFN02032023005446012082ID1105696527 MENAFN02032023005446012082ID1105696527 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN