Tue, Aug 20, 2024 | Safar 16, 1446 Published: Wed 26 Jul 2023, 8:10 PM Pakistani expats in the UAE can purchase gifts for their loved ones back home through the user-friendly, ultra-app Botim. This development comes as a result of a strategic joint venture between Astra Tech, the parent company of Botim, and JW Holdings, the owner of Ruba Digital (RD), an online retail company. The collaboration will integrate RD within Botim's e-store, allowing users in the UAE to purchase gifts to be delivered in Pakistan through RD's retail chain network of more than 150 outlets spanning 130 cities. In addition to a cross-border electronic shopping experience, Pakistani expats can also take advantage of Shariah-compliant financing options of up to 12 instalments. Abdallah Abu Sheikh, Founder of Astra Tech and CEO of Botim, said, "Our partnership marks another step in our mission to simplify people's everyday lives through digital sovereignty. The integration of RD into the Botim e-store enables us to make advanced solutions accessible to Pakistani expats in the UAE, making the process of purchasing and delivering items to friends and family based in Pakistan easy." Botim users outside of the UAE can also purchase consumer electronics from RD through the ultra-app to deliver them to Pakistan. However, Shariah-Compliant instalment financing plans are currently only available to users in the UAE. Meanwhile, Muhammad Javed Afridi, Chief Executive Officer of JW Holdings, commented that the group was glad about this venture. "Through Botim app, Pakistani expats could easily connect with their loved ones living far beyond the borders but always nearer to their heart," he said. "Shopping through the Botim stores while sitting in UAE, with the deliveries bound in Pakistan for their families, will be a unique and unprecedented experience for users." Pakistani expats, like expats from various countries worldwide, can also use BOTIM to send money to their home countries. Astra Tech launched Botim 3.0 in May this year, which they claimed was the world's first Ultra app. The platform aims to become an all-inclusive digital platform for its users by including fintech, e-commerce, GPT, and communications into a single user experience. ALSO READ: Get news and views from the world of golf delivered to your inbox every Wednesday.  uae The winds will cause blowing dust and sand, reducing horizontal visibility uae uae The met cautioned against a decline in horizontal visibility which may drop to less than 3000 metres at times over internal areas uae uae While some continue in their traditional careers, others have since left their job to 'fully commit' to the business  uae uae Making visitors work with promise of a permanent job could see companies fined up to Dh1 million uae uae According to a survey, nearly one-fourth – 24 per cent –  of UAE employers have turned to alternative compensation strategies to attract and retain top talent uae uae Some of the young preachers said they were inspired by their family uae uae On Saturday, flights between Salalah and Muscat experienced delays, and SLL was temporarily closed uae uae Most students across the country will go back to school after an almost two month-long vacation on August 26 uae