The partnership will allow the company to deliver Dover's management service to markets in Benelux, France and Switzerland. Dover Fueling Solutions (DFS) has announced the signing of a license agreement with Bottomline Scheduling to deliver DFS wetstock management service to markets in Benelux, France and Switzerland. This agreement further strengthens the relationship between both companies after last year’s announcement to bring Bottomline’s logistic solution to DFS customers. “This partnership continues to enable a true end to end solution to the market and provides their customers with unmatched insights to minimize losses, optimize business processes and ultimately make their business run smoother and more efficient,” said Jeroen van Pelt, Global Sales Director, Wetstock Management at DFS. Bottomline is a supplier of inventory routing software, and in addition also offers two add-on services for planning and transport to achieve efficient and in-time fuel station replenishment. "Bottomline now sees opportunities to expand on its existing service by offering customers wetstock management for fuel stations. A service that, in fact, helps them to avoid product losses throughout the whole logistics process, from depot tank to pump nozzle," added Léon van Rijswijk, CEO and Founder of Bottomline. Using real-time data and advanced analytics, the Fairbanks real-time wetstock monitoring service from DFS can detect fuel loss incidents within a retailer’s fueling system. The ability to pinpoint where in the system a leak may occur helps to minimize fuel loss by enabling intervention and enhancing the customer’s efforts to make decisions, take appropriate action and resolve problems. Related contents 


PetrolPlaza Podcast: How are suppliers preparing for hydrogen? 


Q&A with David Mc Guinness (DFS): “Chargers and dispensers need to be integrated”  Discuss     Latest updates 


Couche-Tard to acquire Getgo Café from Giant Eagle
 
Q&A on ReFuel Forum USA 2024 – Building on a successful debut
 EG America boost pricing efficiency How EG America improved analytical pricing with Kalibrate 


Asda to focus on staffed checkouts across network
 


EnBW establishes new fast-charging park in Lower Saxony
 ELAFLEX: LNG Refuelling System Solution for trucks:
Nozzle, Hose, Safety Break, Vent Coupling 
 


Hydrexia to tap into Latin America's H2 via new partnership
 Copyright © 2024. All rights reserved. Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Privacy policy.