Readers chose properties that captures the spirit of NOLA with bright interiors and vibrant dining scenes in our annual "World’s Best Awards" survey for 2023. Courtesy of Four Seasons Hotel Welcome to the Big Easy, where the good times roll whether you’re strolling down Bourbon Street with a hurricane cocktail in hand, catching beads at Mardi Gras parades, chowing down on jambalaya and beignets, or tapping along to the live jazz the city is known for. New Orleans is an iconic Southern city with a feel all its own, thanks in part to its vibrant confluence of French, African, and American cultures. But when you’re not out exploring Louisiana’s largest city, you’ll want a great home base where you can rest and recharge (or get the party started) for another great day in NOLA. Every year for our World's Best Awards survey, T+L asks readers to weigh in on travel experiences around the globe — to share their opinions on the top hotels, resorts, cities, islands, cruise ships, spas, airlines, and more. Nearly 165,000 T+L readers completed the 2023 survey, an increase of nearly 25 percent over pre-pandemic voting levels. A total of more than 685,000 votes were cast across over 8,500 unique properties (hotels, cities, cruise lines, etc.). Hotels were classified as either resort hotel, city hotel, or safari lodge based on their location and amenities, and they were specifically rated on the criteria below: Rooms/facilities Location Service Food Value For each characteristic, respondents could choose a rating of excellent, above average, average, below average, or poor. The final scores are averages of these responses. Courtesy of Four Seasons Hotel Readers chose a mix of accommodations in New Orleans for this year's World's Best Awards, from quirky inns that breathe fresh life into historic buildings to classic luxury hotels with old-school grandeur. The Roosevelt New Orleans, a Waldorf Astoria Hotel, No. 4 on this year’s list, is one of those quintessential NOLA hotels and has welcomed guests since 1893. With 67 suites, Maison de la Luz (No. 3) in the Warehouse District was described by one of our readers as an “oasis in the crazy of New Orleans...such a gem.” These are the hotels in New Orleans that T+L readers say are their favorites — starting with this year’s No. 1 property, Hotel Saint Vincent. Hotel Saint Vincent Courtesy of Hotel Saint Vincent The 75-room Hotel Saint Vincent opened in 2021, bringing bright splashes of color to a beautifully restored building that dates back to 1864. Drinking and dining options include the sexy, moody Chapel Club and the bright and airy all-day restaurant San Lorenzo — and both perfectly capture the spirit of the city. One reader described the hotel as “one of the most magical hotels I have ever been in. Every inch of the property is beautifully and thoughtfully designed.” Other noteworthy amenities include a gorgeous pool and courtyard, D.S. & Durga bath products, and custom Italian linens.  "Hotel Saint Vincent is one of the most magical hotels I have ever been in."  1. Hotel Saint Vincent Reader Score: 96.55 2. The Windsor Court Reader Score: 95.45 3. Maison de la Luz Reader Score: 95.25 4. The Roosevelt New Orleans, A Waldorf Astoria Hotel Reader Score: 88.16 5. Four Seasons Hotel New Orleans Reader Score: 87.42 For more Travel & Leisure news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on Travel & Leisure. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.