Sent weekly directly to your inbox! Mainland’s Cohen Cook runs in the first quarter against Bridgeton in a game Oct. 2. Mainland, ranked No. 1 in The Press Elite 11, will play Clearview on Friday. Millville High School battled St. Augustine Prep on Sept. 15 Millville, the defending state Group IV champion, will play Ocean City on Friday. When it comes to making the postseason, high school football teams are running out of time. The qualifying date for the public school playoffs is Oct. 22. The 16 teams in each South Jersey enrollment group with the best United Power Ranking will qualify for the postseason. Those 16 teams in each enrollment group will be divided into two eight-team brackets. A team’s UPR is based on its record and its opponents’ enrollment. Let’s look at the local contenders in each South Jersey group and where they rank according to their UPR. Group V: Atlantic City (eighth); Southern Regional (14th) Group IV: Millville (first); Mainland Regional (second); Hammonton (sixth); Ocean City (11th) Group III: Cedar Creek (sixth) Group II: Middle Township (eighth); Pleasantville (ninth); Oakcrest (11th); Lower Cape May (16th). The qualifying date for the non-public playoffs is Oct. 28. A committee will seed the Non-Public A and B brackets. With the playoff picture in mind, what follows is a preview of this weekend’s games involving teams from Atlantic, Cape May, Cumberland and southern Ocean counties: West Jersey Football League Interdivision games Clearview (2-4) at Mainland Regional (7-0) 6 p.m. Friday Mainland is ranked No. 1 in The Press Elite 11. Senior linebacker JJ Sinclair (59 tackles), senior edge rusher Hunter Watson (seven sacks) and senior defensive back Jaime Tyson (six interceptions) lead a defense that has two straight shutouts. Clearview’s wins are over Egg Harbor Township and Vineland. Absegami (2-5) at Pleasantville (5-1) 7 p.m. Friday Pleasantville has won five straight. Absegami beat Pleasantville 18-13 last season. Senior defensive back Dwayne Parker leads the Pleasantville defense with 28 tackles and two interceptions. Absegami quarterback Kendall Armstrong IV has thrown for 1,034 yards and 11 TDs. The Braves are looking to snap a three-game losing streak. Cedar Creek (5-2) at Oakcrest (4-3) 6 p.m. Friday This is The Press game of the week. Oakcrest has never beaten Cedar Creek. Millville (5-1) at Ocean City (2-4) 6 p.m. Friday Millville, the defending state Group IV champion, is ranked No. 2 in The Press Elite 11. Millville quarterback Jacob Zamot has thrown for 944 yards and eight TDs. Ocean City running back Duke Guenther ran for four TDs as the Red Raiders beat St. Joseph Academy 42-7. Millville has won four of the last five matchups between these schools, dating to 2014. Middle Township (6-1) at Bridgeton (0-7) 6 p.m. Friday Middle junior running back Remi Rodriguez has rushed for 835 yards and nine TDs. Senior wide receiver Mike Zarfati has caught 19 passes for 376 yards and seven TDs. Bridgeton lost to Atlantic City 48-6 last week. Buena Regional (0-6) at Lower Cape May (5-1) 6 p.m. Friday Lower has won four straight. Isiah Carr-Wing carried 24 times for 319 yards and four TDs to spark the Caper Tigers to a 46-22 win over Pitman last week. Wildwood (1-5) at Haddon Township (2-4) 7 p.m. Friday Haddon Township comes off a 32-12 win over Holy Cross Prep last week. Wildwood senior James Wyers caught 11 passes for 145 yards in last week’s 12-6 loss to KIPP Cooper Norcross Academy. Lenape (2-5) at St. Joseph Academy (0-7) 6 p.m. Friday Lenape has lost two straight. St. Joe quarterback Anthony Salamone has thrown four TD passes. Hammonton (4-3) at Delsea Regional (5-1) 7 p.m. Friday Delsea is ranked No. 7 in The Elite 11. Delsea junior running back Dan Russo has rushed for 764 yards. Hammonton junior running back Kenny Smith has rushed for 1,175 yards. Both teams need a win to boost their playoff seeding. Egg Harbor Township (1-6) at Vineland (1-5) 1 p.m. Saturday Both these teams are looking to end four-game losing streaks. Vineland junior defensive back Mason Afanador has made 45 tackles and intercepted two passes. EHT senior linebacker Calvin Johnson has made 23 tackles, 6.5 for losses. Schalick (7-0) at Cumberland Regional (3-4) 6 p.m. Friday Kielle Woodard ran for 90 yards and a TD as Cumberland beat Gateway Regional 26-20 last week. Schalick has won its last two games by forfeit as both Lindenwold and Bishop Eustace could not field teams because of injuries. Shore Conference Barnegat (1-6) at Pinelands Regional (4-2) 6 p.m. Friday These two rivals split their two meetings last season. Pinelands has lost two straight. Wildcats running back Jaimin Parkinson has rushed for 613 yards and seven TDs. Barnegat comes off a 33-6 loss to Matawan. Brick Memorial (7-0) at Lacey Township (2-5) 6:30 p.m. Friday Brick Memorial is a South Jersey Group IV contender. Senior quarterback Connor Dietz has thrown for 1,079 yards and 18 TDs and run for 822 yards and seven TDs. Lacey quarterback Nick Maertens has thrown seven TD passes. Southern Regional (3-4) at Long Branch (3-3) 6 p.m. Friday Southern has dropped two straight, including a 28-0 loss to Howell last week. The Rams, however, are still in contention for a South Jersey Group V playoff spot. Long Branch defensive back Earnest Reevey made 18 tackles as the Green Wave beat St. John Vianney 20-14 last week. Contact: 609-272-7209 MMcGarry@PressofAC.com Twitter @ACPressMcGarry Sent weekly directly to your inbox! Staff Writer   Sign up for a digital subscription to The Press of Atlantic City now and take advantage of a great offer. Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
                        racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
                        person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
                        or anything.Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
                        that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
                        each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
                        accounts, the history behind an article. 
PLEASE BE ADVISED: Soon we will no longer integrate with Facebook for story comments. The commenting option is not going away, however, readers will need to register for a FREE site account to continue sharing their thoughts and feedback on stories. If you already have an account (i.e. current subscribers, posting in obituary guestbooks, for submitting community events), you may use that login, otherwise, you will be prompted to create a new account.
   Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.