Let’s project some seeds, and some problems. The road to MetLife Stadium starts in two weeks with the New Jersey non-public football playoffs. New Jersey divides the non-public schools into two different groups, with the big schools in Non-Public A and smaller schools in Non-Public B. There are still two weeks left in the regular season for non-public teams. Public school playoffs start a week earlier because they need five rounds to crown a champion, while the non-publics only need four. The Non-Public A and B state finals are scheduled for MetLife Stadium on Tuesday, Nov. 28. They don't usually play on a Tuesday night, but the Jets and Giants have home games on Thanksgiving weekend, so the schedule was shifted back. Some Non-Public B contenders could have games on Thanksgiving, Nov. 23, so I'm interested to see how the NJSIAA handles that.  Unlike the public schools, which are seeded by a computer formula, the non-public schools are seeded by a committee of New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association league officials. I’d tell you who they are all, but I don’t know. The chairman is NJSIAA football chairman/director Greg Bailey, and trust me when I tell you Greg knows as much New Jersey football as anyone. Non-public teams also have the ability to ‘opt out’ of entering the playoffs. This is important, as you will see. With the wide range of skill levels, a lot of teams don’t want to enter because of safety concerns and the fear of a lopsided loss. I looked things over and made a bunch of phone calls to see who may be opting out. Here is how I see the seeds turning out in each group In Non-Public A, we’re looking at a possible 13-team bracket. Camden Catholic opted out last year and will do so again this year. St. John Vianney is also opting out. Hudson Catholic competed last year but had to cancel its football season midway through because of low numbers. Right now, I am projecting a 13-team bracket, which means the top three teams get a bye. Remaining schedule: at St. Peter’s Prep, at Paramus Catholic The Crusaders are the two-time defending champions. They beat St. Joseph last weekend and have wins over DePaul, Don Bosco and Seton Hall Prep. Even if they lose one of the next two games, they are still the top seed. Remaining schedule: vs. Seton Hall Prep, at Delbarton The Green Knights' best win is over Don Bosco in a game that was halted because of bad weather in the second half. They beat St. Peter’s Prep, and only lost to Bergen Catholic by five. Basically, the Green Knights are locked into the No. 2 seed for now, but it’s not set in stone. They have to beat Seton Hall Prep, and then we will see about Delbarton. Remaining schedule: vs. DePaul, vs. St. Joseph (Montvale) Delbarton and St. Joe's probably can’t pass Bergen Catholic for the No. 1 seed, unless the Crusaders completely fall apart. But I think the Green Wave probably can get the No. 2 seed if they beat St. Joe's in the regular season finale. Does it matter? It does. You want to be one of the top two seeds because you get to play at home in the semifinals. Remaining schedule: at St. Joseph (Metuchen) on Oct. 28 One of the Lions wins came by forfeit over Hudson Catholic. The Lions can’t get higher than this because they got whipped pretty good by Delbarton, but they have wins over a lot of teams behind them, including Immaculata, Seton Hall Prep and Paramus Catholic. I think they are basically stuck at No. 4. Even if Delbarton beats St. Joe's, Pope John probably doesn’t have the resume to rise to the No. 3 seed over the Green Knights. Remaining schedule: vs. Paramus Catholic, at DePaul The Ironmen will be the toughest team for the committee to seed. They were for me. They have two wins in a row over St. Peter’s Prep and Seton Hall Prep, but got beat convincingly by Bergen Catholic. They need to win their next two games, or at least beat Paramus Catholic. A 5-4 Don Bosco team is definitely the No. 5 seed, but things could get wonky if the Ironmen are 4-5. If they lose to DePaul, I think Bosco could slide all the way back to No. 7. Remaining schedule: at Middletown South, vs. Red Bank Catholic Props to Donovan Catholic for playing St. Joe’s the last two years. They had an early lead on the Green Knights in Montvale this year before getting knocked around. This is the perfect spot for the Griffins. They have a good win over St. Augustine Prep, and this seed would give them get a first-round home game and then potentially a shot at St. Joe's or Delbarton in the quarterfinals. Remaining schedule: at Lenape on Oct. 20 The Hermits are another team that’s tough to place. They have to line up behind Donovan Catholic because they lost to them, and they lost to a good Millville team, but they did beat Holy Spirit, a contender in Non-Public B. That’s the best win for any of the teams remaining. Remaining schedule: vs. Hopewell Valley on Oct. 20 What does the committee do with the only unbeaten team in Non-Public A (if the Irish beat 6-1 Hopewell Valley)? Notre Dame doesn’t play the same type of schedule as the non-publics in North Jersey, but does being 8-0 trump Seton Hall Prep and/or St. Peter’s Prep? My instinct is the committee will want to reward them for their good record with a first-round home game, but not make it easy. Right behind them is ... Remaining schedule: at St. Joseph (Montvale), vs. St. Peter’s Prep The Pirates have a good chance to move up in the next two weeks. If they beat St. Joe's and St. Peters, they could rise all the way up to No. 5 or 6, depending on other results. But for now, I slot them here at No. 9 because it lets the committee show it’s not rewarding a team with a losing record, but is also giving them a first-round game they can win. Seton Hall Prep would love to be No. 9 right now. Remaining schedule: vs. Bergen Catholic, at Seton Hall Prep Let’s assume a loss to Bergen Catholic this week, but the Seton Hall Prep game could be a swing game. If the Marauders lose both, man, I don’t know what the committee will do. How do they not make a 1-8 team the No. 13 or 14 seed? But would Delbarton (or whoever the No. 3 seed is) think its fair to have to play them in the first round? Heck no. They have to be higher than that. Remaining schedule: at Don Bosco, vs. Bergen Catholic The Paladins have lost four in a row. They were competitive with DePaul, Seton Hall Prep and St. Peter's Prep, but lost them all. They have to be behind St. Peter's (at least for now) because of that loss. Again though, the Paladins could move up with a win over Don Bosco or Bergen Catholic. In fact, if they win both, they could go all the way to No. 4 or 5, but that’s a big ask. Remaining schedule: vs. Summit, at Pope John The Falcons have won four in a row, but their schedule is mostly against public schools. They lost to two 4-4 teams in Somerville and Union. Its best win is over Watchung Hills, a Group 5 playoff team. This team is all right. They get the nod over Paul VI because its best win is better than Paul VI’s best win. Remaining schedule: at Triton, at Camden Catholic (Thanksgiving) The Eagles lost to Non-Public B contender St. Thomas Aquinas badly in Week 0. They’ve actually played a good schedule of quality public school teams, and their best win is over Group 3 power Seneca by a point. From my phone calls, it looks like Non-Public B will only have six teams. The four "independent" schools in Non-Public B are out. That’s Pingry, Morristown Beard, Newark Academy and Montclair Kimberley Academy. Immaculate Conception (Montclair) dropped football this season after competing in the playoffs last year. Gloucester Catholic will be opting out. Bishop Eustace has had to forfeit games this season because of numbers. They’re out. The AD at Holy Cross was great. The Lancers are 3-4, but he said they're not entering but feel good about next year. Same thing for St. Joseph Academy, the Wildcats are 0-8 and won’t join this year, but probably next year. Morris Catholic is 0-8 and has only scored 27 points all season. So that leaves six. Yes, perhaps the NJSIAA should consider combining the two classes in the future. And there's another problem: Three of the six teams have games on Thanksgiving and the NJSIAA really doesn’t want to get caught in a mess with a team playing on Thanksgiving and a few days later for a state title. Hypothetically, the Non-Public B playoffs could start on Nov. 4 and end on Nov. 18 (you only need three rounds), but then you don’t get a game at MetLife Stadium. Here are my projected seeds for Non-Public B. Remaining schedule: at Toms River North, at Donovan Catholic The Caseys are a lock for the top seed. They were in the finals last year and won the title in 2021. They hung in there with Bergen Catholic in Week 0, and that carries some weight. Remaining schedule: at Delbarton, vs. Don Bosco With two games to play, it’s all out there for DePaul. I think if the Spartans win one of these two games, they get the No. 2 seed. Lose both, and then I have some questions. The resume isn’t that great. One win came by forfeit, and they have two wins over Non-Public A teams and they are the defending champs. Reputation carries a lot of weight here, but I could also see DePaul at No. 3 or even No. 4. You have to win some games, and DePaul has only won two right now. Remaining schedule: at Edison, at Immaculata (Thanksgiving) The Trojans have only allowed 34 points all season. They beat Paul VI in the season opener and that’s a good win. They also beat a good Hillside team. Head to head, are they better than DePaul? Probably not, but if they’re 9-0 ,they may have a good case for the 2 seed. Remaining schedule: vs. Kingsway, at Atlantic City (Thanksgiving) Flip a coin between Immaculata and Holy Spirit. I'm putting Holy Spirit here because it played St. Augustine tough in a 14-0 loss, and beat Group 5 playoff team Washington Township. That’s a smidge better than Immaculata's resume. Remaining schedule: at Weequahic, vs. St. John Vianney, vs St. Thomas Aquinas (Thanksgiving) As an aside, one of the most interesting games of the year is Immaculata playing Weequahic this weekend. Weequahic has clobbered everyone it has played by about 60 points each. Two things here: Immaculata got beat pretty good by Pope John (forgivable), and also plays St. Thomas Aquinas on Thanksgiving, so the committee will probably try to keep them away from each other in the bracket. Remaining schedule: vs. New Milford, at Albertus Magnus (N.Y.) It has been years since the Gaels have competed in the playoffs, and even if they get beat by a good Non-Public B team, they should be proud for getting here. They are showing signs of life after several years of being down. I’ll tell you something else though, don’t be surprised if the committee makes DePaul the No. 3 seed just to set up the geographical first round game, as opposed to having a team make a long road trip. Yes, the committee really does think of things like that. This article originally appeared on NorthJersey.com: NJ football: Projecting the non-public playoff brackets Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week.