The Center for Cognitive Health opened this summer in Westchester County as a private practice that offers comprehensive, multidisciplinary care for neurocognitive disorders. The practice addresses often-overlooked gaps in care by offering access to neurologists, neurosurgeons and neuropsychologists, along with other trained experts, all under one roof. They help patients living with both sub-acute conditions as well as chronic issues. And now, CCH has taken another significant step to expand access to much-needed care. Their team has established a Virtual Care Network to provide cognitive therapy to patients in their office in West Harrison and remotely for patients residing in New York State. “The virtual care model lets us reach people in rural areas and with limited access to transportation, meeting them where they are,” said CCH’s co-director and clinical neuropsychologist Elyssa Scharaga, Ph.D. The Center works with patients dealing with neurological conditions, including post-concussion syndrome, stroke, dementia, epilepsy, movement disorders (such as Parkinson’s disease) and headaches. The team is also treating patients with long-term neurocognitive side effects of long COVID-19 (e.g., brain fog). Their interdisciplinary model means better communication among providers and less stress for patients and caregivers. The practice has been busy since the summer, and this option allows them to see “more patients without sacrificing quality of care,” said Dr. Scharaga. “We’re trying to bridge the access to care,” she continues. Neurological conditions often interfere with a patient’s ability to drive, and this telehealth video option also removes a burden from the aging population. Better, more equitable access to health care is the bottom line. In addition to individual psychotherapy “related to difficulties adjusting to cognitive or physical limitations” after a diagnosis, integrative virtual care includes intakes, neurological evaluations, cognitive assessments with a provider, and guided, computer-based cognitive remediation. Existing patients can schedule virtual appointments, and potential new ones can inquire about evaluations and psychotherapy on the CCH website. “This is all done through the model of our interdisciplinary clinic,” she said. Dr. Scharaga’s area of expertise examines the cognitive side of neurological and medical conditions, or how the brain and behaviors interact and intersect. “Neuropsychology is the relationship between cognitive, emotional and brain functions,” she said. At CCH, she works with Dr. Tatyana Gitlevich, MD, FAES, a neurologist and epileptologist, and Dr. John M. Abrahams, MD, neurosurgeon and president of Brain and Spine Surgeons of New York. While the Center is a private practice, they accept major insurance and Medicare and offer competitive rates for out-of-pocket payers. The Center for Cognitive Health was developed to diagnose and manage neurocognitive disorders with a comprehensive team of providers, including neuropsychology, neurology and neurosurgery. The Center for Cognitive Health is located at 4 Westchester Park Drive, 3rd Floor, West Harrison, New York. Learn more or request a consultation. CCH is part of Brain and Spine Surgeons of New York, which includes dozens of fellowship-trained physicians and surgeons who perform more than 3,000 surgeries annually using advanced technology and world-class expertise. Their team provides life-changing care to patients from across the country. Their 13 Centers of Excellence Centers offer expert care for everything from headaches and spine surgery to non-surgical pain management.