
        Please do not leave this page until complete. This can take a few
moments.
       Due to our new system upgrade, we are requesting all existing users to update their password. Create a new password Forgot your
                    password ? Westborough has a new financial advisory firm.  On April 27, Braintree-based Generations Retirement Group announced it opened its second location at 14000 Computer Drive, expanding the local company’s footprint to two locations and expanding the business into MetroWest.  “We feel there is a need for our services,” Generations President Dave Corman told WBJ, “and it is centrally located and accessible.” Generations was started in 2011 by Corman with his son Matthew Corman. Its main office is in Braintree, and the company has drafted plans to expand the Braintree office into a larger office space at the same business park it is located in now, according to the April 27 press release. Corman knows the MetroWest area well as he lives in Framingham.  As part of the expansion, Generations announced the hiring of Kaijsa Kurstin as its chief marketing officer. The company has hired four people for the expansion and is bringing some of the employees from the Braintree office to the Westborough office, Corman said. Before opening the Westborough branch, Generations began holding in-person events in MetroWest. The seminars were informational and helped drum up business. The company has an in-house lawyer and a in-house Medicare specialist to help.  Generations’ next seminar will be at 6:30 p.m. May 16 at the Framingham Public Library. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register This website  uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Our privacy policy To ensure the best experience on our website, articles cannot be read without allowing cookies. Please allow cookies to continue reading. Our privacy policy