Companies in the  Financial sector have received a lot of coverage today as analysts  weigh in on Annaly Capital (NLY – Research Report), Prudential Financial (PRU – Research Report) and First Industrial Realty (FR – Research Report). Annaly Capital (NLY)  The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $23.11. According to TipRanks.com, Devries is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 13.4% and a 61.4% success rate. Devries covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Fidelity National Financial, Discover Financial Services, and F&G Annuities & Life Inc. Currently, the analyst consensus on Annaly Capital is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $22.80, representing a -2.1% downside. In a report issued on January 30, J.P. Morgan also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $23.00 price target.
		  See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Prudential Financial (PRU)  The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $104.34. According to TipRanks.com, Benguigui is a 3-star analyst with an average return of 3.9% and a 57.5% success rate. Benguigui covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Skyward Specialty Insurance Group, Inc., American International Group, and Brighthouse Financial. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Hold analyst consensus rating for Prudential Financial with a $104.50 average price target, which is a 3.1% upside from current levels. In a report issued on February 7, Bank of America Securities also reiterated a Hold rating on the stock with a $106.00 price target.
		  First Industrial Realty (FR)  The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $53.71. According to TipRanks.com, Powell is a 1-star analyst with an average return of -2.0% and a 46.9% success rate. Powell covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Mid-America Apartment, Park Hotels & Resorts, and Independence Realty. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for First Industrial Realty with a $55.75 average price target. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on NLY:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks