
Executive hires bring extensive high-growth tech industry experience
 Steve Spinner Appointed Chief Financial Officer at Autonomous Driving Software Company Plus (Photo: Business Wire) Steve Spinner Appointed Chief Financial Officer at Autonomous Driving Software Company Plus (Photo: Business Wire)  SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Plus, a global leader in highly automated and autonomous driving software solutions, announced today the appointment of Steven Spinner to Chief Financial Officer. With his extensive experience as a strategic business leader, technology investor, and serial entrepreneur, Spinner will play a crucial role in managing the financial, legal, human resources and administration functions as the company continues its commercial deployment and global expansion.

  
“With Steve’s strong financial acumen, combined with his deep understanding of how to operate successful technology companies, I am delighted for him to step into the CFO role to help accelerate our commercialization progress and global expansion,” said David Liu, Co-Founder and CEO of Plus.

 
Spinner previously served as Advisor to the CEO on Finance & Strategic Initiatives at Plus, where he led a number of successful strategic transactions and recruited top talent to build the finance, legal and HR teams. Prior to Plus, Spinner co-founded and served as CEO for two start-ups in the data sciences space. He was also a senior member of the Department of Energy’s Recovery Act team in the Obama Administration. Steve spent his early career as a management consultant at McKinsey & Co. in Europe and Asia, in marketing and business development for the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games, and then with the National Broadcasting Company in a number of management roles, lastly as Senior Vice President. Spinner also serves on the Board of Trustees at Crystal Springs Uplands School. He received his Bachelor’s degree from Wesleyan University and his MBA from Harvard University.

 
“I am honored to serve as Chief Financial Officer at Plus during this pivotal time for the company and the autonomous driving industry,” Spinner said. “Plus has established itself as a trailblazer, already delivering and deploying industry-leading commercial autonomous driving solutions to world-class fleets, Tier-1s and OEMs. I am excited to collaborate with our exceptional team to continue driving financial and operational excellence as we enter the next phase of the company’s growth.”

 
Plus has also made a number of other notable senior hires to build up its finance team recently. Derrick Nueman, who serves as Vice President of Investor Relations at Plus, brings extensive investor relations, strategic analysis, and public company experience, having been in senior executive roles at TiVo, Pandora, Opera, and Clover Health. Harsha Pakhal, Vice President of Corporate Development, joined from Walmart where he was Director of Corporate Development. Previously, he was CFO at Condata, a freight data analytics company, and before that, he worked at Morgan Stanley and Schlumberger. Doris Shao is Senior Director and Controller at Plus, joining after increasingly senior roles in financial analysis and auditing at several technology companies including Hexagon and Arthur Andersen. Nick Marcmin, Senior Director of Strategic Finance, has worked in strategy consulting at Accenture and across strategic, financial, and operational roles at several autonomous driving companies including Uber and Cruise.

 
Plus is at the forefront of autonomous driving innovation and commercialization. The Plus Open Autonomy Platform is powering open, modular, and scalable next-gen transportation solutions. The driver-in, supervised autonomy solution, PlusDrive, is enabling trucks that are already delivering commercial freight for some of the world’s largest fleets, and starting public road testing and series production preparation for commercial vehicle makers including Iveco and Nikola. Partners, including Bosch and Luminar, are also advancing programs to integrate PlusDrive with their commercial vehicle solutions. Developments with other leading partners on the L4 solution, SuperDrive, continue in parallel.

 
About Plus
 
Plus is a global provider of highly automated driving and fully autonomous driving solutions with headquarters in Silicon Valley, California, and operations in the U.S. and Germany. Named by Forbes as one of America’s Best Startup Employers and by Fast Company as one of the World’s Most Innovative Companies, Plus’s open autonomy technology platform is already powering vehicles in commercial use today. Working with leading vehicle manufacturers, fleets, and other technology companies globally, Plus is helping to make driving safer, more comfortable, and more sustainable. Plus has received a number of industry awards and distinctions for its transformative technology and business momentum from Fast Company, Forbes, Insider, Consumer Electronics Show, AUVSI, and others.

 
For more information, please visit www.plus.ai or follow us on LinkedIn or YouTube.

 
Lauren Kwan
pr@plus.ai
 
Lauren Kwan
pr@plus.ai
