This site uses cookies to enhance your user experience. By continuing to use this site you are agreeing to our COOKIE POLICY.
 
						ERROR 1
					 
						ERROR 1
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							Password and Confirm password must match.
					 
							If you have an ACS member number, please enter it here so we can link this account to your membership. (optional)
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
						ACS values your privacy. By submitting your information, you are gaining access to C&EN and subscribing to our weekly newsletter. We use the information you provide to make your reading experience better, and we will never sell your data to third party members.
					 
						Already have an ACS ID? Log in here
   
           
               Already an ACS Member?
               Log in here
            
             
          $0 Community Associate
 ACS’s Basic Package keeps you connected with C&EN and ACS. $80 Regular Members & Society Affiliates ACS’s Standard Package lets you stay up to date with C&EN, stay active in ACS, and save. $160 Regular Members & Society Affiliates
$55 Graduate Students
$25 Undergraduate Students ACS’s Premium Package gives you full access to C&EN and everything the ACS Community has to offer. 
                                    
                                    Your account has been created successfully, and a confirmation email is on the way.
                                    
                                 
                                    
                                    Your username is now your ACS ID.
                                    
                                 Most Popular in Materials


Why glass recycling in the US is broken


What’s fiberglass, and how does the delicate material reinforce thousands of products? 


It’s time to get serious about recycling lithium-ion batteries


Periodic Graphics: The chemistry of Polaroid photography 


Flow batteries, the forgotten energy storage device


   The molecules found inside this rose could be potent antiviral agents. Not because they’re newly discovered natural products—rather, they’re small interfering RNA (siRNA) sequences designed to target and silence key genes in chikungunya virus, a mosquito-borne pathogen which currently has no approved vaccine or treatment. And the flower is a porous metal-organic framework (MOF) meant to deliver the siRNA into cells. Shakil Polash is investigating the nucleic acid delivery properties of MOFs as part of his PhD work in Ravi Shukla’s lab at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology. In addition to targeting viruses, Polash is also looking into MOF delivery of siRNA and other nucleic acids, such as plasmid DNA and CRISPR sequences, for cancer treatment. Polash and his colleagues published a paper on their MOF-delivered chikungunya virus gene silencing efforts last December (Front. Bioeng. Biotechnol. 2022, DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.1003448). Submitted by Shakil Ahmed Polash Do science. Take pictures. Win money. Enter our photo contest here. Click here to see more Chemistry in Pictures. This article was updated on Jan. 10, 2023, to specify that the topic of study is metal-organic frameworks’ ability to deliver nucleic acids, not their ability to deliver drugs generally. Article: 

 This article has been sent to the following recipient:  

 Contact the reporter 
 

 Submit a Letter to the Editor for publication 
 

 Engage with us on Twitter 
 Already have an ACS ID? 
                                    Log in
 Sign up for C&EN's must-read weekly newsletter  Copyright © 2024 American Chemical Society. All Rights Reserved.