Stu Harris is an Ohio attorney and an adjunct professor at Franklin University As time winds down on the first woman to serve as the chief justice of the Ohio Supreme Court, Maureen O’Connor exemplifies all that is good in the third branch. More:As she exits, Ohio Chief Justice Maureen O'Connor has plenty to say Unfortunately, Ohio requires judges and justices to retire at age 70. After joining the court in 2002, she participated in more than 2,500 oral arguments and wrote 421 majority opinions and 77 dissents. Her tenure as chief justice of the Ohio Supreme Court will be remembered for her integrity, independence, and fortitude. Earlier in her tenure on the court, Chief Justice O’Connor reflected: "I will continue to champion what I know is right, and do so, I hope, with a sense of reason, respect, and civility…." Then she added clairvoyantly: "That's how I'd like my time on the bench to be remembered." Historically, O’Connor’s achievements are worth noting for both her length and breadth of service to Ohio. Our view: Maureen O’Connor pulled a Liz Cheney and now 'wicked' lawmakers coming for her Prior to serving the state of Ohio in both the executive and judicial branches, she served as a judge and the elected county prosecutor for Summit County. After serving locally, Prosecutor O’Connor successfully stood for election as lieutenant governor with Gov. Bob Taft in 1998.  Altogether, O’Connor has held statewide elected office longer than any woman in state history. Looking back on her career, being the first women to serve as the chief justice is historic; however, her stands on the death penalty, bail, and most notably — gerrymandering — reflect her tenacity and principles. Zachary Geiger:Where's our Obi-Wan Kenobi? Ohio Republican playing role of evil Galactic Empire |Opinion never wavering In her last year, O’Connor’s position on redistricting drew the ire of many in her own party at a time when they should be celebrating her service to Ohio. During her tenure, her resolve was certainly tested and never did the chief justice waver in her reason, respect or civility. Signaling her willingness to take on significant challenges early in her tenure, O’Connor, during her swearing-in in 2011, called for a review of Ohio’s death penalty to comport with the American Bar Assocation death penalty review.  Our View:While your groceries go up, DeWine, LaRose, Huffman, Cupp waste millions to keep power In so doing, she set up the Ohio Joint Task Force to Review the Administration of Ohio’s Death Penalty. Ultimately, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the death penalty is unconstitutional for juveniles and the mentally disabled. Next, the chief’s steadfast resolve was tested in the backlash to the decision in DuBose vs. McGuffey.  In DuBose, O'Connor, a Republican, joined the high court's three Democrats — Jennifer Brunner, Melody J. Stewart, and — in finding that excessive bail is unconstitutional and when setting bail, a court should only evaluate whether the accused is a flight risk not the seriousness of the crime or public safety concerns. Letters: Judge O’Connor 'guilty' of not tolerating 'politically motivated hacks' In seeking to place this issue in front of Ohio voters, opponents including legislators labelled DuBose "a really reckless decision" that disregarded public safety and "tied judges' hands." In response, the chief justice, who clearly understands criminal prosecutions, noted: "[t]o manufacture fear and a continual pattern of jailing the people who can least afford release doesn't protect society," O'Connor said. "[i]t only assures that money determines the level of freedom and civil rights that someone enjoys." More:'Tough on crime' Republicans want voters to change Ohio Constitution on bail rules Regarding the gerrymandering case, the chief again joined Brunner, Stewart, and Donnelly, with the court speaking primarily through Per Curium decisions in a continuous back and forth with the Ohio General Assembly.  Justice Donnelly summed it up succinctly: "It's time to end gerrymandering—which protects party politics at the expense of the American people—and allow true democracy to flourish." In a concurring decision, Donnelly summarized the majority’s decisions as follows: “[These cases confirm] that relatively little has changed in how legislative-district plans are drawn. The design of legislative districts remains firmly in the grip of the majority party's legislative politicians to the exclusion of all others.” On this issue, amongst her friends in the legislature, the chief was mentioned early and often for impeachment.  Unfortunately, a Republican legislator texted his colleagues a Wheel of Fortune meme that said, "I would like to buy a vowel" with the phrase "Impeach Maureen" as the game show answer. Meanwhile, at Ohio Republican headquarters, there is an empty space where her photo was previously. Meanwhile, the chief justice continues to eschew any descriptions of her using the word: courage anywhere in the accolades. This in and of itself illustrates her judicial demeanor — always taking the high road and maintaining a sense of reason, respect, and civility. Of course, there is much more to Justice O'Connor's legacy on the bench than reflected in this article. Among initiatives she has championed in Ohio and nationally are racial justice; attorney representation for the poor; sentencing fairness; cameras in courtrooms; and grand jury reform. History continues to show that the costs of judicial independence come in many forms-personal, professional, and political. Clearly, based on this standard, when lawyers and historians look back, they will begin their description of Chief Justice O’Connor with the word “courage.” Stu Harris is an Ohio attorney and an adjunct professor at Franklin University This article originally appeared on The Columbus Dispatch: What made Maureen O'Conner a good Ohio Supreme Court Justice? New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.