Eagles general manager Howie Roseman head coach Nick Sirianni, and the rest of the Eagles front office and coaching staff will return Friday for the second round of the 2023 NFL Draft.Chris Franklin | NJ Advance Media For NJ.com If you look at the two players the Eagles selected in the first round of the 2023 NFL Draft, they received a lot of value with their picks. The Eagles began Thursday evening by making a trade with the Chicago Bears to move up a spot to pick Georgia defensive tackle Jalen Carter. With the next to last selection of the night, the team submitted Georgia edge rusher Nolan Smith, making him the 30th pick overall. Want to bet on the NFL? See the best NJ Sports Betting sites Many people had Carter being a candidate for the top pick overall before off-the-field incidents such as his involvement in a car crash that claimed the life of two people and a poor pro day workout that took him off the board for some teams. Smith was mentioned as a candidate for the Eagles to take at the 10th spot, and his fall down the draft board was surprising. Entering Friday, the Eagles will look to continue a good start to the draft by picking 62nd overall in the second round, which begins Friday at 7 p.m. The Eagles could go in several directions now that they have addressed the defensive line. Here are seven players who the Eagles should target in the second round of the 2023 NFL Draft: Brian Branch, S, Alabama Branch is likely to go to be one of the first few players taken off the board in the second round, but to move up from the 62nd pick to the 33rd or 34th spot, the Eagles could package a 2024 third-round pick, which they are projected to have two of next year, along with the 62nd pick to get that high, but the price would be worth it. As a junior, Branch’s two interceptions led Alabama while also tallying seven passes broken up, 90 tackles, 14 tackles for loss, and three sacks. Branch also doubled as a dangerous punt returner. Branch’s mentality at the position is also very intriguing, saying during the Combine that he used the football field as an outlet for his aggression. “When I take the field, it’s almost like I’m allowed to release a sort of an anger that’s legal anger that I can’t do on an everyday basis,” Branch said. “But when I go on the field, I’m able to make contact, and doing that just makes me be able to express myself and just have fun. I just have a mentality that I have to do my job and can’t let the opposing team do a better job than I do.” Matthew Bergeron, OT, Syracuse NFL Network draft analyst Daniel Jeremiah had Bergeron as one of the players who would be a “Stoutland guy,” a description for players that offensive line coach Jeff Stoutland. Bergeron fits the description because he is a bigger player who can move and has positional flexibility. Being 6-feet, 5-inches tall, and 318-pounds, Bergeron played tackle but could convert guard based on his footwork and quickness, attributes that help when pulling on run plays and going out in open spaces on screens. Cody Mauch, OL, North Dakota State Mauch fits many of the traits the Eagles look for in an offensive lineman. Mauch has positional flexibility, with his quickness and footwork good enough to play guard, tackle, and center. Mauch can block in space downfield. Zach Charbonnet, RB, UCLA It was surprising to see Alabama’s Jahmyr Gibbs taken 12th by the Detroit Lions, but it makes Charbonet the best back on the draft board. Charbonnet rushed for 1,359 yards last season for the Bruins, the fourth-highest total in the country, while adding 14 rushing touchdowns and 37 catches for 32 yards. One thing that looks good when watching Charbonnet run in the UCLA offense was that he was willing to be patient for a hole to open before hitting the hole, and there were not a lot of wasted “false” steps that allowed him to plant his foot in the ground so he could run upfield. Buy Eagles gear: Fanatics, NFL Shop, Lids Ji’Ayir Brown, S, Penn State The Eagles will need safeties beyond the 2023 season, with Terrell Edmunds, Justin Evans, and K’Von Wallace scheduled to become free agents—Brown’s aggressiveness in getting interceptions, nabbing four with Penn State last season. If Branch is off the board, Brown should be high up on their list for that position, and he should be there to take at 62. B.J. Ojulari, Edge, LSU Ojulari, the brother of Giants outside linebacker Azeez Ojulari, had five sacks, 13 quarterback hurries, 57 tackles, and eight tackles for loss as a junior. Just like Carter, Ojulari would start in the edge rusher rotation as a depth piece with a chance to have more of an impact in the next couple of years. Adding him in conjunction with the Smith pick would give the Eagles the potential for two future starters. Cam Smith, CB, South Carolina Smith had an interception, 27 total tackles, a tackle for loss, and five pass breakups last year for the Gamecocks. Smith looks like he plays well off receivers and can put his foot in the ground and accelerate to break up passes thrown his way. The Eagles already have Darius Slay and James Bradberry locked up for the next couple of years, so having Smith would give the Eagles added depth and potentially set up a camp battle with Greedy Williams and Zech McPhearson for playing time as the dime defensive back. Thank you for relying on us to provide the journalism you can trust. Please consider supporting us with a subscription. Chris Franklin may be reached at cfranklin@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices