Autoblog writes about automotive accessories, outdoor gear and other lifestyle products. Our articles may include affiliate links; if you buy something through a link, we may earn a commission. Read more about how we select and test products. Autoblog may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Pricing and availability are subject to change. Everyone knows how important it is to wash your car, but it's equally important to keep your interior clean. Often, you'll be just fine with a traditional car vacuum, but for bigger projects or liquid spills, you might want something a bit more powerful. That's where a shop vac comes into play. Shop vacuums are usually a bit heavier duty than cordless car vacuums and can provide some extra oomph for dry and wet messes alike. If you could use a shop vac in your like, we've gathered this list of solid picks for small dry clean-ups or big wet spills. Here are the best shop vacs for 2024. 






 $77.99 at Amazon This Shop-Vac brand vacuum is another great choice if you're looking for something on the smaller side. It has a 2.5-gallon tank and has a built-in handle on top for easy portability. It can be even mounted to your wall for storage. Like most shop vacs, it has both wet and dry suction and it can be converted to be used as a blower. This option has a 6-foot power cord with a 4-foot hose, giving the user around 10 feet of maneuverability. It comes with a gulper nozzle, crevice tool, standard cartridge filter, filter bag and foam sleeve. 






 $89.99 at Amazon This Craftsman vac is the largest and most powerful on our list with a 9-gallon tank and a 4.25 peak HP motor. Of course, it has wet/dry capability and can be converted into a blower. This one, though, features an oversized drain which makes it much easier to empty liquids than it would be for the other options on our list. Your purchase will include 2 locking extension wands, a utility nozzle, a car nozzle, a wet nozzle, and a qwik lock filter, a dust collection bag and a whopping 3 year limited warranty. 






 $61.11 at Amazon Key Features This Armor All vacuum is a traditional wet/dry utility vac with a 2.5 gallon polypropylene tank. It has a 10-foot cord with a cord wrap that plugs into a standard electrical outlet. In addition to being a vacuum, it also has a blower function. The vac includes a 6-foot x 1¼-inch hose, a reusable cloth filter, a foam wet filter, a 2-in-1 utility nozzle with brush, a crevice tool, a deluxe car nozzle, a blower nozzle with adapter, and a detail brush. 






 $54.09 at Amazon The last of our 2.5-gallon options, this one is a lesser-known brand but comes in at a much better price point. Like the others, it has a 2.0 peak HP motor and a carrying handle, but this one is foldable. It has an 8-foot power cord with a 4-foot hose for about 12 feet of maneuverability, built-in accessory storage and of course can be converted into a blower. It comes with a crevice tool, 2-in-1 utility nozzle, reusable cloth filter and a foam sleeve filter. 






 $72.39 at Amazon This Stanley shop vacuum is another step larger than the previous selections, with a 6-gallon tank. It has a 4 peak HP motor and, of course, wet/dry cleaning capacity. With a 10-foot power cord and 6-foot hose this vac will give users about 16 feet total of maneuverability. Like most others, it can be converted into a blower. This one comes with an extension wand, 3 gulper nozzles, a floor nozzle, a crevice nozzle, a foam filter, a dust bag, and a reusable dry filter, but better yet, it also includes a 12 month warranty. 






 $69.99 at Amazon This Porter-Cable option is a bit larger with a 4-gallon tank and a bit more powerful with a 4 peak HP motor. Like the others, it has wet/dry capability. This one has swiveling casters on the bottom to make it a bit easier to move around as well as a 10-foot power cord to help with ease of movement. It features a stainless steel base and includes a floor nozzle, 3 extension wands, a gulper nozzle, a foam filter, a reusable dry filter and clamp ring, a disposable filter bag and a crevice nozzle with your purchase. A shop vacuum is a certain type of vacuum that's often used, well, "in the shop." It's a bit more industrial than your average vac, but many people keep these powerful tools in their homes or garages for big messes. Shop vacs include a very maneuverable hose that can often be appended with many different accessories, making it ideal for cleaning a variety of messes in your car, garage, or home. They can also clean up both dry and wet messes, unlike most traditional vacuums. Just like a normal vacuum, though with a shop vac you won't have to worry about accidentally sucking up some liquid. You may also want to swap out nozzle attachments depending on your needs as well, but most shop vacs come with separate nozzle attachments so you don't have to buy them separately, and they're as easy to attach and remove as simply screwing them on or off.  This one is pretty easy. Just make sure you remove any filters in the vac meant for dry usage, have a good nozzle attached to your hose and start sucking it up just like any other dirt or debris. You'll want to pay attention to how full your tank is getting, and drain or dump the water frequently so as to not let it get overfilled with liquid. After all, although shop vacs can handle water, keep in mind that it's still an electronic device, and that comes with all the same risks as using any other electronic device near water.  Depending on the model, size, and power of the motor you're probably looking at anywhere from $50 to over $250, though some great models are listed above at many different price points to help find the right vacuum for you. The biggest pro is the ability to clean up messes that might be too wet or too hard-to-reach for a traditional vacuum to clean. The biggest con is that it is one more appliance for you to purchase, and as far as we know, shop vacs don't come in a cordless variety, so you'll be tethered to a power cord. More top picks 
						7 thoughts about the 2024 Toyota Land Cruiser 1958 
						Shelby Super Snake Mustang could be yours in charity sweepstakes 
						2025 Ford Mustang 60th Anniversary adds Brittany Blue to the palette 
						Here are a few more details about how MLB plans to convert a NASCAR track to play baseball 
						5 promises Elon Musk made about the Cybertruck that never happened 
						Chinese EVs lose ground in Europe as tariffs take effect    Please enter a display name Please sign in to leave a comment.