Lim Chow Kiat is pretty chill for someone who is responsible for hundreds of billions of dollars. As CEO of GIC, Singapore's sovereign wealth fund, he must keep the country's savings growing ahead of inflation. That involves investing heavily in the technology industry. GIC backed Cisco in the 1980's when the networking giant was a startup. More recently, the fund has invested in tech companies such as Zoom, Stripe, Snowflake, DoorDash, Brex and Affirm. Many of these companies were hammered last year when valuations plunged. Lim, and colleague Chris Emanuel who heads GIC's technology investment group, are unfazed and looking for new investment opportunities.  Insider sat down with Lim and Emanuel at GIC's San Francisco office on Monday. They're hosting the fund's annual Bridge Forum Summit, a 2-day networking event for top executives, startups and other tech companies which starts Tuesday.  The 2 investors were most animated when discussing the recent explosion of generative AI technology, including large language models. This will disrupt existing technology providers and create a compelling opportunity set for GIC over the next three to five years, they explained.  Emanuel, who is based in the San Francisco Bay Area, is interested in new software infrastructure and application layers that will be needed to bring these AI models to businesses and consumers.  "We are landscaping this new world now," Emanuel added. "There's a lot of retooling of tech infrastructure that needs to happen. We're at the beginning stage again." Lim highlighted cybersecurity as another part of the tech industry that is set to be disrupted by new AI models and capabilities. GIC is looking to invest in the "trust and safety" layer of this new AI world, he added. Without this ingredient, AI models may struggle to gain mass adoption. Emanuel cited the rise of elevator technology in the 1800's as an example from history. The public was reluctant to use elevators until the Otis Elevator Company introduced a version with extra safety features. Then it caught on, helping to spur the rise of skyscrapers, he said.  There's an opportunity for a company to be the Otis elevator of the AI world, and GIC wants to find that business. 
                                Related stories
                               There's already a generative AI startup feeding frenzy among venture capital funds. So, are we in another tech bubble again? GIC is not worried at the moment. Emanuel said valuations have to make sense to his team, and there will be good investments made during this period, along with some that won't work out.  "We continue to look for opportunities in the market," he added, while stressing GIC's penchant for software businesses that can scale quickly without seeing expenses rise as much.  Earlier this year, GIC was a major new investor in Stripe's latest funding round, which valued the payments startup at $50 billion. That was down from a previous valuation of $95 billion. "Stripe has built a global programmatic payments platform that is unique and allows the company to scale globally," Emanuel said.  Finally, GIC is keen on doing more in the secondary market, where private stakes in startups and VC funds change hands. The IPO market is shut still, and M&A has declined. That means there's pressure on distributions, which is the cash returned to VC and startup investors. In this environment, more investors will turn to secondary transactions, and GIC wants to be a liquidity provider in these situations, Lim said.  GIC has a private-equity team that specializes in the secondary market. GIC is also an investor in many VC funds. That means general partners, the people running VC funds, already know GIC and are more comfortable dealing with the organization, Lim explained.  
                                Read next
                               Jump to