ST. GEORGE — Boston Dixon recently joined the list of Region 10 athletes who will compete at the next level. Dixon will take his golfing talents to Cedar City and will play for Southern Utah University. Dixon joined his father, Devin Dixon, for an interview on The Fan Sports Network. To listen to it in its entirety, go to the website and scroll down to The Drive Podcast with Devin Dixon. Boston talks about the process of going from Desert Hills to SUU in the interview. “We were late for the actual signing day – I think this is the first time we’ve done this in our family,” Boston said. He tells his dad that the choice of schools to play for came down to Westminster College and SUU. “To have friends and family be a part of the signing, it was just fun to do,” Boston said. The full interview has more about Boston’s career at Desert Hills, his favorite courses to play and his favorite memories from the links with the Thunder. If you have a recent picture of a signing event for a Region 10 or other Southern Utah high school student-athlete, please send it and the related details via email to St. George News Sports editor E. George Goold and we will include it in this gallery. Updated Dec. 21, 10 p.m. with a new main image and information about Boston Dixon’s signing. Four state champion baseball players at Crimson Cliffs High School declared their intent to play at the next level on Nov. 14. Beau Sampson, Jaiven Ross, Brex Starley and Petey Soto all committed to play in college after signing letters of intent in front of a packed crowd at the lecture hall. Mustangs head baseball coach Justin Abbott told St. George News that the ceremony is the culmination of hard work that started in 2019, when Crimson Cliffs first opened its doors and didn’t have a baseball program. Or any sports program, for that matter. “We had a chance to start something great, and these guys were a part of it,” Abbott said. “Everything worked out for a reason. These guys have absolutely earned the opportunity to go and play college baseball and continue their academics.” All four players will take a 4A state championship ring with them to college after the Mustangs defeated Snow Canyon last spring to secure the title. The following photo gallery includes signing pictures from Crimson Cliffs as well as from other Region 10 high schools and also includes the school to which each athlete committed.  The current window for athletes to declare their intentions by signing a National Letter of Intent officially began last Wednesday, Nov. 9. Cedar High seniors Quincy Esplin, a discus thrower, and golfer Luke Barnes got things rolling that morning when both signed to stay in town and play for Southern Utah University: Cedar High seniors Quincy Esplin (track-discus) and Luke Barnes (golf) signed letters of intent to play for Southern Utah University. Both called SUU an ideal fit for them. Esplin plans to study athletic strength and conditioning, while Barnes plans to major in business. pic.twitter.com/3is9bT71xz — St. George News Sports (@STGnewsSports) November 9, 2022  If you have a recent picture of a signing event for a Region 10 or other Southern Utah high school student-athlete, please send it and the related details via email to St. George News Sports editor E. George Goold and we will include it in this gallery. Photo Gallery Pine View volleyball player Halle Wilkinson signs to play at Everett (Washington) Community College, St. George, Utah, Nov. 14, 2022 | Photo courtesy of Pine View High Athletics, St. George News Hurricane's Grant Scholzen will remain a Tiger after signing to play baseball at Division I University of the Pacific, Hurricane, Utah, Nov. 10, 2022 | Photo by Jeff Scholzen for St. George News Cedar High's Quincy Esplin (track) and Luke Barnes (golf) both signed to play for Southern Utah University, Cedar City, Utah, Nov. 9, 2022 | Photo by Jeff Richards, St. George News / Cedar City News Cross-country runner Brooklyn Hill of Pine View signs with Utah State University, St. George, Utah, Nov. 30, 2022 | Photo courtesy of Pine View High School Athletics, St. George News Boston Dixon was all smiles at his signing ceremony at Desert Hills High School, St. George, Utah, date unspecified | Photo by Aaron Crane, St. George News Boston Dixon was all smiles at his signing ceremony at Desert Hills High School, St. George, Utah, date unspecified | Photo by Aaron Crane, St. George News Dixie High School's Cayson Bell signs to play baseball at Glendale (Arizona) Community College, St. George, Utah, Nov. 9, 2022 | Photo by Matthew Bell for St. George News (L to R): Jaiven Ross, Beau Sampson, Brex Starley and Petey Soto hold up their Letters of Intent to play baseball in college, Washington, Utah, Nov. 14, 2022 | Photo by E. George Goold, St. George News (L to R): Jaiven Ross and Beau Sampson (Salt Lake Community College), Brex Starley (College of Southern Idaho) and Petey Soto (Utah Tech) at their signing ceremony, Washington, Utah, Nov. 14, 2022 | Photo by E. George Goold, St. George News Petey Soto shows off the 4A state baseball championship ring won by the Mustangs, Washington, Utah, Nov. 14, 2022 | Photo by E. George Goold, St. George News (L to R): Jaiven Ross, Beau Sampson, Brex Starley and Petey Soto hold up their Letters of Intent to play baseball in college, Washington, Utah, Nov. 14, 2022 | Photo by E. George Goold, St. George News Desert Hills baseball players Cole DeCastro (College of Southern Idaho) and Landon Musgrave (Grays Harbor College) sign letters to play in college, St. George, Utah, Nov. 10, 2022 | Photo by Mark Musgrave, St. George News Desert Hills baseball players Cole DeCastro (left, College of Southern Idaho) and Landon Musgrave (right,   Grays Harbor College) sign letters to play in college, St. George, Utah, Nov. 10, 2022 | Photo by Mark Musgrave, St. George News Copyright St. George News, SaintGeorgeUtah.com LLC, 2022, all rights reserved. Eric George Goold came to St. George News from southwestern Colorado, where he was a radio news reporter. He has been a journalist for over 20 years in five different states. He graduated with a master's degree in English from Kansas State University and writes nonfiction as well. Goold has been published in Sunstone Magazine and has done multiple public readings about local history. When he has free time, he enjoys chess, movies and dogs. Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter your email below to start! Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter your email below to start!