AuthMind, a Maryland-based startup that aims to help businesses protect themselves from identity-related cyberattacks, today announced that it has raised an $8.5 million seed round led by Ballistic Ventures, with strategic participation from IBM Ventures. The company was co-founded by CEO Shlomi Yanai and CTO Ankur Panchbudhe. Both previously founded (and sold) a number of security startups before teaming up to launch AuthMind in 2020. With AuthMind, they are looking to make their mark in the booming identity security space. As Yanai told me, the co-founders talked to a lot of security professionals in the run-up to building AuthMind. "AuthMind started from ongoing discussions with identity and cyber leaders," he said. "The environment changed a lot and there are a lot of identity solutions out there -- and they invest a lot in identity security solutions. Most of these help them define the identity surface and make sure they enable employee access. But the key problem that they kept complaining about is: We've made all those investments, but at the end of the day, hackers don't hack in, they log in." AuthMind promises to help these companies secure their identity surface and identify attacks and vulnerabilities in real time. It's doing so by, among other things, analyzing a company's network flow. Yanai argued that when a company integrates AuthMind, without knowing anything about that company's identities, assets and directories, the service can quickly build a holistic view of all of their cloud, on-prem, SaaS apps, password managers and more. "We do that by actually looking at the flow activity -- because everything is there," he said. "But what was missing was the identity context. We really understand the way identity is conducting the operation all the time on the flow activity level." Image Credits: AuthMind With this, the company can bring the identity context to almost everything that happens within a company's cybersecurity infrastructure and network. That, Yanai noted, is especially helpful during post-incident investigations. Ballistic Ventures co-founder and general partner Jake Seid, who also previously invested in the likes of Brex, Data Robot, Carta, Drata and Zipline while at Stone Bridge Ventures, noted that he believes that the security perimeter has extended from the network to identify. "We think the next generation of big new companies will not just be reinventing identity but then protecting identity. And Shlomi's vision of identity SecOps was really the most holistic that we've seen," he said. "It's not just about starting with protection through posture management and understanding misconfigurations, but then post-breach detection and response and doing it in a way that changes the model of security from 'ticket and fix it' to guardrails in production. We think that's a really profound model because it enables businesses to both be more secure and to move faster for engineering teams and business teams." AuthMind co-founders Shlomi Yanai and Ankur Panchbudhe. Image Credits: AuthMind IBM Venture's George Mina offered a similar assessment. "We continue to see an expanding attack surface across the identity infrastructure and beyond. AuthMind's ability to leverage AI to ingest and correlate network flows with event logs enables security teams to detect threats as they happen and visualize attack paths across hybrid environments," he said. The founders started working on AuthMind in 2020 and then worked with design partners to get the solution right. Yanai noted that all of those original design partners later became paying customers. Today, AuthMind has a number of customers that manage tens -- and sometimes more than 100,000 -- identities across their networks. Many of these, he said, are in the insurance, manufacturing and retail industries, though as of now, they all want to remain anonymous. Looking ahead the AuthMind team plans to focus on expanding its go-to-market capabilities. In the long run, the team also plans to look at other security-related areas its service can cover, including helping its customer with their security audits for various certifications. In the meantime, though, the company also plans to improve its core technologies, of course. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.