Our team is dedicated to finding and telling you more about the products and deals we love. If you love them too and decide to purchase through the links below, we may receive a commission. Pricing and availability are subject to change. Samantha Crompton is an In The Know style contributor. Follow her on Instagram and visit her website for more. Aprés ski is a winter aesthetic I live by on and off the mountain. French for “after ski,” aprés ski signifies the time after the slopes when you gather with friends and family to eat and drink by the fire. Aprés ski clothing and accessories are practical and stylish, putting comfort as the top priority. Think puffer jackets, Fair Isle prints, snowsuits and chic accessories like goggles and beanies. Whether you’re looking for a cozy chunky knit to wear with long underwear or an edgy snowsuit to pair with snow boots, keep scrolling for seven aprés ski outfits for a chic and cozy winter aesthetic. Ivory Moment Perfect Moment Schild Sweater, $335 Buy Now Outdoor Voice RecTrek Zip-Off Pant, $118 Buy Now Sorel Brex Boot Cozy Lace Waterproof, $209.95 Buy Now There is something so luxurious about an all-ivory look. Perfect Moment’s Schild sweater is quintessential for nailing your ski lodge aesthetic. Pair with ivory snow pants and coordinating boots to complete your monochrome outfit. Black Snow Suit FP Movement All Prepped Ski Suit, $548 Buy Now Tory Burch Adventure Hiker Boots, $238.80 (Orig. $398) Buy Now Sh*t That I Knit The Apres Beanie, $145 Buy Now Here’s a sporty and edgy option for the girl who’s ready to shred the slopes. This ski suit from Free People is available in five colorways and features a waterproof design to keep you dry during your black-diamond runs. Jeans and a Shacket Madewell The Perfect High Waist Straight Leg Jeans, $128 Buy Now Eaves Signy Shacket, $239 (Orig. $398) Buy Now UGG x Tschabalala Self Marble Ultra Mini, $190 If you’re strictly hanging out in the lodge, you can’t go wrong with your favorite pair of jeans paired with a cozy shacket. Style them with coordinating UGGs for a casual winter ensemble. Buy Now Wool Jumpsuit We Norwegians Signature Fair Isle Merino Wool Jumpsuit, $340 Buy Now Stuart Weitzman Polar Lug Bootie, $260 (Orig. $650) Buy Now Goldbergh Eyecatcher Goggles, $299 Buy Now This jumpsuit works overtime as a chic one-piece for the lodge and an extra layer of warmth under a snowsuit for the slopes. For the ultimate winter sports look, pair it with Goldbergh’s Eyecatcher Goggles and Polar Lug booties. Removable Vest Puffer Jacket Sixth June Oversized Longline Puffer Jacket with Contrast Removable Vest, $191 Buy Now The North Face Freedom Snow Bib, $220  Buy Now lululemon Wunder Puff Mittens, $78 Buy Now Two looks in one is a must-have in Aprés ski culture. This puffer jacket by Sixth June features a removable vest that can be worn with a jacket or layered over your favorite knit. Pair it with fun-colored snow bibs and a pom beanie to complete the look. Sherpa Trench Coat Alo Yoga Oversized Sherpa Trench, $298 Buy Now Bombas Cotton Modal Long Underwear, $45 Buy Now Everlane The Cashmere Stroopwafel Turtleneck, $195 Buy Now This look is not practical for the slopes but is super chic and cozy for a day of sipping cocoa and mingling with friends by the fire. Elevate your long underwear with a cashmere turtleneck and an oversized sherpa trench. Finish the look with sherpa booties for additional warmth. Houndstooth Layers Bandier All Access 1/4 Zip Bodysuit, $130 Buy Now Bandier All Access High Waisted Center Stage Legging, $130 Buy Now Banana Republic Skye Fair Isle Sweater, $109.97 (Orig. $180) Buy Now We love a mixing and matching prints moment. This houndstooth bodysuit and leggings pair is perfect for the fashionista who wants to make a statement. Pair them with a Fair Isle print sweater and layer under a ski jacket and snow pants. The post 7 après ski outfits for a chic and cozy winter aesthetic appeared first on In The Know. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.