The World Economic Forum on Thursday said 39 organisations from nine countries, including Salesforce, Pfizer and AstraZeneca, have pledged to close gaps on global health equity. Those having signed the Global Health Equity Network Zero Health Gaps Pledge at the WEF Annual Meeting 2023 also include Anglo American, Deloitte, Gavi, Medtronic, Philips, Sanofi and Takeda. The pledge includes 10 key commitments all signatories have made to embed health equity principles throughout their operations, workforce and guiding philosophies. ''It marks the beginning of an historic journey to making health equity an integral part of business strategies globally and an important step towards a world without health disparities,'' the WEF said. The Zero Health Gaps Pledge is part of the Global Health Equity Network, which brings together key stakeholders from the public and private sectors to advance a collective vision of zero health gaps in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This innovative pledge is a public statement from its members declaring their commitment to take concrete steps to improve health equity across sectors and geographies and to help build a resilient and inclusive global economy that drives value for all. ''The tremendous amount of support across sectors for the Zero Health Gaps Pledge highlights a growing understanding of the need for multi-stakeholder collaboration to address global health inequities,'' said Shyam Bishen, Head, Shaping the Future of Health and Healthcare, Member of the Executive Committee, WEF. The pledge is a direct response to the persistent and growing global health disparities between and within countries. The difference in average life expectancy at birth between high- and low-income countries is glaring at 78 and 64 years, respectively. At the most extreme, Japan and the Central African Republic have a difference in average life expectancy of more than 30 years. Global climate and health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, have heightened both the severity of these inequities and the potential consequences of inaction. ''The Zero Health Gaps Pledge is a pledge to take action today so we can reverse this reality tomorrow,'' the WEF said. Salesforce Chair and CRO Marc Benioff said, ''we believe business is the greatest platform for change and by working together with leaders across the global economy we can help build a more healthy, sustainable and equitable future for all''. (This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)  Email: info@devdiscourse.com Phone: +91-720-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  © Copyright 2024