In a report released today, Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley maintained a Hold rating on Brighthouse Financial (BHF – Research Report), with a price target of $53.00. The company’s shares opened today at $43.77. Dally covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as AFLAC, CNO Financial, and Globe Life. According to TipRanks, Dally has an average return of 12.8% and a 56.93% success rate on recommended stocks.  Brighthouse Financial has an analyst consensus of Hold, with a price target consensus of $47.17, implying a 7.77% upside from current levels. In a report released on April 5, Wells Fargo also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $46.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> The company has a one-year high of $60.54  and a one-year low of $38.38. Currently, Brighthouse Financial has an average volume of 559.9K.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Brighthouse Financial, Inc. operates as a holding company, which engages in the provision of life insurance and annuities through independent distribution channels and marketing arrangements with diverse network of distribution partners. It operates through the following segments: Annuities; Life; Run-Off; and Corporate & Others. The Annuities segment product offerings include fixed, structured, income and variable annuities. The Life segment manufactures products to serve its target segments through a broad independent distribution network. The Run-Off segment includes structured settlements, pension risk transfer contracts, certain company-owned life insurance policies, funding agreements and universal life with secondary guarantees. The Corporate & Other segment refers to the general account investments and the separate account assets of the company. The company was founded on August 1, 2016 and is headquartered in Charlotte, NC.  Read More on BHF: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks