We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Kayda Norman is a NerdWallet authority on auto insurance. She previously worked in communications at The Walt Disney Co. and as a web producer and writer at several health and fitness publications, including Health magazine. Her work has been featured in The New York Times, The Washington Post and USA Today.   Lacie Glover spent more than five years covering health care costs and all types of insurance as a NerdWallet writer before becoming an assistant assigning editor in 2019 and later an assigning editor on the insurance team. As a writer, her work was featured in The Associated Press, The Motley Fool and U.S. News & World Report. Lacie is a NerdWallet authority on insurance products and loves data, analytics and solving SEO mysteries.   Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. 4.0 DiscountsRatings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Ease of useRatings are determined by our editorial team. Our “ease of use” category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. NAIC complaintsRatings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Pros Cons 4.0 DiscountsRatings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Ease of useRatings are determined by our editorial team. Our “ease of use” category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. NAIC complaintsRatings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Pros Cons Country Financial earned 4 stars out of 5 for overall performance. NerdWallet’s ratings are determined by our editorial team. The scoring formula takes into account consumer experience, complaint data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and financial strength ratings. Started by Illinois farmers, Country Financial has its roots in the Midwest as a farm and crop insurer. Now the company offers a full slate of insurance products for both city and rural dwellers in 19 states. Besides car, home, life and other insurance policies, the company offers retirement and college savings plans. In our auto insurance reviews, our editorial team considers both the customer and the insurer. These are some of the factors we take into account: Financial strength. We use A.M. Best ratings to confirm an insurer’s long-term financial stability and ability to pay claims. NerdWallet does not recommend companies with a rating lower than a B.  Complaints. These ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The best auto insurance companies have fewer than the expected number of complaints. Ease of use. This category looks at how easily consumers can interact with an insurer through its mobile app and website. This includes how much coverage information is offered online, whether a user can start and track a claim online and get a quote and mobile app scores based on the Apple and Google Play store ratings. Discounts. We look at both the kind of discounts a company offers and the total number of discounts available. Current Product 4.0 4.0 5.0 Complaints to NAIC Ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company's size, according to three years' worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Far fewer than expected Complaints to NAIC Ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company's size, according to three years' worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Fewer than expected Complaints to NAIC Ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company's size, according to three years' worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Fewer than expected Ease of use Ratings are determined by our editorial team. Our "ease of use" category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. Below average Ease of use Ratings are determined by our editorial team. Our "ease of use" category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. Above average Ease of use Ratings are determined by our editorial team. Our "ease of use" category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. Above average Discounts Ratings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Average set of discounts Discounts Ratings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Average set of discounts Discounts Ratings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Average set of discounts Bottom line  Country Financial has few customer complaints for auto insurance but is available in only 19 states. Bottom line  Chubb insures mostly high-net-worth families and offers a number of policy perks. Bottom line  With generous coverage and discounts for good driving habits, State Farm is a popular insurer with fewer complaints compared to other large competitors. When you're shopping for car insurance coverage, it's important to understand what car insurance coverage you want and what you’re required to buy. For instance, most states require a minimum amount of car insurance to drive a vehicle. Alternatively, if you want extra protection, you may be interested in full coverage insurance. Read about the most common types of car insurance coverage to see how they work. Country Financial offers the usual auto insurance coverage, including liability, comprehensive and collision policies. Additional options include: Safety glass, which waives the comprehensive insurance deductible for glass repairs. Vehicle rental and trip interruption, which reimburses you up to $800 for a rental car if you can’t drive your vehicle because of damage from a covered accident. You’ll also receive coverage for hotels and meals if the accident occurs more than 100 miles from home. The maximum reimbursement amount varies by state. Personal effects, which covers up to $800 of belongings such as a laptop or phone if they are stolen from your car. Generally, your home or renters insurance will also cover belongings stolen from your vehicle. New car replacement, which is designed for newer vehicles up to three model years old, pays for a brand-new car if yours is totaled in an accident or suffers other damage covered under the policy. Rideshare insurance, which is meant for customers who drive for a rideshare company like Uber or Lyft. This option allows you to have one policy that covers both personal and ridesharing use. Coverage is available only in Oregon. » MORE: Compare car insurance rates You may be able to save with Country Financial by: Getting a quote before your current policy expires. Getting married within the year you insure all your vehicles with Country Financial. You and your partner must be at least 21 years old. Having a car with an alarm or anti-theft device. Completing a defensive driving course. Insuring multiple cars and/or having multiple policies with Country Financial. Not having any tickets or accidents for at least three years. Meeting Country Financial’s requirements for a good student. Being a college graduate. Being an unmarried driver, who is under the age of 25 and has parents who qualify for a multicar and multipolicy discount. Being a newly licensed driver who completes a Country Financial course. You must be 16 or 17 years old. Being a full-time teacher, firefighter, police officer, emergency medical technician or paramedic. First time shopping for auto insurance? Unsure of where to start? Check out our guide on how to shop for car insurance. Country Financial’s DriverIQ app tracks driving behavior like speeding, hard braking and whether you use your phone while driving. You’ll receive a discount for signing up, and you could earn additional savings based on your driving habits when you renew your policy. Although your driving is tracked, Country Financial won’t raise your rates or cancel your policy based on DriverIQ data. Country Financial sells term, whole, and indexed universal life insurance. It also offers no medical exam insurance for both term and whole life, although you may still need to answer questions about your health. Term life insurance: Coverage from $50,000 to more than $1 million is available for terms of 10, 15, 20 or 30 years. For no cost, you can add an accelerated death benefit rider that allows you to use part of your death benefit while you’re alive to help with terminal illness expenses. You can also add extra features to a term life insurance policy for additional cost, including: Return-of-premium. This add-on refunds the premiums you’ve paid if you’re still living at the end of a 20- or 30-year policy. Disability waiver-of-premium. This option lets you keep your coverage without paying the premium if you become disabled before age 65. Child term insurance. You can add up to $50,000 of term life coverage for each of your kids if they are 17 or younger with this rider. Your children will then have the option to convert their coverage to permanent life insurance at age 23 without any additional medical exams. Insured term rider. This option allows you to customize your policy to provide different coverage limits over the course of the policy term. This gives you extra coverage when you need it for responsibilities like your mortgage or a child's college education. Whole life insurance: A variety of payment options are available for whole life insurance, including making payments until age 65 or 95, making payments for 10 or 20 years or making one lump-sum payment. Country Financial offers an array of riders for its whole life policies, including an accidental death benefit that pays an extra sum if you die in an accident and a term rider that allows you to add term life coverage to your policy for you or your spouse. Universal life insurance: Country Financial’s universal life insurance offers permanent coverage if you pay your premiums and don’t cancel the policy. The cash value of these policies is linked to stock market performance. As with term insurance, riders can be added at an additional cost, including a guaranteed insurability rider that allows you to top up your coverage without having to take a medical exam or go through the life insurance underwriting process again. Accelerated benefits are also available at no additional cost. » MORE: The best life insurance companies Country Financial had far fewer than the expected number of complaints about auto insurance to state regulators relative to its size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Country Financial ranked No. 4 out of 24 companies in J.D. Power’s 2023 study on auto insurance claim satisfaction [0]J.D. Power. 2023 U.S. Auto Insurance Claims Satisfaction Study. Accessed Jul 10, 2024.View all sources. Website: Country Financial’s website gives basic overviews on insurance and the company’s products, and features financial articles and tools. You can also get an insurance quote, find an agent, pay premiums and report claims. Country Financial offers basic homeowners insurance, as well as an upgraded option. Learn more in our Country Financial home insurance review.  The company also sells renters insurance policies. Read our Country Financial renters insurance review for more information about coverage and discounts. Other types of insurance from Country Financial include: Classic car insurance. Commercial auto insurance. Recreational vehicle insurance. All-terrain and motorcycle insurance. Crop, farm and ranch insurance. Umbrella insurance. Boat insurance. Business insurance. Condo insurance. Landlord insurance. Medicare supplement insurance. Country Financial also sells pet insurance through a partnership with Crum & Forster Pet Insurance Group. You can get a Country Financial quote online or by calling 866-268-6879. You can report your claim online, through the Country Financial mobile app or by calling 866-268-6879. You may qualify for a multipolicy discount if you buy auto insurance from Country Financial in addition to other products like home, life or disability income insurance. You are also eligible if you have a Country Financial bank account or annuity. Illinois residents may qualify if they have a Country Financial commercial insurance policy. You can get a Country Financial quote online or by calling 866-268-6879. You can get a Country Financial quote online or by calling 866-268-6879. You can report your claim online, through the Country Financial mobile app or by calling 866-268-6879. You can report your claim online, through the Country Financial mobile app or by calling 866-268-6879. You may qualify for a multipolicy discount if you buy auto insurance from Country Financial in addition to other products like home, life or disability income insurance. You are also eligible if you have a Country Financial bank account or annuity. Illinois residents may qualify if they have a Country Financial commercial insurance policy. You may qualify for a multipolicy discount if you buy auto insurance from Country Financial in addition to other products like home, life or disability income insurance. You are also eligible if you have a Country Financial bank account or annuity. Illinois residents may qualify if they have a Country Financial commercial insurance policy. Insurer complaints methodology NerdWallet examined complaints received by state insurance regulators and reported to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners in 2021-2023. To assess how insurers compare to one another, the NAIC calculates a complaint index each year for each subsidiary, measuring its share of total complaints relative to its size, or share of total premiums in the industry. To evaluate a company’s complaint history, NerdWallet calculated a similar index for each insurer, weighted by market shares of each subsidiary, over the three-year period. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Ratios are determined separately for auto, home (including renters and condo) and life insurance. Auto insurance ratings methodology NerdWallet’s auto insurance ratings reward companies for customer-first features and practices. Ratings are based on weighted averages of scores in several categories, including financial strength, consumer complaints and discounts. Our “ease of use” category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. Using our editorial discretion, we also consider customer satisfaction surveys. These ratings are a guide, but we encourage you to shop around and compare several insurance quotes to find the best rate for you. NerdWallet does not receive compensation for any reviews. Read our editorial guidelines and full ratings methodology for auto insurance. In this review . . .  Read more Read more  Explore INSURANCE Switching your insurance could save you hundreds a year Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105