The Artist 16 has a drawing area of 15.4 inches on the diagonal and includes 10 shortcut buttons ... [+] that can be customised using the XP-Pen software. For many years, there was just one name in the graphics tablets market: Wacom. The Japanese company pioneered the market for consumer and professional graphics tablets that enabled digital artists and Photoshop professionals to have the feel of using a pen to draw images and edit images. Drawing with a pen is entirely different from using a mouse and offers much better accuracy and feedback. I’ve used a Wacom graphics tablet for 20 years and it was always my preferred tool for image manipulation. Wacom developed its Cintiq range of graphics tablets or pen displays some years ago. For the first time, Cintiq allowed digital artists to draw directly on a blank screen or image. Being able to draw on a screen with a pen was revolutionary at the time and was a precursor for tablets like Apple’s iPad. The drawback with the Cintiq was its enormous price. Thankfully, screen technology has plummeted in price over recent years and has seen more brands entering the pen display market. I decided to try out XP-Pen’s Artist 16 2nd Generation model to discover what you get for your money. This 16-inch pen display is wonderfully slim at less than 13mm and is available in four colors: blue, pink, green and black. At less that 13mm thick, the Artist 16 is comfortable to use. It could benefit from a stand but ... [+] that's an optional extra. The Artist 16 is supplied with a matte screen protector and ships with the X3 Elite Pen. A rocker switch on the pen toggles between two tools which, by default, is set to flip between Pen and Eraser modes. The switch also works as a right-click for accessing different tools in programs like Adobe Photoshop. The XP-Pen Artist 16 is designed for laptops or desktops with a secondary video output. A clever three-way cable is included in the box and connects to an HDMI port on the computer. I was reviewing the Artist 16 on my 27-inch iMac, which has a Mini DisplayPort for a second screen. I connected the Artist 16 using a MiniDisplay Port to HDMI adapter. If your computer has USB-C ports, you needn’t bother with the three-way lead, as one USB Type-C cable will supply the power, video and data signals providing a much neater solution. If you use a single cable, be sure to power the laptop with its power supply to avoid draining the battery. The X3 Elite Stylus or pen is driven by the X3 chipset for 24/7 use without the need for a battery. The three-way cable also features two USB-C cables; one USB connection transmits data from the Artist 16 to the computer, while the second USB lead can be used for the extra power to run the Artist 16’s screen. If you rely solely on a laptop’s battery to power the pen display, you’ll soon notice the battery level dropping, so it’s best to use the XP-Pen power supply that ships in the box. The default resolution of the tablet is a useful 1,920 x 1,080, which is not too small and large enough to work on without noticing excessive pixelation. Despite being billed as a 16-inch display, the usable area of the Artist 16 is 15.4 inches. The image appears quite bright, although the quoted brightness of 176 Nits doesn’t look that impressive on paper. Even so, in a room without bright lighting, I was happy using the Artist 16 at 50% brightness setting, but the levels can be adjusted using the two brightness buttons on the right side of the device. Out of the box, the color calibration of the Artist 16 appeared excellent and closely matched my calibrated iMac screen. The sRGB gamut is quoted at 127% but falls off to around 94% with Adobe RGB. It’s possible to calibrate the tablet using something like one of DataColor’s excellent SpyderX screen calibrators, but I didn’t bother as the setting of the display out of the box was fine. Using the XP-Pen software, it's possible to customize the 10 shortcut buttons and they can change ... [+] depending on the software running. On the device’s left side is a row of 10 shortcut buttons. These can be set for zooming in and out, undoing edits, switching tools or almost any command you desire. The buttons are programmed using the XP-Pen software, which installs quickly and auto-launches on boot so that the tablet is ready to go as soon as you are. The software has plenty of customization options for the X3 Elite pen, including up to 8,192 pressure sensitivity levels and up to 60º tilt setting. XP-Pen also sells an X3 Elite Plus version of the stylus, which offers an eraser button. The pen's nib can easily be replaced if it wears out and spares are provided in the box. I think the pen feels a little light in the hand compared to my old Wacom Intuos pen, but it’s comfortable to hold and responsive, thanks to the X3 chipset. If you’ve never worked with a pen display before, the technique requires a little practice if you’re used to a graphics tablet. Drawing directly on the screen or over a photo is much easier than drawing while looking at a screen. The one thing that would make the Artist 16 even better would be a touchscreen function so you could pinch to zoom in on a piece of an image or use two or three fingers to shift the image around on the screen. The Artist 16 has a contrast ratio of 1000:1 and up to 176 Nits of brightness. That doesn't sound ... [+] like a lot but in practice its perfectly usable even at 50%. Verdict: If you’ve used a graphics tablet before, switching to a screen-based pen display like the XP-Pen Artist 16 is a big step forward in usability. It takes a while to get used to the technique, but once you’ve practiced and programmed the shortcut keys with frequent commands or key sequences, it becomes addictive. Drawing directly on an image requires much less eye-to-hand coordination and is far less tiring. The macOS drivers for the tablet that I used felt polished and slick. However, it didn’t seem to register a change in pressure levels when drawing with Adobe Illustrator on my Mac. Occasionally, I noticed a little lag as the image waited to refresh, but that could just be my old CS6 version of Adobe Photoshop. I must upgrade to the latest version at some point. There are currently no Linux drivers available for the XP-Pen Artist 16, but for Windows, macOS and Android, it’s a superb pen display that feels very well made. The XP-Pen Artist 16 will change how you draw or edit images on your computer. Highly Recommended. Pricing & Availability: The XP-Pen Artist 16 is available now and costs £299/ More info: www.storexppen.co.uk Tech Specs:   The XP-Pen Artist 16 is very well made and the 2nd Generation model is slim and functional.   One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.