For many Central Massachusetts creatives, making a name in Los Angeles is the dream. Comedian and Worcester native Anthony Amorello followed that dream and now performs multiple times a week at the Comedy Store in Hollywood, a club that has played host to names such as Robin Williams and Eddie Murphy over the years. Last Call caught up with Amorello before his June 10 hometown show at the Jean McDonough Arts Center to talk about stand-up, California, and tales of Worcester past. You come back to Worcester regularly for hometown shows. How do you prepare? I work at the Comedy Store, so I get up three to four nights a week, and I've been cultivating what I thought would be a good set for Worcester. That's kind of a hard set to get a feel for in Los Angeles, but I think I did an OK job finding blue-collar crowds to get in front of. What differences do you see between Worcester and Los Angeles audiences? L.A. crowds are notoriously offended, and not that I have offensive comedy by any means, but it's definitely blue-collar. If I were to say a joke in front of a Worcester crowd that would hit hard because of a dirty punchline or a blue-collar look at life, it might hit harder in Worcester than in L.A. L.A. is a bubble and they are very much in their own world there. They don't understand the common person. I grew up paving roads at 13 years old. Especially out west, nobody has an experience like Worcester kids. I can name a million guys that started working construction in Worcester way before they were legally able to, and it definitely molds who we are. People across the country do not get that on a day-to-day basis. We are a rare breed of people. It’s been about seven or eight years since you moved west. Was it a culture shock at first? I think you get overprepared for it. I was very much prepared for sensitive people when I moved there, and then I realized that not everybody is like that. You find the way you can navigate that kind of thing. There is definitely a lot of culture shock as far as the way people act and how fake they can be, whereas in Worcester, if you don't like someone, you're going to tell it to their face. In L.A., they'll smile at you and then tell your friends they don't like you. I think it made me a more patient person because people there take a little bit longer. There's very much a Venice Beach vibe where you have to take your time. You've just got to have patience with things that we take for granted in Worcester. Do you have any stories about that difference? As far as jokes go, I have one joke where I talk about how Boston tried to outlaw the word "bitch," and I say, "That's Boston's second most used word." That's something that would go over well in Worcester, whereas crowds in L.A. would pull back on that. When I leave a show in L.A., all of the audience members are leaving in Land Rovers and Maseratis and I'm driving home in a Toyota. You go to a show in Worcester and everyone is leaving in pickup trucks and Fords. They're completely different people. What do you enjoy about L.A.? The weather! I'm there for comedy. It is the best comedy city, in my opinion. Every night, I get to watch people like Bill Burr or Sarah Silverman, and you can go see all of those people in the same lineup for $25. You don't get that anywhere else. So much happens in Los Angeles that things like that get priced down because so many people have so many other things to do. What was it like starting your career in this area? I grew up in Worcester. I started here in 2014, and I did Worcester and Boston for about a year and a half before I moved to Los Angeles. Worcester, at that time, didn't have much. I know Orlando Baxter used to run an open mic in Auburn that I would go to, and there were about seven comics every week that would do stand-up for a couple drunks in the audience whose eyes were going in all directions on a Tuesday night. You'd have to drive for 40 minutes to Boston every night and drive home. Now, Worcester has multiple comedy shows, multiple venues for comedy. It's really nice coming home and seeing that. How often do you come back to town, and what changes do you notice when you’re home? For shows, probably once every two years or so. Outside of that, I like visiting family. I like to think Worcester evolves as I evolve, because I started when there was nothing here and I was a nothing comedian, and now I work at the best comedy club in the world. I come home and there's always something new going on - the WooSox or another strip of bars or another community center. Worcester is definitely not the same place it was when I grew up. What goes into putting together a set as a stand-up comedian? Stand-up is something you have to do on a daily basis, whether you're watching or performing or doing an open mic. You need to be sharp, and you need to be creative every day. You have to be prepared for all scenarios. Crowd work today is such a big part of stand-up, but a lot of that stuff is planned out. People just don't realize it. It's the art of perfecting the acting of it, memorization of jokes, being able to test out new jokes on audiences. There's a lot that goes into it almost analytically, like baseball. I know it takes me seven minutes to get to this joke, so I can slide this new one in because I know I have another four minutes after that. You're always trying to play with things and be on top of it. You can't slack at all, that's for sure. Can you tell us one of your favorite stories from growing up in Worcester? Being an Amarello in Worcester, I have a hundred cousins and we all have a million stories of running around the city. I was just telling this story maybe 20 minutes ago. It was the Columbus Day parade, and my uncle had this really nice vintage GTO that he took care of and put in the parade every year. They liked to have fun back in the day, and we were a little late to the parade, and I remember being 8 or 9 years old in the backseat of the car with my cousins at some portion of the parade where you're not supposed to enter. There's a cop there who knows my uncle and he says, "You can't come in this way," and my uncle sticks his head out the window and says, "Oh yeah? Well, you better watch out," and put it in drive and slid right into the parade. No repercussions.