Join the Club! Get all the gossip on fashion and beauty and never miss out on top stories again We have more newsletters Join the Club! Get all the gossip on fashion and beauty and never miss out on top stories again We have more newsletters If you’ve been on TikTok recently, and specifically the #beautytok feed, you’ll likely have come across a lip flip video on your travels (or scrolls). The trending cosmetic treatment is doing the rounds on the app with users raving about the plumping results they saw from having Botox injected into the upper lip. However, not everyone wants to turn to needle-based treatments in a bid to get fuller-looking lips. Enter, Lydia Bright and her latest beauty hack. Addressing her TikTok followers, Lydia captions a new make-up tutorial “lip flip trick - thank me later”. And thank her we will. Lydia has found the perfect method for giving lips a plump appearance using only make-up – and the results are certainly comparable to the needle-based lip flip.  Before we go into her exact method, if you’re wondering what a lip flip actually is, Dr Ekrem Keskin, a cosmetic specialist at  Vera Clinic, explains: “It’s a treatment that creates fuller-looking lips with Botox injections instead of dermal filler. Though Botox is traditionally used to freeze face muscles, when used in small amounts around the border of the lips, it can also relax your upper-lip muscle and give it a ‘flipped-out’ effect.”  This “flip” of the lip creates a shadow, giving the illusion of a plump, Angelina Jolie-like pout. Sounds good, right? Before you book a clinic appointment, you might want to give Lydia’s hack a go because she’s found the perfect way to create a similar upper lip shadow to fake a flip. First, the mum-of-one takes a small eyeshadow brush and coats it in cream bronzer. She buffs that bronzer onto the border of her upper lip and onto the Cupid’s bow. Next, she takes a dusky rose shade of lip liner and goes over the borders of her upper and lower lips, slightly overlining them. Finally, Lydia dabs on a matching shade of lipstick – and voilà. A perfect faux lip flip. The final two steps are tricks we all know, but by buffing bronzer onto the upper edges of the lip line, Lydia cheats that “flip” shadow. It’s similar to the hack currently trending on TikTok which sees users contour their lip lines with fake tan, but it involves no overnight wait time for the results. Any more tips for us there, Lydia? READ MORE:   Click here for today's top showbiz news     The skincare products behind Molly-Mae’s new mum glow – including £10 cleanser     Expert warns against 'butterfly lips' filler trend that uses tape to give definition     Jennifer Lopez’s ‘lip gloss nails’ is the new manicure trend to try this year     Get exclusive celebrity stories and fabulous photoshoots straight to your inbox with OK!'s daily newsletter 