DB and OBB have expanded cross-border services as they expect passenger ridership to rise by 40% over the next five years. Deutsche Bahn (DB) and Austrian Federal Railways (OBB) are set to expand cross-border services, which include increasing the InterCity Express (ICE) timetable and expanding their night service partnership. Thank you. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Both companies have stated that they expect passenger ridership to increase by 40% over the next five years and have revealed a target of doubling the number of night jet passengers by 2030. The partnership also involves both OBB and DB increasing their investment in new trains with the aim of providing ‘ICE-level comfort and convenience’. Beginning with the timetable adjustment, ICE 4 trains will be used on the Frankfurt-Munich-Salzburg-Klagenfurt route, providing enhanced comfort, convenience and reliability for long-distance travel. Stefanie Berk, a member of the DB Fernverkehr management board, emphasised how the company wants to boost the rail sector across Germany and Austria: “The shift to rail is continuing unabated; more and more people in Germany and Austria are taking the climate-friendly train when they travel to neighbouring countries. “We want to boost growth even further with new trains, more comfort and convenience and more connections. This can only be achieved through a joint effort by the rail companies involved. We’re responding to this growing demand by expanding the international timetable in close cooperation with ÖBB.” The timetable changes will oversee another ICE connection added between Berlin and Vienna via Nuremberg, a plan set to provide the largest northern German city [Hamburg] with another daily connection to Vienna. Commencing in December 2023, DB and OBB will additionally provide an ICE route from Berlin to Innsbruck and back through Frankfurt and Stuttgart daily, rather than just on weekends. ÖBB executive board member for passenger transport Dr Sabine Stock noted: “By 2030, we want to double the number of passengers on Nightjet trains. Deutsche Bahn plays an important role since many Nightjet lines begin and end in Germany. “The new connections from Berlin to Paris and Brussels and the new generation of Nightjet trains in Germany are sending a strong signal of DB’s and ÖBB’s confidence in night train service and intentions to expand the portfolio.” The new OBB Nightjet trains will enter operation for the first time in 2023/24, with deployment on the Hamburg-Vienna and Hamburg-Innsbruck routes. According to OBB, the Nightjets, are set to travel at speeds of up to 230km per hour and are equipped with future connections in Austria, Germany and Italy to follow in the course of 2024. Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  




                                                                                                                                Railway Technology In Brief                                                                                                                         


 




                                                                                                                        Future Rail : Railway Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the railway industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024