Cambridge:  Amphista Therapeutics has announced the delivery of the first discovery milestone under its collaboration and license agreement with Bristol Myers Squibb, triggering a payment for achieving the milestone. Nicola Thompson, CEO of Amphista, said, "We are absolutely delighted with the progress and success of our collaboration with BMS. Our ability to deliver our first milestone within the first year of our collaboration exemplifies the strength of our Eclipsys platform and our ambition to be a world-leading, next generation protein degradation company." The collaboration and license agreement with Bristol Myers Squibb was announced on May 4, 2022 and included a $30 million upfront payment, the potential for up to $1.25 billion in performance-based milestone payments and payment for a limited expansion of the collaboration, as well as royalties on global net sales of products. Read also: Bristol Myers Squibb, Tubulis ink pact for development of next generation ADCs for cancer patients treatment  Amphista is responsible for the discovery and development of small molecule protein degraders using Eclipsys, its next-generation TPD platform. Bristol Myers Squibb is granted a global exclusive license to the resulting degraders and will be responsible for further development and commercialization activities. Read also: Bristol Myers Squibb gets positive CHMP opinion recommending nod for CAMZYOS for treatment of Symptomatic Obstructive Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Amphista's next generation bifunctional molecules use a novel approach that makes use of a wider range of the body's own innate protein degrading mechanisms than those used by most other TPD companies. This approach offers the potential to overcome many of the limitations seen with current TPD approaches, providing the opportunity to treat a wider range of diseases. Amphista is focused on biological targets with a high level of clinical or genetic validation. Read also: Bristol Myers Squibb gets European Commission nod for CAR T Cell therapy Breyanzi for relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after one prior therapy Ruchika Sharma joined Medical Dialogue as an Correspondent for the Business Section in 2019. She covers all the updates in the Pharmaceutical field, Policy, Insurance, Business Healthcare, Medical News, Health News, Pharma News, Healthcare and Investment. She has completed her B.Com from Delhi University and then pursued postgraduation in M.Com. She can be contacted at editorial@medicaldialogues.in Contact no. 011-43720751 Editorial Prediabetes in India: Sugary Iceberg and Place of Metformin to Mitigate it Prediabetes in India: Navigating the Sugary Crisis with DCGI-Approved Metformin LENS trial a first of its kind large scale trial shows striking 27% reduction in diabetic... The Role of Aspirin in Reducing ASCVD Mortality Among Adults with High Lp(a) Concentrations API- ICP issue practical guidelines for doctors for management of Hypertension in patients with Type... Journal Club  Today The Role of Probiotics in Prenatal Health: Study Sheds Light on Benefits for Moms and Babies Health News Today Health Bulletin 17/ August/ 2024