Jun. 8—INDIANAPOLIS — It's unlikely the Indianapolis Colts' brass has learned anything of significance about Anthony Richardson since the rookie quarterback has been inside the Indiana Farm Bureau Football Center for the past month-and-a-half. But Richardson certainly has confirmed several traits that convinced the Colts to select him with the fourth overall pick. His size (6-foot-4, 232 pounds) and athleticism were apparent on his college game film and in person at the NFL Scouting Combine in February. And Indianapolis' decision makers became very comfortable with the 21-year-old's work ethic and leadership potential through multiple pre-draft meetings. In fact, the latter likely played a bigger role in the decision to hand the keys to the franchise over to the former University of Florida standout. Richardson's mix of hunger and humility helped sell owner Jim Irsay, general manager Chris Ballard and head coach Shane Steichen on the idea he can reach his prodigious ceiling despite a lack of on-field numbers to back up that opinion. Similarly, it hasn't taken long for the quarterback's personality to win over his new teammates. "I just feel like he's all in," veteran right tackle Braden Smith said. "I can see him every day. He's there early. He's in his iPad studying the plays. He has great attention to detail. He just comes to work every day. "I don't know what I expect from a high first-round pick, but I mean I guess you could think he'd be a guy that'd kind of maybe be a little cocky. But this guy's the complete opposite of that. Like I said, he's like kind of a blue-collar guy, I feel like, keeps his head down. He works." Everyone agrees there's plenty of work to do. Richardson made just 13 starts for the Gators and played just two years at quarterback in high school. He's still learning details about the position that can swing a career from success to failure at the game's highest level. But the upside remains undeniable. During Wednesday's practice — the final OTA session open to media before next week's three-day mandatory mini-camp — Richardson showed off his touch on the deep ball. Veteran wide receiver Breshad Perriman has been on the roster for less than a week and was practicing with the rookie quarterback for just the second time. But, during an early 7-on-7 period, Richardson didn't hesitate to launch a ball down the sideline more than 60 yards in the air to his newest target. The pass was perfectly placed over the defense of second-year safety Nick Cross, and Perriman was able to make the catch near the boundary before pulling away for an easy touchdown. "Obviously, adding Perriman — a speed guy — we just threw a deep ball, a deep corner route right there," Steichen said. "And (Richardson) threw it. He layered it nice and hit him in stride for a big play. It was really good to see." It hasn't all been highlight-reel throws for Richardson, however. During the same practice, he finished 3-for-7 in a two-minute drill and had his final attempt nearly intercepted in the end zone by veteran cornerback Tony Brown. The red zone has been a particularly challenging area for Richardson, as it is for many first-year players. During the past two practices open to media, he's thrown four passes into the end zone from inside the 20-yard line. The first was late to an open receiver and allowed a defender to close and knock the football away. The second was thrown toward the back corner and went out of bounds in a drill designed to mimic the end of the first half. While a touchdown always is the preferred outcome, it was a good decision that allowed the offense to attempt a 36-yard field goal. The third pass came during this week's session and skipped across the grass while the quarterback was attempting to thread the needle to a receiver. The final pass was forced and briefly found its way into Brown's hands, but he couldn't complete the process for the takeaway. Each snap is a learning opportunity for a young player whose biggest need at present is more experience. "One of the biggest transitions for a rookie quarterback is the red zone," Steichen said. "The windows are so tight. They are pretty tight as it is in the field, but when you get into that red zone, it really condenses. You've got that back line. The field condenses. The windows are going to be tighter, and really it's getting those reps down there, being smart with the football and knowing when to take your shot and knowing when to throw it away. "It's been good. He's done a nice job so far. Obviously, everyone has their ups and downs, but you keep fighting through those things. He's done well." And he's done plenty to allow the franchise to keep dreaming about who he can become. "Big body, big arm, big athleticism," third-year tight end Kylen Granson said. "Excited to see what his ceiling can be." Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine recap Team USA’s win over Brazil, preview Thursday’s game against Serbia and go through all of the NBA news they can find. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said.