PRINCETON, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Bristol Myers Squibb (NYSE: BMY) is today holding a Research and Development (R&D) Day in New York to discuss the company’s R&D strategy and capabilities and to provide insight into its robust pipeline supporting long-term sustainable growth. Members of the company’s leadership team will also highlight its differentiated research platforms and enhanced R&D framework, which are expected to drive top-tier productivity that delivers high quality early-stage candidates and meaningfully accelerates R&D timelines. “We are seeing the impact of our focused efforts to strengthen our R&D engine and pipeline as we’ve executed against our priorities over the past four years,” said Giovanni Caforio, M.D., board chair and CEO, Bristol Myers Squibb. “By combining the best assets, capabilities and platforms within our company, we are well-positioned to deliver more medicines to patients even faster in the future.” “Science and innovation derived from research and development are critical to the continued success of our company and represent the core of Bristol Myers Squibb’s vision to transform patients’ lives,” said Chris Boerner, Ph.D., executive vice president and chief operating officer, Bristol Myers Squibb. “We are further enhancing our R&D engine to strengthen scientific leadership, accelerate our promising pipeline and drive increased productivity. This work is a key enabler of our goal of delivering long-term sustainable growth and ensuring we help more patients prevail over serious diseases.” Strengthening Scientific Leadership and Advancing Promising Pipeline The company expects to double the number of registrational assets over the next 18 months from six to 12. Key pipeline updates for the newly anticipated registrational assets include: This complements six assets already in registrational trials: In addition to its growing registrational portfolio, the company has more than 25 indication expansion opportunities on the horizon and nine, high-potential early assets expected to advance in the pipeline. Taken together, this leads to increased depth across the company’s therapeutic areas, including oncology, hematology, immunology, cardiovascular and a growing presence in neuroscience. “The work we’re undertaking to accelerate our clinical pipeline and extend scientific leadership across therapeutic areas make it an incredibly exciting time to be a part of this company and our R&D organization,” said Samit Hirawat, M.D., executive vice president and chief medical officer, Drug Development, Bristol Myers Squibb. “Our integrated approach to R&D will allow us to maximize innovation and get more medicines to more patients faster.” Differentiated Research Platforms Support Long-Term Growth The company is uniquely positioned with differentiated research platforms including Cell Therapy and Targeted Protein Degradation supporting its innovative work across therapeutic areas. Building on our leadership in Cell Therapy BMS is the only company with two cell therapies approved against two distinct targets, exhibiting growing leadership in the space with strong positioning at the center of the innovation ecosystem. The company is expanding manufacturing capacity, exploring innovative technologies such as dual-targeting CARs and allogenic approaches, advancing multiple next-generation assets including new targets. BMS is also rapidly expanding into immunology, including lupus and multiple sclerosis. Expanding to new targets with Targeted Protein Degradation The company has a strong legacy in the protein degradation field and has been advancing its pipeline with an expansive library of assets spanning molecular glues, ligand-directed degraders and antibody drug conjugates. With three assets in registrational trials, four others in the clinic and more than 15 being studied pre-clinically, this growing platform has potential across several diseases, and is positioned to deliver approximately four investigational new drugs (INDs) each year. Enhancing R&D Productivity and Bringing Treatments to Patients Faster The company is undertaking efforts to further increase and sustain the productivity of its R&D engine, enabling an approach to research and development that will allow it to identify higher-quality candidates with increased probability of making it to market. Moving forward, BMS is focused on three objectives for establishing and sustaining top-tier R&D productivity: “Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to harnessing our integrated R&D approach to deliver high-quality assets with an increased chance of success based on a deep understanding of causal human biology,” said Robert Plenge, M.D., Ph.D., executive vice president and chief research officer. “Our research strategy will enable us to increase the number and quality of potentially transformational early-stage candidates, leveraging our differentiated research platforms, and accelerate the path from proof-of-concept to regulatory approval.” R&D Day takes place at 9 a.m. ET today and will be available via live webcast here. About Bristol Myers Squibb Company Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop, and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information about Bristol Myers Squibb, visit us at BMS.com or follow us on LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains statements about Bristol-Myers Squibb Company’s (the “Company”) future financial results, plans and strategy, business development strategy, anticipated clinical trials, results and regulatory approvals that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be identified by the fact they use words such as “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “target,” “may,” “project,” “guidance,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. All statements that are not statements of historical facts are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. No forward-looking statements can be guaranteed and there is no assurance that the company will achieve its future financial results, that the company’s future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the company’s product candidates will receive necessary clinical and manufacturing regulatory approvals, that the company’s pipeline products will prove to be commercially successful, that clinical and manufacturing regulatory approvals will be sought or obtained within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, (i) new laws and regulations, (ii) our ability to obtain, protect, and maintain market exclusivity rights and enforce patents and other intellectual property rights, (iii) our ability to achieve expected clinical, regulatory and contractual milestones on expected timelines or at all, (iv) difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products, (v) difficulties or delays in our clinical trials and the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products, (vi) adverse outcomes in legal or regulatory proceedings, (vii) risks relating to acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio actions and (viii) political and financial instability, including changes in general economic conditions. These and other important factors are discussed in the Company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K and reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. These documents are available on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s website, on the Company’s website or from Bristol-Myers Squibb Investor Relations. In addition, any forward-looking statements and clinical trial data included in this press release are presented only as of the date hereof. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any of the provided information, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.