Depending on who you’re speaking with at the time, the industry’s adoption of chiplet technology to extend the reach of Moore’s Law is either continuing to roll along or is facing the absence of a commercial market. However, both assertions cannot be true. What is true is that chiplets have been used to build at least some commercial ICs for more than a decade and that semiconductor vendors continue to expand chiplet usability and availability. At the same time, the interface and packaging standards that are essential to widespread chiplet adoption remain in flux. On the positive side of this question are existence proofs. Xilinx, now AMD, has been using 2.5D chiplet technology with large silicon interposers to make FPGAs for more than a decade. The first commercial use of this packaging technology appeared back in 2011 when Xilinx announced its Virtex-7 2000T FPGA, a 2-Mgate device built from four FPGA semiconductor tiles bonded to a silicon interposer. Xilinx jointly developed this chiplet-packaging technology with its foundry, TSMC, which now offers this CoWoS (Chip-on-Wafer-on-Substrate) interposer-and-chiplet technology to its other foundry customers. TSMC customers that have announced chiplet-based products include Broadcom and Fujitsu. AMD is now five generations along the learning curve with this packaging technology, which is now essential to the continued development of bigger and more diverse FPGAs. AMD will be presenting an overview of this multi-generation, chiplet-based technology including a status update at the upcoming Hot Chips 2023 conference being held at Stanford University in Palo Alto, California in August. Similarly, Intel has long been developing and using chiplet technology in its own packaged ICs. The company has been using its 2.5D EMIB (embedded multi-die interconnect bridge) chiplet-packaging technology for years to manufacture its Stratix 10 FPGAs. That technology has now spread throughout Intel’s product line to include CPUs and SoCs. The poster child for Intel’s chiplet-packaging technologies is unquestionably the company’s Ponte Vecchio GPU, which packages 47 active “tiles” – Intel’s name for chiplets – in a multi-chip package. These 47 die are manufactured by multiple semiconductor vendors using five different semiconductor process nodes, all combined in one package using Intel’s EMIB 2.5D and 3D Foveros chiplet-packaging techniques to produce an integrated product with more than 100 billion transistors – something not currently possible on one silicon die. Intel is now opening these chiplet-packaging technologies to select customers through IFS – Intel Foundry Services – and consequently expanding the size and number of its packaging facilities. AMD’s and Intel’s use of chiplets and multi-die packaging illustrate two of the prime uses for chiplets: to exceed the reticle limits of chipmaking equipment and to combine the diverse analog, mixed-signal, memory, and digital capabilities of various process nodes in one package. During the more than half-century history of IC manufacturing, semiconductor die sizes have grown larger and larger. Die size is one manufacturing dimension or figure of merit that has enabled the continued advancement of Moore’s Law. In the early days, IC-making photolithographic equipment exposed an entire wafer all at once. That’s when wafers measured an inch or two in diameter. Now, semiconductor makers using advanced process nodes work with 12-inch (300mm) wafers while manufacturers still using older nodes use 8-inch (200mm) wafers. As wafer and die sizes grew, whole-wafer exposure gave way to image steppers, which expose only one die on the wafer at one time. However, the maximum semiconductor die size has grown so large that today’s photolithographic equipment cannot make anything larger, having reached the limits of the optical reticle used to project the die image onto the silicon wafer. To go even bigger, vendors must stitch individual die together. However, this sort of technology isn’t all that new. For example, Intel put two die – a CPU and a fast static memory chip for the CPU’s large L2 cache – together in the package of its Pentium Pro CPU, which the company introduced back in late 1995. The second reason for using chiplets is to combine the capabilities of two or more different process nodes. For example, Xilinx (in its pre-AMD days) combined an FPGA die with smaller die containing 28Gbps serial transceivers to create the Virtex-7 580HT FPGA, because the most advanced digital CMOS process node of the day could be used to create the FPGA die but could not be used to make such fast transceivers back in 2011 when this FPGA was introduced. Now, 28Gbps transceivers are easily realized with today’s most advanced digital CMOS process nodes, but transceiver technology has also advanced, to 116Gbps and beyond. Chiplet technology allows semiconductor device technologists to employ appropriate process nodes to realize special features more easily. And yet, it’s hard to say that chiplet technology now represents an active market. If monolithic (1-die) IC construction is practical for a given application, it remains the most economical way of manufacturing a packaged IC. But multi-die construction is required when pushing the envelope of today’s silicon processing. For example, Nvidia and MediaTek just announced at Computex 2023 that MediaTek will be developing SoCs that incorporate GPU chiplets from Nvidia for use in automotive cockpit applications including AI and graphics and targeting the 2027 automotive model year. This sort of partnership deal characterizes the state of the chiplet market today. The partner companies have not announced the type of chiplet interface that will be used, but Nvidia joined the UCIe Consortium last year. The industry really needs more standards before chiplets can be used more broadly. Intel’s chiplet-based interface standard, AIB (Advanced Interface Bus), is now an open-source, royalty-free standard available from the CHIPS Alliance but it’s unclear just how widespread AIB has become, although Intel uses it in many of the company’s chiplet-based designs. Meanwhile, Intel and more than 100 other semiconductor and system companies including AMD, Arm, Google, Meta, Microsoft, Nvidia, Qualcomm, Samsung and TSMC are developing UCIe – the Universal Chiplet Interconnect Express – standard for die-to-die interconnect, and UCIe is gaining traction, at least with essential supporting technology. For example, Eliyan recently announced operational test chips for its UCIe-compatible NuLink PHY technology, which can transfer 40Gbps per chiplet interface bump, which allows die-to-die interconnects exceeding 2Tbps between die. That’s ample bandwidth for most chiplet-based systems. Intel CEO Par Gelsinger discusses the company's participation in the UCIe Consortium at last year's ... [+] Intel Innovation event in October.  But with interface standards in flux and a limited number of foundry and packaging vendors able to handle chiplets, the market for multi-die packaging remains limited to organizations that truly need it. AMD and Intel are clearly using multi-die packaging, as is the US government’s defense industrial base. However, the general commercial market for chiplets has yet to materialize. Several questions remain when creating a packaged IC using chiplets. First, there needs to be a reliable source of known good die (KGD). There’s no point in creating an expensive multi-die IC unless you’re sure of starting with working die. The next issue is determining which company owns the responsibility for a tested, fully working, packaged device. If you’re working with a foundry such as IFS or TSMC, the foundry has the responsibility for ensuring that the die are good, for assembling the product, and for testing the final product throughout its manufacturing cycle. Intel is facing those issues now with its 47-tile Ponte Vecchio GPU and is apparently getting acceptable yields. But it’s not clear how well things will work out when the end customer isn’t Intel (or AMD). Ultimately, there’s more than a decade of existence proof that multi-die packaging and the use of chiplets is here to stay. Certainly, Intel and AMD won’t be abandoning this technology in the foreseeable future. Both companies are actively making and selling products with these technologies. Can chiplets and multi-die packaging break out of this small niche? Signs point to yes, as the Magic 8 Ball might say, but it’s hard to say when. Tirias Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud. Members of the Tirias Research team have consulted for AMD, IBM, Intel, MediaTek, Nvidia, Qualcomm and with other companies throughout the Embedded, Mobile, PC, AI, and Computing ecosystems.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.