Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript. Advertisement Quantum optics is the study of how individual quanta of light, known as photons, interact with atoms and molecules. This includes studying the particle-like properties of photons. Photons have been used to test many of the counter-intuitive predictions of quantum mechanics, such as entanglement and teleportation, and are a useful resource for quantum information processing. Recent experimental claims of quantum advantage rely on the absence of classical algorithms that can reproduce the results. A tensor network algorithm can now challenge recent optical quantum advantage experiments. A plasmonic platform and a dual gate are integrated in a single-photon emitter made of two-dimensional materials. The combination enables engineered radiative and nonradiative decays, leading to a device quantum efficiency of up to 90%. Creating entangled photon pairs often requires intense excitation of nonlinear materials or the active manipulation of quantum devices. Now, entanglement between two photons has been created by scattering a laser off a passive quantum dot. Non-classical states with a large, definite number of photons can now be produced in a superconducting cavity and used for quantum-enhanced sensing. Silicon is a very convenient platform for quantum photonic sources. Here, the authors realise an indistinguishable single-photon source in silicon photonics based on an artificial atom, performing high-resolution spectroscopy and time-delayed two-photon interference to probe the coherence of emitted photons. Photon Bose–Einstein condensation is observed in a semiconductor laser, where thermalization and condensation of photons occur using an InGaAs quantum well and an open microcavity. The distinction between regimes of photon Bose–Einstein condensation and conventional lasing are clearly identified. Recent experimental claims of quantum advantage rely on the absence of classical algorithms that can reproduce the results. A tensor network algorithm can now challenge recent optical quantum advantage experiments. A plasmonic platform and a dual gate are integrated in a single-photon emitter made of two-dimensional materials. The combination enables engineered radiative and nonradiative decays, leading to a device quantum efficiency of up to 90%. Creating entangled photon pairs often requires intense excitation of nonlinear materials or the active manipulation of quantum devices. Now, entanglement between two photons has been created by scattering a laser off a passive quantum dot. High harmonic generation has long been successfully described using the semi-classical three-step model. However, recent progress has introduced a quantum optical formulation, exposing the limitations of the semi-classical picture. An article in Science Advances presents a large-scale optical quantum interferometer for detecting Earth’s rotation by using quantum entanglement. Halide perovskite nanocrystal scintillators detect high-energy protons with sensitivity suitable for clinical applications. 

                    Nature.com 
                
 © 2024 Springer Nature Limited