Read the latest press releases, download high-resolution images, or contact the Press Office with media enquiries, filming requests or to arrange interviews with experts. Email press@bl.uk This is monitored during working hours and intermittently outside of working hours. Beyond the Bassline opens at the British Library25 April 2024 Sir Roly Keating to step down as Chief Executive of the British Library in April 202510 April 2024 First exhibition to document 500 years of Black music in Britain opens at the British Library this spring27 February 2024 Last chance to see Fantasy exhibition at the British Library24 January 2024 Writer’s Award 2024 goes to Hannah Lowe and Alia Trabucco Zerán28 November 2023 Malorie Blackman exhibition opens at the British Library23 November 2023 Fantasy: Realms of Imagination opens at British Library today27 October 2023 2024 at the British Library25 October 2023 Downloadable, high-resolution images for media use. Unless stated otherwise, media content on the press area of our website is protected by third-party rights such as copyright or trademarks. The British Library is permitted to make the content available to media for promoting associated British Library’s exhibitions, events or activities. If you are not using images to promote a British Library activity, you must clear all rights for your use of any in-copyright material beyond uses permitted under the Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988. A manuscript being conserved at the British Library © Sam Walton (JPG, 15mb) British Library gates and Newton statue by Eduardo Paolozzio courtesy of the British Library (JPG, 3.1mb) Entrance Hall and foyer of the British Library at St Pancras © Sam Walton (JPG, 22.6mb) Entrance Hall of the British Library at St Pancras © Sam Walton (JPG, 23.6mb) King's Library Tower and public areas in the British Library © Sam Walton (JPG, 20.5mb) King's Library Tower and restaurant at the British Library © Sam Walton (JPG, 20.3mb) King's Library Tower at the British Library © Sam Walton (JPG, 5.1mb) Landscape exterior of the British Library, St Pancras courtesy of the British Library (JPG, 3.8mb) People using collection items held on the open shelves in a British Library Reading Room © Sam Walton (JPG, 28mb) People using the Sound Gallery at the British Library © Sam Walton (JPG, 18.7mb) People working in the public areas of the British Library © Sam Walton (JPG, 19.2mb) Person consulting a collection item in a British Library Reading Room © Sam Walton (JPG, 19.7mb)  Person looking at Sacred Texts in the British Library's Treasures Gallery © Sam Walton (JPG, 24.6mb) Philatelic Collections on public display at the British Library © Sam Walton (JPG, 16.8mb) Portrait exterior of the British Library, St Pancras © Sam Walton (JPG, 13.1mb) Filming at the British Library will be considered by the Press Office where it relates directly to campaigns, programmes and projects that we are actively promoting. We reserve the right to decline filming requests, including documentary requests. The British Library is continuing to experience some disruption to services caused by a cyber-attack. This means that not all collection items can be made immediately available for filming purposes at this moment. Please contact the Press Office for more information. We have pre-recorded footage of the British Library’s spaces available on request. Please contact the Press Office to enquire about using this footage. Visitors to the British Library are welcome to take photographs in our public areas using handheld devices (no tripods or trailing cables) for non-commercial use but flash photography should be avoided around the King's Library. © 2024 British Library, 96 Euston Road, London, NW1 2DB All text is © British Library Board and is available under a CC-BY Licence except where otherwise stated