Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		  Brian R. Judd was a member of a chamber quartet with friends. Baltimore Sun Harvey M. 'Bud' Meyerhoff was the chair of the Holocaust Memorial Council and a philanthropist. Gene Sweeney Jr. Tom Albright was the first athletic director at Southern High as well as the Southern High boys basketball coach for 39 years. handout Dr. Jack McKay Zimmerman was the chief of surgery at Church and Home Hospital who brought hospice care to Baltimore.  Dr. Yener S. Erozan was a longtime Johns Hopkins professor who specialized in study of diseases at cell level. LLOYD FOX Robert J. Nowlin Sr. was a blind Pen Lucy activist who refused to be intimidated by drug dealers even after his home and his wife's car were shot up.  Norman Elwood Johnson Jr. was a retired Baltimore District Court judge known for his courtroom patience.  Dr. Brian D. Briscoe was a pioneering Baltimore Veterans Administration Medical Center radiologist. BALTIMORE SUN Tara Heiss was the lightning-quick point guard and Women's Basketball Hall of Famer who in 1978 led Maryland to within a win of a national title.  Felicia Camille Hill-Briggs was a medical scientist who was an expert in diabetic health. Lloyd Fox / Baltimore Sun Charles Eliot "Chick" Silberstein was an orthopedic surgeon who had been the Baltimore Orioles team physician.  Leroy L. "Larkin" Niemyer Jr. was a Westinghouse Electric Corp. engineer who helped direct the building of the lunar camera that Apollo 11 astronauts took to the moon in 1969. handout Curtis L. "Curt" Meinert was the founding director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Clinical Trials. Baltimore Sun Dick Hall was an Orioles Hall of Fame reliever with impeccable control who helped Baltimore win two World Series. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Norman R. Stone Jr., was an Eastern Baltimore County Democrat who established a longevity record in the Maryland General Assembly. Sun photo by John Makely Jay L. Baker was a City Hall photographer who became the first African American official state photographer. Ann Wearmouth Beth Lynn McGee was the director of science and agricultural policy for the Chesapeake Bay Foundation and a longtime scientist. Photo Courtesy of Alexandra Velleggia McCabe Nazzareno 'Naz' Frank Velleggia was a co-owner of one of the oldest restaurants in Baltimore's Little Italy.  William G. "Hotzie" Hotz Sr. was a Baltimore Sun photographer and Navy veteran.  Bishop Leroy H. Cannady Sr. was the founder of the Refuge Way of the Cross Church of Christ in Baltimore. Handout James J. 'Jim' Hennessey was a prolific Baltimore artist and longtime MICA faculty member. handout James M. Griffin was the president of Baltimore chapter of CORE, entrepreneur and school board member.  Dr. Robert Irving Levy was a pioneering nephrologist, World War II Navy veteran and classical pianist. CHILDRESS/Check with Baltimore Sun Photo James G. 'Jim' Busick Jr. was a longtime Gilman School tennis coach whose players won 10 championships. Handout/HANDOUT Dr. Donald L. Price was a Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine professor and Alzheimer's researcher. Handout / HANDOUT Dr. Darryl Carter was a retired surgical pathologist who had been on the faculty of the Yale University School of Medicine and was an adjunct professor at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.  Omari Todd was a Teach for America Baltimore executive who recruited educators for area schools. Handout / HANDOUT Dr. Darryl Carter was a retired surgical pathologist at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Dan Rodricks Avery Aisenstark was the former director of Baltimore City's Department of Legislative Reference. Anthony Ryan Makai Sean Cummings was a former Baltimore City College lacrosse player who went on to serve in the U.S. Air Force after graduation. Algerina Perna / XX William S. "Ratch" Ratchford II was a former longtime director of the General Assembly's Department of Fiscal Services with a well-earned reputation for keeping governors and their budget directors honest. Posted by hjones49, Community Contributor Dr. Guy McKhann was a retired Johns Hopkins brain scientist who created criteria for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease. CARLOS OSORIO / Associated Press George R. 'Bob' Ruhl III was the former president of George R. Ruhl & Son Inc., a baking supply business established in 1789 that is one of the oldest family-owned businesses in Greater Baltimore. Amy Davis/Baltimore Sun Casper R. Taylor, Jr. was a former Speaker of the House who presided over nine General Assembly sessions.  Dr. Alan W. Partin was a prostate surgeon who had been director of The Brady Urological Institute, urologist-in-chief at Johns Hopkins Medicine and who had developed the Partin Tables that predicted the prognosis of prostate cancer.  Charles E. "Ted" Herget Jr.was a board chair of Stevenson University and insurance executive. Christopher B. Corder Ron Evans was an Old Mill track and field coach who won 20 state championships. Baltimore Sun photo by Jed Kirschbaum Charles Grayson Gilbert was 5 years old when he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and became a miracle survivor and the subject of an acclaimed Baltimore Sun photograph. Handout / HANDOUT Alison J. Dray-Novey was a Notre Dame University of Maryland history professor and author. CHUCK LIDDY / Associated Press Billy Hahn was a former Maryland men's basketball point guard and longtime assistant coach. (AP PHOTO/ Chuck Liddy) Pamela Wood Roy McGrath was a Governor Hogan aide who evaded trial last month and died after being found by authorities. Karl Merton Ferron / Baltimore Sun The Rev. Dr. Alfred C.D. Vaughn was an influential figure in both the religious and civic life of Baltimore and he was the longtime pastor of Sharon Baptist Church in Baltimore. Rich Polk/Getty Images North America/TNS Lance Reddick was a Baltimore native and character actor who specialized in intense, icy and possibly sinister authority figures on TV and film, including "The Wire," "Fringe" and the "John Wick" franchise.  Dr. Robert K. Brooner was an internationally recognized expert in addiction treatment and research.  Diane Johnson was the former chief nursing officer of Sinai Hospital. Baltimore Sun Fred D. Miller was a former Baltimore Colts tackle who was part of formidable defensive line in 2 Super Bowls. Chuck Burton/AP Jerry Richardson was a former Baltimore Colts wide receiver who founded and owned Carolina Panthers. (AP Photo/Chuck Burton, File) AP Photo/Jason Hirschfeld / AP Photo/Jason Hirschfeld Elizabeth C. "Betty" Wells was an Emmy Award-winning courtroom artist whose work was published in The Sun. ANDR F. CHUNG / STAFF Carolyn E. Fugett, whose belief in education, hard work and religion exerted a powerful influence over her six children, including a son, Reginald F. Lewis, an entrepreneur and notable Wall Street figure whose foundation endowed the $34 million Baltimore museum devoted to African American history and culture that bears his name. Karl Merton Ferron / XX/Baltimore Sun Woodrow "Woody" Anderson Williams Jr. coached the powerhouse Lake Clifton boys basketball teams in the 1970s and 1980s. Kim Hairston / XX Freddie Lee Hendricks was a legendary Baltimore track coach who led the Mergenthaler Vocational Technical High School team to nearly 20 state, city and regional championships.  Michael J. Kelly was a former dean of the University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law.  Dr. Louis E. Grenzer Sr. was a retired Baltimore cardiologist who wrote a study guide for the cardiology board exam. Michael Ciesielski, Johns Hopkins Medicine Dr. Barbara Migeon was a pioneer in genetic science, a longtime professor at Johns Hopkins University and an advocate for women in science. Baltimore Sun Fannie Gaston-Johansson was a nursing trailblazer and the first Black woman to become a tenured Hopkins professor. MARK BUGNASKI / XX Otis Warren Jr. was the first Black person to construct an office building in downtown Baltimore. Kim Hairston/Baltimore Sun Willie Chambers was one of Baltimore's longest-serving pastors.  Brian R. Judd was a member of a chamber quartet with friends. Brian R. Judd was a member of a chamber quartet with friends. Brian R. Judd, a well-dressed professor and groundbreaking physicist with a mind for math and an ear for music, died of pneumonia April 8. He was 92.Mr. Judd, professor emeritus at the Johns Hopkins University, was born Feb. 13, 1931, in Chelmsford, England, to Harry and Edith Judd. His father was an auctioneer who sold cattle, sheep and horses at the Chelmsford cattle market every Friday while his mother raised him and his brother, Colin.“Our parents did their best to ensure we had a good education,” Colin Judd said.As a boy, Mr. Judd learned how to play the piano, among other things.“In Chelmsford, we collected lots of the old 78 rpm records of the works of Chopin to play on an ancient record player that our grandmother gave us and which Brian did a lot of work on to make the playing more effective. When the war ended I went with him to several war surplus dumps where he picked up lots of valves and other radio parts so that he could make his own radios. He was a man of very many skills,” Colin said.Mr. Judd graduated in 1949 with degrees in math and physics from Brasenose College, Oxford, where he became fascinated by rare earth elements and quantum physics.“They were just a big mystery,” Mr. Judd told a Johns Hopkins magazine in 2012.In 1957, Mr. Judd took a year’s leave of absence from a research fellowship at Magdalen College Oxford to teach at the University of Chicago, where he met his future wife, Josephine Anne Gridley.

In 1962 when Mr. Judd was 31 years old at the University of California, Berkeley, he published a paper titled “Optical Absorption Intensities of Rare-Earth Ions.” Unbeknownst to each other, on the same day, George Ofelt, then a graduate student at Johns Hopkins, published research on the same topic. Their work became known as the Judd-Ofelt Theory, and it eventually led to massive technological advances in fiber-optic communication.The theory’s citation rate accelerated sharply in the early 1990s as long-range fiber-optic communications expanded.“Sixty years down the line here, looking back now at the importance of the work, it was a major advancement in how one can use mathematics to explain how atoms behave,” current Johns Hopkins Physics Department Chair Robert Leheny said.Ofelt went on to teach at Old Dominion University. In August 2012, Mr. Judd and Ofelt, who died in 2014, were honored at a conference in Udine, Italy, celebrating the 50th anniversary of the publication of their work.“When I wrote the article it was strictly calculations with the idea of describing only what an experimentalist would find useful,” Mr. Judd told Johns Hopkins at the time of the conference.Mr. Judd moved to Baltimore in 1966 to join the faculty at Johns Hopkins. Ms. Gridley said Mr. Judd’s favorite place in the world was the university’s Bloomberg Center for Physics and Astronomy. Mr. Judd continued working with postgraduate researchers after receiving emeritus status in 1997.In the physics department, Mr. Judd was known for being the best-dressed professor, in a suit and tie, with an organized, spotless office.In his free time, Mr. Judd played piano and sang. He was a member of a chamber quartet with friends from Hopkins.“He could pick up the most difficult sheet music and play it flawlessly the first time,” Ms. Gridley said.The couple married Nov. 16, 2000, in Annapolis. In Baltimore, they lived on 39th Street and later in the Ruxton and Blakehurst communities in Baltimore County. They enjoyed theater and driving to the Eastern Shore to watch migratory birds.Mr. Judd is survived by his wife, Josephine Anne Gridley, and his brother Colin Judd, of Yorkshire, England. Mr. Judd, professor emeritus at the Johns Hopkins University, was born Feb. 13, 1931, in Chelmsford, England, to Harry and Edith Judd. His father was an auctioneer who sold cattle, sheep and horses at the Chelmsford cattle market every Friday while his mother raised him and his brother, Colin. “Our parents did their best to ensure we had a good education,” Colin Judd said. As a boy, Mr. Judd learned how to play the piano, among other things. “In Chelmsford, we collected lots of the old 78 rpm records of the works of Chopin to play on an ancient record player that our grandmother gave us and which Brian did a lot of work on to make the playing more effective. When the war ended I went with him to several war surplus dumps where he picked up lots of valves and other radio parts so that he could make his own radios. He was a man of very many skills,” Colin said. Mr. Judd graduated in 1949 with degrees in math and physics from Brasenose College, Oxford, where he became fascinated by rare earth elements and quantum physics. “They were just a big mystery,” Mr. Judd told a Johns Hopkins magazine in 2012. In 1957, Mr. Judd took a year’s leave of absence from a research fellowship at Magdalen College Oxford to teach at the University of Chicago, where he met his future wife, Josephine Anne Gridley. In 1962 when Mr. Judd was 31 years old at the University of California, Berkeley, he published a paper titled “Optical Absorption Intensities of Rare-Earth Ions.” Unbeknownst to each other, on the same day, George Ofelt, then a graduate student at Johns Hopkins, published research on the same topic. Their work became known as the Judd-Ofelt Theory, and it eventually led to massive technological advances in fiber-optic communication. The theory’s citation rate accelerated sharply in the early 1990s as long-range fiber-optic communications expanded. “Sixty years down the line here, looking back now at the importance of the work, it was a major advancement in how one can use mathematics to explain how atoms behave,” current Johns Hopkins Physics Department Chair Robert Leheny said. Ofelt went on to teach at Old Dominion University. In August 2012, Mr. Judd and Ofelt, who died in 2014, were honored at a conference in Udine, Italy, celebrating the 50th anniversary of the publication of their work. “When I wrote the article it was strictly calculations with the idea of describing only what an experimentalist would find useful,” Mr. Judd told Johns Hopkins at the time of the conference. Mr. Judd moved to Baltimore in 1966 to join the faculty at Johns Hopkins. Ms. Gridley said Mr. Judd’s favorite place in the world was the university’s Bloomberg Center for Physics and Astronomy. Mr. Judd continued working with postgraduate researchers after receiving emeritus status in 1997. In the physics department, Mr. Judd was known for being the best-dressed professor, in a suit and tie, with an organized, spotless office. In his free time, Mr. Judd played piano and sang. He was a member of a chamber quartet with friends from Hopkins. “He could pick up the most difficult sheet music and play it flawlessly the first time,” Ms. Gridley said. The couple married Nov. 16, 2000, in Annapolis. In Baltimore, they lived on 39th Street and later in the Ruxton and Blakehurst communities in Baltimore County. They enjoyed theater and driving to the Eastern Shore to watch migratory birds. Mr. Judd is survived by his wife, Josephine Anne Gridley, and his brother Colin Judd, of Yorkshire, England. Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun