
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Ameliorate Digital Consultancy) 

Medical Exoskeleton Market offers recent industry information and highlights various trends impacting the growth of the market. It also highlights key vendors, various analysis techniques, and drivers with a market forecast from 2022 to 2029. Also, Medical Exoskeleton market size, trade facts conversation, and market share evaluation help to understand the entire structure of the industry accordingly. In addition to that, it lists business outlook, revenue, and consumption of Medical Exoskeleton Market by country.
This Research Report provides a detailed analysis of the global Medical Exoskeleton market and highlights key trends in product segmentation, business creation, revenue and market share, recent advancements, and M&A activity. This research additionally investigates the strategy of the largest international companies with a focus on Medical Exoskeleton portfolios and capabilities, market entrance strategies, market positions, and regional footprints in order to better understand these organisations' unique positions in a growing global Medical Exoskeleton industry.
  The global medical exoskeleton market is expected to grow at 44.95% CAGR from 2022 to 2029. It is expected to reach above 3881.22 USD million by 2029 from 200 USD million in 2020.  
  Get a PDF Sample Copy of the Report to understand the structure of the complete report: (Including Full TOC, List of Tables & Figures, and Chart)  :  
  Market Overview  
Drivers include an increase in the number of persons with physical disabilities, as well as an increase in the demand for efficient rehabilitation treatments.
Globally, the number of persons with physical disabilities is increasing significantly due to factors such as an ageing population, an increase in the frequency of road accidents and severe trauma injuries, and an increase in the prevalence of stroke, among others. The worldwide old population is expected to grow steadily in the following years, from 703 million in 2019 to 1.5 billion by 2050, according to the US Census Bureau.
  Leading Players: Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc., ReWalk Robotics Ltd., Parker Hannifin Corp, CYBERDYNE Inc., Bionik Laboratories Corp, Rex Bionics Ltd., B-TEMIA Inc., Hocoma AG, Wearable Robotics SRL, Gogoa Mobility Robots SL, ExoAtlet,  and others.
  Recent Developments  
  In 2021, Ottobock  introduced the Paexo Shoulder Jacket, Paexo Thumb Slim, and Paexo Cool Sleeve products at the Hannover Messe Digital Edition 2021 event. These devices provide excellent relaxation to the body during strenuous tasks such as moving heavy packages or performing overhead labour.
  In 2020, Ekso Bionics Holdings Inc.,  a leading provider of exoskeleton technologies for medical and industrial applications, will launch EVOTM, an upper-body assistance exoskeleton that increases endurance and reduces the strain of repetitive work. EVO is the next step in industrial exoskeleton technology, building on the company's ground-breaking EksoVest technology.
  Global Medical Exoskeleton Market Segmentations  
  Medical Exoskeleton Market By Component, (USD Million) (Thousand Units)  
Hardware
Software
  Medical Exoskeleton Market by Type, USD Million) (Thousand Units)  
Powered Exoskeleton
Passive Exoskeleton
  Medical Exoskeleton Market by Extremity, (USD Million) (Thousand Units)  
Upper Extremity
Lower Extremity
  Medical Exoskeleton Market by Mobility, 2020-2029, (USD Million) (Thousand Units)  
Mobile
Stationary
Medical
Rigid
Soft
The segmentation chapter allows readers to comprehend facets of the global market for Medical Exoskeleton including its goods and services, available technologies, and applications. These chapters are written in such a way as to outline years of development as well as the process that will occur over the following several years. The research report also offers insightful details on recent trends that will probably determine how these market segments develop over the coming few years.
The downstream consumption typically follows established economies with strong economic growth, such as the BRICS, therefore companies in developed economies now prefer to invest in less developed countries.
  According to the Regional Segmentation, the Medical Exoskeleton Market provides the Information covers following regions:  
  Here are some key aspects of the regional outlook:  
  Market Size and Growth: North America  represents a sizable market with a large consumer base and significant purchasing power. The region offers diverse opportunities across various sectors, including technology, healthcare, automotive, retail, and financial services. The market is expected to witness steady growth, driven by innovation, digitalization, and evolving consumer preferences.
  Emerging Markets  : Emerging markets, particularly in  Asia, Africa, and Latin America,  present significant growth opportunities for market research. These regions are experiencing rapid economic development, urbanization, and changing consumer behaviors, creating a need for market research to understand local markets, consumer preferences, and emerging trends.
  Having our reviews and subscribing to our report will help you solve the subsequent issues:  
☛  Uncertainty about the future:  Our research and insights help our customers predict the upcoming revenue pockets and growth areas. This will guide customers to invest their resources.
☛  Understanding market sentiments:  It is very important to have a fair understanding of market sentiment for your strategy. Our insights will help you see every single eye on market sentiment. We maintain this analysis by working with key opinion leaders on the value chain of each industry we track.  ☛ Understanding the most reliable investment center  : Our research evaluates investment centers in the market, taking into account future demand, profits, and returns. Clients can focus on the most prestigious investment centers through market research.
☛  Evaluating potential business partners:  Our research and insights help our clients in identifying compatible business partners.
  Get the Detail Information@  
  About Us  
Exactitude Consultancy is a Market research & consulting services firm which helps its client to address their most pressing strategic and business challenges. Our professional team works hard to fetch the most authentic research reports backed with impeccable data figures which guarantee outstanding results every time for you. So, whether it is the latest report from the researchers or a custom requirement, our team is here to help you in the best possible way.
  Connect Us:  
  PHONE NUMBER  +1 (704) 266-3234
  EMAIL ADDRESS  :  
MENAFN20062023004660010643ID1106462719  Medical Exoskeleton Market offers recent industry information and highlights various trends impacting the growth of the market. It also highlights key vendors, various analysis techniques, and drivers with a market forecast from 2022 to 2029. Also, Medical Exoskeleton market size, trade facts conversation, and market share evaluation help to understand the entire structure of the industry accordingly. In addition to that, it lists business outlook, revenue, and consumption of Medical Exoskeleton Market by country. This Research Report provides a detailed analysis of the global Medical Exoskeleton market and highlights key trends in product segmentation, business creation, revenue and market share, recent advancements, and M&A activity. This research additionally investigates the strategy of the largest international companies with a focus on Medical Exoskeleton portfolios and capabilities, market entrance strategies, market positions, and regional footprints in order to better understand these organisations' unique positions in a growing global Medical Exoskeleton industry.   The global medical exoskeleton market is expected to grow at 44.95% CAGR from 2022 to 2029. It is expected to reach above 3881.22 USD million by 2029 from 200 USD million in 2020.     Get a PDF Sample Copy of the Report to understand the structure of the complete report: (Including Full TOC, List of Tables & Figures, and Chart)  :     Market Overview   Drivers include an increase in the number of persons with physical disabilities, as well as an increase in the demand for efficient rehabilitation treatments. Globally, the number of persons with physical disabilities is increasing significantly due to factors such as an ageing population, an increase in the frequency of road accidents and severe trauma injuries, and an increase in the prevalence of stroke, among others. The worldwide old population is expected to grow steadily in the following years, from 703 million in 2019 to 1.5 billion by 2050, according to the US Census Bureau.   Leading Players: Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc., ReWalk Robotics Ltd., Parker Hannifin Corp, CYBERDYNE Inc., Bionik Laboratories Corp, Rex Bionics Ltd., B-TEMIA Inc., Hocoma AG, Wearable Robotics SRL, Gogoa Mobility Robots SL, ExoAtlet,  and others.   Recent Developments     In 2021, Ottobock  introduced the Paexo Shoulder Jacket, Paexo Thumb Slim, and Paexo Cool Sleeve products at the Hannover Messe Digital Edition 2021 event. These devices provide excellent relaxation to the body during strenuous tasks such as moving heavy packages or performing overhead labour.   In 2020, Ekso Bionics Holdings Inc.,  a leading provider of exoskeleton technologies for medical and industrial applications, will launch EVOTM, an upper-body assistance exoskeleton that increases endurance and reduces the strain of repetitive work. EVO is the next step in industrial exoskeleton technology, building on the company's ground-breaking EksoVest technology.   Global Medical Exoskeleton Market Segmentations     Medical Exoskeleton Market By Component, (USD Million) (Thousand Units)   Hardware Software   Medical Exoskeleton Market by Type, USD Million) (Thousand Units)   Powered Exoskeleton Passive Exoskeleton   Medical Exoskeleton Market by Extremity, (USD Million) (Thousand Units)   Upper Extremity Lower Extremity   Medical Exoskeleton Market by Mobility, 2020-2029, (USD Million) (Thousand Units)   Mobile Stationary Medical Rigid Soft The segmentation chapter allows readers to comprehend facets of the global market for Medical Exoskeleton including its goods and services, available technologies, and applications. These chapters are written in such a way as to outline years of development as well as the process that will occur over the following several years. The research report also offers insightful details on recent trends that will probably determine how these market segments develop over the coming few years. The downstream consumption typically follows established economies with strong economic growth, such as the BRICS, therefore companies in developed economies now prefer to invest in less developed countries.   According to the Regional Segmentation, the Medical Exoskeleton Market provides the Information covers following regions:     Here are some key aspects of the regional outlook:     Market Size and Growth: North America  represents a sizable market with a large consumer base and significant purchasing power. The region offers diverse opportunities across various sectors, including technology, healthcare, automotive, retail, and financial services. The market is expected to witness steady growth, driven by innovation, digitalization, and evolving consumer preferences.   Emerging Markets  : Emerging markets, particularly in  Asia, Africa, and Latin America,  present significant growth opportunities for market research. These regions are experiencing rapid economic development, urbanization, and changing consumer behaviors, creating a need for market research to understand local markets, consumer preferences, and emerging trends.   Having our reviews and subscribing to our report will help you solve the subsequent issues:   ☛  Uncertainty about the future:  Our research and insights help our customers predict the upcoming revenue pockets and growth areas. This will guide customers to invest their resources.
☛  Understanding market sentiments:  It is very important to have a fair understanding of market sentiment for your strategy. Our insights will help you see every single eye on market sentiment. We maintain this analysis by working with key opinion leaders on the value chain of each industry we track.  ☛ Understanding the most reliable investment center  : Our research evaluates investment centers in the market, taking into account future demand, profits, and returns. Clients can focus on the most prestigious investment centers through market research.
☛  Evaluating potential business partners:  Our research and insights help our clients in identifying compatible business partners.   Get the Detail Information@     About Us   Exactitude Consultancy is a Market research & consulting services firm which helps its client to address their most pressing strategic and business challenges. Our professional team works hard to fetch the most authentic research reports backed with impeccable data figures which guarantee outstanding results every time for you. So, whether it is the latest report from the researchers or a custom requirement, our team is here to help you in the best possible way.   Connect Us:     PHONE NUMBER  +1 (704) 266-3234   EMAIL ADDRESS  :   MENAFN20062023004660010643ID1106462719 MENAFN20062023004660010643ID1106462719 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN