 Influenza B is one of two main types of viruses that are responsible for seasonal flu epidemics each year. The other type is flu A, which can be more serious. Both are highly contagious and cause the same flu symptoms including coughing, fever, and body aches.
  Treatment for flu B often includes home remedies and letting the virus take its course. In some situations, prescription antiviral medications are used to treat the flu.
 Illustration by Mira Norian for Verywell Health  Influenza B viruses cause a respiratory illness that infects the nose, throat, and sometimes the lungs.
  On average, about 8% of the United States population is diagnosed with flu each year. The influenza A virus is typically more common and accounted for more than 97% of cases during the 2022-2023 season. Globally, however, influenza B accounts for about 23% of cases.
  Flu B is contagious and easily passed from person to person. The best way to prevent flu A and flu B is by getting your annual flu vaccine. The flu vaccine protects against the most common flu strains. To avoid infection, it's also important to practice good hygiene, including frequent hand washing. 
 There are four types of flu viruses, designated A, B, C, and D, but the most common in humans are A and B.  Flu A and B cause the same types of symptoms, so it’s impossible to tell which variety you have from symptoms alone. Flu B symptoms can range from mild to severe. They often come on quickly and last for about a week. There are a number of common flu symptoms that can affect the different parts of the body.
  Respiratory symptoms may include:
  Body symptoms may include:
 Flu in a child can cause a fever as high as 103 degrees to 105 degrees Fahrenheit. If a fever does not improve with medication, or occurs in a child younger than 12 weeks, seek urgent medical care.  Although it is rare, some people may also have stomach symptoms, such as:
  Children with influenza are more likely than adults to experience stomach symptoms with the flu. They're also more likely in people with a flu B infection.
  In most cases, treatment for the flu involves home remedies (including resting, staying hydrated, and sticking to mild, comforting foods, like chicken soup) and letting the virus take its course.
  However, prescription antiviral medications can be used to treat the flu if it is diagnosed within the first 48 hours of symptoms. This is especially important for high-risk individuals, including people over 65, those who are pregnant, or people with other health conditions. 
  Since flu B symptoms can be as severe as those caused by flu A, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that people over the age of 65 and other high-risk individuals use antiviral medications for flu A and flu B infections. If you feel flu symptoms coming on, call your healthcare provider as soon as possible to get tested and start treatment.
  Influenza A and influenza B both cause symptoms of cough, sore throat, body aches, and fever. They have their differences, though, including:
  It’s commonly said that flu A causes worse illness than flu B. However, research from the CDC indicates both flu strains are similarly dangerous and can cause severe illness, especially in high-risk populations such as people over age 65.
 Influenza is most contagious in the 24 hours before symptoms begin, but it can still be spread for about five to seven days.  Seek medical attention if you experience:
  If you are over the age of 65 or have health issues considered high-risk, call your healthcare provider as soon as symptoms start to get tested and start antiviral treatment if your test is positive.
  Flu A and flu B are two common types of flu that affect humans. The infections are caused by different types of the influenza virus, flu B can be as serious as flu A. The symptoms are the same and treatment involves home remedies and sometimes prescription antiviral medications.
 Influenza B viruses can cause epidemics [outbreaks of disease affecting a region], but influenza A viruses can cause both epidemics and pandemics [which spread across the country or world]. The seasonal flu shot is designed to protect against both influenza A and influenza B viruses. Talk to your healthcare provider about getting the vaccine before flu season begins. Bhat YR. Influenza B infections in children: A review. World J Clin Pediatr. 2020 Nov 19;9(3):44-52. doi: 10.5409/wjcp.v9.i3.44.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Types of influenza. Tokars JI, Olsen SJ, Reed C. Seasonal Incidence of Symptomatic Influenza in the United States. Clin Infect Dis. 2018 May 2;66(10):1511-1518. doi:10.1093/cid/cix1060. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza Activity in the United States during the 2022–23 Season and Composition of the 2023–24 Influenza Vaccine. Ghebrehewet S, MacPherson P, Ho A. Influenza. BMJ. 2016;355:i6258. doi:10.1136/bmj.i6258 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Flu symptoms and complications. Johns Hopkins Medicine. Influenza (Flu) in Children. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. New CDC study compares severity of illness caused by flu A and B viruses. Avni T, Babich T, Nir A, Yahav D, Shaked H, Sorek N, et al. Comparison of clinical outcomes of influenza A and B at the 2017-2018 influenza season: a cohort study. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Jun;39(6):1109-1114. doi: 10.1007/s10096-020-03822-x. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza in Animals. 
By Kelly Burch

Burch is a New Hampshire-based freelance health writer with a bachelor's degree in communications from Boston University.
  Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.