Las Vegas Metropolitan Police said a Cardi B concertgoer filed a battery report on Monday after being “struck by an item that was thrown from the stage.” The legal system has once again ruled in favor of Cardi B. According to CNN, the “Bartier Cardi” rapper – whose real name is Belcalis Marlenis Almánzar Cephus – will not face battery charges after she propelled her microphone into the crowd during a performance in Las Vegas last weekend. Las Vegas Metropolitan Police said a Cardi B concertgoer filed a battery report on Monday after being “struck by an item that was thrown from the stage.” The address on the incident report matched that of Drai’s Beach Club, where Cardi B was onstage Saturday night when the concertgoer was allegedly injured. However, authorities did not mention her by name in their statement. “After a thorough review of this case and with the consultation from the Clark County District Attorney’s Office, this case has been closed as having insufficient evidence,” Las Vegas Metropolitan Police said Thursday, CNN reported. “No charges will be filed in relation to this case.” As seen in video spread across social media, Cardi B was performing her 2018 hit, “Bodak Yellow,” when an audience member hurled a drink toward the stage. The video shows the rapper getting doused with liquid from the cup. She quickly reacted by throwing her microphone into the crowd as security guards rushed to assess the situation. Cardi B and her DJ encourage attendees to “splash” her with water because it is so hot in a second clip from the event posted to social media, though it’s unclear if this happened before or following the microphone incident, CNN reported. “On behalf of Cardi,” said her lawyers, David Chesnoff, Drew Findling and Richard Schonfeld, in a statement Thursday, “we appreciate the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Dept. ‘s diligent and prompt resolution of this matter.” This is not the first court victory for Cardi B. In March, a federal appeals court upheld a 2022 judgment against YouTube personality Tasha K, who was accused of defaming the Grammy-winning performer. Also in 2022, the rapper prevailed in a copyright case. TheGrio is FREE on your TV via Apple TV, Amazon Fire, Roku and Android TV. Also, please download theGrio mobile apps today! The post Cardi B won’t face charges for mic-throwing incident, police say appeared first on TheGrio. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.