

Back to 
            Health A to Z
          
 Group B strep is a type of bacteria called streptococcal bacteria. It's very common in both men and women and usually lives in the bottom (rectum) or vagina. Group B strep is normally harmless and most people will not realise they have it. It's usually only a problem: This page focuses on group B strep in pregnancy and babies. Group B strep is common in pregnancy and rarely causes any problems. It's not routinely tested for, but may be found during tests carried out for another reason, such as a urine test or vaginal swab. If you have group B strep while you're pregnant: If you're worried about group B strep, speak to your midwife or GP for advice. Talk to them about the risks to your baby and ask their advice about whether to get tested. Routine testing is not currently recommended and tests are rarely done on the NHS. This is because group B strep is very common and testing cannot predict whether a baby will get an infection. You can pay for a test privately. Find out more about getting tested for group B strep on the Group B Strep Support website If tests find group B strep while you're pregnant, or you've had a baby that's been affected by it before, you may need extra care and treatment. You may be advised to: If you had group B strep during pregnancy, there's a small risk it could spread to your baby and make them very ill. If this happens, it's usually soon after they're born. Your baby may be monitored in hospital for up to 12 hours to check for any problems. They'll be given antibiotics into a vein if they develop symptoms. Occasionally, symptoms of a group B strep infection in a baby can develop up to 3 months after birth. Symptoms may include: They may need treatment with antibiotics in hospital immediately. Do not drive to A&E. Ask someone to drive you or call 999 and ask for an ambulance. Bring any medicines you take with you. Most babies with a group B strep infection make a full recovery if treated. Some babies may develop serious problems like sepsis or meningitis. This can cause lasting problems like hearing loss or loss of vision. Sometimes it can be fatal. 
    Page last reviewed: 19 April 2024
    Next review due: 19 April 2027
   © Crown copyright