UPDATE — Aug. 19, 2023: B.C. in state of emergency with thousands out of their homes due to wildfires If the power or data on your device is low, you can get wildfire updates on CBC Lite, our low-bandwidth, text-only website. THE LATEST: Premier David Eby announced a provincial state of emergency at a news conference Friday, urging British Columbians to stay alert, listen to local officials and follow evacuation orders.  "If you get an evacuation order, please leave," Eby said. He also asked people to avoid non-essential travel to affected areas.  According to Emergency Management Minister Bowinn Ma, the number of people under evacuation order in B.C. went from 4,500 to 15,000 in an hour, and 20,000 more people are under evacuation alert.  A list of evacuation orders and alerts is posted online by Emergency Info B.C. The announcement came after a significant number of homes were destroyed by a fast-burning wildfire in the West Kelowna area, as crews fight through what the B.C. Wildfire Service (BCWS) has predicted would be the most challenging days of the provincial fire season, due to gusting winds. The extreme conditions in the area are not expected to let up over the next 36 hours, and fires across the province may see significant growth, provincial officials say. More than 2,400 properties are under an evacuation order, and more than 4,800 properties are under an evacuation alert due to the encroaching McDougall Creek wildfire, which grew more than a hundredfold — from 64 hectares to 6,800 hectares (68 square kilometres) — in just 24 hours.  More than 700 residents from eight senior care homes in the area are also being transferred to safe locations. Interior Health says it has established a phone line where families can receive updates on the location of their loved ones. Kelowna has a population of approximately 150,000 residents, while West Kelowna has about 36,000. Of the 380 active fires in the province, 160 of them remain out of control, and more than a dozen of those are either highly visible or a threat to a community. Around 3,400 firefighters are deployed across the province, with dozens from other jurisdictions, such as Mexico and Costa Rica. An evacuation alert has been issued for properties in Lake Country, a community approximately 25 kilometres north of Kelowna due to a fire in the area. A number of properties have been ordered to evacuate.  A new evacuation order was also issued late Friday afternoon for numerous properties on the West Bank First Nation reserve. Evacuation orders had earlier been issued for the Clifton Road North and McKinley neighbourhoods north of downtown Kelowna, as well as for properties surrounding Hidden Lake and Still Pond — which were expanded Friday morning for properties in the Shayler area and properties in the Glenmore Road area. There is also an evacuation order for properties north of Nahun along the west side of Okanagan Lake, along Westside Road, but not including those in La Casa. "It was a devastating [Thursday] night, probably the most challenging of my career," said West Kelowna Fire Chief Jason Brolund during a news conference Friday afternoon.  "We fought hard last night to protect our community. "We fought 100 years worth of fires all in one night." Brolund said some emergency responders were trapped because they had to rescue residents who chose not to leave their properties despite being under evacuation order. "That's the fire chief's worst nightmare," he said. Brolund and Kelowna Fire Chief Travis Whiting said no lives were lost despite the danger firefighters and residents faced. Whiting also said no structures in his community had burned down, but both he and Brolund warned about embers being carried by the wind, which is also fanning the aggressive fire. "We're going to be throwing everything we can at this fire," said Whiting. Long-time West Kelowna resident Steven Francis was one of the thousands evacuated Thursday night. He said he's faced evacuation orders before, but the intensity of the McDougall Creek fire is unlike anything he's experienced. "It came right to our doorstep, with all its rage and fury and power. And I broke down," he said. "I had a moment, and maybe I'm having one right now." Cliff Chapman, director of provincial operations for the BCWS, described the last 24 hours as one of a handful of days that will be "engraved" in his memory from his two-decade career. "It was a very, very stressful evening for everyone in that area," Chapman said, adding the fire continues to burn aggressively thanks to strong winds that are expected to continue through the night, into Saturday. Chapman also addressed those who defied the evacuation orders Thursday night, saying they put the lives of police and firefighters at risk. "Now is not the time to ignore an evacuation order," he said, adding the fire is moving at a speed rarely seen in B.C. Police and provincial officials are urging anyone in the area not to use boats to attempt to access the evacuation zone and to keep drones out of the skies. "Drones are a significant hazard to crews fighting fires. It is illegal and irresponsible to fly them near fires," Minister of Forests Bruce Ralston said. Earlier Friday, officials said properties had been destroyed in the Trader Cove area and Bear Lake Road north of West Kelowna. Officials did not provide an exact number and said conditions would have to improve before a more thorough assessment could be made. Brolund said the losses were significant, but firefighters did manage to save properties. Among those destroyed are the historic Lake Okanagan Resort. Chief Keith Crow of the Lower Similkameen Indian Band also said Friday the fire had destroyed at least one property in his community, and a further 17 other properties were under threat in a subdivision. Evacuees can refer to an interactive map and search by address to find out how individual homes and businesses are affected. The B.C. RCMP says it is deploying additional resources to help secure areas that have been evacuated due to encroaching wildfires. Officers will help with door-to-door evacuations, securing evacuation routes and conducting patrols in evacuated areas to "secure properties from criminal activity.'' They also say officers will only leave an evacuated area if the wildfire threatens their safety. The regional district is asking evacuees to contact friends and family as hotels, motels and other tourism operators in the area are at capacity. For those in Kelowna, a reception centre has been set up at the Salvation Army at 1480 Sutherland Dr. Evacuees from West Kelowna who live south of Traders Cove can go to the Information Centre at Royal LePage Place at 2760 Cameron Rd. For those north of Traders Cove, a reception centre has been opened at Kal Tire Place at 3445 43rd Ave. in Vernon, around 60 kilometres north of West Kelowna. There have been long lines at some of the centres, and officials are asking evacuees to be patient. All evacuees are asked to register through a provincial portal. A public information line is also available at 250-469-8490 or 1-877-569-8490. Emergency Management Minister Bowinn Ma has said the wildfire service has "significant resources'' on the West Kelowna fire, but urged everyone in the region to prepare in case they are ordered to leave. West Kelowna's Brolund said he anticipated alerts related to the McDougall Creek fire to become orders. "This is the real deal," he said about the fire's dangers. The Central Okanagan Emergency Operation Centre issued a local state of emergency Thursday because of the fire. The City of Kelowna has also declared a state of emergency, as fire crews responded to fires on the east side of Okanagan Lake. Chapman with the BCWS said Friday that officials have not yet confirmed whether those wildfires were a result of the McDougall Creek fire jumping across the lake or if they were new, unconnected fires. DriveBC says a travel advisory is in effect for Highway 97 through Kelowna and West Kelowna for a stretch of more than 60 kilometres between the communities of Coldstream and Peachland because of the wildfires. Drivers are being asked to avoid the area and be prepared for short-notice closures. More stories on wildfires: Anyone placed under an evacuation order should leave the area immediately. Evacuation centres have been set up throughout the province to assist anyone evacuating from a community under threat from a wildfire. To find the centre closest to you, visit the EmergencyInfoBC website. Evacuees are encouraged to register with Emergency Support Services online, whether or not they access services at an evacuation centre. If you've been affected by the B.C. wildfires and want to share your story, email cbcnewsvancouver@cbc.ca. With files from The Canadian Press, Chad Pawson, Andrew Kurjata, Bethany Lindsay, and Jordan Tucker Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON  Canada, M5W 1E6  Toll-free (Canada only):  1-866-306-4636 It is a priority for CBC to create products that are accessible to all in Canada including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. 