WINDSOR, UK — The entire world is embracing artificial intelligence (AI) – and the telcos don’t want to be left out. That’s one of the key takeaways here at this week’s DSP Leaders World Forum, where hundreds of the leaders from telecommunications and technology providers grappled with an array of challenges and choices facing the communications industry – such as the need to modernize businesses and adopt modern technologies such as cloud and artificial intelligence (AI). The telcos – or telecoms, as they are known here in Europe — are struggling with mass layoffs, stagnant financials, and a chronic inferiority complex when compared to faster-moving, technology-driven companies such as the cloud hyperscalers. The tidal wave of AI has clearly unleashed a new round of anxiety, as the telecoms look to develop AI-driven technology strategy in the face of tighter budgets and a slowing economy. “We have to be honest as an industry, we're not doing very well,” said Geoff Hollingworth, CMO of Rakuten, a supplier of cloud-based communications technology. “There is something game-changing about AI. As an industry what we are trying to understand is how to go faster, cheaper.” The self-flagellation didn’t stop there. One executive who lives in Silicon Valley admitted it wasn’t cool to tell anybody in the Bay Area that you work for a telco. “If you tell them you work at a telco, they think you need a hug,” said Sebastiano Tevaratto, customer service champion with telecoms software provider Optiva, on a panel here. With the buzz around AI accelerating and the stock prices of cloud and AI companies surging – highlighted this week by NVIDIA’s 25% share explosion – the urgency has ratcheted up a notch. The AI tidal wave has come at an interesting time, as the telecoms industry has recently made unhappy headlines with mass layoffs, with the world fearing that AI will take their jobs. While labor unions may be up in arms, the telecom industry likely has no choice. Telcos are among the most debt-heavy companies on the planet, and many of them are struggling with poor profitability. They’re now burdened with heavy investments in 5G spectrum and networks that haven’t yet paid off – so automation and efficiency are likely the only solution. There are, of course, opportunities as well as threats. The surge of AI will increase the need for data and networks supplied by large communications networks. If they dial in the right products and services, they could find new growth. More importantly, AI can be a key tool to lower operational costs and building better networks. “Going to the cloud is a business decision,” said Tevaratto. “You choose to embrace or die.” Several of the panels here focused on steps the telecoms need to take to better automate their networks. One of the great challenges is that as decades-old, regulated entities, they suffer the burden of aging infrastructure that needs to be refreshed at an alarming rate. For years, the technical community in the communications industry has embarked on “cloudification,” in which they adopt cloud-based technology such as standardized servers and switches, open-source software, and cloud-based APIs to drive automation. But it’s been a slow process that hasn’t gone as fast as everyone has liked. For example, the move to 5G Standalone (5G SA), the industry’s first fully cloud-based standard for deploying 5G services, has only just begun in earnest. At the DSP Leaders World Forum – which refers to itself as the “Davos of Telecoms,” panel participants regularly called out their own industry for slow progress and lack of innovation. “We need to modernize our technologies — modern cloud technologies and APIs,” said Scott Petty, CTO of Vodafone, on one of several panels examining how telecoms can transform to be better technology companies (or “techcos”). “We need to invest in open-source. We need to insource engineering talent. The journey from telco to techno is a cultural change that applies to the whole organization. Vodafone CTO Scott Petty speaks at the 2023 DSP Leaders World Forum Another strong voice for mass reform came from Neil McRae, a leading figure in the communications technical community with decades of experience. McRae left UK telco giant BT in 2022 and recently signed up as chief network strategist at Juniper Networks. One of his goals is to explore what AI could do for the industry. McRae told the audience that he had recently taken an AI coding class at UC Berkeley and had developed his own “AI server,” a rectangular cuboid stocked with NVIDIA GPUs he says he keeps next to his desk to play with. “The future is when AI is in everything we are doing. We will have thousands of use cases,” McRae told the audience on an AI panel. “Are we ready for that? Are we building AI at scale? I don't think so. “ McRae’s fear is that telecoms will use AI to add incremental improvement to the industry, rather than thinking about how things can be completely reinvented. “Our mental model on how a telco works is the biggest barrier to success,” said McRae. “If we think like that for AI, we're going to miss the opportunity. With AI, probably with more than any other technology, you have to bring in people that are not telco brainwashed.” Indeed, as somebody who has followed the telecom industry for decades, I can attest that the mental model is a great risk. Telco executives aren’t typically known as innovative visionaries. Often they make terrible decisions with massively expensive investments into industries they don’t even understand. Plagued by high debt levels and a painfully underwhelming rollout of 5G services, it’s surely time for more radical change.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.