Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     NEW ORLEANS — The blue checks that help verify that we are, who we say we are on Twitter started disappearing Thursday afternoon. Users who don’t subscribe to the new “Twitter Blue” are now losing that verification tool. The costs of keeping the check marks starts at $8 per month, per user. It’s the latest step by Twitter owner Elon Musk, to reshape the company he bought for $44 billion. “The key is you always want to have multiple ways to get information and our Twitter account is just one of many,” said Ben Schotts, who heads up the National Weather Service in Slidell. "Losing the blue check isn’t going to stop the office from sending out weather alerts,” Schotts added. “We’re still going to be using all the dissemination methods that we have available to us, and all of our social media still exists both on Twitter, Facebook and through our YouTube account.” The blue check purge has some users such as government agencies and emergency managers worried about the possibility of fake sites popping up – spreading misinformation. “It’s something that we’re aware of that already occurs and it’s something that we constantly have to fight,” said New Orleans Homeland Security Director Collin Arnold. Arnold says it’s important to diversify your ability to receive information. “Use WWL. Use traditional media. Use social media, I would say with a bit of caution at some point. Use NOLA Ready as a trusted source," he said. To get NOLA Ready alerts on your phone, text NOLA Ready to 77295. “We’re going to play wait and see with this particular provider to see, and I’m talking about Twitter, to see how this all shakes out,” Arnold said. “But I want the residents of this city, the visitors, all of our folks, our media partners to know that we’re going to continue. It really doesn’t change our calculus on what we do on a daily basis.” Even Governor John Bel Edwards lost his blue check today. A spokesman for the governor said he now plans to apply for a new gray check mark which indicates it’s the official account of a government agency, government official or corporation. Click here to report a typo. ► Get breaking news from your neighborhood delivered directly to you by downloading the new FREE WWL-TV News app now in the IOS App Store or Google Play. Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.