


May 19 (UPI) -- An elderly Australian doctor has been freed after being held hostage for more than seven years by al-Qaida in war-torn West Africa, Canberra said Friday.
Eighty-eight-year-old Kenneth Elliott is safe and well and has been reunited with his wife Jocelyn and their children, Foreign Minister Penny Wong said in a news release in which she praised the "strength and resilience Dr. Elliott and members of his family have shown through the most difficult of circumstances."
Advertisement
"We extend our thanks to the Australian officials who have worked over many years to secure Dr. Elliott's release and to provide support to his family," added Wong.
Originally from Perth, Elliott and his wife were both in their 80s when they were abducted by al-Qaida militants in Islamic Maghreb in 2016 in northern Burkina Faso where they had run a 120-bed clinic in the town of Djibo since 1972. Elliott worked as the clinic's lone surgeon.
Related
28 bodies found dead in continuing Burkina Faso violence
American nun, 83, freed five months after kidnapping in Burkina Faso
EU sanctions al-Qaida-linked terrorist group, leaders in West Africa
The group released Jocelyn after three weeks leading to a seven-year international campaign for Elliott's release by his family, the Australian government and the local community, whom the couple had helped over the decades.
Advertisement
"We express our relief that Dr. Elliott is free and thank the Australian Government and all who have been involved over time to secure his release," Elliott's family said in a statement. "We also continue to pray for those still held and wish them freedom and safe return to their loved ones.
"At 88 years of age, and after many years away from home, Dr. Elliott now needs time and privacy to rest and rebuild strength. We thank you for your understanding and sympathy."
In August, a Louisiana nun was freed five months after being abducted by gunmen in north-east Burkina Faso. Suellen Theresa Tennyson, 83, had been living in the country at the time she was seized in the town of Yalgo.
In September, the second military coup in eight months saw Cpt. Ibrahim Traore depose Burkina Faso's military ruler Lt. Col. Paul-Henri Damiba who in turn ousted the democratically elected President Roch Marc Kabore in January, dissolving parliament, the government and the constitution.





Latest Headlines







World News // 1 hour ago
Suspected Kenyan serial killer among 13 prison escapees; 8 officers arrested
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- The Kenyan man who police say confessed to the brutal murders and dismemberment of 42 women, including his own wife, was among 13 prisoners who escaped a Nairobi prison on Tuesday.










World News // 3 hours ago
European Union proposes reduced tariffs on Tesla, Chinese-made EVs
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- The European Union on Tuesday introduced a draft proposal that would reduce the anticipated tariffs on several Chinese electric vehicle firms along with Tesla vehicles made in China.










World News // 4 hours ago
King Charles meets survivors of Southport knife attack, thanks emergency workers
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- Britain's King Charles was en-route to Southport in the north of the country Tuesday to meet survivors of a stabbing rampage that killed three young girls and injured 10 other people last month.










World News // 4 hours ago
Japan's Liberal Democratic Party sets dates for election to replace PM Fumio Kishida
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- The race to see who will become the new president of Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party and leader of the country will begin Sept. 12 where candidates will have a two-week window to make their pitch, according to ne










World News // 5 hours ago
Superyacht wreck: Morgan Stanley International Chair Jonathan Bloomer among missing
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- A major search and recue operation was continuing Tuesday following the sinking of a superyacht off Sicily to find six people including Morgan Stanley International chairman Jonathan Bloomer.










World News // 16 hours ago
Chinese and Philippine ships collide amid territorial dispute over South China Sea
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ships of the Chinese and Philippine Coast Guards collided in the South China Sea on Monday as the two neighbors blame one another for the incident amid their protracted fight over the sovereignty of the disputed waters.










World News // 9 hours ago
IDF: Bodies of six hostages retrieved from Gaza
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- The Israeli military said the bodies of six Israeli hostages held by Hamas in Gaza were retrieved during an overnight operation.










World News // 8 hours ago
North Korean soldier defects across DMZ to South: military, media
 SEOUL, Aug. 19 (UPI) -- A North Korean soldier defected through the demilitarized zone, the South Korean military and local media said Tuesday, the second cross-border defection this month amid a loudspeaker propaganda campaign by Seoul.










World News // 1 week ago
Ernesto passes near Newfoundland as Category 1 hurricane
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- Ernesto continued to gather strength late Sunday after regaining hurricane status, according to forecasters who warn it is setting it sights on Canada after striking Bermuda as a Category 1 storm.










World News // 1 day ago
Russia bans Clooney Foundation as 'undesirable'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Russian prosecutors on Monday designated the U.S.-based Clooney Foundation for Justice as "undesirable" on accusations that it works to discredit the Kremlin under the guise of a humanitarian organization.






 May 19 (UPI) -- An elderly Australian doctor has been freed after being held hostage for more than seven years by al-Qaida in war-torn West Africa, Canberra said Friday. Eighty-eight-year-old Kenneth Elliott is safe and well and has been reunited with his wife Jocelyn and their children, Foreign Minister Penny Wong said in a news release in which she praised the "strength and resilience Dr. Elliott and members of his family have shown through the most difficult of circumstances."
Advertisement "We extend our thanks to the Australian officials who have worked over many years to secure Dr. Elliott's release and to provide support to his family," added Wong. Originally from Perth, Elliott and his wife were both in their 80s when they were abducted by al-Qaida militants in Islamic Maghreb in 2016 in northern Burkina Faso where they had run a 120-bed clinic in the town of Djibo since 1972. Elliott worked as the clinic's lone surgeon.
Related
28 bodies found dead in continuing Burkina Faso violence
American nun, 83, freed five months after kidnapping in Burkina Faso
EU sanctions al-Qaida-linked terrorist group, leaders in West Africa The group released Jocelyn after three weeks leading to a seven-year international campaign for Elliott's release by his family, the Australian government and the local community, whom the couple had helped over the decades.
Advertisement "We express our relief that Dr. Elliott is free and thank the Australian Government and all who have been involved over time to secure his release," Elliott's family said in a statement. "We also continue to pray for those still held and wish them freedom and safe return to their loved ones. "At 88 years of age, and after many years away from home, Dr. Elliott now needs time and privacy to rest and rebuild strength. We thank you for your understanding and sympathy." In August, a Louisiana nun was freed five months after being abducted by gunmen in north-east Burkina Faso. Suellen Theresa Tennyson, 83, had been living in the country at the time she was seized in the town of Yalgo. In September, the second military coup in eight months saw Cpt. Ibrahim Traore depose Burkina Faso's military ruler Lt. Col. Paul-Henri Damiba who in turn ousted the democratically elected President Roch Marc Kabore in January, dissolving parliament, the government and the constitution.