WELFARE Social Security benefits are most often associated with payments to retired workers. While those make up the vast majority of the tens of millions the Social Security Administration issues each month, retirees aren’t the only ones. The disabled and survivors also receive income from the agency as well as low-income individuals that qualify for Supplemental Security Income. Certain people in the latter group of recipients will see an increase in their monthly checks starting in June. This is thanks to the complementary payment plan approved in 33 states across the nation. READ ALSO: These are the days you will get you Social Security if born between the 11th and 20th We’re expanding our outreach to people in critical need of financial help who may be eligible for SSI. Learn more about #SSI eligibility and applying for benefits in today’s blog post: https://t.co/sTgO6t9m3k #SocialSecurity pic.twitter.com/HTYoHgIY8a According to an article in Solo Dinero, Supplemental Security Income program additional payments are nothing more than state income that is determined by various entities and sent as an extra set amount every month. This increase is targeted at low-income recipients as well as care providers with the goal of supplementing the federal payment. Because it is a supplement administered by state entities, the amount varies from state to state. For example, in New York the payment is an additional $87, while in Alabama the figure is around $120 dollars. READ ALSO: What is the maximum benefit for someone retiring at 62? Do you know someone with a disability or blindness and who has limited income and resources? They may qualify for SSI. Learn more here: https://t.co/zf8jqKdi1D #SSI #disability FINANCE WELFARE The states that will increase checks for SSI recipients because of the supplemental payments are: In addition to the states listed, California, Delaware, Hawaii, Iowa, Michigan, Montana, Nevada, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island Vermont and Washington D.C also have supplemental payments. However, in these states the complementary extra is administered by the SSA itself. About the author Daniela Barrera  POLITICS FINANCE POLITICS DAZN Enjoy live and on-demand online sports on DAZN. Activate your account NBA Pass League Now you can watch the entire NBA season or your favorite teams on streaming.