Former UFC champion Holly Holm will meet Mayra Bueno Silva in a main event this summer. Originally scheduled to face Miesha Tate at UFC Fight Night on July 15 at the UFC Apex in Las Vegas, Silva (10-2-1 MMA, 5-2-1 UFC) will now take on another former titleholder in Holm (15-6 MMA, 8-6 UFC) in a women’s bantamweight contest. Tate (19-9 MMA, 6-6 UFC) suffered an injury that prevented her from competing at the event. MMA Junkie confirmed the matchup with multiple people close to the situation following an initial report from “The MMA Hour” with Ariel Helwani. The people requested anonymity because the promotion has yet to make an official announcement. It had been previously reported that Vicente Luque vs. Rafael dos Anjos would serve as the main event on July 15, and the status of that fight is currently unknown with Holm vs. Silva overtaking the headlining role. Holm, 41, will look to get her fourth victory in her past fight five fights at the event. Her current run includes decision wins over Yana Santos, Irene Aldana and Raquel Pennington, with her lone blemish being a controversial split-decision defeat to Ketlen Vieira. Silva, 31, is coming off a Performance of the Night kneebar submission of Lina Lansberg at UFC Fight Night 219 in February. The Brazilian entered the UFC’s bantamweight rankings after three straight finishes, two by submission. The latest fight card now includes: Be sure to visit the MMA Junkie Instagram page and YouTube channel to discuss this and more content with fans of mixed martial arts.
 Be sure to visit the MMA Junkie Instagram page and YouTube channel to discuss this and more content with fans of mixed martial arts. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy 
				Please re-enter your email address.			 
			You'll now receive the top MMA Junkie stories each day directly in your inbox.		  





 
				© Copyright MMA Junkie 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		