EPL Harvey Elliott says he wants Mohamed Salah to stay at Liverpool until he retires as nothing beats “learning from the best”. The Egypt international played a leading part in setting up each goal in the 3-1 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers and is eternally respected by his team-mates. Elliott, who hoped he would be awarded the third goal despite the final touch deflecting off Wolves defender Hugo Bueno, says: “Mo is unbelievable, as a player and a guy. Advertisement “Touch wood he doesn’t ever go because I’m trying to learn off him and apply it to my game. Hopefully, he doesn’t leave and he’s here for the rest of his career. To be learning from him is a dream come true.” Salah was the subject of a failed £150million bid from Saudi Pro League side Al Ittihad at the end of last month and continues to be linked with a move away. Manager Jurgen Klopp attempted to end talk, at least for now, by saying he was “not worried” about the situation ahead of the weekend. He also praised Salah for turning up in the big moments as he set up Liverpool’s first two goals at Wolves, then played an important role in the third. Asked if he is appreciated by his team-mates, Elliott added: “He’s so hard to defend against. He has eyes all over the place. We see it week in, week out. Not only does he have the finishing ability that everybody sees, he’s also the same with his creativity. You can always count on him.” Elliott, still only 20, explained how the senior players at Liverpool helped him settle in when he first arrived in 2019 and now he wants to repay the favour. “The squad depth is a lot better and bigger now and younger players are stepping up now like Jarell (Quansah) who made his (first start) and was unbelievable. There are players coming through from everywhere. “I want to help the players coming up the same way as I was helped by the senior players around me. You know they took me under their wing. That’s exactly what I’m trying to do with the younger ones. I’m trying to be there if they need anyone to speak to and bed them into the group. It’s not always easy coming up from the academy and into the first team but I want to be that person that they can go to and speak to if they need anything.” GO DEEPER Klopp moving Szoboszlai was key to Liverpool's second-half turnaround at Wolves (Photo: Michael Regan/Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Gregg Evans  is a Staff Writer for The Athletic covering Liverpool. Previously he reported on Aston Villa and spent over a decade at the Birmingham Mail covering West Midlands football. His time with Villa included the drop into the Championship and then an incredible return to European football. He also covers golf. Follow Gregg on Twitter @greggevans40