It's one that even those with huge appetites might find a challenging one to finish It is a meal that even those with the heartiest of appetites would find a massive challenge: a massive 13cm tall burger packed with two chicken patties, an 8oz cheeseburger, bacon, salad and burger sauce. Called the Gangster Burger, it considers itself in with a shout of being the biggest burger this side of the Offa's Dyke and has enjoyed universally positive reviews.  And you'll find it in a family-run restaurant that is seeing many flock though its doors to try and conquer "the gangster". Reporter Thomas Lewis decided to along and try it for himself, accompanying the massive burger with potato wedges and a Kinder Bueno flavour milkshake at Dino's, in Llandudno. "The staff at Dino's were incredibly friendly and it really is a family-run affair as the majority of the waiters and kitchen staff are all from the same family," he wrote. "After a brief chat with a couple of the staff I'm on my way. I begin the mammoth task of devouring my feast by sampling a few of the potato wedges. They're very tasty - fluffy in the middle and crispy on the outside, very nice indeed. "Now for the main event: the Gangster Burger is so packed you can really feel the weight as you lift it up. The taste is absolutely sensational. After being unsure about the combination of beef and chicken, my initial doubts turn out to be completely unfounded, the whole thing just works. The combinations of different flavours complement each other outstandingly well and it is simply delicious. For £16 it is an absolute bargain, the burger is so big and the meat is of such an excellent standard that I honestly don't know how they can turn over a profit from it. "Burgers aren't the only item on the menu with a vast array of different options available, with fried chicken, pizzas, salads and desserts on offer also. So my experience of sampling north Wales' biggest burger (happy to be corrected if somewhere else can lay claim to that title) has been overwhelmingly positive but I must confess I was defeated - I couldn't quite finish it." The rating:  Quality: 9/10Value: 9/10Staff: 10/10.  The prices Gangster burger with potato wedges: £20Kinder Bueno milkshake: £5.50Total: £25.50.  If you order online at www.dinosllandudno.com there is a 15% discount on deliveries and 20% off for collections.  Opening times: Monday to Sunday (except Tuesday): 4pm - 10pm. Tuesday: Closed. READ NEXT: 