June 12, 2023  Value-added IT distributor Softprom and Bugcrowd, the multi-solution crowdsourced cybersecurity platform provider, have signed a partner agreement covering Europe and much of central Asia. Softprom will market and distribute Bugcrowd’s industry-leading Security Knowledge Platform in the European Union, Switzerland, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kirghizia, Moldova, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. The partner agreement is one of Bugcrowd’s channel first initiatives and expands Bugcrowd’s ability to serve new markets and territories. “Crowdsourcing is a global trend and we are pleased to offer IT security outsourcing services for corporate customers through our partner network. By selling services of the Bugcrowd platform, such as ethical hackers from Eastern Europe, we help local economies and increase the security of our customer’s assets,” said Paul Zhdanovych, Managing Director at Softprom Group. “Cybersecurity is a borderless  issue; every organisation in the world is a target. The cybersecurity skills shortage is also global, making it difficult for companies to retain the skills they need to improve their security posture,” said Jason Cowie, VP Global Channel Sales and Strategic Alliances, Bugcrowd. “This partner agreement is a step forward as we continue to level the cybersecurity playing field for everyone, everywhere, helping organisations beat attackers at their own game.” According to recent Qualys research, it takes attackers an average of just under twenty days to weaponise a vulnerability. But it takes defenders an average of thirty days to patch, leaving eleven days of potential exploitation. With increasingly global and distributed workforces, organisations are realising the need for continuous, real-time security solutions that establish a proactive, rather than reactive, security posture towards these aggressive and ever-evolving threats. Under the terms of the agreement, Softprom will market and distribute Bugcrowd’s multi-solution portfolio to its rich network of customers to address these increasing threats around the globe. Trusted by over 1,200 partners, Softprom increases customer effectiveness by providing high-quality IT solutions and services across thirty countries. The Bugcrowd Security Knowledge Platform is the only multi-solution security platform that powers pen testing as a service, bug bounty, vulnerability disclosure programs (VDPs), and attack surface management to bring the right human creativity to the right problem at the right time to disrupt threat actors at their own game. Penetration Testing as a Service (PTaaS) Bugcrowd PTaaS enables customers to launch a human-driven, high-impact pen test with a team matched to their precise needs with just a few clicks, cutting configuration time from days to hours. Bug Bounty Built on the Bugcrowd Security Knowledge Platform™, Bugcrowd’s bug bounty proposition comprises ML-driven crowd matching (CrowdMatchTM); engineered triage; and data-driven insights derived from a decade of experience across 1000s of customer experiences. Vulnerability Disclosure Program (VDP) Bugcrowd vulnerability disclosure program (VDP) sets the rules of engagement for the public to submit vulnerability reports about public-facing assets and then coordinates how they’re handled internally. Also built on the Bugcrowd Security Knowledge Platform, Bugcrowd’s managed VDPs provide submission channels, triage, integration, and reporting, with data from thousands of past customer experiences informing everything that happens. Attack Surface Management Bugcrowd’s ASM solution provides technology and data that enables customer organisations to uncover hidden or forgotten assets (Asset Inventory), and then assign and prioritize risk to them (Asset Risk). The most thorough assessment of attack surface risks available, Bugcrowd ASM goes far beyond what other solutions do to help understand, and assign risk to all digital assets. Related posts:  Categories: Press Releases Tags: Customer experience, cybersecurity, UGC Creative Media CentreHastingsEast SussexTN34 1HLTel: +44 7900 196870 Copyright © 2001-2024. Advanced Television Ltd.