
author: Damian Gacek
 Players report that Cyberpunk Phantom Liberty introduced some problems with Police system. For some they aggro too much, and for others not at all. In this guide we will talk about fixing it. Cyberpunk 2077 received a recent 2.0 update that brought many new features. This patch coincided with the release of the Phantom Liberty DLC, a substantial expansion that includes additional storylines and a district. However, some fans are facing challenges in fully enjoying the game due to audio issues, bugs, and technical problems like frequent crashes. Sadly, the improved police system is also not ideal and can break. In this guide we will talk about it. An interesting thing is that bugs regarding Police system in Cyberpunk 2077 Phantom Liberty are extremes. Some people report that Police is too aggressive and aggro quite easily or even without a reason; while others state that they can do anything, and police officers will not attack them. Aggressive police officers can be extremely problematic during missions to eliminate criminals. Many fans report that officers attack them if they join the fight. It is strange, as it is something which used to work fine in the basic game before the DLC. However, there may be a reason to that: While some players can’t have a break from Police, others can’t provoke them to attack. There is a quite easy fix for that: For now, there are no permanent fixes for both above problems. It is necessary to wait for developers to introduce a solution. Read also Damian Gacek Graduate of English Philology and English in Public Communication. His portfolio includes a scientific article on video game translation. Working with Gamepressure.com since 2019, writing for various departments. Currently, deals with guides and occasionally supports the newsroom. Interested in electronic entertainment since childhood. Loves RPGs and strategies, often also immersing himself in the depths of indie games. In his free time, works on a book and learns film editing. more Cyberpunk 2077 Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty „Everyone Said it Was Career Death.” Nicolas Cage Was Warned Against a Role that Turned out to be His Greatest Triumph Character Tier List in Sword of Convallaria (SoC) "I Was Too Old for it”. 13 Years before Tarantino's Film, Brad Pitt Turned Down a Role alongside Leonardo DiCaprio How to Use TV in Supermarket Together Arena Breakout Infinite - Console (Xbox, PS5, PS4) Release