   COMPANY NEWS: Appdome, the one-stop shop for mobile app defence, announced that Bugcrowd, the only multi-solution crowdsourced cybersecurity platform, joined its new Mobile App Defense Project, a community program aimed at improving mobile DevSecOps for everyone. This collaboration aims to create a more secure mobile app economy, raise the bar on mobile app defence, and provide rapid, validated, continuous cyber and anti-fraud solutions for all mobile applications globally. As mobile application use and revenues continue to rise dramatically, mobile application security testing is a hot topic and fast emerging discipline in the economic landscape. Cyber threats, attacks, tools, methods, and techniques targeting Android and iOS apps, infrastructures, and users continue to evolve and proliferate. The Mobile App Defense Project is designed to harness the collective strength of the global pen testing community to provide state-of-the-art cybersecurity, anti-fraud, anti-malware, and other solutions in mobile applications worldwide. "Sophisticated threat actors are targeting mobile applications relentlessly," said Bugcrowd CEO Dave Gerry. "By collaborating in Appdome's Mobile App Defense Project with Bugcrowd's proven expertise in crowdsourced security, together, we are helping organisations adopt mobile applications with comprehensive protection against vulnerabilities. This collaboration exemplifies our shared commitment to driving excellence in mobile app security and our dedication to staying ahead of threat actors before they strike." Through this program, Appdome will collaborate with Bugcrowd, renowned for its expertise in identifying exploits and vulnerabilities, and conducting rigorous security assessments of mobile applications. By integrating the services and recommendations provided by Bugcrowd, Appdome aims to streamline cybersecurity delivery for all mobile apps.  















 "Bugcrowd's multi-solution cybersecurity platform has always impressed me," said Appdome CEO Tom Tovar. "I love the agility and speed of delivery that Bugcrowd offers and that matches our ethos of getting cyber and anti-fraud defences out in the mobile app economy fast." As a community project, Appdome will also contribute its cyber and threat research to the community, as well as fund education, awareness, and other programs to benefit mutual customers and the broad cyber community defending mobile brands, businesses, and users. For more information on the Mobile App Defense Project see www.appdome.com. About Bugcrowd We are Bugcrowd. Since 2012, we've been empowering organisations to take back control and stay ahead of threat actors by uniting the collective ingenuity and expertise of our customers and a trusted alliance of elite hackers, with our patented AI-powered Security Knowledge Platform™, built on the industry's richest repository of vulnerabilities, assets, and hacker profiles carefully curated over a decade. Our network of hackers brings diverse expertise to uncover hidden weaknesses, adapting swiftly to evolving threats, even against zero-day exploits. With unmatched scalability and adaptability, our data and ML-driven CrowdMatch™ technology finds the perfect talent for your unique fight. We aim to create a new era of modern crowdsourced security that outpaces threat actors by unleashing collective ingenuity and instilling confidence. Based in San Francisco, Bugcrowd is supported by Rally Ventures, Costanoa Ventures, Blackbird Ventures, Triangle Peak Partners, and others. Outpace threat actors before they strike with Bugcrowd, visit www.bugcrowd.com. Read our blog here. Bugcrowd: Ingenuity unleashed. About Appdome Appdome, the mobile app economy's one-stop-shop for mobile app defence, is on a mission to protect every mobile app in the world and the people who use mobile apps in their lives and at work. Appdome provides the mobile industry's only mobile application cyber defence automation platform, powered by a patented artificial-intelligence based coding engine, Threat-Events Threat-Aware UX/UI Control and ThreatScope Mobile XDR. Using Appdome, mobile brands eliminate complexity, save money and deliver 300+ Certified Secure mobile app security, anti-malware, anti-fraud, MOBILEBot Defense, anti-cheat, MiTM attack prevention, code obfuscation and other protections in Android and iOS apps with ease, all inside the mobile DevOps and CI/CD pipeline. Leading financial, healthcare, mobile games, government and m-commerce brands use Appdome to protect Android and iOS apps, mobile customers and mobile businesses globally. Appdome holds several patents including US patents 9,934,017 B2, 10,310,870 B2, 10,606,582 B2, 11,243,748 B2 and 11,294,663 B2. Additional patents pending.   
DOWNLOAD WHITE PAPER! 

PROMOTE YOUR WEBINAR ON ITWIRE
It's all about Webinars.
Marketing budgets are now focused on Webinars combined with Lead Generation.
If you wish to promote a Webinar we recommend at least a 3 to 4 week campaign prior to your event.
The iTWire campaign will include extensive adverts on our News Site itwire.com and prominent Newsletter promotion https://itwire.com/itwire-update.html and Promotional News & Editorial. Plus a video interview of the key speaker on iTWire TV https://www.youtube.com/c/iTWireTV/videos which will be used in Promotional Posts on the iTWire Home Page.
Now we are coming out of Lockdown iTWire will be focussed to assisting with your webinars and campaigns and assistance via part payments and extended terms, a Webinar Business Booster Pack and other supportive programs. We can also create your adverts and written content plus coordinate your video interview.
We look forward to discussing your campaign goals with you. Please click the button below.
MORE INFO HERE!
 

 
MORE INFO HERE! 

 

 
                
                                Everyone got a bit of what they wanted. No one got everything, that sounds like the basis for a good[…]                             
                
                                Is this article ironic?                             
                
                                The safest way not to get snared is to avoid anything financial on your devices plus do not participate in[…]                             
                
                                Who do we trust here? A professional cloud provider with many customers or a monopolistic ticketing agency that can never[…]                             
                
                                I knew this scam was full of shit because it didn't present any actual evidence of the supposed hacker having[…]                              

