The latest trends in software development from the Computer Weekly Application Developer Network.  Data quality company Soda has launched SodaGPT, a generative Artificial intelligence (gen-AI) powered tool for data quality. It enables a no-code self-serve approach for users of all backgrounds to naturally express and define data quality expectations.  SodaGPT combines the domain-specific language capabilities of SodaCL with the Natural Language Processing (NLP) power of gen-AI, to provide a platform for data consumers and data engineers to work together to produce data that can be trusted.  SodaGPT uses an open source Large Language Model (LLM) to translate natural English language queries into production-ready data quality tests in SodaCL, the human-readable, domain-specific language for data quality.  The tool provides a simple way for data consumers to become involved in data quality management whilst collaborating and lessening the load on data engineers spending time-fighting data issues, by enabling them to express and define their own data quality expectations to ensure that data is fit for purpose.  “SodaGPT is a huge step forward for the democratisation of data, providing a no-code GenAI-powered tool that ensures everyone can work with data more confidently and, as a result, make data-informed decisions and build customer experiences that are powered by reliable data,” said Maarten Masschelein, CEO, Soda. “LLMs trained on terabytes of data are one of the many trends reshaping our world and transforming the way we interact with information – the challenge is finding the tools to extract value from that data. With SodaGPT, we are ripping up the antiquated approach to data quality checks built exclusively for a technology audience that can read and write in SQL, simplifying the process for data consumers in order to free-up data engineers to focus on building new data products.” The introduction of a new self-serve ‘contribution’ model is said to empower data consumers to express, contribute and then collaborate on data quality expectations that meet their own business requirements.  Natural language code ‘contributions’ made using SodaGPT and automatically translated into SodaCL, facilitate seamless collaboration between the data consumers who can now define data quality expectations in their own words and the data engineers who provide critical human oversight to ensure that checks are correctly defined before being embedded into the data pipeline. Soda claims that SodaGPT ‘shifts left’ the management of data quality and enables data to be tested as early as possible in the development lifecycle to avoid issues that might impact data products or wreak havoc on the business down the line. Soda research recently found that 60% of data engineers are still spending almost half their time dealing with data issues.  With SodaGPT, the ability to create a more robust, reliable data pipeline with problems caught before they enter production means that data consumers can be more productive using data they can trust and data engineers spend less time reactively fixing problems and more time proactively adding value straight back into the business. Soda’s security-first approach to software development ensures that SodaGPT has been entirely trained using the company’s own internal LLM, with no dependency on OpenAI.  This means that proprietary data shared with the model through prompt-writing never leaves Soda’s SOC-II Type 2 accredited platform, guaranteeing the same high level of internal control, systems and policy privacy and protection as all other Soda products.    The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... In light of the recent CrowdStrike outage, security teams should ask their vendors 10 key questions to ensure they're prepared ... Product updates announced at Black Hat USA 2024 can help security teams better manage constantly changing attack surfaces and ... The global IT outage caused by an errant CrowdStrike channel file update dominated security news last month. But there were still... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Nutanix and Dell are expanding their partnership with a new appliance out now and a new HCI model that melds Dell PowerFlex with ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
