To enjoy additional benefits CONNECT WITH US Updated  - February 24, 2023 10:48 pm IST  Published - February 24, 2023 10:28 pm IST - Visakhapatnam 
Students of Andhra University College of Pharmaceutical Sciences at the workshop in Visakhapatnam on Friday.
| Photo Credit: V. RAJU
 The United States Food and Drug Administration’s (USFDA) Drug Quality Division Director Carmelo Rosa has said that substandard drugs and drugs that fail in the quality testing can have negative effects on patients. Every pharmaceutical industry has to take proper precautions from micro level, he said. While addressing the gathering at the valedictory session of the two-day workshop on `Current Good Manufacturing Practices’, hosted by Andhra University College of Pharmaceutical Sciences here on Friday, he said that even a micro-level mistake in the production of medicines would cause loss to the company and also affect people’s lives. Mr. Rosa, who headed the USFDA delegates, further said that they scrutinise every frame in quality testing and do not compromise on any corner. Every industry that wants to export drugs to the U.S. must study the USFDA norms and regulations thoroughly and act accordingly, he advised. “This practice should be carried out not only for the purpose of exports to the US, but also for the domestic market or to any other country. Pharmaceutical industries also need to frequently check for manufacturing errors and correct them immediately to avoid further damage,” Mr. Rosa said. Later, the USFDA team visited the American Corner in Andhra University campus. The Corner convener James Stephen explained about the 40 programmes of the Corner supported by the American Consulate since its inception. 
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
 BACK TO TOP Terms & conditions  |  Institutional Subscriber Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines  for posting your comments.  We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.