 Log In Builders FirstSource — No. 1 on MDM’s 2022 Top Building Materials Distributors List — announced Jan. 10 that Dave Rush has been named the company’s new CEO, effective immediately. Rush had served as the company’s interim CEO since Nov. 18 after former CEO Dave Flitman departed to take the same position at US Foods. At that time, Rush was also appointed to the company’s Board of Directors. “His strong vision and deep understanding of our business affords him insight into our many locations and diverse value-added product lines, as well as our growing digital efforts,” Builders FirstSource Board Chair Paul Levy said in a news release. “Dave is an experienced operator, has successfully navigated a variety of economic environments, and has proven over the course of his 23-year tenure with Builders FirstSource a commitment to operational excellence. Given this experience, our Board has concluded that we are well positioned with Dave Rush at the helm of the company.” In his previous role as Executive Vice President – Strategic Management Office, Rush, 60, oversaw the execution of enterprise-wide initiatives to advance the company’s long-term strategy and provide enhanced value to stakeholders. Prior to this, he led the integration and synergy efforts for Builders FirstSource’s landmark $2.5 billion merger with BMC Holdings that closed in January 2021 and its $1.5 billion acquisition of ProBuild in 2015. Rush started his BFS career in 1999 with the acquisition of Pelican Companies, where he was vice president of finance. In 2003, he moved into operations as area vice president for South Carolina, North Carolina and Tennessee until 2015. Rush also served as SVP of strategy and business development, overseeing merger and acquisition work, business line reviews and other special projects, and as COO of Builders FirstSource’s eastern division. “Builders FirstSource is an incredible organization that I have been privileged to be a part of for the last 23 years,” Rush said in a news release. “’m honored and humbled to lead the Company’s outstanding and experienced team and execute our strategy to fuel long-term profitable growth while managing through a challenging and dynamic macro environment.” As the largest U.S. supplier of building products and prefabricated components for new residential construction and repair and remodeling, Dallas-based Builders FirstSource operates in 42 states with over 500 locations. Builders FirstSource Executive Vice President Dave Rush has been appointed interim CEO while a search… US Foods announced the CEO appointment of Dave Flitman one week after Builders FirstSource announced… Builders FirstSource ranked No. 1 among Building Materials/Construction Distributors in MDM's 2022 Top Distributor List. You must be logged in to post a comment. Read the latest articles and see your reports. The MDM update newsletter is your best source for news and trends in the wholesale distribution industry. Wholesale distribution news and trends delivered right to your inbox. Sign-up for our free newsletter and get: 2 articles left Subscribe today and get: Log in MDM Premium Subscribers get: Log in 1 article left Subscribe to MDM Premium to get unlimited access. Your subscription includes: Log in Join other distribution executives who use MDM Premium to optimize their business. Our insights and analysis help you enter the right new markets, turbocharge your sales and marketing efforts, identify business partners that help you scale, and stay ahead of your competitors. Log in Back to MDM.com By providing your email, you agree to receive announcements from us and our partners for our newsletter, events, surveys, and partner resources per MDM Terms & Conditions. You can withdraw consent at any time. Δ Δ