SEARCH LANGUAGE FOLLOW US ON FEEDBACK While Rajinikanth is shooting for Jailer, Mohanlal is shooting for his next Malaikottai Valiban.  The superstardom of Rajinikanth and Mohanlal is something that people across India are aware of. The two of them will be seen together in the forthcoming action entertainer, Jailer. Incidentally, the two actors were seen together in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan sparking rumours about the photo being from the sets of the mega-starrer. However, it was later revealed that the two actors were shooting for their respective projects, where Rajini is busy with the Nelson Dilipkumar directorial, Mohanlal was in the city to shoot for his period drama Malaikottai Valiban.  Readers may recall that the makers had unveiled the first look of Mohanlal from the film Jailer. The film will feature the Malayalam superstar in a cameo. However, the recent photo that found its way on social media had nothing to do with his special appearance in the film. The Entertainment tracker Sreedhar Pillai had taken to the platform to clarify that the two were shooting incidentally at the same time in Jaisalmer. He also revealed that Rajinikanth is currently completing work on a special song from the film Jailer but details of the same were kept under wraps. On the other hand, Mohanlal will be seen in a never-before-seen avatar in the period drama Malaikottai Valliban which is directed by Lijo Jose Pellisery. The said photo also features the Malayalam superstar along with the producer of his film, Century Kochumon. #Jailer stars #SuperstarRajinikanth & #Mohanlal are in #Jaisalmer in #Rajasthan. @rajinikanth is shooting a song for the @Nelsondilpkumar film while @Mohanlal is working in #lijojosepellissery’s #MalaikottaiValiban Century Kochumon, one of the producers of MV is also in pic! pic.twitter.com/uxB5rNfIvf — Sreedhar Pillai (@sri50) February 7, 2023  Coming to Jailer, the film features a massive ensemble cast consisting of Kannada superstar Shiva Rajkumar, Tamannaah Bhatia, Ramya Krishnan, Yogi Babu, among others. Directed by Nelson Dilipkumar, the makers recently unveiled the first look teaser of Rajinikanth and fans of the superstar have expressed their eagerness to see the megastar perform his quintessential action sequences on the big screen. Coming to Mohanlal’s film, Malaikottai Valliban is expected to be an epic saga that is extensively shot in Rajasthan. The film went on floors in January 2023 and it is expected to have a three month long schedule in the state. Also Read: JAILER FIRST LOOK: Mohanlal looks intense in Rajinikanth starrer, see photo Catch us for latest Bollywood News, New Bollywood Movies update, Box office collection, New Movies Release , Bollywood News Hindi, Entertainment News, Bollywood Live News Today & Upcoming Movies 2024 and stay updated with latest hindi movies only on Bollywood Hungama. No Releated Data       Skip this step for now   5000 characters remaining