All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. The best subscription boxes for teens on the market cater to a wider variety of interests than ever before. From beauty boxes to jewelry to books and candle subscriptions, you can pretty much find a box for anything, with options available at every price range. These reoccurring programs are also a good way to treat yourself to something special every once in a while (who wouldn’t love to test out new beauty products), but they also make for the perfect gifts for teenage girls, siblings, and serve as great gift ideas for your best friends, too.  But because there are so many to choose from (and nobody wants a bunch of junk showing up at their doorstep), Teen Vogue curated a list of the top subscription boxes for teens out there. Here, find 20 of our favorite picks that offer a ton of cool self-care gift items like body lotions, hair care tools, comic books, video games, and more! You'll find both big brand names like Vivrelle and IPSY, plus smaller businesses like the Black Girl Magic Box and everything in between. Best Overall We might have just discovered the best art supplies subscription box on the Internet. Each month, Inky Box sends out everything you’ll need to up your lettering and calligraphy game — from brush pens to watercolors to practice sheets. The boxes also come with greeting cards designed by amazing independent artists, which offer up some great inspiration for those who are new to the craft. Subscribers can choose between the full-size Inky Box and the more affordable Inky Box Mini. Prices start at just $15 per month.  Pros: Two box sizes to choose from (regular or mini), Every box comes personalized with your name Cons: International shipping will cost you an extra $15.95 for each box # of items included: The regular box includes at least $40 worth of lettering supplies, cards, coupons, practice sheets, and more. The mini box includes $15 worth of supplies. Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Your first box will ship the first week of the next month. The products — all deluxe or full sizes, depending on which subscription you opt for — in this monthly subscription box are carefully curated by beauty experts and pros. You'll find high-end and trending luxury brands like Kate Sommerville, Sunday Riley, R+Co, Tatcha, and Benefit Cosmetics, to name a few.  There are three different subscription options starting at just $13 per month, so you can choose the most affordable or splurge on a real treat. Either way, each month, all of the goods arrive in an adorable (and sometimes limited-edition) makeup bag.   Pros: Three different subscriptions to choose from (glam, boxycharm, or iconbox), You can choose one to three products for your bag each month Cons: Shipping can take some time # of items included: Glam bag = Five deluxe-size beauty samples, Boxycharm = Five full-size beauty products, IconBox = Eight full-size beauty products  Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: In the U.S., monthly membership shipments are currently sent via DHL, Pitney Bowes or ACI Logistix, and the U.S. Postal Service. Shipments leave the warehouse mid-month, and usually arrive 15 business days after they ship. The delivery time can vary each month, so your order could arrive the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th week of the month. You’ll always receive a tracking email so you can follow your order’s progress. Most Popular Subscription Box This monthly fashion subscription is here to help you put the finishing touches on your favorite looks in a super sophisticated way, no less. With Vivrelle, you'll get access to bags, fine jewelry, and accessories from designer labels and fashion houses.  There are four different membership tiers ranging from $39 to $279 per month, and the tier you choose determines how many pieces you get, the variety of pieces you get (jewelry, bags, or limited edition pieces), and how high-end the labels included are. Return dates are open-ended, so you can cherish the things you really love. And if you really can't bear to part ways? You can opt to purchase the beloved and keep it forever. Pros: Various payment options, No return dates (you can keep an item for as long as you want)  Cons: Three-month minimum membership required  # of items included: Premier = One item at a time, Classique = One item at a time, Coture = One items at a time, Couture+ = Two items at a time  Delivery Frequency: Based on your preference  Shipping: Free express and insured shipping both ways.  Best Subscription Boxes for Teens With this rental subscription, there will always be some sort of entertainment to enjoy. Whether it's video games, movies, or game tools, you'll be set for life with this Gamefly subscription plan.  You can rent games from all types of gaming systems, including, Playstation 4 & 5, XBOX, Nintendo Switch, and more! You'll also have the option to buy consoles, controllers, games, and collectibles for gamers.   Choose from several various plans with additional features: one rental at a time for $9.50 for three months, two rentals at a time for $13.50 for three months, and more! You can even select a budget plan or $5 per month for three months and then it raises to $8.95 per month after.  Pros: There are never any due dates or late fees, Subscribers can purchase a video game they are currently renting if they love it  Cons: Some users note that new video game releases tend to take a while to receive  Delivery Frequency: Monthly  # of items included: Three-month introductory rate for one game or movie out at a time starting at $9 plus tax/month or three-month introductory rate for two games or movies out at a time starting at $14 plus tax/month Shipping: Active Gamefly members receive free standard shipping. This monthly plant subscription box would make a great gift for any nature-loving teen (or for yourself, TBH). Every box is just $10 plus shipping and comes with two succulents grown at Succulent Studios’ farm in California. They’re shipped in 100% biodegradable pots, which means they’re ready to be planted or can be placed in your favorite pot straight out of the package! Use the code FIVEDOLLARS to get $5 off your first box. Pros: You can skip any month, The baby plants only require 1-2 rounds of watering every few weeks Cons: Shipping fee is not included.  # of items included: Two baby plants Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Shipping is a flat rate of $6.50 anywhere in the U.S. Best Clothing Subscription Box There’s a reason Stitch Fix is one of the most popular clothing subscription boxes on the market for women’s, men’s, and children’s clothes. Not only do they carry pieces from top brands like Free People and Madewell, but their shopping process is practically risk-free. Once you decide on a general price range, you’ll pay a $20 fee for your stylist to start piecing together your box (that essentially gets credited to your final purchase). From there, they’ll ship clothes straight to your door to try on. Per Stitch Fix’s policy, you’re welcome to send back anything you don’t love free of charge. What's more, you don’t even have to subscribe to get your fashion fix — shoppers have the option to try the service once or set up automatic deliveries. Pros: No subscription required, There are hundreds of brands to choose from Cons: You only get a discount when you buy five or more pieces  # of items included: Five pieces of clothing  Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free shipping and pre-paid labels included. Best Jewelry Subscription Box Have plenty of clothes but not enough statement-making accessory options? Consider Rocksbox, a jewelry rental membership that sends you all kinds of goodies, including cute necklaces, bracelets, rings, hair clips, and more.  In each box, you'll get three styles that you can switch out whenever you'd like. Mailing things back is seamless — just wrap everything back up and mail it using the reusable envelope it came in and the prepaid USPS return shipping label provided. Or, if you really love something and can't part with it, your monthly dues can be put towards your purchase. Pros: Unlimited jewelry swaps, Your monthly membership credit can be put towards the purchase of any piece from your set Cons: No luxury brands included  # of items included: Three items  Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free shipping both ways on all rental sets.  Anyone obsessed with astrology is sure to love this subscription box, which is available for purchase in three tiers. The first tier, Basic, comes stocked with crystals to match the month’s astrological energy. The second, Essential, includes a monthly astrological overview, a tarot card, and crystals. Finally, the Premium tier features all of that in addition to a few surprise items each month (think candles and smudge sticks). Give your first box a try on Etsy, and if you end up loving it, you can subscribe at www.themagickalearth.com. Pros: No subscription required, There are three tiers to choose from (basic, essential, or premium)  Cons: You'll need to manually place an order every month # of items included: No exact number (The box will come with a monthly astrological overview, a monthly horoscope, a tarot card chosen for you by the universe, crystals and gems to match the months energy, and a variation of surprises including items such as, candles, essential oils, soap and, smudge sticks.) Delivery Frequency: Monthly (you'll have to manually do this)  Shipping: You will have to pay a separate shipping fee.  We know what you’re thinking: What does Walmart know about beauty subscription boxes? As it turns out, the superstore seems to really understand what makes beauty fanatics tick. The Walmart Beauty Box ships out four times a year, once per season, and includes an assortment of makeup and wellness products from brands like NYX, Bioré, and Neutrogena. At just $7 per box, it’s also one of the most affordable subscription boxes out there.  Pros: You get one box for every new season (Spring, Summer, Fall, and Winter), The subscription is under $9 Cons: You don't get to pick any items  # of items included: Seven items Delivery Frequency: Four times a year  Shipping: Free shipping  VSCO girls, rejoice! Every month, Pura Vida Club subscribers receive three members-exclusive bracelets, clocking in at a value of up to $50. Each month will cost $11 plus tax, and if you live in the United States, shipping is free. The bracelets included in each box are chosen by the brand’s team of influencers and stylists, and they never fail to give off all the tropical vibes you’d expect. Plus, if you purchase through the three-for $30 intro offer, you’ll get one box free! Pros: Exclusive monthly sticker, Early access to major sales launches Cons: You can only pick between two different packs each month # of items included: Three exclusive bracelets every month Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free shipping for all U.S. orders. Know someone obsessed with all things plants and gardening? Plant subscriptions make great gifts for the nature lovers in your life. Why not send them a different plant every month, inside a perfectly fitted ceramic pot or basket, with Bloom Box's monthly subscription? If you are that friend, your dreams of creating your own DIY indoor plant-scape can finally come true. The greenery also arrives with a little surprise gift every month and a printed booklet on how to care for it. Pros: You can select a pet-friendly subscription, Subscription boxes can be paid on a monthly, quarterly, bi-annually, or annual basis Cons: Some users wish they had a better selection of plants  # of items included: One potted plant Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free shipping  For teens obsessed with at-home manis, Orly's Color Pass makes a fantastic gift. Each quarter, your recipient will receive the brand's new, not-yet-released seasonal colors — all at over 50 percent off retail. They'll also get fun extras, like a top coat, base coat, cuticle oil, or nail tool. Considering the fact that each Orly polish typically retails somewhere around $10, this box provides excellent value. Even the more expensive quarterly option (you get a break by committing to a full year) costs just $36 but is valued at upwards of $70.  Pros: Each box comes with bonus items that vary from season to season, You get to try the latest colors before they are released to the public  Cons: Pricey subscription fees  # of items included: You'll get the entire seasonal collection  Delivery Frequency: Four times a year  Shipping: Orders in the USA between $0-$39.99 cost $4.99 flat rate. Orders $40 and over receive free shipping.  If you're looking for an affordable body care subscription box, Billie is a great option. It's ultra-practical, too, so you know they'll be getting something truly useful. Each month, they'll get Billie's one wax kit for body and underarms, one wax kit for the face and bikini, and one Razor Starter Kit in their preferred color. Of course, if your recipient doesn't shave daily, you can opt for delivery every two or three months instead.  Pros: Three delivery options to choose from (once a month, every two months, or every three months), Different color options available  Cons: N/A # of items included: Comes with One Wax Kit for Body & Underarm, One Wax Kit for Face & Bikini, and One Razor Starter Kit (with an ongoing refill blades plan). Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Shipping is free for all razor and Wonder Wipes subscriptions and for all orders over $15. Have a sweet spot for scents? This company offers a luxe subscription that'll make you feel ultra-sophisticated.  Each month, you'll get a new travel-size designer scent. Seriously: Options include coveted fragrances by brands like Acqua di Parma, Oscar de la Renta, and Vince Camuto.  It's perfect for those still experimenting to find their signature. Each month, the box costs just $15.95. There’s also a cologne subscription option for those who want more traditionally masculine scents.  Pros: You can choose up to three scents per month, No hidden fees  Cons: No returns or exchanges # of items included: One to three fragrances per month, depending on the subscription plan you choose Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free shipping for U.S. subscribers  With the changing seasons comes new scents, and buying candles can become quite expensive. Save yourself some coins and get a high-quality, delicious-smelling seasonal candle at your door each month with Brooklyn Candle Studio's Candle of The Month Club.  For $25 a month, you'll receive a seasonal candle plus a matchbox to light your new flame. From florals in the spring to warm pumpkins in the fall, rest assured that ever scent will feel and smell luxurious wherever you place it. It's also the perfect gift for young adults, teenagers, and college kids who love candles.  Pros: You get to try out a new scent every month, Each box comes with everything you need  Cons: You have to pay an extra shipping fee # of items included: The regular Candle of the Month subscription comes with one 7.5 oz jar candle and a box of matches. The Deluxe Candle of the Month subscription includes one 7.5 oz jar candle, one Gold Travel Candle, and a box of matches. Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free standard shipping on all orders over $50. Coffee lovers rejoice because now you can sit back and enjoy your curated coffee picks thanks to Trade Coffee's subscription service. Simply take their coffee quiz to let them know how you like your coffee and once that's done, you get to customize your order frequency, grind setting, and the best part, choose your own coffees. The subscription prices range from $17-$22 per bag.  You'll also get a friendly reminder before each order ships so that you can make changes or swap in any other coffee, including custom suggestions.  Pros: You can customize your subscription, There are over 450+ unique roasts Cons: Pricey  # of items included: You can get either one bag at a time for $15.75 or a 2lb bag for $35 Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free shipping can be unlocked by bundling your orders and paying in advance. Best Subscription Box for Book Lovers “I have enough books,” said no one ever. Keep your book pile piling up with a Book of the Month subscription. For $15 a month, your friend or loved one will get one new book on you. For $50 every three months, the service curates five new reads monthly ($17 per book), and you, your friends or loved ones will get one new book. Pros: You can choose from a curated selection of the best new reads every month, You can skip any month or roll your credits over Cons: Pricey subscription fees  # of items included: Three books/$60, Six books for $100, 12 books for $200 Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Extra fee  Best Cell Phone Accessories Subscription Box Know someone who's tethered to their cell phone? Casely makes a great gift for the bestie you're always texting since they'll get a new, cool cover for their phone at the chosen frequency (every month or every three months.) Choices are open-ended. The more discerning can pick what design they'll receive, while those who like surprises can opt for the grab bag option. For the latter, Casely selects a trending option for you. Monthly subscriptions are $18 a month, and club members get to save 40% off on each case and add-ons.  Pros: Club members save 40% on all cases and accessories, You can skip any month  Cons: N/A # of items included: One Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: All subscription boxes are shipped for free to anywhere in the United States. The Black Girl Magic Box is a bi-monthly subscription box full of self-care tools — be it candles, bath products, crystals, or tea — specially curated by and for Black women. Subscription prices start at $55 for two months of boxes carrying $150 worth of products and go up to $146 for a six-month prepay that will end up saving you cash in the long run. Use code BLKGRL10 at checkout for $10 off your purchase! Pros: Every item is designed to stimulate the mind, body, and soul, Several pre-pay options to choose from Cons: Shipping fee is not included  # of items included: Six to eight goodies worth over $100 Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: There is a flat-rate shipping of $8.95 per box for domestic shipping. Clothing brand Dia & Co has made it their mission to create a clothing subscription box specifically catered toward plus-size femme customers. To get your first style box, all you need to do is fill out this simple quiz. Then, for a fee of just $20, a stylist will handpick clothes from the brand that adhere to your sizes, your individual body shape, and, most importantly, your personal style. Once you receive your box, you can keep all the styles that suit you and send back the rest! The $20 styling fee will be waived if you keep one or more of the items. Pros: You can try out the latest styles, The $20 fee goes toward your final purchase  Cons: You only get five days to try on and keep what you like # of items included: Five clothing pieces  Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free shipping and exchanges. For just $12 a month, you can add some of these gorgeous themed stickers to your collection with Stickii's monthly subscription boxes. When you sign up, you'll have the option to choose from three different sticker styles: cute, vintage, and pop. Then, each month, a package with six sticker sheets, three stationery pieces, and one storage insert will arrive at your doorstep. The best part? You can change your style before it arrives and opt to purchase more on the site if you desire.  Pros: Each box comes with matching stationery goodies, You can choose from different sticker themes Cons: Shipping fee is extra # of items included: Seven stickers, three stationery pieces, one STICKII storage insert  Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: $1 shipping fee per pack Pusheen’s quarterly subscription box is obviously adorable, but beyond that, many of the exclusive products inside are actually super useful. Historically, the brand has sent out water bottles, paperweights, and even reusable straws emblazoned with the world-famous cartoon cat. What’s more, each box boasts a season-specific theme — meaning you won’t be receiving flip-flops in the middle of winter! Check out the official Pusheen Box Instagram for more sneak peeks of what could come your way if you subscribe. They also offer two plans, the annual plan will get you four boxes for $120, while the quarterly plan lets you pay for each box as you go for $43.  Pros: You can get a box for yourself and your furry friend, Each box is filled with exclusive goodies Cons: Pricey subscription fee # of items included: Inside the box you'll find Pusheen apparel, accessories, and collectibles you can't get anywhere else.  Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Boxes ship anywhere in the United States for a flat rate of $10. Looking for ways to test new curly hair products without breaking the bank? Curlbox is the monthly subscription for you. In every box, the company sends four or more product samples specifically catered to natural curls and coils — and they don’t sacrifice quality along the way. The boxes have previously included products from brands like Afro Sheen and Pattern by Tracee Ellis Ross. At just $20 a month, it’s a purchase you won’t regret. Pros: You'll receive full-sized haircare products, All products are hand selected  Cons: N/A # of items included: Four or more full-sized products  Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free shipping  This isn't your typical clothing subscription. Sure, you'll get plenty of cool clothes in all of those forthcoming boxes, but they're all coastal-inspired. You'll get a host of other goodies, too, including accessories, skincare must-haves like body scrubs, and trinkets like candles and travel mugs. Don't want the latter? No problem. You're in full control since you can customize your box before checkout.  Each box has a retail value of up to $365. Payments are flexible, too. You can opt to pay $99 quarterly or pay for the year upfront, which will cost you . When you do so, you'll receive a $10 discount on each box. Pros: You get to pick all the items you want, Each box is worth up to $475 Cons: Pricey subscription fee # of items included: Six items Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Free USA shipping if you pay annually only. A great way to spend idle time, this puzzle subscription offers options for varying skill levels—choose from 300- to 500-piece puzzles, 750- to 1,000-piece puzzles, or 2,000-piece puzzles. All of the games are printed on quality graphic boards, and the selection is vast. You can choose your favorite from a variety of different genres, from landscapes to pop culture. At the start of each month, you'll get an email asking you to choose between three puzzle options. You do have to commit to at least six months, but once you break down the cost, you'll see that the value is there. The cheapest option (300- to 500-piece puzzles) costs $53 for six months — just shy of $9 each.  Pros: Three puzzle options to choose from each month, Save up to 25%  Cons: One-time shipping fee # of items included: 300/500 Pieces, 750/1000 Pieces, or 2000 Pieces Delivery Frequency: Monthly  Shipping: Six-month puzzle subscription = $30 shipping and handling (one-time fee) 12-month puzzle subscription = $50 shipping and handling (one-time fee) The Best Jewelry Gifts to Shop This Year, No Matter Your Budget 30 Best Beauty Advent Calendars: Charlotte Tilbury, Sephora, NYX Cosmetics  40 Best Self-Care Gifts to Help Your Family and Friends Relax 57 Thoughtful Best Friend Gift Ideas That Will Show Just How Much You Care More from Teen Vogue Contact © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Teen Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices