Amy Childs is glowing as she nears the 30-week mark of pregnancy. And while the TOWIE star may be busy getting ready for the arrival of her twins in April, the star took the time to pose for some gorgeous naked shots, showing off her bare bump.  She also exclusively chatted to OK! all about her pregnancy so far, including her worries, dreams for a natural birth and the trolling she's received over her son. Sign-up or login below to read the full article and see all of the beautiful pictures.  Are you an OK! VIP? If not, why not? It’s free and gives you backstage access to stories like this, exclusive home tours, special discounts and so much more! All you need to do is pop your email address below! P.s. if you’re already seeing this article in full, congrats - you’re already on our guest list!  You’d be forgiven for thinking reality TV legend Amy Childs is enjoying some rare downtime before the birth of her twins. But the 32-year-old, whose babies are due in April, admits she’s been up and about since 6am, spraying her kitchen worktops with cleaner and generally being a bit of a domestic goddess. “I don’t stop!” she laughs. “Even Polly is like, ‘Mum, calm down!’ I don’t think I’m ready.” The TOWIE star has been juggling looking after her two children, Polly, five, and four-year-old Ritchie, while filming the latest series of the ITVBe show and also attending bi-weekly scans. But she managed to fit in time to talk to new and show off her glowing pregnancy body – as well as her tattoo of boyfriend Billy’s name – in our ultra-glam shoot. “It’ll be so nice to look back on the pictures down the line and think, ‘Oh my God, look at the size of my belly,’” she tells us. Amy, who is expecting a boy and a girl with businessman Billy Delbosq, 37, has noticed that while her bump is blossoming, her body is changing in other ways, too. “I’ve got the real pregnancy boobs now,” reveals the star. “They’ve really dropped and are getting really big. They’re feeling really heavy and sagging a lot. Bill went to me the other day, ‘You look really pregnant now!’ I class that as really fat and going Pete Tong!” Not at all, Amy! It will be Billy’s first time as a father, but he’s had plenty of parenting practice as he is stepdad to Amy’s two children from previous relationships. And it’s clear he’s already stepping up to the mark as he has been looking after a busy Amy. “This pregnancy has been amazing – he can’t do enough for me,” she beams. Here, Amy lifts the lid on all things babies, shares her birth plan hopes and reveals why she’s not concerned about getting glammed up for her twins’ arrival… Hi, Amy. Is this pregnancy different to when you were expecting Polly and Ritchie? It’s gone really quick! Twin pregnancy is different – you’re a lot bigger. I’m now going into my third trimester and I’m probably going to be busier than ever. I’ve not stopped. Are you going to try to slow down a little?  No, I’m not one of them that will sit at home with Netflix. When I feel tired, I will rest, but  I feel like I’m nesting. I woke up this morning and I was going 100mph. I feel erratic. I think, “Is it because I’m nesting and the twins will be here anytime soon?” Because I felt like this a week before I had Polly, so I’m thinking, “Oh my God, I hope I don’t go into early labour.”  How well are you sleeping? At 9pm my body really aches and I struggle to sleep. In the third trimester, sleeping is difficult anyway as you’re constantly weeing! They constantly kick and it’s the most active pregnancy I’ve ever had. At 20 weeks everyone was like, “I bet they’re really kicking,” and I didn’t really have a lot of movement. At first, I was really concerned, but as the weeks have gone on there’s so much activity. When they don’t [kick], I worry. I am a bit of a worrier. Have you been more worried during this pregnancy than you were with your other two? Yeah, when I go to my appointments now, they scan me and I have to see the doctor, consultant and midwife. With Polly and Ritch, I was at the hospital for an hour, but now I’m there for three hours. They’ve got to check the growth of the babies and blood pressure… when you’ve got multiple births, you’re classed as high-risk. I have to go back every two to three weeks. You worry with twins, because you hear the horror stories, but I’m being positive. Is it all going well so far? I went for my scan two weeks ago and they’re growing perfectly. The girl is bigger right now, which is common. At 30 weeks they’ll go through my birth plan with me. You said before you may have to have a C-section. Have they given you any more information about that? I’ve had two natural births with Polly and Ritchie. What they’re saying to me now is, “If you’ve had natural births and the head’s down, why would you not go natural?” It’s all about the babies, one might get stuck and I might have to have a Caesarean. The doctor said to me, “If one head’s down, the other will just fall into place.” So if I can have a natural birth, then I will go for it. How do you think Billy will cope with the birthing process? Honestly, Bill is so bad – he’s going to pass out! I said to Mum, “I know you’re going to be there anyway, but you’re going to have to be on back-up, because if I have to have a Caesarean, Bill will pass out!” Even natural, he’ll pass out. I’m a bit concerned. On the day, what will be, will be. Would you film the birth? If I wasn’t so high-risk I would. I don’t know. Never say never. You’re known for being one of the most glamorous women in Essex. Will you get glammed up for the labour? I’ve always said I probably wouldn’t. Yes, I like being glam and doing the school run with a bit of make-up on, because it makes me feel better, but I feel like with four kids, am I going to be the glam one like I used to be? The answer is no. How can I get four kids ready and get myself glammed up? I’m more about the mum life now. Amy Childs is the mum who does the cooking and cleaning. My priority now is the kids. I’m not worried about make-up, I’m thinking, “How am I going to get these two out?” Have you had any scares during your pregnancy? No, I haven’t. As a first-time mum, if I had that pain like I had the other night [Amy had Braxton Hicks contractions], I’d think, “What do I do, go to the hospital?” But because it’s my third pregnancy, you know, you’re prepared for it. Has Billy been good at helping you? He is amazing, he just wants to look after me. With Polly’s homework, he’s like, “I’ll do her reading, you just chill out.” He’s very concerned about me and just wants me to relax. I don’t know what he’s going to be like at the birth, but I think he’ll be an unbelievable dad. You’ve found out you’re having a boy and a girl – are you pleased? It’s an ideal situation – Bill’s got his boy, I get another girl. Bill said to me the other day, “Shall we just go again after?” I was like, “Definitely not!” I want my life back now. Bill would love to have more children, but let him be with the twins first and then see what he says after, because he won’t be saying that! The shop is shut. Are Polly and Ritchie excited about the arrival of their siblings? Polly’s so excited, however the past couple of weeks she’s a little bit over it, she just wants them here! She’s going to be so good and will help me with the nappies and baby wipes. When Bill is working away, if I can teach Polly to feed them a bottle, it’ll be so much easier for me. How does Ritchie feel about it? He knows something’s different and he comes up and kisses my belly, but he’s a very young four-year-old. When they [the twins] come here, he’s going to have a bit of a shock to his system, because he’s my youngest. It will be tough for him when there’s two newborns, but he might completely shock me! You were recently criticised for not showing Ritchie on social media. Does that get to you? Completely. Ritch is so much like me and I’d love to show him on socials, but we have an agreement with his dad. If Ritchie wants to be on social media when he gets older, that’s absolutely fine. So yeah, it does get me down, because I get constant messages from people saying, “You love your daughter, these twins are going to come and you’re going to love them much more than your son.” People don’t know what goes on behind closed doors. It’s not nice. Bless you! Have you decided on your baby names yet? We’ve definitely agreed on the boy’s name, but with the girl’s, we like something and then we change our minds. But I think when they come, we’ll know. How do you feel about having to juggle four kids? Does it feel more real now? It’s going to be a shock to the system, but I can make it work. I’ve got a midwife on board, I will probably have a nanny for a couple of months. I’ve got help and I’ve got amazing parents. I know four is going to be really tricky, but I’ve got Bill. He is going to be hands-on and will help me. I am the happiest I have ever been. I hope my babies are healthy and the pregnancy goes well. Life is very good. What are you looking forward to most when the twins arrive? A glass of prosecco! I haven’t craved it, but I’m looking forward to a proper night out. Speaking of celebrating, there are rumours you and Billy might get engaged soon… That would be lovely. When I least expect it, I’ll get the engagement ring, but at the minute I’ve got a lot going on. I said to Bill the other day, “Do you definitely want to marry me?” And he was like, “Yeah, of course I do!” You’re back filming TOWIE. How’s that going? Good! TOWIE is a big part of my life, I love filming and I wouldn’t have it any other way. I’m the mum of the group and my life has completely changed compared to all those years ago. Pete Wicks and Yazmin Oukhellou are reportedly leaving the show. Are you surprised? It’s really sad when TOWIE cast members go, especially when they’ve been on the show for so long. But who knows, they might come back for a cameo! There are rumours Lauren Goodger is coming back… Even if she did a cameo, it would be amazing, as she’s an OG. We go back a long way, me and Lauren. How amazing would it be if she came back on the show? READ NEXT:   Tommy Fury shares his reaction to Jake Paul breaking his baby announcement with Molly-Mae     Kerry Katona’s before and after pics following tummy tuck on ‘lumpy belly'     Megan Barton-Hanson and Demi Sims spark rumours they've rekindled romance in new clip      For all your daily celebrity news and gossip, sign up to OK!’s newsletter - CLICK HERE    