E4 soap Hollyoaks actress Jazmine Franks took to her Instagram page to announce her pregnancy joy, as she is expecting a tot with beau Danny Potter Hollyoaks star Jazmine Franks announced she is pregnant with her and partner Danny Potter's baby.  The actress took to Instagram to share a carousel of photos of her growing baby bump.  "Here’s to the biggest adventure yet," she captioned the post. "Summer 2023 is set to be a wild one! Can’t wait to cause mayhem with a mini Franks-Potter." In the photos, Jazmine beamed with joy as she posed for the camera in a black playsuit. She rubbed her growing bump as she stood in front of a restaurant's bar. The actress also shared a snap of the ultrasound scan with her 172,000 followers. Fans rushed to the comment section to congratulate the star. "Aw Jazz!! Congratulations to you both, what wonderful news xxxx," one user said while another added: "Woweee!!! Congratulations lovely!" Another posted: "Congratulations to you both, mega news," while one follower commented: "OMG!!!! Congratulations you are going to be the best mummy!!" The star is known for her role as Esther Bloom in Hollyoaks. She left the long-running series in 2018 and had a surprising change in her career. She turned to powerlifting and even competed in the All-England Powerlifting Championships. During the pandemic, she further welcomed her new love for fitness by qualifying as a personal trainer. After losing weight and transforming her life, she took to social media to share before and after pictures. "There’s 6 months and a 8kg difference between these pictures so it’s been a very slow process but I wanted to make sure I still had a social life," she said.  "I still enjoy desserts and I still enjoy a gin. Having time on my side has played a massive part, leaving Hollyoaks gave me the freedom to focus on me...  "I feel really good at the moment, I’ve learnt to say no." "To the food I don’t actually need to eat, to the events I don’t actually want to go to and to the things I don’t actually want to do. "I’ve had a bit of time out and I feel wonderful for it. Also can we have a little giggle at the fact I’m sat with pizza in my hand in the photo on the left." * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. Don't miss out on the biggest soaps gossip! Get a daily email direct to your inbox with our newsletter