This steamy position couldn't be easier to pull off.  Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? IF YOU'RE LOOKING for a sex position that lets you play with power dynamics, you're going to want to try the speed bump. The speed bump sex position puts the top—the partner doing the penetrating—in control.  Mixing up your sex position routine is a great way to unlock new forms of pleasure, says sexologist Marla Renee Stewart, MA, a sexpert for Lovers. “It's important to try a new sex position, like the speed bump, because it's always a good idea to see how far you can mentally, emotionally, and physically stretch yourself to expand on your pleasure boundaries,” she says. “Plus, it's always a bonus when you can find new positions that bring you orgasms, and then an extra bonus if it's a more phenomenal orgasm because of the position!” Hopefully, the speed bump will bring you new phenomenal orgasms—and luckily, it's relatively straightforward, compared to some of the more acrobatic sex positions out there. If you and your partner are down to try the speed bump sex position, all you need for is a pillow or sex wedge.  To enter the position, the bottom—the person being penetrated—needs to lie face-down with a pillow or sex wedge underneath their lower abdomen and hips. This props the bottom’s booty up in the air, making it a more accessible angle for the top to penetrate vaginally or anally. (FYI, this position works great for either vaginal or anal sex!)  The top then gets on their knees behind their partner and bends over so they're in a tabletop position with their hands placed on either side of their partner's chest. From here, the top can enter the bottom from behind. The speed bump sex position should look like this: One of the biggest benefits of the speed bump position is that it's “low impact” for the bottom, explains Javay Frye-Nekrasova, a certified sex educator for Lovehoney. “The bottom doesn’t need to support, hold themselves up, or contort themselves,” she says. Really, the bottom doesn’t have to do anything besides lie there and enjoy it. (Truly, the perfect position for a pillow princess.)   The raised angle of the receiving partner's hips also allows for G-spot stimulation and very deep penetration, especially for those who aren't the most well-endowed. Additionally, the top can really thrust hard and deep in this position, as the pillow underneath the bottom “will help absorb some of the shock,” Stewart says.  Not only does the pillow aid in lifting up the vagina to be more accessible, but it allows for the use of smaller clitoral stimulation toys. “You can easily put a bullet between you and the pillow to enhance clitoral stimulation,” Stewart says.  Moreover, this position is great for height discrepancies. “You can stack as many pillows as you like so that the bottom can be as comfortable as possible without having to contort their body in a way that feels awkward,” Stewart adds.  For additional depth and stimulation, the bottom partner can hold their butt cheeks apart, allowing greater access to their vulva or anus. (This is particularly helpful if the penetrating partner isn't the most hung, or if the receiving partner has a big, juicy booty.)  The top is essentially doing all the work here, and for some, “it becomes too much of a workout,” Frye-Nekrasova explains. Go slow and steady if you're worried about your endurance. The speed bump position allows for deep penetration, but that can be uncomfortable for some receiving partners. “While the depth of penetration is a pro for some, it can also be overwhelming [or painful] for the partner on the bottom,” Stewart says, especially if they have a “shorter” vagina. Check in with your partner regularly to see how they’re feeling. (You should do this in all sex positions, not just the speed bump.)  If you're vigorously thrusting in the speed bump position, you might end up hurting your partner in a different way. “If the penetrating partner gets too overzealous in this position, the possibility of accidentally going to anal might occur (if you were having vaginal sex),” Stewart says. This can be extremely painful.  The last con? This isn't the best position for sustained eye contact. If you're looking for a more intimate sex position, head here.  15 Sex Positions for When Your Partner's on Top The 56 Best Sex Positions Every Couple Should Try How to Do the Triceratops Sex Position If You Like Doggy Style, You'll Love This Position 10 Sex Positions for Guys With a Small Penis  How to Go Deeper With the Corkscrew Sex Position 17 Sex Positions That Guarantee Their Orgasm How to Make Reverse Cowgirl Even Hotter The Ultimate Guide to Spit-Roasting The 10 Best Ways to Have Sex in a Car The Bridge Position Is Ideal for Smaller Penises The Arch Sex Position Is Only for the Strong A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.