CORONATION Street legend Lucy Fallon has revealed how she was able to hide her baby bump on holiday. The Bethany Platt star, 27, revealed the trick in as astonishing 'Instagram versus reality' video. Lucy, who is about to enter her eighth month of pregnancy, posted two videos on Instagram. One showed her from the front, smiling in a low-cut black swimsuit with the glittering sea behind her. She captioned it: "This was me on holiday in Ibiza." Another revealed her turned to the side with her baby bump clearly visible with one hand below it and another above it. The Coronation Street star added: "But literally so was this LOL. Instagram is lying to us all." Lucy revealed in September that she was expecting a baby with boyfriend Ryan Ledsom by revealing her scan pictures on social media. She also posted a video of the moment she found out she was pregnant and the reactions of her friends and family when she revealed the news. The pair, who recently enjoyed a huge baby shower with 100 guests, are expecting a baby boy at the start of February. Katie told OK!: "I am quite scared I won’t lie, but I’m an hour from my mum and Ryan’s mum is only 20 minutes away so I’ll have loads of help. "And even when he goes to training he’s back early in the afternoon so it’s fine, and then if he’s got an away game I’ll go and stay at my mum’s." Football Ryan added: “I want to be hands-on so when I’ve got a day off I will give Lucy a break. We’re just going to have to wing it but I think we’ll be sound." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/