Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     WASHINGTON — Neighbors are pleading with the District Department of Transportation for help after they said another car plowed through a yard. Brittany Osazuwa got a startling call Sunday evening.  “You won't believe it, but a car just ran through your gate again,” she said her neighbors informed her. “The car actually landed right against my living room window and the craziest part is, had I not been at dinner with my girlfriends, that's where I am. I'm sitting there watching TV. So, I could have easily been hit." It’s not the first time she’s seen a car nearly in her first-floor home. Last summer a sedan almost made it in. “My home has been hit twice," Osazuwa said. "The home across the street from me has been hit twice, and there's no repercussions. Nothing is being done." She claimed drivers coming off of Suitland Parkway, onto Stanton Rd SE, near the Sheridan Road SE intersection are driving too fast for the neighborhood they’re coming into.  “A dog has been killed. Children are constantly playing and people are always walking on the sidewalk all day long. So, somebody easily could have been killed,” she said. After a second car has crashed through her fence, and nearly in her home, one SE DC woman is hoping the city will make some changes coming off of Suitland Pkwy onto Stanton Rd SE near Sheridan Rd SE. Here's her charge to drivers who travel through this area....@wusa9 pic.twitter.com/spVQmfA7XW Adding often times the person behind the wheel, she said isn’t being held accountable. “As the HOA we have to come out of pocket for their negligence these drivers are walking away, literally walking away from the scene. No insurance and the city is telling us that they can't help us," she said. "All of this damage is roughly about $10,000. These gates are not cheap.” The first-time homebuyer is frustrated and hopes to see the city make changes before someone is seriously hurt. “Put some speed bumps down, or a flashing camera, just better signage because people are constantly flying off of Suitland Parkway onto the Sheridan exit and then running into the homes,” Osazuwa said.  In a statement to WUSA9, DDOT said: "The District Department of Transportation is evaluating the area and working with community representatives to determine what improvements can be made to increase safety in the corridor."     WUSA9 is now on Roku and Amazon Fire TVs. Download the apps today for live newscasts and video on demand. Download the WUSA9 app to get breaking news, weather and important stories at your fingertips. Sign up for the Get Up DC newsletter: Your forecast. Your commute. Your news.Sign up for the Capitol Breach email newsletter, delivering the latest breaking news and a roundup of the investigation into the Capitol Riots on January 6, 2021. Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.