M&S shoppers are calling the store's latest dress perfect for all occasions Shoppers at Marks and Spencer are raving over a £27.50 dress which hides all of the 'lumps and bumps.' People are calling the retailer's dress 'flattering', adding that the outfit can be worn all year round.  The Jersey Printed Tie Waist Midi Tea Dress from M&S is available in two colours- a black mix print and a green mix print. And they are available in a range of sizes between UK 6 to 24 although some sizes have now sold out due to their popularity.  Nottinghamshire Live reported that buyers say the dress is perfect for the spring and summer months, describing it as an "understated" item from the store's latest clothing range.  Read more: Shop worker convinces M&S boss to make 'vital' fitting room change Its description reads: "Crafted from soft jersey material, this printed tea dress will slot seamlessly into your year-round wardrobe. It's cut in a comfortable regular fit with a thin belt for an accentuated silhouette. "The piece has a classic round neckline and flattering three-quarter sleeves, with a midi-length hem to finish. M&S Collection: easy-to-wear wardrobe staples that combine classic and contemporary styles." One M&S shopper said: “This is a pretty understated dress that is flattering to wear and would fit many occasions. The black background with a small white flower pattern also has a tiny orange-red motif that gives warmth to the design. The neckline, sleeves, dress length, tick all the boxes for me. The waist tie can be tied at the back rather than the front which l prefer. I would wear this dress at any time of year, but it’s lovely for Spring.” Another reviewer said: "Lovely lightweight summer dresses. Very good fit and length. I’ve bought both colours and look forward to wearing them." READ NEXT: I tried bargain £22.50 M&S jeans and didn't want to take them off While a third wrote: “Fantastic not that I can often say that these days it’s very complimentary and does not show any lumps and bumps.” A fourth added: "This dress is a winner for me. Love the pattern and colourway. Love the tie waist. Have bought this in the green patterned version too. It’s comfortable but flattering too. Can’t wait to wear it!" M&S paired the black mix version of the dress with a cosy £29.50 Soft Touch Knitted Longline Cardigan and £69 Leather Western Block Heel Ankle Boots, showing it can be worn in winter too, reports OK!. Click here to subscribe to the South West TV Talk newsletter, bringing you the hottest showbiz news, gossip and features from across the West Country every week. Read now: