Sunny. High 79F. Winds NNE at 10 to 15 mph..
                                 Clear skies. Low 54F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 6:08 am  OTTUMWA — If Ottumwa hopes to lure Target back into its retail fold, the work ahead will be grueling. But, the City of Ottumwa looks to take the smaller, initial steps that could, theoretically, land the big-box retailer, or another, to the area. During Tuesday's city council meeting and as part of a larger discussion about bringing retail into the Main Street and Church Street districts, mayor Rick Johnson asked about Target's chances of returning, as it's been almost eight years since the chain closed its Ottumwa store.  "I can't tell you the thousands, literally thousands, of people that have told me if they get one thing in Ottumwa, they want Target back in Ottumwa," Johnson said. "And I think we as a city need to do all we can to make that happen." Director of community development Zach Simonson sympathized with the mayor's position, as well as residents of the community. Getting there, however, is the quandary. "One of the pieces that we've learned from Retail Strategies (who the city uses to pitch businesses to Ottumwa), is that they need something to catalyze them to look at our market in a new light," he said. "That means we have to make traction with our other retail recruiting. "Since T.J. Maxx (and Five Below) came through, it's been a better environment for Retail Strategies to talk to other brokers and retailers, because they want to follow other successful business. So we have to do more recruiting to catalyze the really big prizes, like getting a Target." Simonson also said Target "does not see an existing building in Ottumwa as a vacancy that suits them." "So if we're going to recruit a Target, we're going to have to figure out a shopping center development on a new piece of property that isn't developed now," he said. "And that's a challenge for us to identify." Council member Marc Roe, in detailing his experiences trying to bring retail to the city with his role with Greater Ottumwa Partners In Progress, said it's a multi-faceted process to get it done. "(National retailers) are very data-driven. They want specific high-profile locations, and we're compromised that way," he said. "They also look at population based in a certain circumference of the area they're going to be. They also look at traffic counts in the area. Several restaurants that we've been talking with over the last several months want a specific number of vehicles traveling in front of that particular roadway at a particular time. "Walmart and Target are the golden egg of retail, so they expect many tens of thousands of cars at any one time on any day driving in front of their businesses." Johnson lamented that there are only two Target locations south of Interstate 80 — one in Burlington and the other in Council Bluffs. He asked if Quincy Place Mall would be suitable, but Simonson said "I can't tell you for sure they've looked at it, but it's been presented to them." As to the location of Target stores in Iowa, Simonson had a theory. "I wonder to what extent it's influenced by Target's decision to place their distribution in the northeast part of the state," he said. "I think that probably made south of 80 less attractive because they do all their warehousing in Cedar Falls." Council member Sandra Pope also asked Simonson for an update on the North Hy-Vee location. Hy-Vee announced it would be closing that store Oct. 14, leaving the north side of the city without a grocery store. The building is owned by Agree Burlington LLC out of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, and Simonson said there has been a slow response regarding the intention of the building. "We don't know yet. I'm hearing a lot of rumors all the time. I have no idea which of those are true," he said. "There are a couple things we're still waiting to find out. Retail Strategies has been trying to get in touch with the building owner over the last couple weeks and hasn't really gotten an answer as to what type of restrictions were put on that building when Hy-Vee sold it. "It's not unusual to put language into a real estate contract that says a grocery store other than Hy-Vee can't use that building for the next X-number of years. That would obviously be a big restriction on what we go out and try to recruit for in that space. The owner hasn't been proactive with Retail Strategies, which could mean they already have a good idea for how they'll fill it, or they're not going to be an owner that's easy to deal with. It's too early to tell." As for how the city can work toward bring in a big retailer into the community, it starts with buying local and supporting smaller businesses the city is looking to lure downtown. "One of the things any of us can do is spend our money as locally and as often as we can. Shopping downtown can connect back to the Target thing," he said. "When they see local businesses thriving, and those business can spread their market, it helps show there's a demand for the products they're consistent with. All that information gets back to them." Simonson did present the Downtown Strategic Vision report that is a part of the city's partnership with Retail Strategies. The report identifies ways to help increase business prospects in the Main Street and Church Street areas, studying everything from walkability to services provided, but looks at the process from a real estate standpoint. The city has been proactive in revitalizing buildings, especially downtown through economic development grants, but most of those have centered on exterior improvements. Johnson wondered if the city had any assistance for interior. "We have the White Box Program, which allows for interior improvements for first-floor commercial space that's either unusable or in really bad condition," Simonson said. "It will pay up to $10,000 to match up to $10,000 from the building owner. We've also worked on some bigger grant programs. "There's one we haven't applied for yet but I think will be a good program for Church Street is the Iowa Economic Development Authority Community Catalyst Grant. We have our restaurant equipment grant available now, which can do up to $25,000 for installs of equipment such as vent hood, grease interceptors, that could support new restaurants downtown." — Chad Drury can be reached at cdrury@ottumwacourier.com, and on Twitter @ChadDrury    We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on! The Ottumwa Courier welcomes readers to submit letters to the editor to offer their take on the news impacting them. Let us know what you're thinking! 
                            Sign up now to get our FREE breaking news coverage delivered right to your inbox.
                         First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: