New York City architect, Rex Heuermann, is set to be charged with first-degree murder in connection to the Gilgo Beach murders — a series of killings of mostly young women that confounded investigators on Long Island for more than a decade.  A married dad of two, Heuermann, 59, was busted by a special task force focusing on the murders, numerous sources told The Post on Friday as cops swarmed his home in Massapequa Park, LI. Regarding his professional life, the suspect founded his architectural firm RHC Consultants & Associates, Inc., with offices at 385 Fifth Ave., in 1994. All of his projects are centered in the New York City area.  According to the firm’s website, RHC “has extensive experience providing over thirty years of service dealing with the New York City Building Code, the New York State Code, the NYC Department of Buildings and all major city agencies.” Heuermann previously noted that he had provided services to clients including Catholic Charities, NYC-DEP Sewerage Treatment, American Airlines and other major tenants at JFK International Airport. “For over 20 years RH has been adding beauty and structure with concept-driven designs at multiple scales from educational facilities, residential works, as well as mix use and office design, public works, and master planning,” the website says. “RH also actively supports sustainability along with the preservation of historical landmarks.”  According to records obtained by The Post, Heuermann is associated with about 300 different projects throughout New York City and across all boroughs.  Below, a look at his more recent portfolio.  Target — Soho Cast Iron District The latest Target flagship store in New York City is located in Manhattan’s historic Soho Cast Iron District. Heuermann’s firm collaborated with Target’s design team to integrate the store’s aesthetics into the upscale neighborhood.  RH Architecture worked on the escalators and elevators in the existing landmark building built in 1884, re-structured multiple floors of the building and provided new ADA-compliant entrances for the new retail space.  ADA is short for the Americans with Disabilities Act Standards for Accessible Design. It outlines what is required for a building or facility to be physically accessible to people with disabilities. 60 Gramercy  RH Architecture also provided architecture and interior design for the new location of a doctor’s office, whose specifics on the project website aren’t made fully clear.  It’s located on the ground floor of a multi-family elevator building with views of Gramercy Park’s tree lined streets.  The design consisted of a full renovation including raising the interior floor level throughout the space to make it level with the building corridor to meet ADA standards.  Heuermann’s firm added new finishes, a custom reception desk and lighting design. Central Park West  RH Architecture worked closely with a city homeowner on a full gut renovation of a two-bedroom, two-bathroom Central Park West apartment. Its address isn’t made clear on the project’s page.  The apartment was in original 1920s condition and was renovated with new wood flooring throughout, a new kitchen, all new cabinetry, fixtures and new doors, along with two new bathrooms including an ADA-compliant bathroom.  A new dropped ceiling was added to conceal central air in the apartment, along with new recessed lighting throughout. 600 Broadway  600 Broadway is the address where the Soho Target is located, but Heuermann’s firm worked on more than just that space inside.  A six-story, mixed-use project, the property occupies 31,800 square feet of retail space and 47,600 square feet of commercial offices. Heuermann’s firm worked on the architecture and interior design for the renovation of the building’s lobby that serves offices on the upper floors.  Pegged as a new landmark, the approved ADA-compliant entrance for the retail space was designed to match the existing historic cast-iron features of the building.  RH Architecture also redesigned the floor structure on the upper floors of the building, new tenant bathrooms, and obtained a Certificate of Occupancy for all floors in the building, including retail space at the first floor, and offices on the upper floors. A Certificate of Occupancy means having a legal use and/or type of permitted occupancy of a building. Foot Locker  RH Architecture was in charge of Foot Locker’s newest store location in The Bronx, near Yankee Stadium. Located at 30 E. 170th St., the building occupies 12,600 square feet of retail space, consisting of three floors.  Heuermann’s firm worked with Foot Locker’s team and the building owner for the full build-out of the space implementing Foot Locker’s design within the building’s characteristics. RH also obtained the Certificate of Occupancy for the retail space. Burlington Coat Factory  RH Architecture collaborated with Burlington Coat Factory’s design team to execute their latest store.  Located in Brooklyn, Burlington Coat factory is a 52,000-square-foot retail space. The firm worked with Burlington’s team for the full build-out of the space implementing the tenant’s design within the existing building, including retrofitting new escalators into the existing building structure.  RH also obtained the Certificate of Occupancy for the retail space, and the eating and drinking establishment in the neighboring space. (An eating and drinking establishment is any commercial use within which food or beverages are offered for purchase.)  Savoir Beds  RH Architecture provided architectural and design Services for the building owner of Savoir Beds, a very upscale bed brand. The company sells handcrafted luxury beds. The firm took on a full renovation within an existing Upper East Side building for the showroom, which made its city debut within the last 10 years.  The build-out includes herringbone wood flooring throughout, recessed lighting details and built-in illuminated display niches to showcase the client’s pieces.  The existing mezzanine above the first floor level was cut back to expand the ceiling at the entryway. Bellami  Located in the fashion-forward Meatpacking District at 410 W. 14th St., this business occupies 2,800 square feet of retail space. Bellami is known as a top-tier hair salon in New York City.  RH worked with the building owner and Bellami for a full renovation incorporating their signature designs within the existing building.  On the upper floors of the building, RH restructured the entire floor of a former office space and built out new tenant bathrooms.  On the building exterior, RH redesigned the historical marquee. New York City Office – 385 Fifth Ave. Suite 1100  Situated on 36th Street and Fifth Avenue, the building that houses RH’s own offices was built in 1929.  The office also shares space with The Vitamin Shoppe, a physical therapy office, WeWork co-working office space.  Leasing runs upwards of $100,000 a year.  According to the building’s owners, it has 16 floors and security guard services.  Heuermann’s main house on Long Island Heuermann purchased a seemingly run-down home at 105 First Ave. in Massapequa Park in 1994 — the same year he launched his architecture firm.  He purchased the small six-room property for $170,000.  The home occupies a modest 1,323 square feet of space.  Built in 1956, the one-story residence has a full basement and one fireplace.  A former classmate of Hollywood actor Billy Baldwin, Heuermann was arrested Thursday after cops staked out his home and his office. His arrest is tied to the so-called “Gilgo Four,” women found wrapped in burlap within days of each other in late 2010, and not the other six who were later eyed as possibly being connected.  Heuermann appeared in court Friday afternoon and pleaded not guilty to three counts of first-degree murder and other charges related to the deaths of three women over 10 years ago. The life-long suburbanite, who was emotionless in court, was also named the prime suspect in a fourth killing. Advertisement