About 2 million Cosori air fryers have been recalled because, "A wire connection in the air fryers can overheat, posing fire and burn hazards,” according to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. According to Cosori, more than 200 users have reported that the appliances caught fire. (Photos provided by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission) Kitchenware brand Cosori has recalled over 2 million air fryers because they might cause fire and burn hazards, according to the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). The CPSC has received 205 reports of the air fryers catching fire, melting and overheating, including 10 reports detailing incidents of minor, superficial burns. Twenty-three of the reports detail incidents of property damage.  The recall concerns Cosori air fryers sold nationwide in stores and online at retailers, such as Best Buy, Home Depot, Kohls, Target, Walmart and Amazon. The defective air fryers were sold between June 2018 and December 2022 for prices ranging from $70 to $130. The 3.7-quart and 5.8-quart air fryers were sold in black, gray, white, blue and red. A list of the recalled appliances’ model numbers is available here.  Consumers should immediately stop using the air fryers. They can contact Cosori to get a replacement air fryer or a similar product by registering at this website. No receipt is necessary for a replacement unit. However, photos of the recalled unit with the cord severed and the customer’s contact information are required to register. RELATED STORIES ABOUT RECALLS: Nissan recall: 405K older vehicles recalled due to this serious malfunction Dog food recall: Throw away this brand; it may cause kidney failure Check your Starbucks coffee drink bottles; they might contain glass Disney character toys recalled over potential choking hazard Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to NJ.com. Katherine Rodriguez can be reached at krodriguez@njadvancemedia.com. Have a tip? Tell us at nj.com/tips. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices