Advertisement Advertisement Since its inception, Shiba Inu has made a name for itself as a unique cryptocurrency. But despite its impressive growth, some experts remain skeptical about whether Shiba Inu (SHIB) can compete with VC Spectra’s (SPCT) 10x growth potential.  So far, VC Spectra has raised an incredible amount of $2.3 million in its presale, making it a powerful rival, even to well-established crypto giants, such as SHIB. Let’s explore its long-term potential. In the last week, Shiba Inu, the second-largest meme crypto by market cap, experienced a significant increase of more than 12% from $0.000006973 to $0.000007815. In addition, there has been a significant increase in Shiba Inu’s (SHIB) coin burn rate over the last 24 hours. During this time, 341,504,230 Shiba Inu were burned, most being transferred to a dead-end wallet in a single anonymous transaction.  The second largest amount of Shiba Inu burned contained 84,405,747 coins, so this one comes close. For the past few days, the Shiba Inu (SHIB) burn rate was in the red zone, with burned amounts ranging from a few million to fewer than a million meme coins.  Shiba Inu’s (SHIB) growth was primarily due to the rise of Bitcoin prices above the $30,000 level brought on by the launch of the EDX exchange. Additionally, BlackRock and Invesco both applied to launch a Bitcoin ETF.  Moreover, pseudonymous Shiba Inu leader, Shytoshi Kusama, announced several new Shiba Inu (SHIB) ecosystem updates. These include the “Worldpaper” release, a comprehensive Shiba Inu ecosystem guide, and a partnership with Champion Apparel to produce Shiba Inu or SHIB-themed merchandise.  Advertisement Yet, crypto experts and analysts are spotting a more viable alternative even with all this innovation in the Shiba Inu system. After all, the most profitable investment returns come from spotting market newcomers, and one such example is the fast-selling presale of VC Spectra. VC Spectra is making waves in cryptocurrency as a unique venture capital fund. By joining VC Spectra (SPCT), users can access a broad range of innovative and profitable projects within blockchain and technology. More precisely, investors benefit from a risk management strategy that includes comprehensive research and evaluation of investment opportunities.  Utilizing an algorithmic & systematic trading approach, VC Spectra capitalizes on scalability while ensuring max returns. VC Spectra (SPCT) offers investment in several funds, including the Alpha Matrix, Eclipse Opportunity Fund, Nexus Fund, & Quantum Ventures Fund.  >>BUY VC SPECTRA TOKENS NOW<< Better yet, its native token, SPCT, adheres to the BRC-20 standard. Currently, the token is trading at $0.008 in the public presale stage, where VC Spectra has the potential to generate 10x returns for investors, reaching the target price of $0.08. With its enormous potential & capabilities, VC Spectra (SPCT) is poised to lead the crypto industry. So, don’t waste any more time, and chip in the project while there’s still time to capitalize on it! Explore the VC Spectra (SPCT) presale here:- Buy Presale: https://invest.vcspectra.io/login Website: https://vcspectra.io Advertisement Telegram: https://t.me/VCSpectra Twitter: https://twitter.com/spectravcfund Advertisement 