Bravo to the Burn Intensive Care Unit team at HCA Florida Blake Hospital, recently recognized with the Daisy Team Award, an honor created by the Daisy Foundation to salute outstanding nursing teams for their skills and compassion. Those honorees included Layne Brown, Jessica Carter, Shelly Castro, Lucia Fish, Devin Gibbs, Maria Grejda, Todd Haner, Megan Hawkins, Brett Hiskes, Tim Lambert, Sergio Lopez, Isabella Johnston, Danielle McIntyre, Steve Nierman, Ali Russell, Kelly Willis and Melissa Tunc. They were honored for going above and beyond in caring for a man severely injured in an accident with burns to almost half his body. Far from home, he spent several weeks in the unit and the team of caregivers helped him and his family physically and emotionally. Even after the patient was able to be transferred out of the burn ICU, the team still visited him in the hospital. They helped his wife and daughter make sure he had a special 60th birthday, grooming his beard and getting his favorite key lime pies and steak for the occasion. • A bow to Bayshore High music teacher Alexis Pletincks, recently named an A+ Teacher by Spectrum Bay News 9. • Salutes to Deputies Ty Simandl and Reaghn Simandl, Monica Ruiz and the Special Investigations Division undercover detective who are the Manatee County Sheriff’s Office Deputies of the Month for October. They were honored for immediately rendering critical assistance at the scene of a horrendous two-vehicle crash they witnessed on I-4 while returning from Orlando. Paramedic Suzanne Yack, Reaghn’s mother who was traveling with the MCSO team, received the Sheriff’s Commendation Award. • Uh, oh! Mike Parrott is one year shy of the Big 6-0! • Well done to the Manatee School District’s finalists for the 2023 Excellence in Education Awards: Tiffany Barrett-Greer, second grade teacher, Braden River Elementary; Kendall Carrier, band director and music, Parrish Community High; Michelle Dowell, biomedical science, Palmetto High; and Kelly Smith-Williams, anatomy and physiology, Lakewood Ranch. And cheers to the finalists for 2023 Support Employee of the Year: Gena Case, guidance clerk, Myakka City Elementary; Brianna Hall, clerical assistant, Lincoln Memorial Middle; Marisol Hernandez, school secretary, Braden River High; and Latisha Jones, guidance clerk, Southeast. The finalists will be honored Feb. 9 and winners will advance to the Florida Teacher of the Year program and School Employee of the Year program. • Say it ain’t so! Merab-Michal Favorite hit the Big 4-0! • Carey Miller was promoted to Vice President of Operations for the Manatee Chamber of Commerce where she has spent 22 years. Last spring, Carey, an information specialist, also received the Florida Chamber Professional of the Year Award from the Florida Association of Chamber Professionals. • And Veronica Holley is 39. Again. • Big ups to Jocelyn Ridings, Daytona Clifton and Emmaline Van Beck, who went 1-2-3 as Miss Manatee Softball’s 13-and-Under Home Run Derby winners. And big ups to Alexi Walker, Eva Martinez and Charlie Kardos, who went 1-2-3 as 12-and-Under Home Run Derby winners. • Ashley and Logan Wells named son Gavin’s new baby sister Sienna Jade. • That’s 13 years of wedded bliss for Sarah and Chris Ryan. • Manatee High hosts the Manatee County Girls Weightlifting Championships on Thursday and weightlifting coach Richard Lansky seeks help with the meet – i.e., weigh-ins, scoring, hospitality, etc. Email him at Lanskyr@manateeschools.net. Vin’s People runs Sundays. Email Vin Mannix at vinspeople@gmail.com. Or call 941-962-5944. Twitter: @vinmannix.