UK Edition Gary Lineker, the former England footballer, is being pursued by HMRC over a £4.9 million tax bill because he is famous, a tribunal has been told. The Match of the Day presenter’s lawyer said that he had been targeted under the taxman’s policy “of looking at people in the media”. Suggesting that there was a political element to the investigation, they added that Lineker had been “dragged through the papers” over the matter. • Gary Lineker latest: BBC ‘will have no choice but to let him go’ — follow live The case is the most prominent battle between HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and a celebrity over their employment status. Lineker, 62, is being pursued for £3.62 million in income tax and £1.31 million in national insurance over his television presenting work between 2013 and 2018. Investigators say that he should have been classed as an employee of the BBC and BT Sport, where he previously presented coverage of the Uefa Champions League. He was instead paid as a contractor through Gary Lineker Media, a partnership he set up in 2012 with Danielle Bux, who was then his wife. This would have allowed Lineker to be paid partly in dividends, at a lower corporation tax rate. He has said that all taxes were paid on the income. IR35 legislation is designed to clamp down on tax avoidance by so-called disguised employees, who charge for their services via limited companies. Lineker, a former Tottenham and Leicester City striker, is appealing against HMRC’s decision, which will be considered by a tax tribunal after a lengthy dispute with HMRC. A preliminary hearing in London on Tuesday was told that there was a direct contract between Lineker and the broadcasters. James Rivett KC, representing Lineker, said: “HMRC were looking, in their old turn of phrase, to see why IR35 should not apply — they wanted it to apply. It is perfectly plain from the evidence that HMRC closed their minds to anything on the contrary.” He accused the HMRC of conducting a “business-as-usual, factory plant” approach and said that the “genesis of the inquiries” into Lineker had come from a “policy of looking at people in the media”. Other broadcasters who have battled HMRC over disputed tax bills include the presenters Lorraine Kelly and Kaye Adams. Lineker remains the BBC’s highest paid employee, with a salary of £1.35 million, even though he took a £400,000 pay cut in 2020. Rivett pushed back during the hearing when the HMRC legal team laughed at suggestions that there had been a political element to the investigations. “This is just a panto laugh, my client has been dragged through the papers accused of not paying income tax which has been paid,” he said. According to tax tribunal documents, Lineker is disputing the bill and it has been agreed that he paid the income tax in full. Rivett had earlier said that HMRC was “looking in the wrong place” and had not assessed the BBC and BT Sport. “Officers never considered assessing the BBC or BT Sport,” he said. “This is not a case where they turned their mind to the point and dismissed it.” HMRC will argue that Lineker’s extensive work for BT Sport and the BBC means he should be classed as an employee for tax purposes. Akash Nawbatt KC, beginning his arguments on behalf of HMRC on Tuesday, said: “HMRC is not looking in the wrong place, it is looking where the legislation directs it to look at. It’s the partnership which is liable to any tax, not the BBC or BT.” He added that Lineker might find this “unfair”, but that it was the “consequence” of legislation. The preliminary hearing continues. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.