By Niomi Harris For Mailonline   Published:  04:49 EDT, 13 January 2023   |  Updated:  04:58 EDT, 13 January 2023      View  comments  They divorced in January 2016 after six years of marriage. And Danielle Bux and Gary Lineker proved they were the friendliest of exes as they enjoyed dinner together at Riva restaurant in Barnes on Thursday. However Danielle, 43, was quick to bemoan her former spouse chatting football to an enthusiastic waiter as she remarked that they were 'ignoring' her. Uh oh: Danielle Bux, 43, was quick to bemoan her former spouse Gary Lineker, 62, for chatting football to an enthusiastic waiter as she remarked that they were 'ignoring' her while at dinner Good times: Taking to Instagram, the actress filmed the footballer turned pundit, 62, as he enjoyed a natter with the gentleman Taking to Instagram, the actress filmed the footballer turned pundit, 62, - whom she recently reunited with for their annual Christmas dinner -  as he enjoyed a natter with the gentleman. She then continued to document their lively interaction, stating that they were 'getting animated now'. As they continued to chat, Danielle appeared to get frustrated as she then added: 'Football MANAGERS now FFS.'  The once husband and wife otherwise seemed to be enjoying their meal out regardless, with two large glasses of red wine seen on the table, while Gary had a tasty looking dessert in front of him.  Good terms: Danielle and Gary proved they were the friendliest of exes as they enjoyed dinner together at Riva restaurant in Barnes on Thursday (pictured in 2015) Gary and Danielle tied the knot in Ravello, Italy, in September 2009.  The former couple confirmed their separation in 2016 after nine years of marriage, citing Gary not wanting more children as their reason.  Danielle subsequently relocated to Los Angeles to pursue an acting career.  The Match Of The Day long-timer has four children with his first wife Michelle Cockayne: George, 30, Harry, 28, Tobias, 26, and Angus 24.  Getting into it: She then continued to document their lively interaction, stating that they were 'getting animated now' Oh dear: As they continued to chat, Danielle appeared to get frustrated as she then added: 'Football MANAGERS now FFS' Meanwhile, Danielle shares daughter Romy, five, with husband Nate Greenwald and has Ella, 20, from a previous relationship, with the family residing in LA.  Danielle's relationship with Greenwald, an Ivy League educated lawyer with CAA, was confirmed shortly after her move to the United States.  Already a parent to daughter Ella from a former relationship, the model and actress announced she was expecting her first child with Greenwald in February 2017.  A source told The Sun at the time: 'She is thrilled and so excited she’s pregnant. She's been keeping it a secret until she was over 12 weeks but now she’s telling family and friends. Over: The former couple confirmed their separation in 2016 after nine years of marriage, citing Gary not wanting more children as their reason 'It’s nice because Gary never wanted to have kids with her. That was one of the reasons they broke up. So she thought she might have missed her chance to have any more kids.' Speaking to the Express in 2019, Gary admitted he frequently socialises with Greeenwald during his trips to visit Danielle in southern California. 'He's not got a jealous bone in his body,' he said. 'We get on really well. We go out for dinner when I’m in LA. It might be unusual and people might go, "That’s weird" but, frankly, I don’t care. What is normal? 'Is it better to get divorced and end up fighting, screaming and shouting? Or is it better to get on if you can?' So happy: Danielle's relationship with Greenwald, an Ivy League educated lawyer with CAA, was confirmed shortly after her move to the United States Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group