E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary Monday through Friday, 8:30am to 3:00pm, please email obits@thereporteronline.com or call us at 610-235-2690 for further information.
 
Saturday & Sunday, please contact obits@thereporteronline.com
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 UPPER GWYNEDD — Nate Lapp’s second at-bat Saturday ended as poorly as his first, but this time he had a chance to do something about it.The Pennridge Post 255 shortstop’s hustle following his second inning strikeout led to a Quakertown Post 242 throwing error, extending the frame and opening the door for top-seeded Pennridge to capitalize. That’s just what the Bux-Mont regular season champions did, putting together a big inning thanks to two more Blue Jays miscues in the field.That was all Post 255 needed, thanks to some solid defense of its own, to top Quakertown 7-3 at Hostelley Field and advance to Sunday’s Bux-Mont title game.“I struck out my first at-bat then struck out again, so I figured I had to make something happen,” Lapp said. “I ran hard down the baseline, they threw the ball away and we ended up scoring. We ended up scoring, what, five more runs after that?”Quakertown is the only team to have beaten Pennridge this season, the Blue Jays taking down Post 255 in the opener but Pennridge got payback in the rematch. That was part of the reason Pennridge ended up taking the regular season crown and earning an automatic spot in the Region 2 Tournament at Boyertown next week.Even entering the league tournament with a free ticket of sorts, Lapp and first baseman Aidan Fretz agreed their team came in wanting to win. That’s part of the reason Lapp hustled down the line to keep the second inning alive and it ended up being the decisive factor in the game.Pennridge scored all seven of its runs in the second, but only one was an earned run for Post 242 starter Peyton Myers, with three errors accounting directly for three runs and allowing for three more to come in as a result.“When they’re making errors, we have to make it worse for them,” Fretz, who had a two-run double in the inning, said.

The inning started with a walk to Alex Fantaskey, a single by Will Slamm and a bunt single from Hunter Broderick before Garrett Navitsky’s sac fly to center made it 1-0. Myers struck out No. 9 batter Owen Gruver and seemed to have the inning over when he got Lapp on a swinging strike three, only for the ball to get away and an overthrow to first allowing the shortstop to reach and a second run to come in.An error on an infield ball by Robbie Pliszka brought in two more and a subsequent third error on the infield kept the bases primed for Fretz, who doubled in two more. Slamm got his second hit on as many at-bats in the frame to score Fretz for a 7-0 lead.“If it’s there, you have to swing and I think that’s what we all did today,” Fretz said of Pennridge’s eight-hit afternoon.Quakertown would plate a run in the third inning, but despite registering eight hits and drawing six walks, the Blue Jays were never able to get a big inning of their own. Part of that had to do with the pitching of Pennridge starter Matt Gunning and reliever Patrick Mill, who both battled despite not having their sharpest stuff, and the Post 255 defense.With the bases loaded and one out in the top of the fourth, Quakertown leadoff hitter Brayden Schuler hit a ball hard to Lapp in the hole at short. The Millersville-bound infielder came up firing, but not to first, instead going home to Navitsky for the force-out at the plate.“I told myself going into that at-bat that if I have to charge, then I’m going home with it,” Lapp said. “I went into the dugout at the end of the inning and Garrett told me ‘you scared me with that,’ so I had to apologize for that but I told myself I was going home and I was able to make the play.”Pliszka made a nice play at third to end the inning as just one run scored for Quakertown and Pennridge would get a few more defensive plays the rest of the way. Lapp made a stellar play on a ground ball to end the top of the fifth, getting the throw to Fretz at first just in time to get the out and strand runners at second and third.Ryan Hass in right made a tremendous play in the top of the sixth, running a long way to track down a fly ball his teammates admitted they all but thought was dropping for an extra base hit. The play was such a shock that it ended up being two outs with the Quakertown runner at first taking off on contact and being stuck well past second base when Hass made the grab and tossed it back in to let Fretz get the tag way back at first.“I didn’t really think he was going to get there,” Fretz said. “I gave him maybe a 40 percent chance. I’ve never seen him play outfield before.”Pennridge, which is in the Bux-Mont title game for a second straight season, will face either Quakertown or Chal-Brit on Sunday. Due to a high chance of rain in the forecast, the games have been moved up, with the elimination game starting at 12:30 p.m. and the title game beginning at 3:30 p.m. with an if-needed deciding game slated for Monday night.Post 255 has a simple goal, no matter who it faces, to keep winning.“We’re going to be ready,” Lapp said.Pennridge 7, Quakertown 3Quakertown 001 100 1 – 3 8 3Pennridge 070 000 x – 7 8 0WP: Matt Gunning. LP: Peyton Myers. The Pennridge Post 255 shortstop’s hustle following his second inning strikeout led to a Quakertown Post 242 throwing error, extending the frame and opening the door for top-seeded Pennridge to capitalize. That’s just what the Bux-Mont regular season champions did, putting together a big inning thanks to two more Blue Jays miscues in the field. That was all Post 255 needed, thanks to some solid defense of its own, to top Quakertown 7-3 at Hostelley Field and advance to Sunday’s Bux-Mont title game. “I struck out my first at-bat then struck out again, so I figured I had to make something happen,” Lapp said. “I ran hard down the baseline, they threw the ball away and we ended up scoring. We ended up scoring, what, five more runs after that?” Quakertown is the only team to have beaten Pennridge this season, the Blue Jays taking down Post 255 in the opener but Pennridge got payback in the rematch. That was part of the reason Pennridge ended up taking the regular season crown and earning an automatic spot in the Region 2 Tournament at Boyertown next week. Even entering the league tournament with a free ticket of sorts, Lapp and first baseman Aidan Fretz agreed their team came in wanting to win. That’s part of the reason Lapp hustled down the line to keep the second inning alive and it ended up being the decisive factor in the game. Pennridge scored all seven of its runs in the second, but only one was an earned run for Post 242 starter Peyton Myers, with three errors accounting directly for three runs and allowing for three more to come in as a result. “When they’re making errors, we have to make it worse for them,” Fretz, who had a two-run double in the inning, said. The inning started with a walk to Alex Fantaskey, a single by Will Slamm and a bunt single from Hunter Broderick before Garrett Navitsky’s sac fly to center made it 1-0. Myers struck out No. 9 batter Owen Gruver and seemed to have the inning over when he got Lapp on a swinging strike three, only for the ball to get away and an overthrow to first allowing the shortstop to reach and a second run to come in. An error on an infield ball by Robbie Pliszka brought in two more and a subsequent third error on the infield kept the bases primed for Fretz, who doubled in two more. Slamm got his second hit on as many at-bats in the frame to score Fretz for a 7-0 lead. “If it’s there, you have to swing and I think that’s what we all did today,” Fretz said of Pennridge’s eight-hit afternoon. Quakertown would plate a run in the third inning, but despite registering eight hits and drawing six walks, the Blue Jays were never able to get a big inning of their own. Part of that had to do with the pitching of Pennridge starter Matt Gunning and reliever Patrick Mill, who both battled despite not having their sharpest stuff, and the Post 255 defense. With the bases loaded and one out in the top of the fourth, Quakertown leadoff hitter Brayden Schuler hit a ball hard to Lapp in the hole at short. The Millersville-bound infielder came up firing, but not to first, instead going home to Navitsky for the force-out at the plate. “I told myself going into that at-bat that if I have to charge, then I’m going home with it,” Lapp said. “I went into the dugout at the end of the inning and Garrett told me ‘you scared me with that,’ so I had to apologize for that but I told myself I was going home and I was able to make the play.” Pliszka made a nice play at third to end the inning as just one run scored for Quakertown and Pennridge would get a few more defensive plays the rest of the way. Lapp made a stellar play on a ground ball to end the top of the fifth, getting the throw to Fretz at first just in time to get the out and strand runners at second and third. Ryan Hass in right made a tremendous play in the top of the sixth, running a long way to track down a fly ball his teammates admitted they all but thought was dropping for an extra base hit. The play was such a shock that it ended up being two outs with the Quakertown runner at first taking off on contact and being stuck well past second base when Hass made the grab and tossed it back in to let Fretz get the tag way back at first. “I didn’t really think he was going to get there,” Fretz said. “I gave him maybe a 40 percent chance. I’ve never seen him play outfield before.” Pennridge, which is in the Bux-Mont title game for a second straight season, will face either Quakertown or Chal-Brit on Sunday. Due to a high chance of rain in the forecast, the games have been moved up, with the elimination game starting at 12:30 p.m. and the title game beginning at 3:30 p.m. with an if-needed deciding game slated for Monday night. Post 255 has a simple goal, no matter who it faces, to keep winning. “We’re going to be ready,” Lapp said. Pennridge 7, Quakertown 3 Quakertown 001 100 1 – 3 8 3 Pennridge 070 000 x – 7 8 0 WP: Matt Gunning. LP: Peyton Myers. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group