


Publisher - Odisha Breaking News, Current News Odisha, Latest Odisha News, Odisha news online, Odisha Bytes get you the true and unbiased news

 Bhubaneswar: Manaswini Maharana, a native of Ganjam’s Panibandha village won a gold medal in the Yachting Association of India’s (YAI) Senior National Sailing Championship, competing in the RX women’s category, becoming the first woman in Odisha to excel in this sport. The event was held in Mumbai from September 20-26, 2023. She is a facilitator for the nutrition project of the Tata Steel Foundation (TSF) at Chatrapur Block in Ganjam. Reflecting on her journey, Manaswini said, ‘Throughout the competition, I faced challenging conditions, battling heavy rain and strong winds. My coach, Sabir Bux, provided unstinted support and pushed me to overcome my fears as I dedicated myself to rigorous practice.’ Manaswani credited her in-laws, parents, and husband for their support. She is now aiming for a gold medal in the National Sailing Championship scheduled for October. Her ultimate goal is to represent Odisha and India on the international stage in sailing competitions in the near future. Manswani’s coach, Sabir Bux, a Limca record holder and international scuba diver said, “My journey with Manaswini began in 2009, and her commitment to her aspirations and her exemplary sportsmanship have been nothing short of inspiring. At this moment, she is diligently preparing for the upcoming national-level championship, and I have every confidence that she will continue to excel on this remarkable journey.” Manaswini has won over 13 gold medals in sailing competitions. She secured a gold at the Bangkong Open Sailing Competition. She has participated and achieved top positions in several other competitions across India, including the Indian Navy Sailing Championship. The Government of Odisha recognised her achievements by awarding her the Biju Patnaik Kanya Ratna for representing Odisha at the National Games.   Get real time updates directly on you device, subscribe now.  Prev Post				 Asian Games 2023: Compound Archery Team Wins Gold, India’s 21st Next Post  Young Medic Critical In Explosion As Car Runs Over Firecrackers In Odisha’s Kendrapada  

				BJP Membership Drive From Sept 1; Odisha Target Is 1 Crore			

  

				Two 4-Year-Old Kids Drown In Pond In Odisha’s Nuapada			

  

				SIT On Black Money Seeks Information On ‘Corrupt’ Officials In Odisha			

  

				Safety Knot: Cops Tie Rakhi On Riders Of Two-Wheeler In Odisha’s Malkangiri			

 
		Comments are closed.	