Uber has long provided a fast and easy way for adults catch a ride from one place to another, but the service has been restricted to people aged 18 and up. That's about to change. Uber announced Wednesday that the company will allow "teen rides" for kids as young as 13, starting on Monday, May 22, in select cities in the U.S. and Canada. The program gives kids the "freedom to request their own rides," Uber says online, noting that parents will be notified every time they do. (The company is also expanding Uber Eats, the service that brings takeout to your door, to teen accounts as well.) The trips are "destination locked," meaning the driver can't change where they're going once the child is picked up. Teens will only be matched with highly rated and experienced drivers, the company says, noting that drivers have to undergo a "thorough background check" and are re-screened annually. Drivers can also opt out of the service if they don't want to drive teens alone. Once a child hails an Uber, parents can track their trips in real time and contact drivers directly. The rides will have additional safety measures like a PIN verification system and an audio recording option. The teen account is part of a family Uber account, although their account will be converted into a standard account when they turn 18. (Worth noting: Fellow ride-share services Lyft and Hitch still require passengers to be 18 years old to ride alone.) Uber has framed this service as a way to help parents get kids to activities or sports practices when they're otherwise tied up, but early commentary on social media has been largely critical. Uber did not respond to Yahoo Life's request for comment. Pediatric experts are a little wary of the new Uber service. "From a practical standpoint, it's great for the parent or caretaker who is so busy they can't take their child to practice," Dr. Danelle Fisher, a pediatrician and chair of pediatrics at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif., tells Yahoo Life. "On the other hand, you're now having your child participating in a whole separate business venture and you're not there with them." Stephanie Strumberger, licensed clinical counselor at Northwestern Medicine Woodstock Hospital and mom to a 13-year-old, tells Yahoo Life that the news is "concerning." "There is a concern that Uber could be misused by a child and used without the knowledge of their parent," she says. (While Uber says parents will receive alerts when their child books a ride, it's possible that a parent may miss that alert and remain unaware.) "In the state of Illinois, children that are 13 are not even old enough to stay home alone," Strumberger points out. Fisher notes that elements like being able to track a child's ride, the possibility of a child having their own phone and Uber's driver background checks make this "probably a pretty reliable service." But she also says "it's understandable that some parents will be concerned and nervous." A lot also depends on the child, Fisher says. "If you're interested in trying this service, ask your child if they feel ready," she says. "A lot of kids might be ready for this and some might be nervous. The most important thing is that the teen is ready for this and wants to do it. If it's going to freak out your kid, don't do it." Strumberger says it would also be helpful for parents or caregivers to talk to someone at the child's destination, so that there is communication and tracking before, during and after the ride. Fisher also recommends telling kids to trust their gut. "Tell them 'if this driver arrives and you don't feel comfortable, you can decline the ride,'" she says. "Safety conversations are very important for children." If the idea of sending a teen in an Uber ride alone doesn't sit with a parent, Fisher points out that they can just not use the service. "Ultimately, it will come down to what parents think is best for their family," she says. Wellness, parenting, body image and more: Get to know the who behind the hoo with Yahoo Life's newsletter. Sign up here. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.