We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we believe in. Pricing and availability are subject to change. If you have at least seven Dyson Aiwrap tutorial videos in your “saved” folder on TikTok or Instagram but still no Dyson Airwrap, take this as a sign from the hair gods: The elusive Dyson Aiwrap is finally back in stock. Yes, this wildly viral hair tool is also wildly expensive due to the high-tech Dyson technology. Still, most shoppers agree it’s worth it since they’ve saved thousands on hair appointments — including one obsessed In The Know editor. The Dyson Airwrap uses the aerodynamic phenomenon known as the Coanda effect to curl, wave, smooth, blow-dry and style every hair type without relying on extreme heat. Reminder, extreme heat equals extreme heat damage. Dyson has reinvented the blowout by relying on high-speed airflow instead. So you're not frantically scrambling through retailers like Sephora and Ulta, we put together a handy-dandy list of every single spot you can buy the Dyson Airwrap — and why the internet says that it’s absolutely worth the wild $600 price tag. TL;DR: You’re about to have the fluffiest bouncy curls of your life thanks to this styling tool. So fluffy, in fact, that fluffy-haired queen Cher Horowitz herself will be salty. The Dyson Airwrap Complete Styler comes with six styling attachments: a smoothing dryer, soft smoothing brush, round volumizing brush, firm smoothing brush and, of course, two long barrels. Here’s a quick breakdown on all of those Airwrap attachments: 1.2 inch Airwrap long barrel: This thinner barrel is great if you’re looking for voluminous curls or tighter waves. It’s been re-engineered so you can create clockwise and counterclockwise curls with one just one barrel, unlike the first-generation Airwrap. 1.6 inch Airwrap long barrel: If you want loose, bouncy curls and fluffy waves, the thicker barrel is going to be your bestie. Just like the thin one, the barrel has also been updated so you can just use one instead of two. Coanda smoothing dryer: The newer drying attachment is a combination of the original Airwrap rough dry attachment and the brand’s new Flyaway attachment that Dyson first introduced with the Dyson Supersonic Hair Dryer. You’ll be able to take your hair from wet to damp in pre-style mode and then finish your look by hiding frizz and flyaways in smoothing mode. Soft smoothing brush: Perfect for fine hair, the soft smoothing brush smooths and controls your locks for a straight look. Firm smoothing brush: The firm bristles here are great for smoothing thick hair and frizz-prone hair using the Coanda airflow. It also offers a lot more control than the soft smoothing brush. Round volumizing brush: This sneaky round brush attachment is the key to getting body and shape using the hair styler. Now that that’s settled, there are a ton of retailers besides Dyson.com that stock the Dyson Airwrap. Some retailers (like Sephora, Ulta and Nordstrom) carry a special edition Airwrap with fun extras. You know, if you’re into special stuff. While you're deciding between which Airwrap color to go with, may we also present a very exhausting list of literally every retailer that carries the Dyson Airwrap? Here's where to shop the Airwrap and other Dyson hair stylers and tools: Dyson Nordstrom Sephora Ulta Blue Mercury Neiman Marcus Best Buy Meanwhile, the original Dyson Airwrap Complete Styler can still be found at the Dyson Outlet. You can try your shot at eBay. If you liked this story, check out the best deals to shop at Nordstrom Rack right now. More from In The Know: 12 affordable Dyson Airwrap alternatives to shop on Amazon Keurig finally created an iced coffee maker — and iced latte lovers say it's so good, it's 'straight magic' The 17 best jelly sandals that will heal your inner child this summer I wear this flattering $30 midi dress all the time, and everybody thinks it's the $250 Réalisation Par dress The post  Hi, here's where to buy the Dyson Airwrap online before it sells out again appeared first on In The Know. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.