This time, we will deliver an interview with Mr. Rory, who works as a lead engineer in the product headquarters system development department. My name is Rory, and I am a full-stack engineer. My journey here has been quite unusual. Although I have a background in mathematics and science, I initially ended up in the educational industry!Before becoming an Engineer, I was an Account Leader for a team of language instructors at Coca-Cola. Frankly, I didn't really enjoy the job. It was fine, but I was always watching the clock, waiting for the day to end. And I barely used my brain.Then one day I opened my macbook, and saw an update for Xcode. It sounded like a game, so I googled it. I found out it was actually a piece of software used to make apps. It was time to see if my brain still worked…It turns out my brain was very rusty, but I got it going eventually. It was a bit like a couch potato suddenly trying to run a marathon. But, to be honest, my brain seemed relieved to have something to do.I made some apps and discovered an obsession for coding. Just over 5 years later, I work as a full-stack engineer at a company in the pharmaceutical industry. And I still love it every day. Doing a job I actually enjoy has completely transformed my life. I no longer dread Mondays!  My main role at Buzzreach is to help with the development of Puzz services. I work mostly as a backend engineer, developing APIs and working on the server infrastructure. I also help out in other areas, such as the frontend code, deployment processes, database schema, and repo management.  For the main Puzz platform, we are using a microservice structure, which presents a lot of interesting challenges. Engineering work at Buzzreach is very fluid. We are always looking at new solutions, and have the opportunity to learn and utilise new skills. There are a few key points that attracted me to Buzzreach. Firstly, Buzzreach is offering a service that is leveraging technology in a way that provides a lot of social utility.  Secondly, the company structure is very flat. I prefer this to a strict hierarchical structure. Thirdly, I have the opportunity to work with a lot of autonomy, allowing me to explore the use of interesting tech to solve problems. Buzzreach is set to make a real impact in the clinical trial industry. This is an industry that is severely underutilizing the technology that is available, and we hope to change that! I would like Buzzreach to be a company known for disrupting the clinical trial industry. If you are an Engineer who likes to work with a lot of freedom, and want to contribute to a service that has a very real social impact, then Buzzreach is an ideal place.  ▼ here for recruitment informationBuzzreach Careers: wantedly：  
          #社員紹介
         
          6,866件
         
          #転職してよかったこと
         
          6,126件
        