Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 27 Apr, 2023, 14:30 GMT Share this article Clinical trials are a fundamental requirement for evaluating the safety and efficacy of novel therapeutics; patient recruitment and retention are two major bottlenecks during the conduct of clinical studies and contribute to inconclusive results, additional costs and trial delays  LONDON, April 27, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Roots Analysis has announced the addition of "Patient Recruitment and Retention Services Market (3rd Edition), 2022 – 2035" report to its list of offerings. The recruitment of suitable clinical trial participants is often fraught with several challenges, including scientific and operational complexity, insufficient resources and expertise, issues related to data handling and increasingly stringent regulatory guidelines. As a result, outsourcing has become a popular operating model in this domain, as it enables reduction in costs, optimization of timelines and launch of respective offerings, as per planned timelines. In fact, several patient recruitment firms have begun adopting and implementing modern technical strategies, such as social media platforms, mobile applications, Electronic Health Records (EHRs) and Real-World Evidence (RWE) for patient enrolment. To order this 350+ page report, which features 95+ figures and 140+ tables, please visit  https://www.rootsanalysis.com/reports/view_document/patient-recruitment-and-retention-services-market/245.html Key Market Insights  More than 155 companies claim to offer patient recruitment and retention services, globally Majority (70%) of the service providers offer patient retention services, as well as patient recruitment associated services. It is worth highlighting that more than 60% companies use social media as a patient outreach method, followed by those utilizing the approach of directly contacting individuals, leveraging proprietary patient databases and using traditional media (such as brochures, newspapers, TV and radio). Around 40% of the partnership agreements between various stakeholders were inked in the last three years Majority of the agreements related to patient recruitment and retention were observed to be instances of service alliances, representing 49% of the total partnerships. Further, most of the intercontinental, as well as intracontinental deals have been inked by players based in North America. By 2035, the demand for clinical trial participants is anticipated to reach 20.8 million In the current year, majority of the patients (32%) are likely to be enrolled in clinical trials conducted in North America, followed by patients enrolled in clinical trials conducted in Asia-Pacific (23%). Further, over 20% individuals are likely to be enrolled in clinical studies evaluating oncological therapeutics, by 2035. North America and Europe are anticipated to capture more than 85% of the market share, by 2035 The market in Asia Pacific is likely to grow at a relatively faster pace (11%), in the long term. Currently, majority share (42%) of the overall patient recruitment and retention market is captured by Phase III clinical trials; this trend is unlikely to change in the foreseen future as well. Further, in 2035, around 44% of the market share is likely to be captured by patient recruitment services for trials focused on cardiovascular and oncological indications. To request a sample copy / brochure of this report, please visit  https://www.rootsanalysis.com/reports/view_document/patient-recruitment-and-retention-services-market/245.html Key Questions Answered The financial opportunity within the patient recruitment and retention services market has been analyzed across the following segments: The report also features inputs from eminent industry stakeholders, according to whom, the continuously growing demand for patients and the increasing preference for outsourcing is likely to drive the growth of the overall patient recruitment and retention services market, in the foreseen future. The report includes detailed transcripts of discussions held with the following experts: The research includes profiles of the key players (listed below); each profile features a brief overview of the company, its financial performance (if available), recent developments and an informed future outlook. For additional details, please visit https://www.rootsanalysis.com/reports/view_document/patient-recruitment-and-retention-services-market/245.html or email sales@rootsanalysis.com  You may also be interested in the following titles: Contact: Gaurav Chaudhary+1 (415) 800 3415+44 (122) 391 1091Gaurav.Chaudhary@RootsAnalysis.com  Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/742223/Roots_Analysis_Logo.jpg Global Oncology Precision Medicine Market Overview The global oncology precision medicine market is growing exponentially; it is estimated to be... Global Cell Line Development Market Overview The global cell line development market is growing rapidly; it is estimated to be worth USD 1.01 billion ... Health Care & Hospitals Medical Pharmaceuticals Outsourcing Businesses Clinical Trials & Medical Discoveries