In this month’s CW EMEA, we look at how schools in Germany have stopped using Microsoft Office 365 over lack of clarity over how data is collected, shared and used. We also delve into how former UK spy boss Richard Dearlove leaked names of MI6 secret agent recruiters in China to back an aggressive right-wing US campaign against tech company Huawei. Read the issue now. Continue Reading A growing number of killer apps are driving the uptake of eye-tracking systems – and Sweden is positioned to play a leading role Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, as SAP users prepare for the deadline to move off the ECC platform, we find out how the Co-op is migrating to S/4Hana. Our latest buyer’s guide looks at how to manage SaaS and on-premise software licensing. And we talk to former NCSC CEO Ciaran Martin about the true risks from nation-state cyber attacks. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Broadcom’s changes to VMware licensing means some people are facing big price increases – we look at how these can be avoided Continue Reading Hidden software costs and ecosystem complexity make managing a mixed software estate harder than ever. Here’s how to optimise your spending Continue Reading Generative AI promises to improve business efficiency, but Gartner has found many projects are failing to get beyond pilot roll-outs Continue Reading Hundreds of eligible former subpostmasters and branch staff are yet to come forward to have convictions overturned, but government hopes new scheme will encourage them to do so Continue Reading At least 30% of generative AI projects will be abandoned by 2025 as organisations struggle to realise the value of the technology, says Gartner Continue Reading In the latest Post Office scandal public inquiry hearings, Vince Cable and Greg Clark reflected on their time as the minister heading the department responsible for the Post Office Continue Reading Former government minister tells inquiry the Post Office always played the victim of subpostmasters that it considered either ‘incompetent’ or ‘criminal’ Continue Reading Former government minister was fighting with Shareholder Executive officials as she probed for information following allegations brought to her by MPs Continue Reading Evidence in public inquiry revealed how ministers in charge of Post Office were left in the dark at a time when campaigners, MPs and journalists were looking for answers Continue Reading There is set to be a surge in demand for cloud databases, driven by new use cases and greater decentralised IT spending Continue Reading The government referred allegations about subpostmasters’ mistreatment by the Post Office to the alleged abuser itself Continue Reading The A1 Plus academic licence, which gave teachers and pupils access to the Microsoft productivity suite, stops in August Continue Reading The owner of VMware targets flexible deployment options for European public cloud sovereignty Continue Reading VMware is not going away anytime soon. While some IT leaders may be feeling the pain of Broadcom’s changes, they still need to seek a long-term plan Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, we find out how data is accelerating the UK’s energy transition to net zero. With Windows 10 support ending next year, we examine the issues around preparing to upgrade to Windows 11. And we explore the key considerations when deploying artificial intelligence infrastructure to harness its full potential. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Post Office branch managers have told Computer Weekly they had no training on how to use Capture software, which pre-dated Horizon Continue Reading Capture software was used by about 2,000 subpostmasters in the 1990s, with allegations that errors in the software caused account shortfalls Continue Reading In April 2024, the discovery of an intentionally-placed backdoor in the open source XZ Utils data compression caused concern. Sentry's Chad Whitacre says a more thoughtful approach is needed to balance the individual freedom and creativity of open source, with more rigorous security practice. Continue Reading It may take several years to move off VMware. In the meantime, Nutanix and Rimini Street have ramped up efforts to target unhappy customers Continue Reading During its annual Next conference in Barcelona, Nutanix has expanded its hardware partner programme to grab new business from Broadcom Continue Reading A general counsel annoyed by independent investigators and comms director that bragged about his contacts were part of a Post Office clique with former CEO Paula Vennells Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, we talk to Getty Images about the challenges of balancing human creativity with the risks and opportunities of generative AI. Our latest buyer’s guide examines the latest best practice in desktop IT management in a world of flexible working. And we review the benefits of open source software in the enterprise. Read the issue now. Continue Reading More details emerge about how close IBM came to replacing Fujitsu and its controversial Horizon system at the Post Office Continue Reading As Paula Vennells faces statutory public inquiry into Horizon scandal, Computer Weekly compiles some of its must-read articles about the controversial former Post Office boss Continue Reading A former Post Office executive has refused to meet his past employer to discuss the controversial Capture system Continue Reading Interest in OpenJDK, and in commercial support for it, has intensified as Oracle Java SE becomes increasingly expensive Continue Reading IT supplier finds no evidence that it was involved in the development of controversial Post Office software Continue Reading IT expert Jason Coyne, who played a critical part in exposing the Post Office Horizon scandal, said he would examine the Capture System Continue Reading CEO Hock Tan responds to complaints, opening up partner programme to smaller resellers and standardising on core licensing Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, VMware users are facing licence fee increases after the acquisition by Broadcom, with education bodies worst hit – we talk to unhappy customers. We visit Helsinki and find out why the Finnish capital is leading on smart city developments. And we examine how to reduce environmental impact through software development. Read the issue now. Continue Reading VMware has been officially part of Broadcom since November 2023. On March 14 2024, a hundred days on from the acquisition, CEO Hock Tan wrote a blog post stating: “We overhauled our software ... Continue Reading UK non-profit London Grid for Learning and Belgian university KU Leuven are just two of the academic organisations facing huge licensing increases after Broadcom scraps VMware academic discount scheme Continue Reading Calls for criminal investigation after covert recordings are latest evidence to reveal extent of Post Office knowledge of remote access to subpostmaster accounts Continue Reading The government is taking Post Office Capture allegations seriously as former subpostmasters seek answers Continue Reading Business and trade select committee chair says the job is not done with legislation to overturn wrongful subpostmaster convictions and provide financial redress Continue Reading The children of victims of the Post Office scandal have formed a group that will hold Fujitsu’s European boss to his promise of support Continue Reading Unprecedented legislation that will see hundreds of former subpostmaster convictions for fraud and theft overturned begins its journey through Parliament Continue Reading Former subpostmasters and MPs do not trust the Post Office to do the right thing for victims of the Horizon IT scandal Continue Reading Liam Byrne, chair of the business and trade select committee, tells Computer Weekly about the group’s focus on getting Horizon scandal victims what they are owed Continue Reading The Post Office used subpostmasters as guinea pigs to test its software and take the rap for its errors Continue Reading As another week in the post-drama Post Office scandal passes, Computer Weekly looks at some of the key moments Continue Reading In this guide, we look at Broadcom’s acquisition of VMware and how it influences your IT desktop, server, cloud and supplier management strategies Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, we examine claims that Microsoft’s licensing policies are damaging competition in the cloud. Our latest buyer’s guide asks if hybrid cloud is now CIOs’ end goal, and not just an interim step on the journey. And we look at how the focus on customer experience is impacting the unified communications market. Read the issue now. Continue Reading IT supplier wants to get to the bottom of its role in the distribution of the Post Office’s controversial Capture software, linked to potential wrongful convictions Continue Reading As the Post Office replaces its controversial Horizon software, a former Post Office IT executive describes disastrous mistakes of the past Continue Reading Post Office statements on the Horizon system, whether to journalists or the government, were routinely carefully crafted by lawyers Continue Reading More than 1,000 subpostmasters could have used a previous faulty computer system in their branches as more people come forward with information following Post Office scandal TV drama Continue Reading Phase four of the public inquiry into the Post Office Horizon IT scandal revealed ‘a parade of liars, bullies, amnesiacs and arrogant individuals’ that made up the teams investigating and prosecuting subpostmasters Continue Reading The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs has a 10-year plan to update technology. So far, 180 have been replaced or updated Continue Reading SAP has changed tack, after the furore over its intention to make certain features available only to Rise customers on SAP Cloud Continue Reading In 2023, SAP's strategic pivot towards cloud-centric innovation produced a wave of discontent among its vast on-premises customer base Continue Reading Russian IT sector faces challenges on multiple fronts as Western sanctions widen Continue Reading AI firm Anthropic hits out at copyright lawsuit filed by music publishers, claiming the content ingested into its models falls under ‘fair use’ and that any licensing regime would be too complex and costly Continue Reading The UK head of Fujitsu said he does not know why the Post Office did not reveal information about Horizon software errors to defendants during prosecutions Continue Reading It is not just the UK government that has been forced to act quickly amid public anger, as a wounded Fujitsu stalls government contract bidding Continue Reading Critical computing expert Dan McQuillan weighs in on the proliferation of artificial intelligence throughout the public sector and the potential this opens up for a slew of new IT scandals Continue Reading Should the providers of commercial large language models licence content from content creators? The New York Times and Getty Images think so Continue Reading Long-running statutory public inquiry restarts with hugely increased interest following ITV’s dramatisation of the two decades-long scandal Continue Reading Campaigning subpostmaster calls out government’s use of ‘weaselly’ statistics to hide its slow progress Continue Reading Customers are being offered a big discount to migrate onto a VMware subscription service Continue Reading Rise appears to be the place where SAP has promised customers the latest innovations, raising the question of what happens to everyone else Continue Reading We speak to a Rimini Street customer about their experience of managing an Oracle ERP Continue Reading Specialist business lending and savings bank is using Pegasystems’ low-code platform to rewrite and automate the customer journey Continue Reading Less than a month after the CMA confirmed it would be investigating the competitive impact of AWS preferential pricing deals on the UK cloud market, data reveals the CMA is benefiting from cut-price Amazon cloud services Continue Reading Many of the 300,000 emails unearthed could be relevant to evidence from future and past witnesses in the Post Office scandal inquiry Continue Reading NatWest and IBM are developing generative AI capabilities to expand the capabilities of the bank’s virtual customer assistant Continue Reading Without the ongoing work of developers, open source projects would become stale and riddled with unfixed bugs and security issues. We look at the issues of funding and fairness Continue Reading Guidance on employee monitoring covers how employers can conduct their digital surveillance lawfully, transparently and fairly, and warns against businesses intruding on their workers’ private lives Continue Reading A software developer's approach to building a bank in the digital age. Continue Reading Scottish court will hear appeals against the convictions of six former subpostmasters based on evidence from a Post Office computer system Continue Reading Matt Hicks talks up Red Hat’s efforts to support generative AI adoption through OpenShift AI and weighs in on the issues surrounding the company’s decision to limit access to RHEL source code Continue Reading High street bank opens applications to its latest fintech programme in partnership with Fintech Scotland Continue Reading Enterprise software company embeds AI across product portfolio to improve efficiency in business processes Continue Reading As mobile health app acceptance increases, people are taking risks by using them without any advice from their medical professionals, finds survey Continue Reading Oracle has updated its maintenance and support across its relational database family – we explore the implications Continue Reading The nature of IT means that there are numerous ways to achieve more-or-less the same result.Some options are technically superior; others may be lower cost or simpler to manage. With so much choice ... Continue Reading Banks and investment firms are increasing their spending on IT despite gloomy economic outlook, but priorities have changed Continue Reading Buying software and cloud services for strategic initiatives is all very well as long as the price is stable. But costs are escalating, which is impacting value Continue Reading Online bank moves to a software-as-a-service core banking platform to ‘leapfrog’ in-house development Continue Reading In Field of Dreams, while walking in his cornfield, Kevin Costner’s character hears a whisper: “If you build it, he will come,” which, without giving the plot away, inspires him to build a baseball ... Continue Reading The Public Accoubts Committee recently found that Defra has been unable to measure inefficiencies due to running legacy IT Continue Reading A Public Accounts Committee report has found many applications are based on legacy IT and paper-basd systems, holding back digitisation Continue Reading Microsoft’s large investment in OpenAI has seen an expansion of AI in Bing. This appears to be reflected in new Bing API licensing Continue Reading UK banking giant Lloyds Banking Group has joined an industry group which promotes global IT standards Continue Reading Banks are increasingly partnering with fintechs to gain access to their platforms, with few interested in developing such capabilities in-house Continue Reading The Post Office has extended a contract with Fujitsu after being unable to resolve technical issues related to migrating its IT to the cloud Continue Reading SMEs and consumers are increasingly turning to open banking services to help them manage their businesses and lives Continue Reading Government publishes baseline analysis of UK artificial intelligence sector as it pins hopes on future growth Continue Reading SolarWinds teams up with key systems integrators in the APAC region to develop joint offerings as it bolsters its capabilities in observability and autonomous operations Continue Reading Fintech trade body calls for regulatory changes to allow fintechs to broaden services for people struggling in the cost-of-living crisis Continue Reading SME lending and savings bank Shawbrook Bank is using a low-code platform from Pegasystems to rewrite outdated business processes Continue Reading The UK Treasury has announced a centre for fintech innovation, two years after a major report recommended one Continue Reading Non-Oracle organisations warned to check if they comply with Java SE licensing after Oracle introduces radical changes Continue Reading Bank platform that helps UK small and medium-sized enterprises expand export opportunities is built on cloud technology from Salesforce Continue Reading More than seven million people used services that harnessed open banking last year, with 1.2 million of these first-time users Continue Reading We speak to Spotify’s open source tech lead, Per Ploug, on supplier relationship management in open source Continue Reading Spotify’s open source tech lead discusses why open source is failing those whose free time is dedicated to maintaining code Continue Reading Two former Fujitsu IT professionals being investigated for potential perjury will face Post Office Horizon public inquiry in May Continue Reading In this month’s CW EMEA, we look at how schools in Germany have stopped using Microsoft Office 365 over lack of clarity over how data is collected, shared and used. We also delve into how former UK spy boss Richard Dearlove leaked names of MI6 secret agent recruiters in China to back an aggressive right-wing US campaign against tech company Huawei. Read the issue now. Continue Reading The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Product updates announced at Black Hat USA 2024 can help security teams better manage constantly changing attack surfaces and ... The global IT outage caused by an errant CrowdStrike channel file update dominated security news last month. But there were still... Reports suggest billions of personal records could have been compromised in the attack against data aggregator National Public ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Nutanix and Dell are expanding their partnership with a new appliance out now and a new HCI model that melds Dell PowerFlex with ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
