Bans and restrictions on the popular social media app TikTok are spreading at the state and federal levels, with some lawmakers seeking to block TikTok in the United States.  The U.S. Senate this week approved legislation to ban the use of the video platform on government devices. Some state lawmakers have blocked TikTok on state devices too, and officials in the Senate and House also introduced legislation to block TikTok from coast to coast.  But why are lawmakers focused on the app that many Americans know as a place where teenagers learn viral dance challenges? Here’s what you need to know.  Critics of TikTok fear that the Chinese government could gain access to information through the app or use it to spread misinformation. That’s because TikTok is owned by ByteDance, a Chinese company. For example: FBI Director Christopher Wray earlier this month said the bureau was concerned with Chinese officials controlling the app’s algorithm and argued that China could use the app to view data on users. Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, called TikTok “an enormous threat” in an interview earlier this year.   But there has been debate over whether Chinese officials are actively collecting TikTok data, or that China could actually gain an advantage from information sourced from the app.  No, different lawmakers are asking for different actions targeting the social media app. Some of the moves go further than others.  State lawmakers have mostly restricted TikTok from devices controlled or issued by a state government. Some of the states that have taken action include: Alabama   Arkansas Iowa  Georgia   Maryland   Nebraska  New Hampshire North Dakota  Oklahoma   South Carolina   South Dakota  Texas   Utah Virginia The U.S. armed forces have also banned TikTok on devices from the military.  At the federal level, Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., introduced legislation to  ban TikTok from operating in the U.S. Reps. Mike Gallagher, R-Wis., and Raja Krishnamoorthi, D-Ill., sponsored companion legislation in the U.S. House.  Also at the federal level, Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., introduced legislation to ban TikTok on government devices. That legislation was passed this week with unanimous consent, meaning no senators objected to the legislation.  The app said last year that more than one billion people around the world use TikTok every month. The average American user watched TikTok for 80 minutes a day, The Washington Post reported.  Approximately 67% of U.S. teenagers say they ever use TikTok, according to the Pew Research Center.  Yes, former President Donald Trump issued orders focused on Chinese tech companies. The orders tried to block new users from downloading TikTok or WeChat, a messaging app, but the orders failed in court. The Senate also passed a bill in 2020 to ban TikTok, but it never passed in the House.  TikTok in a statement to USA TODAY this week called Rubio’s proposed legislation “politically motivated.”  "TikTok is loved by millions of Americans who use the platform to learn, grow their businesses, and connect with creative content that brings them joy," said Brooke Oberwetter, a TikTok spokesperson. "We will continue to brief members of Congress on the plans that have been developed under the oversight of our country's top national security agencies – plans that we are well underway in implementing – to further secure our platform in the United States." USA TODAY has reached out to TikTok for comment on this story.  President Joe Biden has ordered the Commerce Department to review security concerns. U.S. officials and the company have been in talks about a potential agreement to resolve security concerns for people living in America.  Smartphones and humans: Why can't we be friends? Lack of social contact harms Americans' mental, physical health. TikTok trends: Don't drill your own teeth! And other TikTok dental trends you shouldn't try. The power of social media: TikToker uses massive reach to track down racist, homophobic suspects, tries to keep mob in check Banning TikTok: Lawmakers announces bipartisan legislation that would ban TikTok in the US Contributing: Natalie Neysa Alund, USA TODAY; The Associated Press   This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: US TikTok bans? Efforts spread in Congress; Texas, GA among states New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.