There’s a new push from Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill to get their colleagues off TikTok, with warnings that the security and privacy threats from the popular video app are closer than they appear. Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Rep. Dan Crenshaw (R-Texas) are focused on banning their own colleagues from using TikTok. The pair, joined by 15 other Republicans, wrote a letter calling on leaders of the Senate Rules Committee and the Committee on House Administration to rein in use of the app by their fellow lawmakers. “We urge you to amend the House and Senate rules to bar members of Congress from continued use of TikTok and take any other appropriate measures to mitigate the risks of this de-facto, spyware app,” they write in the letter, sent on Monday. The lawmakers’ push follows internal guidance on Capitol Hill from the top cybersecurity officials in each chamber starting back in 2020, warning staff against downloading or using TikTok. The memos have centered on concerns that the Chinese government could get its hands on TikTok’s massive amounts of user data because the app is owned by a Chinese company, ByteDance. The video app has an estimated 150 million monthly American users, including some lawmakers who use the popular platform to connect with constituents through videos about what they’re up to in Washington and back home. “It is troublesome that some members continue to disregard these clear warnings and are even encouraging their constituents to use TikTok to interface with their elected representatives — especially since some of these users are minors,” Tillis and Crenshaw write. “We feel this situation warrants further action to protect the privacy of both sensitive congressional information and the personal information of our constituents.” They are calling on the House and Senate to change chamber rules to bar members from using the app for “official business.” This would still leave the door open to members having campaign accounts on the platform but would keep them from using it as an official platform or dedicating any staff time to producing TikTok content.  The White House has offered support for broader, bipartisan efforts that could ban TikTok on a wider scale, and the Department of Justice is reportedly investigating ByteDance on suspicion of spying on American citizens and journalists. When Beijing said it would fight any forced sale of the app, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle pointed to that stance as evidence that TikTok would never be fully divorced from governmental interference. There is a growing list of bills from Democrats and Republicans already out there. One, from Senate Intelligence Chair Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Senate Minority Whip John Thune, would formally allow the Biden administration to ban technologies from China and five other countries. Another proposing a TikTok ban is from Chair Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.) of the House Select Committee on China and the panel’s ranking member, Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Ill). A bill allowing sanctions on certain companies, including TikTok, from House Foreign Affairs Chair Michael McCaul (R-Texas) already advanced out of that committee last month, but without support from any Democrats. CORRECTION: An earlier version of this report misstated Sen. John Thune's leadership title. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.