Vital news, expert insight & insider tips from Music Ally – all in your inbox. (Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *fun may vary wildly Get notified when we publish Music Ally’s industry-leading analysis : join the Music Ally WhatsApp Channel, where we'll send you the lead story, and links to all the other important news, every weekday. 
					Music industry consultancy covering digital music marketing and strategy				 With licensing negotiations ongoing between music rightsholders and TikTok – let’s diplomatically call them ‘hardball’ – there is bound to be keen interest from our industry in the financial health of the app and its parent company ByteDance. Cue timely reports from The Information and Bloomberg shedding new light on that. Both cite the same figure for ByteDance’s revenues in 2022: more than $80bn, which was a year-on-year increase of more than 30%. That’s impressive growth compared to some of the western Big Tech companies. Meta’s annual revenues fell by 1% last year, for example, while Alphabet’s grew by 10%. However, ByteDance’s 30% growth in 2022 is a deceleration from the near-80% increase it enjoyed in 2021. The Information’s story included the claim that TikTok accounted for around 12% of ByteDance’s revenues last year. That would make the app a $9.6bn business. That’s possibly not the kind of figure that will encourage music rightsholders to go easy on the company in those licensing talks. You could say the same of Bloomberg’s claim that ByteDance was valued at around $220bn in a recent private investment, even if that was down notably from a $300bn estimate last September. Get a mix of the vital news, analysis, and insider tips from across Music Ally's services.(Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *actual levels of fun may vary wildly Short form video has a huge influence on music listening, and it’s no surprise that… Read all Tools >> 
							Music Ally's Head of Insight															
								More by Stuart Dredge								
 Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  Δ Get a mix of the vital news, analysis, and insider tips from across Music Ally's services.(Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *actual levels of fun may vary wildly SoundCloud launched its official ‘SoundCloud Store’ last week, showing off its new… Universal Music Group execs recently made it clear that Spotify and YouTube… Sphere Entertainment is the company behind the Sphere venue in… Music Ally’s music business news podcast covers the vital issues in detail, as they emerge. Listen now »  Jobs The latest and best jobs in the global music industry See all jobs >> Sandbox: your essential digital marketing guide – expert insight, case studies, fresh ideas, and overlooked opportunities. BandLab has 100 million users, and now offers much more than… British rock band Bring Me The Horizon released Post Human:… Country Profiles Essential international guides, packed with data, interviews, strategies, and local insight. Read country profiles >> Slovakia’s recorded music industry is performing strongly, with predictions for sharp growth in the… Streaming continues to drive growth in the German music industry – with German-language music… South African music is making ever bigger waves abroad – and the country’s music… Music Ally Ltd., Holborn Studios,49-50 Eagle Wharf Rd, London, N1 7ED,United Kingdom +44 (0) 207 682 3996mail@musically.com   This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.Music Ally is a Registered Learning Provider 10029483