 Jacopo Raule/GC Images  Taylor Russell proves, once again, she is fashion's It girl. The Bones and All star might as well have been topless when she attended Loewe's menswear show at Paris Fashion Week this weekend. The 28-year-old actress sported a sheer tan turtleneck with a matching sheer trench coat on top, nearly color matched to look like her skin but still allowing for a peekaboo moment from her exposed nipples. From the waist down, Russell added an edgy element with the addition of slim-fitting leather pants complete with silver buckles, zippers, hardware and black leather straps wrapping her legs. The look was completed with thin black glasses and a tiny black purse. The overall look felt like a modern take on The Matrix.  Jacopo Raule/GC Images  This daring look is no new feat for the rising star, who is also a global ambassador for the fashion house. Russell regularly experiments with fashion and its norms on the red carpet. "I feel like a little kid being able to do all this stuff that I'm doing right now," Russell told Harper's Bazaar last week of her approach to fashion. " 'Why not just run around that playground?' is how I feel. Let's see how it shifts and evolves." At the BFI London Film Festival in October to promote Bones and All, also starring Timothée Chalamet, the star wore a Schiaparelli Haute Couture look. The outfit sculpted Russell's body with a champagne-colored corset, a cropped and embroidered jacket and a black skirt delicately draped over the corset to further accentuate her figure — completed with a boater hat and a thick black choker. RELATED: The 2022 Rising Stars in Style — from the Red Carpet and Beyond!      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Taylor Russell (@tayrussell) Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free weekly newsletter to get the biggest news of the week delivered to your inbox every Friday. Exposed nipples have been a hot trend on red carpets and with celebrity style as of late. In October, Florence Pugh doubled down on the trend to attend Paris Fashion Week, after previously rocking a sheer look over the summer, drawing both criticism and support. Pierre Suu/GC Images  Pugh wore an ultra-sheer tan-colored Valentino two-piece design that left her nipples the center of attention after she received hate online for wearing a nipple-baring dress to the Valentino Fall/Winter 2022 Haute Couture show in July last year. "I've never been scared of what's underneath the fabric," Pugh told Vogue in her cover story this month. "If I'm happy in it, then I'm gonna wear it. Of course, I don't want to offend people, but I think my point is: How can my nipples offend you that much?" New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.