The actress sat front row at Huishan Zhang’s catwalk show  The arrival of September means one thing: fashion month. While New York kicked off the season with a bang, the front-row fashion crowd has now made its way to the UK capital, to see what its designers have to offer with their most recent collections.  Among the famous faces is actress Morfydd Clark, who started London Fashion Week on a stylish note, sitting front row at the Huishan Zhang show. The designer is best known for his romantic, sophisticated aesthetic that makes the wearer feel powerfully feminine.  “Huishan Zhang has a beautiful balance between elegance and drama,” agrees Clark, who watched the spring/summer 2024 show from the front row, wearing a black dress with a drop waist and dramatic full skirt.  As of late, Clark has been incredibly busy – and critically acclaimed. In recent years the actress has received BAFTA’s prestigious Rising Star nomination, won the BAFTA Cymru Best Actress award, and been named British/Irish Actress of the Year at the London Critics Circle Awards. She shows no signs of slowing down; next Clark is starring in the supernatural horror Starve Acre alongside Daniel Kokotailo and Matt Smith, followed by a modern-day adaptation of Hamlet, and the BBC’s take on Agatha Christie’s Murder Is Easy.   Despite her work schedule being jam-packed, the actress focuses on seeing the joy in every day, and that includes wearing clothes that bring her happiness. “We are all ephemeral ourselves, so might as well bring some joy and beauty while we’re here,” she says.  Below, we catch up with the actress to discuss her style evolution, the importance of working with the right brands and the kind of fashion that makes her feel most confident. “I love a drop waist and the theatre of the skirt of my dress. Huishan Zhang has a beautiful balance between elegance and drama ­– it works perfectly with my Maria Tash diamond hoop earrings and Jimmy Choo heels.” “Myself and my stylist, Nicky Yates, collaborate very well. Ever since we’ve started working together, I can tell she notices everything I wear to fittings and the sort of thing I gravitate towards. Sometimes she has to curb my more fanciful, absurd tastes!” “My sister once said that I like to dress like a frosted cake laced with poison, and I think that’s quite accurate. I like to underscore something quite kitschy with a hard edge, or garnish quite a vampy outfit with something a bit camp and silly.” “I’ve become freer with my style. The 2010s were quite conservative fashion-wise – everyone heading to the club in smart casual. Gen Z has pushed fashion in a more fun direction and I love that. For example, I love Magdalen Clothing – she brings me such joy.” “Definitely. As I said before, I like to have some variation and balance in my looks, and hair and beauty is often a great way to do that. I’m so in awe of hair and make-up artists. Whenever I’m having it done, I feel like I’m having magic worked on me.” “When Vivienne Westwood made me a custom sequinned gown for a global premiere. It was a real honour to be dressed by such an icon and a lesson in sublime craftsmanship.” “I tend to find that there are certain brands – like Huishan Zhang and Erdem – that just suit my style and shape really well. I also have some friends who work in pattern cutting and other areas of fashion, so I pay attention to what they tell me about working conditions and paying on time. It’s important to me to work with brands that respect their artists and workers.” “Well, I don’t think frivolous is a dirty word. There’s an intense emphasis in our current culture on productivity and optimising everything – in that environment I relish the frivolous and the ephemeral. We are all ephemeral ourselves, so might as well bring some joy and beauty while we’re here.”  Hair: Harry Payne at George Northwood, using George Northwood 'Undone'  Make-up: Emma White Turle at The Wall Group, using Augustinus Bader and Rose Inc Stylist: Nicky Yates Shoes: Jimmy Choo Location: The Londoner Hotel  Getting premiere-ready with Daisy Edgar-Jones Getting couture show ready with Naomie Harris Getting ready with Ellie Goulding in Paris Getting ready with Gugu Mbatha-Raw Olivia Dean was President Barbie in Chanel Anna Shaffer on finding confidence with fashion Jessica Madsen channels Cressida Cowper Yara Shahidi on getting back to her true self Getting dressed with Annabelle Wallis Secrets of the Stylish with Kelly Rutherford  Getting ready for the TV BAFTAs with Máiréad Tyers Getting Met Gala ready with Iris Law HARPER'S BAZAAR, PART OF THE HEARST UK FASHION & BEAUTY NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.