Gábor Török, a well-known Hungarian political scientist, analysed Prime Minister Viktor Orbán’s state of the nation speech in the Aréna of Inforádió. He said that the Western allies’ trust broke in Hungary. They do not know how much Russia influences Budapest’s policies. Therefore, PM Orbán must carry out a turn in foreign policy, and that is what his speech was about. The EU and NATO want to remain unified against Moscow’s threat. And that fact might come in handy for Hungary. Mr Török said that the Western allies did not entirely lose their trust in Hungary, but they are unsure to what extent Vladimir Putin affects Orbán and his administration. Thus, they wait for clear signs from the Hungarian government. And that is what Orbán sent them in his speech last Saturday in Budapest’s illustrious Castle Garden Bazaar. He made it clear that Hungary is part of the Western world and Hungary’s NATO membership is vital for the country. Furthermore, he said there is no difference regarding the strategic aims of the Western allies. “We want Russia not to be a threat to Europe, and we want there to be a sufficiently broad and deep area between Russia and Hungary: a sovereign Ukraine”, Orbán highlighted. According to Mr Török, that thought has never been expressed yet. State of the nation:  Török believes that Orbán’s speech shows Hungary is now in search for a new path for its foreign policy. That is because the European Union’s multiple rule-of-law processes launched against Hungary, are the consequence of the above-mentioned trust problems. The problem was never that the Hungarian government slammed Brussels, for example, on the issue of migration. Orbán was even allowed to criticise Washington. The problem is that the Western allies are not sure how to view the Orbán-Putin relationship. That is the main reason why they do not give the EU funds to Hungary. Peace and security – above everything else:  Of course, Orbán could have waited until a turn in Western policies. For example, the victory of Trump overseas. However, that can only happen in end-2024 and would mean a change in the US policies in 2025. And Hungary may not have two more years to wait for billions of euros, Török argued. Furthermore, general elections will happen in Poland this year, and the opposition might win. Provided that happens, Orbán will lose his most powerful ally in the EU. Therefore, the Hungarian foreign policy needs to change and become more anti-Russia and less EU and NATO critic even in words. Török also said that the EU and NATO would remain unified against the Russian challenge. Therefore, they are interested in Hungary’s return to their camp. And there are already signs. For example, Gergely Gulyás, the prime minister’s chief of staff, said yesterday on an extraordinary government briefing that Orbán’s official visit to Kyiv is under planning. Furthermore, Péter Szijjártó, Hungary’s foreign minister, voted for a UN resolution calling Russia to leave Ukraine, index.hu wrote. Moreover, FM Péter Szijjártó cleared to the CNN yesterday that Ukraine’s territorial integrity must be respected. He added that the government condemned the Russian attack. Source: Infórádió, index.hu The EU- NATO- US are responsible for the war-  along with western media-what don’t  you understand.  Now the US taxpayers are funding it along with destroying the Russia German pipe line.
One of the biggest acts of sabatoge ever.
There is a reason the UK left the EU- it biggest member. Ukrain is not a world problem or European problem, it just American geopolitical war and made it an European problem even if it is, it does not effect the world. Europe is just less than 4% of world population, we have more than 20% of population without food and basic needs. America or Europe dont have money to spend for it. BUT HAVE MORE THAN 100 BILLION DOLLARS TO SPEND FOR WAR. USA was in proxy war with USSR, now Russia. After Cuban missile crisis they had planned to destroy Russia but they cannot have a direct conflict with Russia as they are world nuclear power with fastest delivery system which will destroy USA. So they fight with them through proxy, with economic sanctions, stop Russian sources of income, keep their borders with conflicts and unstable, form different military alliance in different regions and use it against Russia and so on and all the leaders of US followed it, what is happening now is what US planned long back , that’s why they did not take Russia to Nato after the fall of USSR even when Russia requested and they where ready to keep apart the cold war attitude. When Russia was weak the Americans where doing what ever they liked, Yugoslavia war, Iraq war, Libya, Syria, Afghanistan…… goes on the list, The problem arised when Russia stopped them and their world policing. If Russia is strong they cannot act according to their will and loot the world Ukraine, USA and Europe are equally responsible for this war Due to NATO expansion towards Russian borders.that is the reason they could not isolate Russia and more than 70%of the population in this world is not behind Americans alliance. The war has resulted in death of two hundred thousand deaths of Ukrainian soldiers and resident fighter’s and more than one hundred thousand Ukrainian residents . Literally Ukraines Zelensky was barking at Russia with the support of Nato which led to this war, America is not here to support democracy as they never fought for democracy and still Occupy Iraq and had to flee from Afghanistan and they still support most of the princely states where there is no democracy. The world is suffering due to high oil and gas prices and high inflation due to this war. European economy was built on cheap Russian oil and gas. The world is going to face food shortage. Americans have nothing to lose until and unless the war reaches them so they are having a proxy war with Russia and nothing else. They know the red lines of Russia and playing around this, Zelensky and US leaders are pushing Ukrainians to die in the war instead of negotiating with Russia, when they warned many times before the war of their red line and Ukraine joining Nato which is a military alliance opposed to them reaching their borders It is a tragedy that Ukrainian has become a victim of contestant between great powers. The Americans assiduously created conditions for Russia to be drawn into a quagmire and Moscow obliged. Washington will now like the world to believe that this is entirely a fight to protect democracy and defeat a dictatorship. THAT IS NOT EXACTLY TRUE. The war is a result of a cold, hard nose calculation of America to prevent the rise of large power in the east with huge natural resources, including those critical for promoting green technologies. It clashed with the dreams of President Vladimir Putin for making Russia great again and for whom the break up of the Soviet Union was the “greatest geopolitical catastrophie of the century”. Yet the US led West has succeeded in creating a public opinion that it is fighting for protecting freedom, but it’s record of fighting for, and on the side of, democracy is at best patchy.
History is stacked against America. In 1953 CIA toppled the democratically elected government of Prime Minister Mr. Mohammed Mossadegh and installed Mohammed Reza Pahlavi the last Sha of Iran to insure the uninterrupted flow of cheap oil from Iran. It followed up with its “twin pillars” policy of supporting and Arming Iran and Saudi Arabia (both dictatorship), making them US gendarmes to safeguard its oil supply.
When a resolution was tabled in United Nations in 1963 to cut off the oil to the apartheid government of South Africa in the aftermath of sharpeville massacre of the police that left 250 black dead or wounded the US voted against it. As the second largest investor of the country the US gave preference to its economic intrest. It is no different today. A Harvard University study concluded that the US military operations in 2011 in Libya demonstrated how corporate intrest and US foreign policy is intertwined.
When Salvador Allende came to power in Chile and headed the first democratically elected Marxist government in Americas, a CIA sponsored movement killed him in1973. The US arming of Pakistan against democratic India is the best example that challenges America’s claim that it is the champion of democracy. Virtually every soldier of democratic India that died in the war with autocratic Pakistan was killed by arms and ammunations supplied by the Americans. The USA bombed the German Nordstream pipeline.
Germany and France both have both said they did not intend to implement the Minsk agreement for peace in Ukraine. And now we hear the West does not trust Orban??????? How anyone can ever trust EU or USA again is way beyond me? Just saying! Anil, You said “they cannot have a direct conflict with Russia as they are world nuclear power with fastest delivery system which will destroy USA”
1) The US developed second generation hypersonic missile AGM-183A at speed Mach 20. Russia has old technology Mach 5. US 5x faster !
2) Us has 60 submarines, 14 of the OHIO class, these are undetectable and can deliver the equivalence of 97,000 Hiroshima nuclear bombs
3) Us has 174 bases all over the world , they can attack simultaneously from all those bases at the same time. Russia has 29 bases in Russia/Balorus
4) Us has 11 aircraft carriers, latest technology. Russia has 1 carrier I could continue. US is the only superpower with the strongest military. Plus the NATO forces. Unbeatable. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name  Email   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

 Sign up to receive daily updates, news & stories about Hungary! Select your location below or enter your country so we can deliver our morning newsletters to you in time. You have successfully joined our subscriber list.  