Laad Bazaar in Telangana's capital city of Hyderabad is a famous historic market known for its exquisite bangles. Situated on one of four streets which branch out from the iconic Charminar, the market's name refers to the lacquer used to craft these beautiful bangles, which are adorned with artificial diamonds. Stretching over a kilometre, this bustling shopping lane has a variety of bangles, wedding items, saris and affordable jewellery on offer. With a rich heritage dating back to the times of the Qutb Shahis and Nizams, Laad Bazaar's charm lies not only in its vibrant offerings but also in its proximity to renowned landmarks like the aforementioned Charminar, the Makkah Masjid and Chowmahalla Palace. A visit to this ancient market indulges in the city's vibrant culture and craftsmanship.  A Hub Of Lac Bangles Formerly known as Lord Bazaar, this bustling market is home to over 350 shops renowned for their world-famous lac bangles. With more than 150 workshops, the market produces various bangles which are meticulously crafted over a three-hour-long process. Thin aluminium wires form the rings, followed by a mixture of Belgium and titanium powder to create the base for the lac. Colours are applied and the stones are carefully encrusted onto the surface, resulting in thousands of bangle patterns. The market experiences a surge in sales during festive occasions. Brass and silver-framed bangles with pearls are among the most bought bangles during weddings. Custom-made bangles are also crafted for various occasions. Not only do local customers flock to the market, but visitors from the Middle East also buy these exquisite items in bulk. Moreover, Hyderabad's bangles have now gained international recognition with exhibitions regularly held in Oman. Other Accessories To Buy  Besides bangles, the market is known for its wide range of products such as semi-precious stones, pearls, jewellery, paintings and traditional fabrics like silk, cotton, velvet and brocade.  Pro Tip Only pedestrians, bicycles and motorcycles are now allowed at the Charminar end due to a ban on the entry of auto rickshaws and cars. Despite this, the shops at Laad Bazaar continue to attract buyers. The bangles sold here are irresistible to the hundreds of people, especially women, who visit the market daily.  Laad Bazaar is 16km from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport and around 5km from Hyderabad railway station (HYB). Hail a taxi to get to the market. Follow Us Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd. Powered by Quintype