Resources For Resources For Students Upcoming Internship/Co-op Deadline Learn more about requirements and expectations of internships & co-ops by reading
                     the Guiding Principles document. Please contact your college's Career and Internship Advisor if you have any questions. You can also review internship and co-op course requirements
                     specific to your major by clicking the below button. Requirements by Major for Internships & Co-ops What is the difference between an Internship and a Co-op? Internships and co-ops can help you make the most of your KSU experience by allowing you the opportunity to connect with industry professionals and ultimately gain valuable work experience. While internships and co-ops can help build your resume, it’s important to know their differences to decide which one is right for you. What is an Internship? An internship is a form of on-the-job training that gives you the opportunity to test
                                       out a possible career or position while still in school. Internships are usually only
                                       one semester in length and can be part-time or full-time. Students may receive academic
                                       credit for their participation, though it should be noted that some internships are
                                       unpaid. Academic credit for internships is available to eligible juniors, seniors
                                       and graduate students with a declared major. What is a Co-op? Requirements for Internships/Co-ops You must have a KSU GPA to participate in an internship/co-op (transfer students cannot
                                    participate in their first semester). You should note that GPA and semester hour requirements
                                    will vary by major. For questions or to learn more about internship/co-op options
                                    for your major, we recommend you email your Career & Internship Advisor (contact emails can be found in the right sidebar of the Contact page). Learn more about the requirements and expectations for internships and co-ops by reading
                                    the Guiding Principles document. Ready to take the first step on your career path? Watch the video, and check out our
                                    five-step path for registering for your internship/co-op. Browse the FAQs to learn
                                    useful information regarding KSU internships/co-ops. Finding an Internship/Co-op and Applying for Academic Credit Step One: Meet With Your Career and Internship Advisor Your Career & Internship Advisor is your go-to person for exploring opportunities,
                                                preparing to apply and interview, and registering for academic credit. Make a appointment with them today through Handshake! Step Two: Search & Apply  Start looking for your internship or co-op the semester before you'd like to participate.
                                                Handshake is a perfect place to start your search with over 8,000 positions available. Step Three: Interview & Accept Once you've received an interview offer, contact our office and schedule a mock interview
                                             to ensure you are prepared! After you ace your interview and are offered the position,
                                             remember to ask for an offer letter before you accept. Need help preparing for your
                                             interview? Check out these resources: Office Contact InformationInterviewStreamMake an Appointment for a Mock Interview Step Four: Apply for Academic Credit  Step Five: Register for Your Internship/Co-op Course Internship/Co-op FAQs Will I have tuition and fees to pay for the internship/co-op course?  All internship and co-op courses are tuition and fee-bearing for-credit academic courses,
                                                      except for COOP 2000 and ENGR 3398, as these are non-credit/audit courses with no
                                                      academic requirements or tuition costs. A breakdown of tuition and fees based on the amount of credit hours taken. Under new federal guidelines, federal student loans being used to pay tuition will
                                                      only be applied to those utilized and/or required in your course program of study.
                                                      Courses that are not eligible to be paid with federal student loans will be flagged
                                                      in DegreeWorks and students will be notified. Please read the Course Program of Study and Awarding Policy by KSU Financial Aid in full prior to registering for an internship or co-op.  At this time COOP 2000 and ENGR 3398 are flagged as ineligible for federal student aid. However, there are not tuition costs associated with either of these courses as they are not credit-bearing.  Do I have any additional steps to take to apply for internship/co-op credit if I'm
                                                an international student? My internship was cancelled, what should I do? Unfortunately, some internships are being deferred or cancelled due to COVID-19. The
                                                         good news is that there are still companies moving forward with hosting summer interns!
                                                         Check out the job board on Handshake or our poll information on which past participating internship/co-op
                                                         employers are still hosting summer interns. Should I apply for remote internships? Where is the best place to find internships and co-ops?  Can I use my current job to get internship/co-op academic credit?  If my GPA is below the internship requirement now but I think it will raise to 3.0+ (and/or, if I’m currently registered for the required class), can I be eligible for internship credit after this semester is over?  What does the internship/co-op credit application process look like? What steps do I need to take? What are the requirements?  I don’t know who my supervisor is yet, and won’t until after my first day. Who should I put in my application?  What if I have an interview before the deadline but won’t know about the offer until after the application is due?  I already have an internship/co-op offer, but I am waiting on another; what should I do?  I applied to the position through Handshake. Does that count for credit? What are the dates for the semester? Can I begin early/continue after? I began my role last semester – am I still eligible for credit? How do I find an internship abroad?  Contact Info Kennesaw Campus1000 Chastain RoadKennesaw, GA 30144 Marietta Campus1100 South Marietta PkwyMarietta, GA 30060 Campus Maps Phone470-KSU-INFO(470-578-4636) kennesaw.edu/info Media Resources Resources For Related Links Follow KSU 470-KSU-INFO (470-578-4636) © 2024 Kennesaw State University. All Rights Reserved.