Metcalf (WA) and Guscoth (GD) have 126 caps between them Natalie Metcalf and Layla Guscoth will co-captain England at this summer's World Cup in Cape Town, South Africa. Metcalf has captained the Roses since Serena Kirsten's retirement last year but will take on the role alongside Guscoth for the first time. "I have a lot of respect for Layla - I think we'll really challenge and balance each other out," said Metcalf. The World Cup begins on 28 July with England starting their campaign against Barbados on the opening day. Jade Clarke - the most-capped player in England history - has been selected as vice-captain, with head coach Jess Thirlby selecting her 12-player squad for the World Cup in May. Metcalf, who led the Roses at last year's Commonwealth Games, captains her domestic side Manchester Thunder and guided them to a Super League title in 2022. "I'm really big on relationships and empowering those around me to believe how good they are - that really drives me as a player and a leader," Metcalf said. "Layla is so respected in the squad and she is the one who will challenge us, call us out when we need to work harder and celebrate when we're doing things really well." Nia Jones to captain Welsh Feathers in South Africa Guscoth took a break from international netball between 2015 and 2018 to concentrate on qualifying to be a doctor but has made 52 appearances in the Roses dress and the World Cup will be her third major tournament. "Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine I would be asked to co-captain the national side at a World Cup. It is a huge privilege and honour to line up beside Nat and Jade heading into Cape Town," said Guscoth. "I hope to bring energy, determination and support to the team to maximise our potential in this tournament." Shooters Eleanor Cardwell and Helen Housby plus defender Fran Williams have also been selected as part of a wider leadership group. How did Messi win the World Cup with Argentina? Captivating interviews reveal what happened behind the scenes in Qatar Can you crack the code to open the safe? Put your code-breaking skills to the test in this brainteaser Find your netball position from how you use your phone England Netball Netball Scotland Netball Northern Ireland 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.