MIPI CSI-2 TX Controller for v2.1 HEVC/AVC Single-core Video Codec IP Denali DDR PHY for TSMC MIPI D-PHY Transmitter/Receiver for DSI/CSI-2 Samsung 28nm FD-SOI SignatureIP Networks-on-Chips (NoCs) to Accelerate RISC-V Designs SEALSQ Introduces QS7001, a Newly Developed Cutting-Edge RISC-V Secure Hardware Platform, Specifically Designed for IoT security in the Post-Quantum Era Xiphera's xQlave® Product Family Enables Full Compliance with Finalised NIST PQC Standards Ensure Cybersecurity in the Connected Vehicles Era With ISO/SAE 21434 Key considerations and challenges when choosing LDOs BCD Technology: A Unified Approach to Analog, Digital, and Power Design PCIe Over Optical: Transforming High-Speed Data Transmission Pipelined Data Masters in D-Series GPUs RISC-V for the Datacenter: Introducing the P870-D SAN JOSE, Calif.— January 23, 2023 -- Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq: CDNS) today announced that Global Unichip Corp. (GUC) successfully delivered an advanced HPC design and a CPU design using Cadence® digital solutions. The HPC design was created using the Cadence Innovus™ Implementation System on TSMC’s advanced N3 process and featured a 3.5 million instance count that reached clock speeds of up to 3.16GHz. The CPU design was created using the AI-enabled Cadence Cerebrus™ Intelligent Chip Explorer and the digital full flow on the TSMC N5 process technology, delivering 8% reduced power and a 9% area improvement while significantly improving engineering productivity. The Innovus Implementation System’s highly accurate GigaPlace engine provided GUC with support for TSMC FinFlex™ cell row placement and consideration for pin access throughout the flow for N3 design rule checking (DRC) closure. The state-of-the-art GigaOpt engine delivered improved optimization by enabling the most optimal configuration from the TSMC N3 library while balancing different cell row utilization. The Innovus Implementation System also includes a massively parallel architecture and incorporates the well-established NanoRoute engine, which enabled GUC to address signal integrity early in the design flow while improving post-route correlation. Cadence Cerebrus, coupled with the Cadence digital flow, was instrumental in providing GUC with power, performance and area (PPA) benefits as well as the ability to perform synthesis through implementation and signoff on their 5nm CPU design, optimizing engineering team productivity. Unique to Cadence Cerebrus is its reinforcement learning engine that autonomously optimized GUC’s design flow, allowing the team to exceed human engineering potential and accelerate time to market. “GUC is a market leader providing advanced chip solutions for AI, HPC, 5G, industrial and other emerging applications,” said Dr. Louis Lin, senior vice president of Design Services at GUC. “Given our commitment to deliver the most competitive designs to our customers, it is important for us to invest in leading-edge technologies. The Cadence Cerebrus Intelligent Chip Explorer, in conjunction with the broader digital flow, was the natural choice to help us achieve faster design turnaround via AI technology while also improving PPA. The Innovus Implementation System was instrumental in helping us deliver our first N3 chip, enabling our team to accelerate the creation of our high-performance, low-power HPC design.” Cadence Cerebrus and Innovus Implementation are part of the broader digital flow and support the company’s Intelligent System Design™ strategy, which enables SoC design excellence. For more information, please visit www.cadence.com/go/innovuscerebruscspr. About Cadence Cadence is a pivotal leader in electronic systems design, building upon more than 30 years of computational software expertise. The company applies its underlying Intelligent System Design strategy to deliver software, hardware and IP that turn design concepts into reality. Cadence customers are the world’s most innovative companies, delivering extraordinary electronic products from chips to boards to complete systems for the most dynamic market applications, including hyperscale computing, 5G communications, automotive, mobile, aerospace, consumer, industrial and healthcare. For eight years in a row, Fortune magazine has named Cadence one of the 100 Best Companies to Work For. Learn more at cadence.com. 

Your Name:

Your E-mail
			address:

Your Company
			address:

Your Phone Number:

Write your message:




 © 2024 Design And Reuse All Rights Reserved. No portion of this site may be copied, retransmitted, reposted, duplicated or otherwise used without the express written permission of Design And Reuse. 

 Suppliers, list
	your IPs for free.