Commissioner Brian Krolicki wants public response on the recent computer system hackings of MGM Resorts and Caesars Entertainment systems in past few weeks. A gaming regulator has asked for a public update on the cybersecurity attacks on two major casino companies. Nevada Gaming Commissioner Brian Krolicki, at the conclusion of Thursday’s commission meeting, asked for details on the attack on MGM Resorts International that began Sept. 10 and crippled the company’s computer systems for nine days as well as the late August attack on Caesars Entertainment Inc. in which the company reportedly paid a multimillion-dollar amount in a ransomware extortion plot. “Right now, the priority is just recover and make sure that patrons are made whole and the systems are secure,” Krolicki said at the conclusion of the meeting. “But I think at some point in time when there’s the energy and understanding of what just happened if we could get some kind of briefing on what’s transpired that’s appropriate for public record and perhaps a policy going forward.” MGM and Caesars have provided few details about the separate incidents, reportedly carried out by two Eastern European hacker gangs based in Russia. Representatives of MGM had no comment on Krolicki’s remarks and Caesars did not respond to emailed inquiries. MGM on Thursday said its credit card systems are back on line after being knocked out for several days. Customers told the Las Vegas Review-Journal they were concerned about a practice of clerks asking them to write down their credit card numbers for later processing. In some cases, customers said they still hadn’t seen charges made on cards. A company spokesman explained that while the credit card system was offline, the company used a modified system it only uses under those circumstances. The spokesman said written names and numbers are kept under lock and key, processed and then destroyed. He speculated it may have taken a little longer than expected for some customers since everything was done manually when the systems were down. There also are scattered reports that guests have canceled their stays at MGM properties fearing that the hack may have exposed personal information publicly. MGM has not commented on details about cancellations or any other aspect of the attack. Krolicki’s request could not be acted on because it was made during a public comment period. “How do we avoid these things if they do happen, what are the reporting schemes?” he asked. “Were they immediately reported to the Gaming Control Board? There are a lot of questions and a lot of publicity. It’s a global story and I just believe it would behoove all of us to get a handle on what just happened.” Contact Richard N. Velotta at rvelotta@reviewjournal.com or 702-477-3893. Follow @RickVelotta on X. Lavish casino buffets, once a Vegas staple, have become less common in recent years, as food halls have largely taken their place. Part of the makeover involved installing a new wall of windows to frame views of the pool, gardens and the Sphere. Now that federal drug enforcement leaders are considering decriminalization of marijuana, it may be time for the intersection of cannabis and casinos, experts say. On the final night of service, the restaurant is welcoming longtime customers, former employees, family members and more. Oysters and quail are essential. The Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board is scheduled to consider the application at its meeting on Aug. 20. The family-owned restaurant group encompasses quick-serve, casual sit-down and fine dining concepts. The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in Nevada rose 0.2 percentage points to 5.4 percent, according to a Department of Employment, Training and Rehabilitation report. In a 31-page complaint, the Nevada Gaming Control Board alleged that the Strip resort allowed gamblers that ran illegal bookmaking operations to play in its casino. Here is a rundown of the major football handicapping contests offered in Las Vegas. Circa has guaranteed a record $16 million in prize money for its two $1,000-entry contests. The bi-weekly podcast has a solid rhythm of news items, inside jokes and Vintage Vegas nostalgia that draw thousands of listeners craving more from the destination. 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP