August 19, 2024 By Rio Yamat, Associated Press Published Tuesday, Sept. 26, 2023 | 1:19 p.m.  Updated Tuesday, Sept. 26, 2023 | 5:36 p.m. Las Vegas hospitality workers may be the latest major labor union in the U.S. to go on strike after tens of thousands of members voted Tuesday on whether to authorize a walkout that could impact some of the city's most iconic casinos and hotels. The Culinary Workers Union, a political powerhouse in Nevada, hasn’t gone on strike in more than three decades. Results of the vote are expected to be released Tuesday night. The union said it has not yet set a deadline for a strike as it continues bargaining for better pay and benefits and improved working conditions with the top employers on the Las Vegas Strip, including MGM Resorts International, Caesars Entertainment and Wynn Resorts. A walkout could disrupt operations at more than three dozen resorts on the Strip and in downtown, the city’s economic backbone. “We are the glue that keeps these hotels together, and we should be paid what we deserve,” Deanna Virgil, a longtime employee at Wynn Las Vegas, told The Associated Press after casting her vote Tuesday morning. Virgil was among 53,000 housekeepers, cocktail and food servers, porters, cooks, bartenders and other hotel employees in Las Vegas eligible to take part in the vote, which comes amid increased labor organizing across multiple industries — from strikes to work stoppages. Tuesday’s vote took place on the same day President Joe Biden joined United Auto Workers strikers on a picket line in Michigan. MGM Resorts said it would comment on the union’s vote later Tuesday after the outcome is announced. Caesars did not immediately respond to emailed requests for comment, and Wynn Resorts said they had no comment. Virgil, who has worked in the hospitality sector for 38 years, said she is able to make do with her current salary and benefits because she lives with her adult daughter. “There’s no telling where I would be if I didn’t have the support of my daughter,” Virgil said. “There are a lot of us who have two jobs, but one job should be enough.” Bethany Khan, the union’s spokesperson, said all members receive health insurance and currently earn about $26 hourly, including benefits. Khan declined to say how much the union is seeking in pay raises because “we do not negotiate in public,” although the union has said it is asking for “the largest wage increases ever negotiated” in the union's history. The union is scheduled to return to the bargaining table next week with MGM Resorts, Caesars and Wynn Resorts. Across the country, it’s been a big year for labor unions — from walkouts in Hollywood and on auto production lines in 20 states, to UPS reaching a new deal before a work stoppage that could have significantly disrupted the nation’s supply chain. Workers calling for higher wages, better conditions and job security, especially since the end of the pandemic, have been increasingly willing to walk out on the job as employers face a greater need for workers. In Nevada, the Culinary Union is the largest labor union, representing about 60,000 hospitality workers. Contracts covering 40,000 of those members in Las Vegas recently expired. The strike vote was held among workers solely in Las Vegas, and includes employees at properties like the Bellagio, Mandalay Bay, Wynn Las Vegas, MGM Grand, Caesars Palace, Harrah's, Circus Circus, Treasure Island and the Strat. In 1991, more than 500 workers went on strike at the now-shuttered Frontier hotel and casino in downtown Las Vegas. It became one of the longest strikes in U.S. history, stretching more than six years. The union said all the strikers returned to their jobs afterward, with back pay and benefits. The union last voted to authorize a strike in 2018. Five-year contracts were reached soon after a majority of the participating 25,000 hospitality workers cast votes to walk off the job. Rory Kuykendall, 40, said he is hopeful that Tuesday's vote will have the same effect. “It’s great to see all the huge numbers in turnout,” said Kuykendall, a bellperson at Flamingo Las Vegas. “It’s a chance for all the members to come out and show that we’re really ready to fight.” Last summer, the casino workers’ union in Atlantic City negotiated landmark contracts that gave workers the biggest raises they’ve ever had. It also removed any chance of a strike for several years, an important consideration for Atlantic City’s casino industry as it tries to return to pre-pandemic business levels. In past contracts, the Atlantic City union had concentrated on preserving health care and pension benefits, but this time sought “significant” pay raises for workers to help them keep pace with spiraling prices for gasoline, food, rent and other living expenses, the union said. 
More photos »
 Follow us: © Las Vegas Sun, 2024, All Rights Reserved