UK Edition Silicon Valley’s largest technology companies face a crackdown on their market dominance as the government launches its Digital Markets, Competition and Consumer Bill tomorrow. New powers are designed to stop companies such as Meta, which owns Facebook, Alphabet, Google’s owner, Amazon and Apple stifling competition in the sector. The bill will formalise a unit within the competition watchdog that is expected to scrutinise the behaviour of big technology companies that threaten to block the growth of possible future rivals. It will try to prevent them abusing their dominance in areas such as search engines and app stores. The Competition and Markets Authority has been operating its digital markets unit since 2021, but it has not been granted any formal powers. The authority has already launched several inquiries as it waits for the new legislation. It has been investigating Apple’s app store since September 2021 and Amazon’s marketplace for third-party sellers since July last year. Google said recently, after a CMA investigation, that it would start to allow app developers to side-step its own billing system in its app store. Facebook’s use of data has been under scrutiny at the regulator since June 2021. The watchdog will gain new powers only over companies that are deemed to have strategic market status. Businesses that have entrenched power are expected to face more hurdles when buying smaller rivals. The new takeover rules could stop “killer acquisitions” that eliminate nascent firms before they can develop a new service or product that poses a threat to more established players. The regulator started looking at how to assess technology deals after a review led by Jason Furman, who was President Obama’s chief economic adviser. The Furman review, which was published in March 2019, said: “The CMA should develop and use a clearer framework for looking beyond current market conditions to examine how the transaction might affect future innovation and consumer welfare. This requires understanding the kinds of facts that indicate a transaction poses risks.” © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.