It was before 6 a.m. and still dark when Mrs. Acton stepped outside her house on S. Paint Street. Pulling the door closed behind her, she breathed in the morning air, turned and began briskly walking up the empty sidewalk in the direction of the Majestic Theater. After turning the corner on 2nd Street, Acton lifted her head and spotted the familiar landmark in the distance, an arch spanning high above the street and supporting a sign that read “Majestic.” The sidewalk underneath the arch was deserted, not a soul in sight. Acton hustled the last steps to the theater entrance and immediately staked out a place on the sidewalk in front of the lobby. She was first in line. “Early bird gets the worm,” she must have thought to herself. Tickets did not go on sale for three hours. Acton wasn’t alone for long. Her best friend, Dora Carrothers, a nurse at the local health board, showed up a few minutes later and took the second spot, then Jack Rigney and Martin G. Chandler joined the line. Soon a long line of people stretched down the sidewalk. Earl Myers, the owner of the Majestic, unbeknownst to those standing outside, was inside the theater preparing for his day and about to take mercy on them. The window slid open with a swoosh, and Myers popped his head out. “I’m going to give you folks numbers,” he announced, holding a stack of cards and smiling. “Then you can go get your breakfasts.” More: Looking back: Miss Marzluff and the children of the Welfare House “What’s breakfast compared to a good seat to see Matt,” someone interrupted. The theater owner grinned and began passing the numbered cards out. “Be sure to be back here by 9 a.m., when your numbers are called,” he reminded them. Ecstatic that they would not have to stand in line for the next several hours, Acton and her friend quickly disappeared up 2nd Street. While they were away, a steady flow of excited ticket buyers continued arriving outside the theater and Myers was kept busy handing out cards with numbers. When Acton and her friend returned to the Majestic a couple of hours later, the lobby was overflowing with people. At precisely 9 a.m., though, she made her way through the good-natured throng, stepped up to the box office, handed Myers her card with a number one scribbled on it and bought the first tickets. She smiled as wide as the Scioto River. In the last half of September 1923, Chillicothe was all abuzz because the Majestic was staging the “The Deep Tangled Wildwood,” the first premier of a New York play ever given in Chillicothe. Tickets sold like hot cakes because Matt Cahill, one of “Chillicothe’s own,” who had appeared in countless amateur theater productions in the city, was cast in his first role on the professional stage. It was the talk of the town. T. Matthew “Matt” Cahill was born May 19, 1888, and graduated from Chillicothe High School in 1906. From a young age, he demonstrated a talent for acting and writing and after high school worked for the city’s two major newspapers, the Gazette and the News-Advertiser. He had a very long and impressive career in journalism, including 25 years at the Washington Post. At the same time that he wrote for the local papers, though, Cahill’s name appeared in the cast list of countless local amateur theater productions. Many of the plays were performed at the Masonic Opera House, which is what the Majestic was called before the Myers brothers bought it in 1915 and changed the name on the arch. An early performance Cahill gave at the theater in the autumn of 1910, in “Tommy’s Wife,” foreshadowed the success he would have on the local stage, especially in comedic roles. “The comedy left to Matthew Cahill as the French fencing master could not have been handled more ably,” stated a review in the Gazette. During the next decade, Cahill appeared in seemingly every local production, many of them as a part of the B & O Railroad’s Machinists’ Minstrels. And it just wasn’t acting, he also gave solo singing performances and delivered fiery speeches in front of a packed audience. All of this came to a screeching halt, however, after America joined the war in Europe. After Camp Sherman was built, Cahill acted as the News-Advertiser’s official correspondent at the Army training camp, but not for long. He joined Chillicothe’s famed Company H, which became a part of the famous “Rainbow Division,” which was formed from the National guard organizations of 26 states and the District of Columbia. He started as a mess sergeant but was commissioned a second lieutenant while in France and was discharged as a first lieutenant. After he returned home from the war, Cahill picked up where he left off and was soon appearing on stage regularly. In late 1923, however, George C. Tyler, former Chillicothean and notable Broadway producer, summoned Cahill to New York and cast him in the “The Deep Tangled Wildwood,” alongside a cast of veteran Broadway actors. So away he went to New York City for rehearsals. Chillicotheans were anxious to know how he was doing, and an advanced agent visiting the city assured them that, “We have been watching the rehearsal of your Matt Cahill very closely and we expect great things from him.” Another report of Cahill’s progress came from Miss Margaret Marzluff, well-known director of the Chillicothe’s Welfare House, who had returned from vacation in New York City and had met with Cahill while she was there. “Matt is busy day and night rehearsing in his play,” she said. “And both he and Mr. Tyler are looking forward eagerly to the opening here next Saturday night.” A week later, those ticket buyers who had lined up early outside the Majestic to make sure they got tickets to see Cahill, packed the theater and clapped for him until their hands were sore. The applause was so deafening that at the end of the third act Cahill was forced to appear on stage by himself. “Friends, I appreciate this testimonial,” he began. “But I take it as not as a reward for my efforts here, so crude in comparison with the work of my accomplished associates, but simply as an evidence of your personal regard.” The applause started again, including from his fellow actors standing in the wings. One woman, however, with an excellent seat upfront clapped louder than anyone else. She was first in line the morning tickets went on sale.