Most Popular 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. While Black Friday gets all the hype as one of the busiest shopping days of the year, a lot of the buying actually happens the week before Christmas. So don't feel bad if you're still figuring out last-minute gifts for people on your shopping list. You're in good company! And, ZDNET has you covered. Our editors hosted a YouTube livestream on Dec. 16, where our team ran through the best deals we've found on the tech products we liked the most from 2022. We'll help you find the best deals you can get right now on smartphones, tablets, headphones, robot vacuums, smart home gear, TVs, gaming equipment, laptops, and more. We've been researching and keeping an eye on the best tech deals since the beginning of November and we've pulled together all that research and wisdom here. You can watch a replay of the livestream on YouTube, and we updated included links to each of the deals below:  The links below also round up the research our team has been doing over the last month to find the best deals. ZDNET experts split out the best deals by retailer, brand, and category, which you can see below.  Here are some of the cheapest deals we found: