WASHINGTON – The House select committee on the Chinese Communist Party led by U.S. Rep. Mike Gallagher on Wednesday released its first set of policy recommendations that deal largely with addressing human rights abuses from China and attempting to deter a potential invasion of Taiwan. The recommendations, detailed in two reports, follow the select committee’s first three hearings in which it laid out the threat posed by China and highlighted the ongoing abuses against the Uyghur ethnic minority in China’s Xinjiang region.  One report suggests a “blueprint for Congressional action” for the U.S. to hold China accountable for its crimes against Uyghurs, which include reports of forced sterilization and mass internment, in part through sanctions. The other report, titled “Ten For Taiwan,” puts an emphasis on enhancing military capabilities to keep peace in the Indo-Pacific. “These are our first attempts at a policy process,” Gallagher said during a committee meeting Wednesday. “They do not represent the last word on either of these issues… We will continue to discuss these issues. They’re very complex.” Here are some takeaways from the meeting and the reports: Most of the 10 recommendations on deterring a Chinese invasion of Taiwan focused on enhancing the military capabilities in the Indo-Pacific. They included a call for the U.S. to “rapidly increase” its own procurement of long-range missile systems, like the anti-ship Harpoon missiles, torpedos and anti-radiation weapons, and a push to clear the $19 million backlog in weapons and military equipment Congress already approved for Taiwan — an issue on which Gallagher has been vocal.  The Taiwan report also urged “combined military training” between the U.S. and Taiwan and said Congress should enforce policies that seek to establish a task force or headquarters to better define and coordinate the country’s operational command structure around Taiwan.  “I know there’s some concern from commentators that examining our deterrence posture out in the open, as the committee did, was too provocative,” Gallagher said Wednesday. “By showing that we are taking deterrence seriously, however, we are actually demonstrating an unwavering interest in peace. That deters aggression.”  The recommendations, the committee noted, were developed following expert testimony at hearings, a tabletop war gaming exercise the panel conducted last month simulating a Chinese invasion of Taiwan and a classified briefing from the Biden administration earlier this month.  While the panel unanimously approved the Uyghur report, some Democrats on Wednesday appeared to take issue with the panel’s outsized focus on military-related measures when it comes to supporting Taiwan.  U.S. Rep. Andy Kim, a New Jersey Democrat and the lone committee member to vote against adopting the Taiwan policies, said he supported a number of the recommendations in the report but contended the report didn’t take into account “the kind of comprehensive approach that we can be doing” on the committee.  Kim noted that nine out of the 10 recommendations were “security-focused” and argued that having the ability to speak with the Department of State and explore other aspects of maintaining peace in Taiwan would have allowed the committee to dive deeper into the issue. “There’s so much more to unpack,” Kim said in brief remarks. “Framing this document as sort of across-the-board recommendations for Taiwan, not just narrowly the security side, I think, gives the impression that these are sort of the top recommendations writ large,” he added. “It doesn’t go into enough of what we could be doing in terms of economic deterrence, diplomatic deterrence and other capacities that we know are so important in building that global coalition.” Gallagher said he invited State Department officials to testify before the committee and would like to have representatives from the Biden administration’s cabinet testify about the “non-military aspect of this competition.”  U.S. Rep. Seth Moulton, a Massachusetts Democrat who also sits on the Armed Services Committee, called the Taiwan recommendations “very important” but noted economic, diplomatic and informational deterrence — in addition to military deterrence — will also play a role in the competition with China.  “It is really important that as we strive to having a comprehensive China strategy, which I think is what's really lacking and in many ways (is) why this committee exists, that we fill up those other three components,” Moulton said. “So that’s work ahead of us.” And Raja Krishnamoorthi, the top Democrat on the committee, singled out as "very important" the Taiwan report’s second recommendation, which calls for the development of joint plans with allies and partners “​​to enact severe diplomatic and economic costs on the CCP in the event that it engages in military aggression against Taiwan.” That point included the recommendation that Congress support increased economic engagement with Taiwan, including a a tax reduction agreement between the countries. Committee leaders on Wednesday said the reports were focused on policy recommendations that could be passed during this Congress and, in some cases, incorporated into the upcoming National Defense Authorization Act.  Certain aspects of the Taiwan report, including recommendations for a better-defined command structure in the Indo-Pacific and the procurement of more long-range missile capabilities, Gallagher said, could be tucked into the fiscal year 2024 NDAA, which could be marked up as soon as next month.  “We’ve identified a pathway for most of the recommendations,” Gallagher said. “And in some cases, we’ve endorsed legislation that already exists and is already ready for an NDAA amendment.” “We put together 10 policy recommendations that can enhance deterrence now and can pass this Congress,” he added. “This is not a comprehensive list — everything we need to do. This is what I believe and the ranking member believes is achievable in this Congress that can make a very real impact.” The committee recommended putting sanctions on Chinese companies that are found to be “complicit” in the abuses against Uyghurs and said Congress should call on the Biden administration to further crack down on companies that use forced Uyghur labor. Human rights groups have accused China of imprisoning upwards of 1 million Uyghurs, a predominately Muslim minority, in the country's Xinjiang region. China has pushed back on those claims, framing the internments as "vocational training" centers. The panel in its report said the U.S. should encourage other democratic countries to ban the importation of goods made through Uyghur forced labor and suggested the U.S. should take the lead in raising awareness about reported atrocities against Uyghurs. It leaned on previously introduced legislation, like the Uyghur Policy Act, the Uyghur Human Rights Sanctions Review Act and the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, as frameworks.  The panel’s meeting came as Congress is consumed by a looming debt ceiling crisis. The White House and House Republicans continued negotiations Wednesday, but it was not yet clear when a deal might be reached as Congress stares down a potential default that could occur as early as June 1.  Krishnamoorthi on Wednesday told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel he was concerned the spending cuts to non-defense discretionary spending proposed by Republicans could impact the country’s research and development efforts and, in turn, its ability to compete with China. “There can’t be cuts, there cannot be cuts in those particular areas if we hope to outcompete the CCP in this global competition,” Krishnamoorthi said after the panel’s meeting “So we gotta get our act together and handle this particular situation in an appropriate and bipartisan fashion ASAP.” He added: “I think that would be totally counterproductive to everything we’re trying to achieve with this committee and trying to outcompete the CCP. So this is absolutely a bad idea.”