Shredded zucchini is the secret ingredient that adds loads of moisture (and virtually no flavor) to this delicious zucchini cake. Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Zucchini cake is the perfect dessert to make those times when you have more zucchini than you know what to do with. Sure, we may love zucchini boats, zucchini fries, and zucchini lasagna, but nothing quite beats a tender, lightly-spiced zucchini cake studded with pecans.
  Our super easy zucchini cake is also topped with a soft, easy-to-spread cream cheese frosting. It's the perfect sweet for tea parties, showers, or just a late-summer afternoon.
  Learn how to make zucchini cake, and rediscover one of the best desserts with a surprise ingredient that really turns basic cake into something special.
   Classic baking ingredients are needed for the cake, and fresh zucchini is obviously needed. You can also reach for some optional mix-ins. Here's what you should grab from the fridge and pantry:
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox   Zucchini cake is easy to mix together. Here's a brief recap, and the full recipe is furher below:
  If you're not serving right away, zucchini cake should be kept covered and stored in the refrigerator for maximum freshness. Leftover zucchini cake will last up to five days, but it should be stored in the refrigerator because of the cream cheese frosting.
 As an alternative, zucchini cake may also be baked in a Bundt pan. Prepare the batter as directed through step 3, and bake at 350°F 48-52 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. Let cool in pan 10 minutes before turning out onto a cooling rack to cool completely. To prepare frosting, beat 4 oz. softened cream cheese, 2 Tbsp. softened butter, 1 tsp. vanilla, and a pinch of salt until smooth and combined. Add 1 1/2 cups powdered sugar; beat until smooth. Add 1-2 Tbsp. milk or half and half; just enough to make the icing thick but pourable. Pour over cake in a thick layer.  You can freeze zucchini cake, and you can freeze it with the icing if you want. However, for the best result once it's thawed, we recommend you freeze the zucchini cake whole and without the frosting. Then, you can thaw it overnight in the fridge and finish the frosting just before serving.
  This cake is so easy, it's great for a beginner baker, one that's just learning the routine of baking. But even experienced bakers will find these tips helpful:
  If you have more zucchini to use, consider these recipes next:
 Cake: Baking spray with flour 2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 2 tsp. baking powder 3/4 tsp. table salt 1/2 tsp. baking soda 2 tsp. ground cinnamon 1/4 tsp. ground nutmeg 1/4 tsp. ground allspice 3 large eggs 1 1/4 cups vegetable oil 1 cup packed light brown sugar 1/2 cup granulated sugar 2 tsp. vanilla extract 2 cups finely grated zucchini (from 2-3 medium) 1 cup chopped pecans or golden raisins (optional) Cream Cheese Frosting: 1 (8 oz.) package cream cheese, softened 1/4 cup (2 oz.) unsalted butter, softened 2 tsp. vanilla extract 1/8 tsp. table salt 2 1/2 cups powdered sugar  Preheat oven to 350°F. Spray a 13- x 9-in. pan with baking spray with flour.
  In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice. 
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  In a large bowl, whisk together eggs, oil, brown sugar, granulated sugar, and vanilla.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Stir in grated zucchini.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Stir in flour mixture until evenly combined, but do not overmix.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Stir in chopped pecans, if using.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Pour batter into prepared pan.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Bake 35-40 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean and the center springs back lightly when touched.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Let cool completely in the pan on a cooling rack, about 2-3 hours.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  In a large bowl, beat cream cheese, butter, vanilla, and salt with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth and light, about 1 minute.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Add powdered sugar and mix until smooth.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Spread frosting onto cooled cake. Store leftovers, covered, in the refrigerator.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox There’s no need to peel the zucchini before shredding it. The skin on the zucchini is thin enough that it will blend into the batter without peeling first. We recommend storing this zucchini cake, covered, in the refrigerator for up to five days due to the cream cheese in the frosting. For this recipe, there’s no need to drain the zucchini after it’s been shredded. The extra moisture in the zucchini helps keep the cake nice and moist. Zucchini doesn't exactly replace an ingredient the way applesauce might replace fat. Instead, zucchini adds moisture and volume to baked goods, turning them more tender and fluffy.