The National Development Council’s Taiwan Employment Gold Card Office would be expanded into a proposed Talent Taiwan program to boost education establishments in critical industries, President Tsai Ing-wen (蔡英文) said on Tuesday. The program is a one-stop service center to recruit international talent, Tsai told the general assembly of the Taipei-based Chinese National Association of Industry and Commerce. The government would also provide 10,000 scholarships for international students over the next four years, provided they pledge to remain in Taiwan after they graduate, she said. Photo: CNA The continued development of Taiwanese industries, and the revival of the service and tourism sectors in the post-COVID-19-pandemic era were two main driving forces to draw talent to Taiwan, she said. The government hopes to resolve issues by ensuring that enough top-quality people are hired, she added. The government has established six semiconductor-related institutes, as well as other institutes in key industries to foster local talent in collaboration with National Taiwan University, the National Taipei University of Technology, National Tsing Hua University, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, National Cheng Kung University and National Sun Yat-sen University, Tsai said. The Talent Taiwan program would help match industries with talent, she said. Minister of Education Pan Wen-chung (潘文忠) yesterday said that the Ministry of Education would initiate cross-agency efforts to expand programs to foster talent for the industrial sector. The ministry hopes to establish new industry-academia collaboration programs and would discuss how best to retain talent from them, including via scholarship programs, Pan said. Launched in 2018, the Taiwan Employment Gold Card includes a resident visa, work permit, Alien Resident Certificate and re-entry permit, allowing holders to leave and re-enter Taiwan multiple times for up to three years. It was part of the Act for the Recruitment and Employment of Foreign Professional Talent (外國專業人才延攬及故用法), which was itself part of a government initiative to attract highly skilled foreign professionals to Taiwan. Additional reporting by Yang Mien-chieh 

                                                                                The navy has installed 13 Phalanx Block 1B close-in weapons systems on its warships, increasing their defensive firepower, a defense official said on Saturday.
The systems cost the navy NT$10.16 billion (US$314.67 million), while eight additional Block 1A systems are being upgraded in the US and are expected to be delivered next year, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The Phalanx system used by Taiwan to defend its warships and key radar installations is a radar-cued gun system capable of firing 4,500 rounds a minute at targets as far away as 1.5km, the official said.
With their superior range of                                     
FINANCIAL RECORD ISSUE:  
                                        The TPP did not calculate campaign expenditures and such costs were included in the operational expenses, a party official said                                        The Taiwan People’s Party (TPP) last year raised NT$84.3 million (US$2.61 million) in donations and spent no money on campaigning, the latest Control Yuan audits on the campaign finances of Taiwanese political parties yesterday revealed.
The audit report was published a day after police searched the offices of accounting firms and other companies linked to TPP Chairman Ko Wen-je’s (柯文哲) presidential campaign as part of a probe into alleged corruption and false reporting of campaign finances dating back several years.
Last year, the TPP raised NT$46.6 million in individual donations and NT$30.9 million from businesses while spending NT$71 million, including NT$37 million                                     
CARROT AND STICK:
                                        Palauan president said in 2020 the Chinese ambassador to a neighboring country pledged to flood his country with tourists if it switches alliance                                        Beijing weaponized tourism to the Pacific archipelago of Palau over its allegiance to Taiwan and its accusations that China was behind a major cyberattack there, Palauan President Surangel Whipps Jr told The Associated Press (AP).
Palau, along with Tuvalu and the Marshall Islands, is one of the three Pacific nations to recognize Taiwan as an independent democracy.
Taipei’s allies in the Pacific have dwindled from six countries in 2019. Nauru abandoned its ties in January.
Whipps told the AP in an interview late on Thursday that, in 2020, while he was running for his current post, the Chinese ambassador to a neighboring country                                     
ACCOUNTABILITY? 
                                        Vivian Huang resigned as a TPP Central Standing Committee member, while an accountancy denied it was to blame for campaign finance errors                                        Prosecutors yesterday searched offices of accounting firms and other companies linked to Taiwan People’s Party (TPP) Chairman Ko Wen-je’s (柯文哲) presidential campaign amid allegations of fraud, while TPP Legislator Vivian Huang (黃珊珊) resigned from the party’s Central Standing Committee.
Taipei District Prosecutors’ Office and Ministry of Justice Investigation Bureau personnel collected material at seven locations in and around Taipei, including at marketing firm Muko (木可行銷公關), accounting firm Jing Hua CPA (精華會計師事務所), OCT Entertainment Co (時樂) and Neo Creative Marketing Production Co (尼奧創意行銷).
They also searched the residences of Tai Li-ling (戴利玲), who is registered as the owner of OCT Entertainment and Neo                                    