 Search the news, stories & people Personalise the news and stay in the know Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN Topic:World Politics The patch shows the slogan "Scramble!" — referring to what the island's pilots have had to do with increased frequency over the past three years as China sends more aircraft into Taiwan's air defence identification zone. (Reuters: Carlos Garcia Rawlins) Taiwanese are rushing to buy patches being worn by their air force pilots that depict a Formosan black bear punching Winnie the Pooh — representing China's President Xi Jinping — as a defiant symbol of the island's resistance to Chinese war games. China began three days of military drills around Taiwan on Saturday, a day after the island's President Tsai Ing-wen returned from a brief visit to the United States, where she met US House Speaker Kevin McCarthy despite Beijing's warnings. Chinese censors have long targeted representations of Winnie the Pooh — created by British author AA Milne — over internet memes that compare the fictional bear to China's president. Alec Hsu, who designed the patch, has been selling it at his shop since last year, but he saw a spike in orders after Taiwan's military news agency published a photo of the patch on the arm of a pilot inspecting a fighter jet. "I wanted to boost the morale of our troops through designing this patch," Mr Hsu said. Mr Hsu said he has ordered more patches to meet the increased demand. Customers have included military officers and civilians. Mr Hsu puts the patches inside individual plastic bags at his store. The patch shows an angry Formosan black bear holding Taiwan's flag and punching Winnie the Pooh, with the slogan "Scramble!" — referring to what the island's pilots have had to do with increased frequency over the past three years as China sends more aircraft into Taiwan's air defence identification zone. The endangered Formosan black bear is seen as a symbol of Taiwanese identity. Taiwan was previously better known internationally as Formosa. Chinese censors have in the past targeted the film's main character, originally conceptualised by English author A A Milne, due to memes that compare the bumbling bear to President Xi Jinping. "Where can we get a patch like that! Guaranteed to be best sellers!" Taiwan's de facto embassy in the United States wrote in a tweet on Monday. Taiwan's air force told Reuters that while it does not "particularly encourage" its members to wear the patch, which is not a part of their uniform, it "will maintain an open attitude" to anything that raises morale. China claims democratically governed Taiwan as its own territory and has not ruled out taking the island by force. Ms Tsai's government rejects China's sovereignty claims, saying only Taiwan's people can decide their future. While the Winnie the Pooh patch cannot be found on Chinese social media, Beijing has also been promoting videos and commentary about its drills around Taiwan. The People's Liberation Army Eastern Theatre Command, the Chinese unit that would be at the frontline of any military action against Taiwan, released a video on Monday showing scenes from the drill, set against upbeat music. The video targeted a Taiwanese audience by using traditional Chinese characters, which are still used in Taiwan but no longer in mainland China. Reuters Topic:US Elections Topic:Defence Forces Topic:Government and Politics Topic:Law, Crime and Justice Topic:Treaties and Alliances Topic:Censorship Topic:World Politics Topic:Film Industry China Taiwan Unrest, Conflict and War World Politics Topic:US Elections Topic:Defence Forces Topic:Government and Politics Topic:Law, Crime and Justice Topic:Treaties and Alliances Topic:Treaties and Alliances Topic:Courts and Trials Topic:Courts and Trials Topic:US Elections We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)