JDaniels The Computer Weekly Downtime Upload podcast team were compelled by events to deviate from their usual light-hearted approach to enterprise business-to-business technology in the first few months of the year. They discussed the war in Ukraine with the help of Computer Weekly’s security editor Alex Scroxton on a couple of podcasts, one of which is highlighted in this list. The cyber warfare aspect of the conflict was to the fore in these episodes, along with the general IT industry boycott of Russia. Otherwise, women in UK technology, alongside diversity, was, again, a huge topic for the team, discussed across the year and culminating in Clare’s presentation of the announcement of the 2022 list of the Most Influential Women in UK Technology, and its associated event, Diversity in Tech, which Computer Weekly runs in collaboration with Nash Squared. Caroline’s two main topics of focus on the podcast were the ongoing saga of the IR35 reforms and the energy crisis, as it pertains to the datacentre market (as well as green IT more generally, including the launch of the Computer Weekly Green IT think tank that she masterminds and shepherds). And Brian was back in the air in 2022, attending Dreamforce in San Francisco, Oracle Cloud World in Las Vegas, and an SAP press trip to the Bay Area coterminous with SAP’s TechEd. This year, Cliff Saran, Computer Weekly’s managing editor (technology) did a series of episodes within the framework of the podcast. These featured one-to-one interviews with leading IT industry thinkers and executives on topics ranging from quantum computing, through the metaverse, and on to developer well-being. One of these featured, as a case study, The National Archives’ deployment of a semantic data platform, provided by MarkLogic, to support the UK government’s drive to improve transparency in the justice system. Cliff closed out his podcasting for the year with a conversation with Stewart Buchanan, a research vice-president in Gartner’s CIO team, about how CIOs can manage through the current economic crisis, with IT budgets effectively cut due to inflation. That conversation has granular advice for IT leaders. Meanwhile, the perennial podcast power trio added some light to the shade throughout the podcasting year, including natters around Halloween and the advent of Christmas; and the adventures of Caroline’s rescue dog, Bruno. Here are Computer Weekly’s top 10 Computer Weekly Downtime Upload podcasts of 2022. In this episode, Computer Weekly’s security editor Alex Scroxton joins Caroline Donnelly, Clare McDonald and Brian McKenna to discuss the cyber war dimension to the war in Ukraine, and the IT industry’s response to the Russian invasion, including a boycott of Russia and humanitarian aid to the people of Ukraine. Because this is the most serious of subjects, this episode of the podcast is devoted just to this topic.  Caroline Donnelly, Clare McDonald and Brian McKenna reflect on the current energy crisis by way of the Sungard AS UK collapse, and the role of software and data analytics in the wind turbine industry. They also talk about the findings of the annual Computer Weekly/TechTarget IT salary survey, which finds IT professionals more in control of their working lives than before the pandemic, and back to pre-health crisis wage levels.  Clare McDonald and Brian McKenna were joined, in the temporary absence of Caroline Donnelly, by Cliff Saran to discuss the metaverse, the Makers Women in Software Power List, and how CIOs should relate to the details of enterprise technology.  In this special edition of the Computer Weekly Downtime Upload podcast, Ilyas Khan, CEO of Quantinuum, discusses the quantum computing revolution. He believes the UK is leading the way, just as it did at the start of the first industrial revolution. The CEO of Quantinuum, the organisation formed from the merger of Honeywell Quantum Solutions and Cambridge Quantum Computing, the company Khan founded in 2014, says the UK is one of the leading countries, if not the global leader, in quantum computing.  Here, Matt Hoag, CTO of Koch Business Solutions, discusses networking as a service. The idea of “lift and shift” makes no sense in the cloud. Matt Hoag, chief technology officer (CTO) for Koch Business Solutions, points out that while lifting and shifting workloads may work as a short-term measure, as organisations buy time to develop cloud-native software, enterprise networking simply cannot be lifted and shifted to the cloud.  A wide-ranging special with Capital One bank’s CTO, Brad Miller. Brad Miller lives in New Jersey and, due to the pandemic, has the flexibility to work both out of his home and from Capital One bank’s New York office. Miller has been CTO of Capital One for two years, where he is responsible for the bank’s enterprise products and platforms technology organisation.  Caroline Donnelly, Clare McDonald and Brian McKenna reflect on the announcement of the 2022 list of the Most Influential Women in UK Technology, and its associated event, Diversity in Tech, which Computer Weekly does in collaboration with Nash Squared.  They also discuss an aspect of the brief premiership of Liz Truss that was under-covered in other media: the scrapping and then the rescinding of the scrapping of the IR35 reforms. In this podcast, Alan Reed, head of sports development at Bet365, discusses the technical and business challenges of scalability. Computer Weekly last spoke to Alan Reed a few years before the pandemic. During the Covid-19 lockdown, the head of sports development at Bet365 says the online betting firm needed to adapt to live sports stopping and the shift to home working.   The National Archives has deployed a semantic data platform, powered by MarkLogic, to support the UK government’s drive to improve transparency in the justice system. John Sheridan, digital director at The National Archives, defines semantic data as a formal conceptual model to describe data. At The National Archives, a semantic data platform, powered by MarkLogic, is being used for the Find Case Law service. “We are preserving court judgments in the digital archive for the future,” he said.  Caroline Donnelly, Clare McDonald and Brian McKenna reflect on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Re:Invent partner and customer conference in Las Vegas, an initiative for getting more young women into the cyber security profession, and recent SAP and SAP user group events – in San Francisco, Las Vegas and Birmingham.  The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... AMD plans to acquire AI systems designer and manufacturer ZT Systems for $5 billion. AMD CEO Lisa Su said hyperscalers want more ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
