Even if you don’t celebrate the Easter holiday, you’ll still need to eat at some point this weekend. Fortunately, plenty of restaurants—including the ones below—have food deals lined up to keep you fed, while saving you money. As always, this isn’t an exhaustive list of every dining offer available during Easter weekend, but rather, a few of the many. Use the code EASTER to get 25% off the Easter Bunny Bundle of 49 cupcakes: 14 Chocolate Blackout, 14 Chocolate Creme Egg, 11 Cookie Butter, and 10 Triple Chocolate Fudge. Plus, get an extra 10% off if you sign up for their emails. The pizza and pasta chain is offering four different Easter meal deals that feed up to 20 people, and are available for pickup and delivery. Each package comes with a choice of salad, pasta or pizza, with additional entrees and desserts added on as you move up in each package. Prices range from $12 to $27.50 per person.  Have people coming over, but don’t feel like cooking? Serving between four and 10 people, Bob Evans Farmhouse Feasts feature various entrée options, sides, rolls, and a pie for dessert. The Premium Farmhouse Feast, which serves up to 10 people, is $149.99, and smaller options that serve four to eight start at $77.99. The meal can be ordered for carry-out or curbside pickup. Dine-in customers aged 10 and under can get a free ice cream sandwich with the purchase of a kid’s meal (with an adult entree) on Easter Sunday. Plus, show your receipt to get 15% off retail items. Get 20% off orders of $20 or more by using the promo code HOP20 at checkout through April 9. Of course, these are only a few of the food deals and freebies available for Easter weekend. Have one you’d like to share? Feel free to provide the details in a comment below. Dr. Elizabeth Yuko is a bioethicist and adjunct professor of ethics at Fordham University. She has written for The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Atlantic, Rolling Stone, CNN & Playboy. Lifehacker has been a go-to source of tech help and life advice since 2005. Our mission is to offer reliable tech help and credible, practical, science-based life advice to help you live better.
 © 2001-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., A ZIFF DAVIS COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Lifehacker is a federally registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate
any affiliation or the
endorsement of Lifehacker. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.