NEW YORK, USA, Sept.  30, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Facts and Factors has published a new research report titled "Vegan Pasta Sauce Market Size, Share, Growth Analysis Report By Distribution Channel (Retail Sales And Direct Sales), By End User (Travel Supplies, HoReCa (Hotels, Restaurants, And Catering), And Household Consumers), By Source (Lemon, Coconut, Tomato, And Others), By Nature (Conventional And Organic), And By Region - Global and Regional Industry Insights, Overview, Comprehensive Analysis, Trends, Statistical Research, Market Intelligence, Historical Data and Forecast 2023 – 2030" in its research database. "According to the latest research study, the global vegan pasta sauce market size was valued at about USD 256.98 million in 2022. The market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 8.89% and is anticipated to reach a value of USD 512.37 million by 2030." Vegan Pasta Sauce Market Overview: Vegan pasta sauces contain no animal-derived ingredients and are derived wholly from plants. It is well-liked by vegans and those who desire to eliminate the consumption of animal products from their diet However, the vegan pasta sauce comes in various flavors and sources. The pasta is made in a manner very similar to the traditional method, but without dairy, meat, and other animal-based additives. Manufacturers are increasingly using plant-based creamers, nutritional yeast, and cashews to replicate the cheesy and creamy texture of traditional sauces. Get a Free Sample PDF of this Research Report for more Insights - https://www.fnfresearch.com/sample/vegan-pasta-sauce-market (A free sample of this report is available upon request; please contact us for more information.) Our Free Sample Report Consists of the Following: Report Scope:  Key Insights from Primary Research Directly Purchase a Copy of the Report | Quick Delivery Available - https://www.fnfresearch.com/buynow/su/vegan-pasta-sauce-market Vegan Pasta Sauce Market: Growth Drivers Increasing public awareness of the health benefits of plant-based diets is propelling the expansion of the global vegan pasta sauce market. In addition, consumers anticipate healthier alternatives to traditional sauces, which are high in saturated lipids and cholesterol. Therefore, vegan pasta sauces are in high demand. Vegan pasta sauces are highly adapted to ethnic and regional cuisines, making them more appealing to consumers seeking international authenticity and flavor. For instance, Campbell Soup paid a staggering $2.7 billion to acquire Rao's Homemade in July 2023. The entities account for as much as 73% of Campbell's revenue. Restraints Vegan pasta sauces are more expensive than conventional sauces because they are prepared with organic ingredients. Therefore, price-sensitive consumers may be discouraged from purchasing these condiments due to their premium pricing. In some regions, a limited variety of vegan pasta sauces are available. Consequently, consumers in some nations have fewer options, which hinders the development of the vegan pasta sauce industry. In 2022, for instance, Dave's Gourmet introduced GoFundMe after going bankrupt and being financially sabotaged. Vegan Pasta Sauce Market: Segmentation The global vegan pasta sauce market can be segmented into distribution channels, end user, source, nature, and region. By distribution channel, the market can be segmented into retail sales and direct sales. Retail sales can further be bifurcated into online retail, grocery stores, specialty stores, modern trade, and others. The retail sales segment accounts for the largest share of the vegan pasta sauce industry. Retail sales have a wider customer reach and more customer support. By end user, the market can be segmented into travel supplies, HoReCa (hotels, restaurants, and catering), and household consumers. The household consumer is expected to be the fastest-growing segment in the global vegan pasta sauce market because of the increasing consumer demand. By source, the market can be segmented into lemon, coconut, tomato, and others. The tomato segment is gaining high popularity among consumers and is likely to grow significantly during the predicted period. Tomato-based sauces are used in various dishes and cuisines to make them versatile and tasty. By nature, the market can be segmented into conventional and organic. The organic segment is expected to witness not a vegan ble growth in the global vegan pasta sauce industry during the anticipated period. Consumers are becoming more health conscious and are looking out for healthy options. Browse the full "Vegan Pasta Sauce Market Size, Share, Growth Analysis Report By Distribution Channel (Retail Sales And Direct Sales), By End User (Travel Supplies, HoReCa (Hotels, Restaurants, And Catering), And Household Consumers), By Source (Lemon, Coconut, Tomato, And Others), By Nature (Conventional And Organic), And By Region - Global and Regional Industry Insights, Overview, Comprehensive Analysis, Trends, Statistical Research, Market Intelligence, Historical Data and Forecast 2023 – 2030" Report at https://www.fnfresearch.com/vegan-pasta-sauce-market Regional Analysis: In North America, there is a significant increase in demand for vegan products. People in the region anticipate more sustainable, healthy, and ethical food options, which will likely stimulate the development of the vegan pasta sauce market in the region over the next few years. In addition, consumers are increasingly adopting products with clean labels and transparent ingredient lists. Therefore, vegan pasta sauce, particularly organic and non-GMO varieties, satisfies the preferences of an expanding consumer base, which is likely to be a major factor in promoting the growth of vegan pasta sauce in the region. Due to the region's diversity, it is anticipated that Asia-Pacific will experience significant growth over the next few years. The Asia-Pacific region is known for its diversity, and vegan pasta sauces with a multitude of flavors and ingredients can be found there. People's eating habits and lifestyles are changing as a result of urbanization, which is a major factor in their search for convenience foods, such as prepackaged vegan pasta sauces. Competitive Players: The report contains qualitative and quantitative research on the global Vegan Pasta Sauce market, as well as detailed insights and development strategies employed by the leading competitors. Some of the main players in the global Vegan Pasta Sauce market include;  Request For Customization on This Report as Per Your Requirements - https://www.fnfresearch.com/customization/vegan-pasta-sauce-market (We tailor your report to meet your specific research requirements. Inquire with our sales team about customising your report.) The global Vegan Pasta Sauce market is segmented as follows: By Distribution Channel Segment Analysis By End User Segment Analysis By Source Segment Analysis By Nature Segment Analysis By Regional Segment Analysis Have Any Query? Ask Our Experts: https://www.fnfresearch.com/inquiry/vegan-pasta-sauce-market Key Questions Answered in This Report: Key Offerings: Browse Other Related Research Reports from Facts & Factors: About Facts & Factors: Facts & Factors is a leading market research organization offering industry expertise and scrupulous consulting services to clients for their business development. The reports and services offered by Facts and Factors are used by prestigious academic institutions, start-ups, and companies globally to measure and understand the changing international and regional business backgrounds.  Our client's/customer's conviction on our solutions and services has pushed us in delivering always the best. Our advanced research solutions have helped them in appropriate decision-making and guidance for strategies to expand their business. Contact Us: Facts & Factors USA: +1 3479038971 | +1 7187054574 USA/Canada Toll Free:  1 (855) 465-4651 | Newark: 1 (302) 444-0166 UK: +44 2032 894158 India: +91 7768 006 007 | +91 7768 006 008 Email: sales@fnfresearch.com | Web: https://www.fnfresearch.com Follow Us on - LinkedIn | Twitter | Facebook  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.