
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  New York, March 20, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Global consumer Electronics market report by Reports Insights reveals that the market experienced a value of USD 740.79 Billion in 2022 and is expected to record a market size of more than USD 1063.39 Billion by 2030, exhibiting a CAGR of 4.62%. Global Consumer Electronics Market By Product Type (Home Appliances, Smart Devices, Handheld Devices, and Others), Application (Personal and Professional), Sales channel (Online and Offline), and By Region, Forecast Period 2023 – 2030.   Recent Developments     In December 2022, LG Electronics launched UltraGear OLED gaming monitor with anti-glare and low reflection (AGLR) panel to offer distraction free gaming. The gaming monitor allows the user to play games for longer time with less eye discomfort.     List of Major Global Consumer Electronics Market Players   The market research report examines various market factors to determine the key drivers, limitations, and opportunities affecting market players. The report includes a SWOT analysis, regional analysis, and segment analysis to give a complete view of the market situation. This evaluation helps to identify possible growth opportunities through the implementation of technology, Product utilization, business strategies, and the launch of new Products. The following are major market players operating in the market environment -     Sony Corporation   Samsung Group   Panasonic   LG Electronics Inc.   Whirlpool Corporation   AB Electrolux   HP Inc.   Apple Inc.   Huawei Technologies   Koninklijke Philips N.V.       Apply for Free Sample Report   @    The consumer electronics are the electronic devices used by the individuals in daily life. The electronic devices comprise of household appliances including refrigerator, television, washing machine, air conditioner, and other along with smart wearable devices as well as handheld devices such as laptop, computer, tablets, and other. The devices are used for commercial as well as non-commercial purpose owing to the multi functionalities offered by consumer electronics sector. Advancement of technologies is driving the growth of consumer electronics market. Rising popularity for compact sized wearable devices including earbuds, smartwatches, smart glasses, and others is promoting the growth of consumer electronics market. Additionally, rising work from home trend is increasing the adoption of computing devices resulting to drive the growth of consumer electronics market.  Moreover, companies are focusing and development of technologies to implement advanced features, resulting to increase the growth of consumer electronics market. The increasing demand of wide screen television is driving the growth of consumer electronics for better visualization. Additionally, rising popularity for smart home appliances is propelling the demand of consumer electronics market. Thus, increasing investment in R&D activities by the major market players and rising demand for smart household appliances is driving the growth of consumer electronics market.     Consumer Electronics Market     Scope Snapshot:-         Report Attributes       Report Details         Market Size By 2030     USD 1063.39 Billion       Forecast Period     2023-2030       CAGR (2023-2030)     4.62%       Base Year     2022       Study Timeline     2017-2030       Key Players     Sony, Samsung Group, Panasonic, LG Electronics Inc., Whirlpool Corporation, AB Electrolux, HP Inc., Apple Inc., Huawei Technologies, Koninklijke Philips N.V.       By Product Type     Home appliances, Smart devices, Handheld devices, and Others       By Application     Personal and Professional       By Sales Channel     Online and Offline       Report Coverage     Company Ranking and Market Share, Growth Factors, Total Revenue Forecast, Regional Competitive Landscape, Business Strategies, and more.       By Geography     North America, Asia-Pacific, Latin America, Europe, Middle East & Africa       immediate delivery available , inquiry or customization request           Key Market Highlights      The Global Consumer Electronics Market size is estimated to exceed USD 1063.39 billion by 2030 and grow at a CAGR of 4.62% during the forecast period (2023-2030).   Globally, Consumer Electronics are divided based on the Product Type into Home Appliances, Smart Devices, Handheld Devices, and Others.   In the context of Application, the market is separated Personal and Professional.   On the basis of Sales Channel, the market is categorized into Online and Offline.   The market is geographically divided into five regions: Europe, South America, the Asia-Pacific, North America, and the Middle East and Africa.   North America and Asia Pacific are estimated to support the market growth during the forecast period in terms of the large presence of market players combined with high expenditures on technological advancements in consumer electronics.      Global Consumer Electronics Market Segmentation Details:       Based on Product Type,   home appliances segment accounted for major market share of consumer electronics market due to rising popularity for smart household devices including television, washing machine, refrigerator, and others. The rising adoption of advanced technologies is promoting the growth of home appliances in consumer electronics market.     Based on Application,   personal segment is expected to grow during the forecast period owing to rising adoption of advanced technologies and increasing use of electronic devices for daily life. Additionally, rising popularity for smart wearable devices is boosting the growth of personal segment in consumer electronics market. Thus, the increasing demand for household devices is driving the growth of personal consumer electronics market.     Based on Sales Channel,   online segment is projected to grow during the forecast period due to rising adoption of online shopping platforms for greater convenience. Additionally, increasing internet penetration id boosting the growth of online platform in consumer electronics market.     Based on region   , Asia Pacific region is expected to grow during forecast period owing to existence of key market players including Sony, Panasonic, LG, and others. Additionally, increasing popularity for smart home appliances to provide better convenience is driving the growth of consumer electronic market in Asia Pacific region. Additionally, rising adoption of smart wearable devices is promoting the growth of consumer electronics market.     Browse Full Report     With Table Of Content (TOC)     @       Global Consumer Electronics Market Segmentation:        By Product Type     Home appliances   Smart devices   Handheld devices   Others      By Application     Personal   Professional      By Sales Channel     Online   Offline       Others Research Reports:-    consumer electronics sensors market Size, Share & Trends Analysis, By Product Type (Image Sensors, Motion Sensors, Position Sensors, Pressure Sensors, Temperature Sensors and Touch Sensors), By Application (Communication, Entertainment, IT, Home Appliances, and Others), By Region and Segment, Forecast Period 2022 - 2030 mems accelerometer for consumer electronics market Size By Types( 1-axis MEMS Accelerometer, 2-axis MEMS Accelerometer, 3-axis MEMS Accelerometer, 6-axis MEMS Accelerometer, 9-axis MEMS Accelerometer), By Application( Video Games, Mobile Phones, Others), By Regional(North America, Europe, South America, Asia Pacific, Middle East And Africa), Post COVID-19 Impact Analysis, Price Trends, Competitive Shares, Market Statistics and Forecast 2022 - 2030 microcontroller market Size, Share & Trends Analysis, By Product (8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit) Application (Automotive, Consumer Electronics & Telecom, Industrial, Medical Devices, Aerospace & Defense, and Others), By Region, Forecast Period 2022 - 2030 power inductors market Size By Types( SMD Power Inductors, Plug-in Power Inductors), By Application( Mobile Phone, Consumer Electronics, Computer & Office, Automotive, Industry, Telecom/datacomm, Others), By Regional(North America, Europe, South America, Asia Pacific, Middle East And Africa), Post COVID-19 Impact Analysis, Price Trends, Competitive Shares, Market Statistics and Forecast 2022 - 2030 graphene electronic market Size, Regional Trends, Growth, By Regions (North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, South America, Middle East And Africa), Segment Analysis, Key Technology Landscape, Market Dynamics, and Forecast (2023-2030)  Tags consumer electronics market consumer electronics industry consumer electronics position sensors motion sensors Related Links   clock jitter cleaners market   electronics contract manufacturing market   gesture recognition in consumer electronics market   power inductors market   optoelectronics market   sic-based power electronics and inverter market   semiconductor assembly and test services (sats) market   MENAFN20032023004107003653ID1105819014 New York, March 20, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Global consumer Electronics market report by Reports Insights reveals that the market experienced a value of USD 740.79 Billion in 2022 and is expected to record a market size of more than USD 1063.39 Billion by 2030, exhibiting a CAGR of 4.62%. Global Consumer Electronics Market By Product Type (Home Appliances, Smart Devices, Handheld Devices, and Others), Application (Personal and Professional), Sales channel (Online and Offline), and By Region, Forecast Period 2023 – 2030.   Recent Developments     List of Major Global Consumer Electronics Market Players   The market research report examines various market factors to determine the key drivers, limitations, and opportunities affecting market players. The report includes a SWOT analysis, regional analysis, and segment analysis to give a complete view of the market situation. This evaluation helps to identify possible growth opportunities through the implementation of technology, Product utilization, business strategies, and the launch of new Products. The following are major market players operating in the market environment -    Apply for Free Sample Report   @    The consumer electronics are the electronic devices used by the individuals in daily life. The electronic devices comprise of household appliances including refrigerator, television, washing machine, air conditioner, and other along with smart wearable devices as well as handheld devices such as laptop, computer, tablets, and other. The devices are used for commercial as well as non-commercial purpose owing to the multi functionalities offered by consumer electronics sector. Advancement of technologies is driving the growth of consumer electronics market. Rising popularity for compact sized wearable devices including earbuds, smartwatches, smart glasses, and others is promoting the growth of consumer electronics market. Additionally, rising work from home trend is increasing the adoption of computing devices resulting to drive the growth of consumer electronics market.  Moreover, companies are focusing and development of technologies to implement advanced features, resulting to increase the growth of consumer electronics market. The increasing demand of wide screen television is driving the growth of consumer electronics for better visualization. Additionally, rising popularity for smart home appliances is propelling the demand of consumer electronics market. Thus, increasing investment in R&D activities by the major market players and rising demand for smart household appliances is driving the growth of consumer electronics market.     Consumer Electronics Market     Scope Snapshot:-       immediate delivery available , inquiry or customization request           Key Market Highlights       Global Consumer Electronics Market Segmentation Details:       Based on Product Type,   home appliances segment accounted for major market share of consumer electronics market due to rising popularity for smart household devices including television, washing machine, refrigerator, and others. The rising adoption of advanced technologies is promoting the growth of home appliances in consumer electronics market.     Based on Application,   personal segment is expected to grow during the forecast period owing to rising adoption of advanced technologies and increasing use of electronic devices for daily life. Additionally, rising popularity for smart wearable devices is boosting the growth of personal segment in consumer electronics market. Thus, the increasing demand for household devices is driving the growth of personal consumer electronics market.     Based on Sales Channel,   online segment is projected to grow during the forecast period due to rising adoption of online shopping platforms for greater convenience. Additionally, increasing internet penetration id boosting the growth of online platform in consumer electronics market.     Based on region   , Asia Pacific region is expected to grow during forecast period owing to existence of key market players including Sony, Panasonic, LG, and others. Additionally, increasing popularity for smart home appliances to provide better convenience is driving the growth of consumer electronic market in Asia Pacific region. Additionally, rising adoption of smart wearable devices is promoting the growth of consumer electronics market.     Browse Full Report     With Table Of Content (TOC)     @       Global Consumer Electronics Market Segmentation:       Others Research Reports:-    consumer electronics sensors market Size, Share & Trends Analysis, By Product Type (Image Sensors, Motion Sensors, Position Sensors, Pressure Sensors, Temperature Sensors and Touch Sensors), By Application (Communication, Entertainment, IT, Home Appliances, and Others), By Region and Segment, Forecast Period 2022 - 2030 mems accelerometer for consumer electronics market Size By Types( 1-axis MEMS Accelerometer, 2-axis MEMS Accelerometer, 3-axis MEMS Accelerometer, 6-axis MEMS Accelerometer, 9-axis MEMS Accelerometer), By Application( Video Games, Mobile Phones, Others), By Regional(North America, Europe, South America, Asia Pacific, Middle East And Africa), Post COVID-19 Impact Analysis, Price Trends, Competitive Shares, Market Statistics and Forecast 2022 - 2030 microcontroller market Size, Share & Trends Analysis, By Product (8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit) Application (Automotive, Consumer Electronics & Telecom, Industrial, Medical Devices, Aerospace & Defense, and Others), By Region, Forecast Period 2022 - 2030 power inductors market Size By Types( SMD Power Inductors, Plug-in Power Inductors), By Application( Mobile Phone, Consumer Electronics, Computer & Office, Automotive, Industry, Telecom/datacomm, Others), By Regional(North America, Europe, South America, Asia Pacific, Middle East And Africa), Post COVID-19 Impact Analysis, Price Trends, Competitive Shares, Market Statistics and Forecast 2022 - 2030 graphene electronic market Size, Regional Trends, Growth, By Regions (North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, South America, Middle East And Africa), Segment Analysis, Key Technology Landscape, Market Dynamics, and Forecast (2023-2030) MENAFN20032023004107003653ID1105819014 MENAFN20032023004107003653ID1105819014 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN