* India has strong design and R&D capabilities in auto electronics and industrial economics. India is the second-largest manufacturer of mobile phones in the world and will be the fifth-largest consumer of electronic products by 2025.​ * In FY24, the exports of electronic goods was recorded at US$ 29.11 billion as compared to US$ 23.57 billion during FY23, registering a growth of 23%. * India committed to reach US$ 300 billion worth of electronics manufacturing and exports of US$ 120 billion by 2025-26.​ * India is home to considerable talent for electronic chip design and embedded software. * The production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes will provide companies opportunities to establish manufacturing plants in India.​ * Major Government initiatives such as ‘Digital India’, ‘Make in India’ and supportive policies including favorable FDI Policy for electronics manufacturing have simplified the process of setting up manufacturing units in India.​ * In March 2024, the Cabinet approved a massive Rs. 1.26 trillion (US$ 15.2 billion) investment in three semiconductor plants, signifying India's technological progress.​ * India and Taiwan plans a US$ 7.5 billion chip plant deal, potentially boosting India’s semiconductor manufacturing with anticipated tariff reductions on components.​ The Indian electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM) sector is one of the fastest growing sectors in the economy and is witnessing a strong expansion in the country. The ESDM market in India is well known internationally for its potential for consumption and has experienced constant growth. Indian manufacturers are attracting the attention of multinational corporations due to shifting global landscapes in electronics design and manufacturing capabilities, as well as cost structures. Companies from all over the world are striving to develop local capacities in India not only to serve the domestic market but also to cater to international markets. The Electronics System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) industry includes electronic hardware products and components relating to information technology (IT), office automation, telecom, consumer electronics, aviation, aerospace, defence, solar photovoltaic, nano electronics and medical electronics. The industry also includes design-related activities such as product designing, chip designing, Very Large-Scale Integration (VLSI), board designing and embedded systems. India witnessed a substantial spike in demand for electronic products in the last few years; this is mainly attributed to India’s position as second-largest mobile phone manufacturer worldwide and surge in internet penetration rate. The Government of India attributes high priority to electronics hardware manufacturing, as it is one of the crucial pillars of Make in India, Digital India, and Start-up India programs. The Electronics System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) sector plays a vital role in the government’s goal of generating US$ 1 trillion of economic value from the digital economy by 2025. With various government initiatives aiming to boost domestic manufacturing, India has already started witnessing initial movement with increased production and assembly activities across products such as mobile phones and other consumer electronics. The Indian electronics manufacturing industry is projected to reach US$ 520 billion by 2025. The demand for electronic products is expected to rise to US$ 400 billion by 2025 from US$ 33 billion in FY20. Electronics market has witnessed a growth in demand with market size increasing from US$ 145 billion in FY16 to US$ 215 billion in FY19—the market witnessed a growth of 14% CAGR from 2016-19. Electronics system market is expected to witness 2.3x demand of its current size (FY19) to reach US$ 160 billion by FY25. The top products under the ESDM sector with the highest CAGR include IT/OA at 54%, followed by industrial electronics at 38% and automotive electronics at 10%. In FY24, the exports of electronic goods were recorded at US$ 29.11 billion as compared to US$ 23.57 in FY23. During April- February 2024, the imports of electronics goods stood at US$ 1,626 million. Electronics design segment, growing at 20.1%, was 22% of the ESDM market size in FY19; it is anticipated to be 27% of the ESDM market size in FY25. India is one of the largest consumer electronics markets in the Asia Pacific Region and is home to considerable talent for electronic chip design and embedded software. India has committed to reach US$ 300 billion worth of electronics manufacturing and exports of US$ 120 billion by 2025-26. Major Government initiatives such as ‘Digital India’, ‘Make in India’ and supportive policies including a favourable FDI Policy for electronics manufacturing have simplified the process of setting up manufacturing units in India. India is the second fastest digitizing economy amongst the 17 leading economies of the world. The Government of India aims to make Electronics Goods amongst India’s 2-3 top-ranking exports by 2026. Electronics Goods exports are expected to increase from the projected US$ 15 billion in 2021-22 to US$ 120 billion by 2026. India emerged as the second-largest manufacturer of mobile phones in the world, with a production value of mobile devices reaching US$ 49.16 billion in 2024. Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi participated in the event named India's Techade: Chips for Viksit Bharat and laid the foundation stone for three semiconductor projects valued at Rs. 1.25 lakh crore (US$ 14.97 billion) on 13th March 2024. Major Government initiatives such as ‘Digital India’, ‘Make in India’ and supportive policies including a favorable FDI Policy for electronics manufacturing have simplified the process of setting up manufacturing units in India. Post-COVID, the Government of India aims to increase India’s contribution by around US$ 400 billion worth of electronics goods including exports worth US$ 120 billion, which would account for 9-10% of the overall global value chains, from the current supply potential of 1-2%. Union Budget 2023-24 has allocated Rs. 16,549 crore (US$ 2 billion) for the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, which is nearly 40% higher on year. The budget for FY23 had allocated Rs. 14,300 crore (US$ 1.73 billion) for the IT ministry. The Indian startup ecosystem is experiencing a surge over the years, due to rapid technological advancements, increasing internet penetration, growing digital infrastructure, rising startup culture, government initiatives like Digital India, Make in India, and Startup India, as well as a large pool of skilled workforce. India has witnessed an exceptional surge in the creation and funding of startups as the country has solidified its position as a major global centre for innovation and businesses. However, securing adequate funding remains a significant task for startups, often leading to survival challenges. In 2023, the funding scenario for tech startups turned bleak amid the global uncertainty, witnessing a 67% YoY plunge in total funding to US$ 6.0 billion. This decline came after the peak funding levels observed in 2021 (US$ 24.1 billion) and 2022 (US$ 18.2 billion), where investors displayed confidence in Indian tech startups. In 2023, the number of deals declined to 824. However, the decline appears to be cyclical than a long-term trend. STPI Signs MoUs to strengthen tech startup ecosystem: AIC STPINEXT Initiatives (STPINEXT), a special purpose vehicle of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), an organisation under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has signed two memorandums of understanding (MoUs), one with HDFC Bank, and another with Excelpoint Systems India Pvt. Ltd., a niche technology player for fostering entrepreneurship and nurturing tech startups in the country. These partners would play a critical role in supporting and handholding the startups in the growth journey through technical guidance & assistance, mentoring, pitching to investors, funding support, and market connect & access etc. Some of the investments/ developments in the Electronics System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) sector in the recent past are as follows: The Government of India has adopted a few initiatives for the ESDM sector in the recent past, some of these are as follows: Local electronics design and production are being positively influenced by ongoing domestic consumption, changing dynamics in the global supply chain, and a plethora of policy initiatives to assist indigenous manufacturing in the current period is most advantageous. The smooth implementation of new initiatives and the reversal of restrictive laws will go a long way toward boosting international business confidence in India's business environment and attracting manufacturing investments. In India, Sony, Samsung, LG Electronics, Panasonic, and other companies are the market leaders in the ESDM sector. Government efforts are concentrated on bridging the digital gap. Projects like "Digital India," "Smart Cities," "ePanchayats," "National Optical Fiber Network," etc. enhanced consumer demand for electronic goods around the nation. India's middle class is rapidly expanding, which has improved the affordability of electronics products. The demand for electronic goods has increased as consumers' preferences for products and devices with smart technology (like smart LED TVs) and inventive designs have changed and disposable incomes have increased. Continuous rise in personal disposable income in India increased to reach 2,410 in FY23, which is directly correlated with consumers' desire to spend money on electronics. Fueled by strong policy support, huge investments by public and private stakeholders and a spike in demand for electronic products, the ESDM sector in India has bright prospects ahead of it and is predicted to reach US$ 220 billion by 2025, expanding at 16.1% CAGR between 2019-2025. References: Media reports, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Make in India, Invest India, Union Budget 2022-23, Union Budget 2023-24, Press Information Bureau, News Articles In July 2024, India's total exports were US$ 62.42 billion (up 2.81%), with April-July 2024 exports stood at US$ 261.47 billion. In July 2024, India's total exports were US$ 62.42 billion (up 2.81%), with April-July 2024 exports stood at US$ 261.47 billion. In the first half of 2024, India’s smartphone shipments hit 69 million, up 7.2% YoY, while the second quarter of 2024 saw 35 million units shipped, reflecting a 3.2% YoY rise. In the first half of 2024, India’s smartphone shipments hit 69 million, up 7.2% YoY, while the second quarter of 2024 saw 35 million units shipped, reflecting a 3.2% YoY rise. India's goal of becoming a US$ 35 trillion economy by 2047 is driving the manufacturing sector's shift towards automation, which is anticipated to enhance female recruitment and promote inclusivity, says TeamLease Services. India's goal of becoming a US$ 35 trillion economy by 2047 is driving the manufacturing sector's shift towards automation, which is anticipated to enhance female recruitment and promote inclusivity, says TeamLease Services. The premiumization trend in consumer electronics has surged, with an 11% value growth and a 1% increase in volume during the first half of 2024, reports GfK India. The premiumization trend in consumer electronics has surged, with an 11% value growth and a 1% increase in volume during the first half of 2024, reports GfK India. Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi lauded India's rise to the third-largest global position in electronics exports, crediting the nation's youth and ‘Make in India’ initiatives, fuelled by a surge in Apple iPhone exports. Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi lauded India's rise to the third-largest global position in electronics exports, crediting the nation's youth and ‘Make in India’ initiatives, fuelled by a surge in Apple iPhone exports. This growth is mainly attributed to increasing middle-class population, rising disposable incomes and declining electronics prices in the country. Union Minister of External Affairs, Dr. S. Jaishankar and Union Commerce an... Bharat Mobility Global Expo 2024

1 – 3 Feb 2024, Bharat Mandapam, ... India has been one of the fastest growing economies in the world and has demonstrated remarkable flexibility and adaptability. During the past few dec... The Indian manufacturing sector provides livelihood to more than 14 million people (43.4% of the workforce) and contributes ~16% to India’s GDP.... The Indian pharmaceutical industry has proved to be the major player in the domestic and international market. This supremacy has been achieved throug... In 2023, India emerged as the biggest gaming market globally with 568 milli... Fintech has evolved in India, changing how financial services work by using... India has set a target of achieving US$ 7 trillion GDP by 2030, for which g... All material, information, data, images or content on this website is

                    subject to copyright or other applicable intellectual property laws and no part of it can be

                    reproduced in any form (including paper or electronic form) without prior written consent and

                    approval from IBEF. Infringements are subject to prosecution under the applicable laws. For consent

                    related queries and conditions, please write to info.brandindia@ibef.org Copyright © 2010-2024 India Brand Equity Foundation  
 Not a member