Dallas-based Jacobs announced that Claudia Jaramillo will become executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective Aug. 14. Jacobs is one of the largest professional companies in the world. She currently is executive vice president, strategy and corporate development, and she will succeed Kevin Berryman, who will then serve as special advisor to Jacobs Chief Executive Officer Bob Pragada, who assumed that role earlier this month succeeding Steve Demetriou. “Claudia’s record of leadership and operational execution ideally positions her to serve as Jacobs’ next CFO and further advance our ‘Boldly Moving Forward’ strategy. Since joining Jacobs last year, Claudia’s strategic thinking and financial acumen have already made a considerable impact,” Pragada said in a statement. “She has a deep understanding of the compelling growth opportunity across our strategic accelerators of climate response, data solutions, and high value consulting and advisory, and her diverse background driving innovative solutions for multi-national companies across industrial sectors aligns with our own ambitious growth objectives. Her experience in driving cultural transformation will further enhance our continued commitment to create a diverse and inclusive company like no other that attracts and retains best in class talent.” Jacobs said that Jaramillo has a proven track record of driving continuous operational improvement and disciplined capital allocation through complex business cycles. Jaramillo came to Jacobs in July 2022 in her current role following more than 20 years with Schlumberger, the world’s largest energy services company. During her tenure there, Jaramillo successfully led multiple global operational finance roles, including most recently leading strategic capital deployment as head of treasury, Jacobs said. Pragada praised Berryman for his contributions to the company. “As a key member of our executive leadership team since 2014, Kevin has been instrumental in transforming Jacobs to a higher growth, higher value technology enabled solutions provider. During his tenure, Kevin has been a proactive partner in forming and implementing our strategies and has driven strong financial performance focused on disciplined cost control, robust cash flow generation and effective capital deployment, in addition to committed leadership to our cultural transformation,” Pragada said.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Pathlock's recent mergers, acquisitions, and capital raises have enabled the company to address the increasing risk in application security while establishing its leadership position as the industry's most complete 360-degree platform for application security and controls automation. Plano ISD partners with Capital One for the Savings Success program to take some of the myths out of money and turn them into financial facts. Dallas-Fort Worth-based Angela Floyd has been appointed as chief financial officer of California-headquartered DPR Construction, one of the nation's top technical builders. The company said that Floyd has nearly two decades of experience as a seasoned strategist, providing oversight of financial services, financial reporting and analysis, tax, treasury, and internal audit functions. In this role, the company said Floyd will work to capitalize on the wide range of opportunities that come with being a forward-thinking, global organization in concert with the development and implementation of best-in-class enterprise processes, metrics, and financial controls that continuously help to improve service, quality, and… RumbleOn Inc., the nation's first technology-based omnichannel powersports platform, has promoted Blake Lawson to be the Irving-based company's chief financial officer, a role in which he will serve as a member of the executive leadership team and report directly to RumbleOn's Chief Executive Officer Marshall Chesrown. Previously, Lawson, 51, was chief financial officer for the RideNow group of powersports retailers, and the Coulter Automotive Group, since 2020. "Blake brings knowledge and experience in the financial management of powersports that is unparalleled in the industry, and I am very excited to leverage his extensive powersports background, as we execute on our… David McKeever has been named chief executive officer of Refugee Services of Texas, the state's leading refugee resettlement agency and a key provider of services for survivors of human trafficking. In 2021, McKeever became chief financial officer of Refugee Services of Texas and took on additional duties last fall as interim CEO, the agency said. "The Board of Directors has been thoroughly impressed by David's tenure as CFO and as Interim CEO," Omar Khan, president of the board of directors of Refugee Services of Texas, said in a statement. "After an exhaustive search for a new CEO, we believe David's… North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.