Boomerangs in Jamaica Plain. (Google) A recent donation to a Boston thrift store prompted a hazmat response last week. Boomerangs, a store at 716 Centre St. in Jamaica Plain, received a donation of a small lead container with a screw top last week, which was recognized on Thursday by an employee as an antique “lead pig,” which was once used to transport radioactive materials, the store’s manager wrote on Facebook. The store’s staff contacted Fenway Health, which owns the store, as well as Boston Fire Department and the Boston Hazardous Materials Response Team.  Hazmat responders determined that while the object had been used to hold a radioactive material that is usually powdered, and that it did contain low-level Type A radiation, Bob Johnson, director of safety, security and facilities at Fenway Health, said in a statement.  Three Boomerangs employees who had handled the object without gloves before realizing what it was were brought to Boston Medical Center for testing but were released later that night. “The store is safe and everyone who was present on Wednesday and Thursday should not be worried about exposure,” the store manager wrote. “All of our tests came out okay and we’re all resting and recovering after the ordeal.” The store was closed Friday because of the emotional impact of the incident on its staff, but reopened Saturday.  Johnson said the incident is believed to have been an accident, not malicious. “The Boston Police Department does not deem this as a criminal act, but until their investigation is complete, we will remain on high alert for this location to keep our store and employees safe,” Johnson wrote. “This appears to be someone with good intent to make a donation who didn’t realize what this item may have been.” Boomerangs is operated by AIDS Action and all proceeds from its three locations directly help fund work to prevent new HIV infections and improve the lives of those living with HIV/AIDS, according to its website. The store’s other locations are in Central Square in Cambridge and in the South End in Boston. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices