Jun. 26—MINERAL WELLS — Well, it's about time. Mineral Wells welcomed the official arrival on Friday of its designation by the Texas Legislature as the Wellness Capital of Texas. Gov. Greg Abbott signed the joint House/Senate resolution on June 18 deepening Mineral Wells' niche as a healthy place to live and visit. "Mineral Wells — there's no better place," GOP Rep. Glenn Rogers, author of the bill, told some 60 Crazy Town community members beneath the four-story skylights in the bright Crazy Water Hotel Pavilion. "We serve everyone that comes in our office Crazy Water," Rogers said, citing the underground elixir that is the foundation of the city's perch on wellness. "And they know about Mineral Wells." City supporters found cards on their seats depicting a dandelion with a Lone Star center. The city logo symbolizes the resilience and rejuvenation displayed in features such as the reborn hotel around them. Elements of the city's wellness character bubble up from the mineral rich water, believed to be therapeutic for drinking or bathing. They include more than 30 miles of hiking/biking trails through what locals call the northern gate to the Texas Hill Country. Clark Gardens Botanical Park, four lakes and three state parks, Mineral Wells Fossil Park, a community based farmer's market and the Brazos River help ensure people are likely to leave Mineral Wells healthier than they arrived. Although Rogers is not from Mineral Wells, he said his great-great-grandparents, Tank and Lula Holt, had a hotel and a hardware store in Crazy Town during the era when Classic Era Hollywood stars arrived for the city's first splash as a wellness destination. Rogers filed House Concurrent Resolution 4 on the first day lawmakers could file bills, about six weeks before their session started in Austin. "I'm so happy to have a small part in the great things that are going on in Mineral Wells," he told the crowd. Mayor Regan Johnson, who testified before a House committee weighing the bill, told the group the next job is to "champion" the city's designation. "This now is official," she said. "So, welcome to the Wellness Capital of Texas." The mayor later said the motto is a tool in the city's economic toolbox. "It's one more thing we can use, when working with our Parks and Rec Department, the airport, for economic development," she said. "And it's a recruiting tool, for quality of life in Mineral Wells." Rogers also said Johnson and others who went to Austin to bat for the bill can take the credit for it not being watered down to, say, Wellness Capital of North Central Texas. "I think Mineral Wells did such a good job with (testifying to) the mineral water and the history," he said. "We did not have any opposition that I'm aware of." Rose Jordan, director of tourism and marketing for the Mineral Wells Area Chamber of Commerce, had opened the celebration looking ahead. "And we are just getting started," she said. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.