A Dec. 31, 2022, video on Facebook video features several people discussing an upcoming pandemic preparedness exercise involving the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. “It's starting, Bill Gates announces the next pandemic date and outbreak location,” reads the caption on the video. The video was viewed more than 100,000 times in 11 days Follow us on Facebook! Like our page to get updates throughout the day on our latest debunks The exercise referenced in the video gave Bill Gates and several former and current public health officials a chance to strategize for a fictional future pandemic. It was not a prediction or announcement of when the next pandemic will occur. Health officials and nonprofits have conducted similar exercises for more than two decades. The event referenced in the video is called "Catastrophic Contagion," a tabletop exercise conducted in October 2022 in which Gates and various public health officials addressed a fictional future pandemic. "The goal of the fictional exercise was to highlight gaps in pandemic preparedness and to generate ideas for initiatives that countries could take now to improve the world’s collective ability to save lives and livelihoods during future pandemics," Cagla Giray, director of communications for the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, told USA TODAY in an email. A spokesperson for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation also said the claim that the exercise was a prediction or announcement of the next pandemic was false. The exercise revolved around a fictional outbreak in one part of the world that rapidly grew into a pandemic. The pathogen in the scenario had a higher fatality rate than COVID-19 and “disproportionately affected children and young people,” according to the website for the exercise. Giray stressed that the details of the scenario were not a prediction. “The pathogen in the exercise was imagined purely as an educational technique to help the participants contend with the types of policy dilemmas that are foreseeable during large-scale public health emergencies,” Giray said. Such exercises have been commonplace for more than two decades. Gates and Johns Hopkins also teamed up on an exercise featuring a fictional coronavirus in 2019. The similarities between that scenario and the COVID-19 pandemic fueled conspiracy theories that USA TODAY previously debunked. Lauren Ancel Meyers, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Texas, said tabletop exercises and other simulations are important tools for preparing responses to public health emergencies. She was not involved in the Johns Hopkins exercises, but she noted that some of the challenges at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic “were things we just did not expect to happen.” ** Many simulations assumed an influenza outbreak would be the next pandemic and “the playbook was just different enough,” said Meyers, who is directing the establishment of the University of Texas Center for Pandemic Decision Science. Fact check: A Bill Gates-backed pandemic simulation in October did not predict COVID-19 USA TODAY reached out to the user who shared the video for comment. Reuters also debunked the claim. Cagla Giray, Jan. 11, Email exchange with USA TODAY Lauren Ancel Meyers, Jan. 6, Phone interview with USA TODAY USA TODAY, March 26, 2020, Fact check: A Bill Gates-backed pandemic simulation in October did not predict COVID-19 Nature journal, Aug. 4, 2020, Two decades of pandemic war games failed to account for Donald Trump Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation spokesperson, Jan. 11, Email exchange with USA TODAY Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, accessed Jan. 6, Catastrophic Contagion, a high-level pandemic exercise in 2022 Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, accessed Jan. 6, Event 201, a pandemic exercise to illustrate preparedness efforts Politico, Sept. 14, 2022, How Bill Gates and partners used their clout to control the global Covid response — with little oversight Reuters, Dec. 15, 2022, Fact Check- ‘Catastrophic Contagion’ video is fictional and does not support claims about pandemic preparedness exercises Thank you for supporting our journalism. You can subscribe to our print edition, ad-free app or electronic newspaper replica here. Our fact-check work is supported in part by a grant from Facebook. This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Fact check: ‘Catastrophic Contagion’ tested pandemic preparedness Prosecutors in New York are taking no position on former President Donald Trump's request to delay sentencing of his "hush money" conviction until after the November election.  Instead, the Manhattan district attorney's office said in a letter Monday it would defer to Judge Juan Merchan.  Trump is currently scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 18 after a jury convicted him of all 34 felony counts of falsifying business records related to a hush payment to porn actress Stormy Daniels. In a presidential campaign like no other -- and just four weeks after President Joe Biden bowed out of the race -- Democrats are gathering in Chicago this week to nominate Vice President Kamala Harris as their candidate to take on former President Donald Trump.  Democratic National Committee delegates will vote on the party's 2024 platform at its convention on Monday evening, according to officials.  The document, which was written before President Joe Biden left the 2024 race, was voted upon by the DNC's Rules Committee in July. "Boy Meets World" alum Danielle Fishel is opening up about her breast cancer diagnosis.  The 43-year-old actress, who played Topanga Lawrence on the beloved coming-of-age sitcom, revealed the news on the Aug. 19 episode of "Pod Meets World," the podcast she hosts with fellow "Boy Meets World" co-stars Rider Strong and Will Friedle.  "So, I would like to share something with our listeners, something that Rider and Will were actually two of the first people I told the news to," Fishel said at the top of the episode. The catalyst for drinking less, or not at all, is unique for each individual but can range from physical health reasons to mental clarity.  The topic and trend was recently highlighted on the newest season of "Emily in Paris," in which the title character explains that mostly Gen Z and millennials who adopt a wellness approach to their relationship with alcohol, though perhaps not fully sober, have started to explore not drinking.  "You might not be 100% sober, but you are interested in drinking less," Hilary Sheinbaum, author of the "Going Dry" workbook and guide to drinking less, told "Good Morning America." Ukraine has reportedly destroyed a third and last key bridge in an area of Russia's Kursk region, according to Russian military bloggers, inflicting a potentially significant blow on Moscow's struggling efforts to push back Ukraine's incursion there.  Ukraine and Russia have not officially confirmed the bridge has been destroyed.  The destruction of the third bridge over the Seym river at Karyzh would mean Russian troops on a broad stretch of the border beyond the river would now largely cut off, according to military analysts tracking the conflict. A group with ties to former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, which has spent millions targeting Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz ahead of his congressional primary this week, concedes that the MAGA firebrand will likely win big on Tuesday -- but those close to the group say their efforts will extend beyond that race and claim they have put a dent in Gaetz's long-rumored plans to run for statewide office.  The effort marks the latest chapter in the ongoing feud between the Florida congressman and the former speaker, whose allies at the Freedom Patriots PAC have spent $3 million supporting Gaetz's Republican primary opponent, former Navy pilot Aaron Dimmock, by attacking Gaetz -- saturating his district with ads that revive past allegations, including accusations that Gaetz paid a minor for sex, and highlighting his past friendship with former Florida tax collector Joel Greenberg, who was sentenced to 11 years in prison for sex trafficking and other crimes. For much of the 2024 campaign, President Joe Biden could easily see himself taking the stage at the Democratic National Convention to accept the party's nomination -- a victory lap as he sought a second term in the White House.  It comes after a rapid shuffle catapulted Vice President Kamala Harris to the top of the ticket as Biden exited the race amid Democrats' concerns about his age and ability to campaign reached a boiling point.  "This is extraordinary in a lot of ways in politics because sitting presidents don't often turn over the reins," said Jim Kessler, co-founder of the center-left think tank Third Way. Democrats are jubilant, preparing for a political party this week as they descend on Chicago for their convention.  In just a short time, Vice President Kamala Harris has energized her party as its de facto presidential nominee, riding a fawning social media wave and polling boost over President Joe Biden's numbers.  Democrats are "more hopeful than I've seen them in a long time, more enthusiastic and energized than I've seen them in a long time, nervous because they remember 2016," said former Sen. Doug Jones, D-Ala., a Harris ally, recalling Hillary Clinton's campaign versus Trump. Lowering health care costs will be a central theme at the Democratic National Convention this week, campaign and convention officials said on Monday, with Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont confirmed as one notable program speaker set to focus upon the issue -- specifically on "lowering Rx drug prices" and "taking on Big Pharma."  Each night "will bring the story of the Democratic party and our nominees to the American people," convention officials have said, and will help to further introduce Vice President Kamala Harris, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz and their agenda to the nation. After nearly two years of House Republicans vowing to investigate President Joe Biden and his family's business dealings -- while repeatedly falling short in substantiating their most significant claims -- the House Judiciary, Oversight, and Ways and Means Committees on Monday released a nearly 300-page impeachment inquiry report filled with familiar allegations against the president, who has already announced he will not seek a second term.  The report, released on the first day of the Democratic National Convention and the morning of the day the president is slated to speak, rehashes many of the allegations Republicans previously made against President Biden while alleging that they have uncovered "impeachable conduct." A 183-foot sailboat carrying 22 people sank early on Monday off the coast of the Italian island of Sicily following stormy weather in the area, killing at least one passenger, according to Italian officials.  Members of the coast guard have rescued 15 passengers, but six are still missing, according to the coast guard and a local port authority.  At least one American is believed to be among those still missing, with British and Canadian citizens also unaccounted for, the coast guard said in a statement. One man was killed and seven others were injured in a shooting in Baltimore late Sunday night, police said.  Several firearms were found at the scene of the shooting on the 1300 block of Spring Street when police arrived after 8 p.m., Baltimore Police Commissioner Richard Worley said at a press conference.  "There was a gathering over on Spring Street, and at some point, it looks like multiple people opened fire, and we end up with eight people shot and one deceased," Worley said, as reported by ABC News' Baltimore affiliate WMAR. Ernesto was upgraded to a Category 1 hurricane on Sunday night, with the National Hurricane Center warning of dangerous conditions for East Coast beaches.  The hurricane -- which over the past week has caused major power outages and flooding in Puerto Rico and Bermuda -- is out over the Atlantic, with maximum sustained winds up to 75 mph.  It made landfall in Bermuda early on Saturday, dumping 7 to 9 inches of rain and flooding parts of the island. A Georgia sheriff's deputy was shot and killed Saturday night while responding to a call about a domestic dispute, officials said.  Paulding County Sheriff Gary Gulledge identified the deceased deputy as Brandon Cunningham, a 30-year-old father of two.  "Tonight, we've lost a hero," Gulledge said. Pro-Palestinian voices both inside and outside the Democratic National Convention plan to make sure their complaints are heard at this week's gathering in Chicago, starting with a major march on Monday.  In addition to the tens of thousands who plan to protest near the site, 30 delegates elected to represent the "uncommitted" movement will be inside the convention advocating an anti-war agenda. A driver could face a possible murder charge after he allegedly struck and killed an innocent bystander on a sidewalk in Houston early Sunday while attempting to mow down his domestic partner, according to police.  The incident unfolded around 3 a.m. after patrol officers in the city's Midtown area responded to what they initially thought was a gunshot and found the mortally injured victim on the sidewalk, Robert Klementich, a spokesperson for the Houston Police Department, said during a news conference.  Witnesses, including the alleged intended target, told police the suspect and his domestic partner were involved in an altercation at a nightclub and left the establishment, Klementich said. The Ukrainian military destroyed a bridge inside Russia that had been critically important for carrying Russian supplies, marking the second such bridge destroyed within days, the Ukrainian Air Force said Sunday.  The bridge had crossed the river Seym in the Kursk region, the area in western Russia where Ukrainian forces have been carrying out a large-scale ground incursion.  Ukraine said last week it controlled some 80 settlements in Russia. A voter guide falsely purporting to show a slate of endorsements by the local Republican party hit mailboxes in St. John's County, sowing confusion just as the primary was about to kick off this month.  The latest salvo in what many say is already an overheated election cycle, the incident has brought attention to an intra-party slugfest being waged inside the local GOP, amid a fight for the future of how -- and how fast -- development should proceed in the area around historic St. Augustine.  "I saw the card, and I'm like, this is a real issue," St. John's County GOP Chair Denver Cook told ABC News. When a mob of Israeli settlers started attacking their village in the West Bank, Moaweya Seddeh said his two daughters, aged 6 and 2, were sitting in the front room, drinking juice, doing what young kids do.  One villager, Ahmad Seddeh called the violence on Jit a "savage attack." Vice President Kamala Harris will set out what Democratic officials are touting as a "bold vision for America's future" at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago next week, as her campaign looks to maintain the momentum that has so irked former President Donald Trump.  The Democratic National Convention Committee on Sunday released a list of speakers for the Chicago event, which will run from Monday to Thursday.  Each day will have a dedicated theme, bullet-pointing Harris' presidential pitch to voters.