Chilling footage caught by Burcu Saglam, just moments before she plunged to her death in northwest Turkey, has been revealed as police are now investigating the 22-year-old's tragic death A young woman unwittingly filmed her final moments before she was killed in a "fireball" plane crash.  Two people have been confirmed dead after a two-seater jet plunged to the ground in Osmangazi, Bursa Province, northwest Turkey.  Burcu Saglam, 22, captured her final moments onboard the jet, and even signed off the clip with the ominous caption "Byee".  The glamorous beautician shared a video on her Instagram page of her doomed flight, eerily capturing the moments before disaster struck.  Haunting images of the Turkish national's final moments show the light aircraft taking to the skies, before clipping an overhead power line with its wing - which caused it to go up in flames. The plane's pilot Hakan Koksal, 54, had reportedly taken off from the Pamukova, Sakarya Province, Turkey, at 3.13pm last Thursday, December 1. Footage taken by Burcu shows the plane taxiing on the runway, just moments before take-off. The flight seemed fine until disaster struck at 3.32pm. The plane was flying at an altitude of 1,200 metres (3,937 feet), and suddenly communication was lost. Tragically, the single-engine jet clipped an overhead power line with its wing, before it plunged to the ground in a fireball. The mangled wreckage of the aircraft was soon found in an empty lot in Osmangazi, Bursa Province, after workers at a nearby natural gas plant informed authorities about an object plunging from the sky. Immediately, a search and rescue team were dispatched to the scene. They found the bodies of Burcu and Yunuseli Sports Aviation Association President Hakan.  Bursa Mayor Alinur Aktas said that one is believed to have died when the plane caught fire after its wing hit a high-voltage overhead power line at the Ovaakca Natural Gas Cycle Power Plant.  The other, he said, is believed to have been ejected from the aircraft to their death However, he confirmed that no one on the ground was injured. Currently being investigated by police is what caused the plane to fly into the 380,000-volt line, as local media say that the journey was a "training flight". Local media reported that Burcu had told her parents that she was leaving home in search of a job. But they were unaware she had boarded the flight until they were informed of her death by authorities in a phone call. Burcu and Hakan have since been buried in different cemeteries in Bursa. But their autopsy reports are yet to be made public. As well as her grieving parents, Burcu - who had previously run a hair salon with her partner - also leaves behind two older sisters and a brother. Get email updates with the day's biggest stories