Y'all better fasten your seatbelts for "Highway to Health," a forward-thinking show and live event series exploring healthcare's future. Join our host and industry innovators as we embark on a transformative journey towards a healthier world, partner. And brace yourself – Season 2 is just around the bend! MarketScale  Most people have likely been impacted by a family member or friend who has had heart disease, and the statistics show that it certainly carries a heavy burden on society. Cardiac disease is responsible for 40.8 million disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) annually as well as 36.4 million years of life lost (YLLs) due to premature deaths, according to the Pan American Health Organization. We hear a lot of talk about preventative measures for cardiovascular disease such as eating healthy, exercising, and managing stress; but what is the healthcare system itself doing to change the way medical emergencies are addressed and become more proactive rather than reactive? On today’s episode of Highway to Health, Host David Kemp speaks with Steve Cashman, CEO of Caption Health, to discuss the mechanisms Caption Health is using to make imaging more accessible to all healthcare providers in order to prevent medical emergencies. Heart failure is the leading cause of death in the world, responsible for millions of global deaths. Yet, nobody has a picture of their heart until they have an emergency and are in the back of the ambulance, Cashman pointed out. Cashman provided some key statistics on just how devastating heart disease is. “More people died during COVID of heart failure than of COVID, and yet we don’t talk about it, right?” Cashman added, “And when we look at those 10,000 people that turn 65 every day, 7.6 percent of those will be diagnosed with heart failure, right, the year they turn 65.” Kemp and Cashman also discussed… Cashman likened echocardiogram issues to car checks, saying there is essentially no downside to checking. “It’s safe technology, it’s very inexpensive. We check the tires on our car, we do all these other kind of maintenance things that we do but the single thing that’s going to change your life—don’t wait until you’re in an ambulance to find out what it looks like, if it’s wearing thin, if the glass is broken or however you want to look at it. It’s totally manageable.” Cashman is President and CEO of Caption Health, Co-Founder and Chairman of patientgenie, SIP at Galen Partners, and Board Member at Stowe Mission. He has more than 20 years of experience as an entrepreneur and executive in the IT and healthcare industries. Cashman attended Kansas State University for degrees in Electrical Engineering and Business. Share Show The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) into healthcare revenue cycle management is becoming increasingly vital as organizations strive to optimize efficiency, reduce costs, and improve patient outcomes. As AI application in healthcare revenue gains traction, it’s crucial to distinguish between genuine AI innovations and surface-level automation. The right technology can significantly impact revenue cycle… Share Show The integration of cone beam CT imaging in research labs is revolutionizing orthopedic investigations. Dr. Zong-Ming Li, PhD, David Jordan, and Trevour Greene from the University of Arizona discuss the transformative impact of the InReach CT system from CurveBeam AI on their work. The Hand Research Laboratory at the University of Arizona focuses on solving… Share Show This case study focuses on the emerging industry of virtual nursing—a rapidly expanding field promising transformative changes to healthcare system management and patient care. Influential hospital leaders have shown significant interest in the adoption of these digital health tools, and anticipation is high for a substantial shift in the industry by 2024. Despite skepticism, virtual… 
                        MarketScale creates and publishes industry-leading B2B content for industries
                        ranging from Education to Retail, and Hospitality to Healthcare delivering
                        engaging and educational live shows, online learning courses,
                        virtual events and more.
                     Sign up to receive the latest in industry-leading B2B content. Get the latest from MarketScale Thank you for joining the MarketScale.  has successfully been added. Get the latest from How AI is Being Applied in Early Diagnosis Thank you for joining the How AI is Being Applied in Early Diagnosis.  has successfully been added.