Get daily celeb exclusives and behind the scenes house tours direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Get daily celeb exclusives and behind the scenes house tours direct to your inbox We have more newsletters  Gaz Beadle's wife Emma McVey has been rushed into hospital just five months after having open heart surgery.   The Geordie Shore star, 35, and his influencer wife had been on a family holiday to Corfu with their two young children, Chester, five, and Primrose, three, but have had to venture to hospital upon their return. Taking to Instagram on Friday, mum-of-two Emma opened up about her health woes with her 896K followers. In an intimate selfie snapped from her hospital bed, she can be seen hooked up to an intravenous drip. In the caption, she offered insight into her situation and penned: "Did not see myself back in here anytime soon but here I am [emoji] so glad we got back to the uk when we did, so glad I was admitted into hospital when I was." Fans rushed to the comments section to share their thoughts and well wishes for a speedy recovery. One said: "Oh no, thought you were finished with hospitals. Hope you are back to 100% soon." Another commented: "Hope you're ok", while a third said: "Sorry to hear this x. Get well soon". One fan added: "sometimes these are sent to test us and our strength [heart emojis] I hope you'll be ok".  Her hospital admittance comes just five months after she had open heart surgery. She was rushed into surgery in late January to fix three holes in her heart as well as to fix a valve, but shortly after the operation she suffered from a collapsed lung. Taking to her Instagram feed at the time, the brunette beauty issued an update alongside a photo of herself in a hospital bed surrounded by family while recovering. In the caption, she told her followers: "HeartMonth came into this month with a healthy heart, I’ll never be able to thank my surgeon, doctors, nurses and everyone else involved." Emma has continued to update followers throughout her recovery, opening about her surgery scars and telling fans to "never be ashamed". She shared a carousel of images to her Instagram page in March, just a few months after her operation. Captioning the pictures, she said: "Never be ashamed of a scars, your scars tell a story. They're a reminder of when life tried to break you but failed." Reality star Gaz and Emma have been married since July 2021, tying the knot in a stunning ceremony with their children by their side. READ MORE: Gaz Beadle's wife Emma says 'never be ashamed' as she shows off heart surgery scars 