Missing Massachusetts mom Ana Walshe posted a photo online that showed her with a suspicious injury above her left eye — only to later edit the caption before submitting a letter to a judge on her husband’s behalf in his art fraud case, “Mild concussion, bruised hip and a cut…#vulnerability,” reads the caption to the image posted May 21, 2018, but apparently edited about eight months ago. It’s unclear what the original caption was, but the edits come around the same time that Walshe penned a fawning letter about her art fraudster husband, Brian Walshe, in which she asked Judge Douglas Woodcock to impose a no-jail sentence for him. The real estate exec gushed about how much “joy” and “comfort” Brian brought the family — just months before he was charged with impeding the probe into her disappearance on New Year’s Day. “During these eight months, our family was able to be together during many of the milestones,” Ana wrote, referring to the time Brian had been on house arrest awaiting sentencing for selling two fake Andy Warhol paintings on eBay for $80,000. She also praised him for helping her mother when she suffered a brain aneurysm in December 2021. “Not only did he save her life, but he also brought her and the entire family comfort and joy during the course of her illness,” Ana wrote the judge on June 1, 2022. Social media users expressed their suspicions about the altered caption. “Definitely was the husband,” one wrote. Another also suggested that her spouse was to blame, writing, “Entirely suspicious.” Former Assistant US Attorney Neama Rahman told Fox News Digital that it is a “reasonable explanation” that Ana was “a victim of domestic violence.” “It’s just speculation, but this looks like she was punched,” he told the news outlet, which reported that Ana also had edited other posts before submitting the letter to the judge. “Please join my husband Brian as he hosts his workshop this evening at 7pm. Eventbrite link in bio,” reads one edited post. The Eventbrite event on Nov. 16, 2021, reportedly sought to help attendees find out how their “emotional world is standing in the way of your financial health.” Friends of the Walshes said she was acting strangely in the months leading up to her disappearance, promising “a big surprise” in the new year. They also said she had sold off assets, including an apartment and a car, for cash in late December. Earlier this week, police uncovered potential evidence in her disappearance, including a hatchet, a bloody rug and cleaning supplies while searching a trash facility in Peabody, a little over an hour from the couple’s home. Police also seized two dumpsters and a trash compactor from the condo complex where Brian’s mother lives in Swampscott, a neighbor has told The Post. Brian, who pleaded not guilty to a charge of hindering the police’s investigation, is being held on $500,000 bond. Advertisement