TechLila Bleeding Edge, Always TechLila  Computer There are a whole lot of interesting computer facts that are still dug down deep inside. However, for the present situation, we still have a good number of interesting facts about a computer that you probably did not know before. In general, you can also consider these as one of the most interesting facts about technology (not exactly computer facts). Though we have come far ahead and now have a variety of good computers or good laptop brands still, numerous fun facts about computers do exist. Unfortunately, the facts that amuse you aren’t necessarily the truth. So, we bring you a filtered list of the most interesting computer facts that you probably did not know before. Charles Babbage in 1833 invented all the parts that are now used for the modern computer. But the first ‘modern’ computer was invented only 120 years later. The Z1 was the first fully operational digital computer developed by Konrad Zuse in 1936. In 1939, he created the Z2 as the first electro-mechanical computer in the world. While Charles Babbage is being considered as the “father of the computer”, Zuse can be considered as the inventor of the “modern computer”. The first hard drives available were even bigger than a commercial fridge – another computer facts by which you will get amazed. Alan Turing is the father of theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence. In addition, the “Turing Machine” which is a mathematical model of computation was invented by him. The first disk drive to use removable media was the IBM 1311. You may not believe, but as you can see in the image below, it resembles the look of a washing machine. It was quite big, yet it had a storage capacity of fewer than 5 megabytes. Ada Lovelace (of course, a lovely lady!), an English mathematician and a writer, is considered as the first computer programmer. She is known for her work on the “Analytical Engine” (Charles Babbage’s early mechanical general-purpose computer). Her notes on the engine served as the first algorithm to be carried out by a machine. With the standard QWERTY keyboard, the longest word one can write is “Typewriter”. Douglas Engelbart introduced the first computer mouse to the world. It is now one of the most necessary computer peripheral. To our surprise, the body (or the base) was made of wood with metal wheels supporting to roll back and forth. Only it had a cord connected to it, which was interpreted as the tail of a mouse (the small cute rodent). Hence, it was termed as the “Mouse” for a computer. A normal human being blinks around 20 times a minute. But, when compared to a computer user, they blink just 7 times a minute on an average. Simply, we tend to concentrate more on the screen, so we usually blink a lot less in front of a computer than we do normally. Microsoft’s project to develop a new operating system was code-named “Interface Manager”. However, they found the term “Windows” more appealing, so they decided to name it – “Windows” but not “Interface Manager”. Amazon.com did not start as a complete e-commerce business but just as an online bookstore. Have you heard about the computer who can tell whether the smile is fake or real? Trust me, it is not a rumor. It is true, and a computer system developed at MIT can do that. On an average at least 6000 viruses are created every month. Scared? Simply switching to Linux OS should do the work because technically they do not get affected by viruses (almost). Did you know that with the help of USB flash drive you can brick a computer in seconds? All you need is the “USB Killer 2.0”. Check out some other Computer Tips that could be helpful to you. John Lasseter, who is now the Chief Creative Officer of Pixar was fired from Disney for promoting computer animation. The architects who were responsible for building Bill Gates’ private mansion claim that it was designed using a Mac program (obviously running on a Mac system). There might not be any evidence to give shape to this as a rock solid fact but it is still something interesting to discuss. The first 1 GB hard drive was announced by IBM in 1980 which had a price tag of $40,000! The US is at the highest risk of Virus attack followed by Russia Federation. The 12 engineers who made IBM PC were named as “The Dirty Dozen”. The first microprocessor 4004 which literally set the path for the modern computing era was developed by Intel. Surprisingly, it was meant to be used for a calculator. And, then it evolved. You will not be affected by viruses just by opening an email. It is only activated when you click a link or access an attachment. According to various statistical analysis, it is a fact that more than 80% emails sent are spam! ILOVEYOU is considered to be the most dangerous virus ever created in the form of a worm. It has the ability to replicate itself and crash the system. It arrived through e-mail messages as a love letter from a secret admirer. When a user opens the email and clicks on the attachment available, the virus starts its magic. ILOVEYOU, being potentially the most dangerous virus, did not do much damage as compared to the one which was the fastest spread virus program. MyDoom was the fastest-spreading virus ever created. The total damage done by MyDoom is a whopping $38 billion. If Xerox Alto (the first computer to support an Operating System based on a Graphical User Interface) would not have been designed, Apple Macintosh probably would have never existed. In 1936, the Russians made a computer that ran on water. QWERTY keyboard is not the most efficient keyboard layout. Instead, Dvorak keyboard is. Computer programming is the fastest growing job role than any other at present. In contrast, this job delivers the most eye strains you have ever got. 9 out of 10 of the world’s supercomputers run on Linux. So, now, don’t you think, Linux is appealing enough to be tried out at least once by every consumer present. Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Amazon are all powered by Linux. Yes, Linux is not among the most popular OS for the general consumers. But, Linux leads the Industry. It is widely considered that Open Source is better than proprietary. Well, you can definitely argue with the fact saying “proprietary” does come with benefits that Open source projects do not have. However, the number of advantages that come with an Open Source project is very high compared to what benefits one gets with the proprietary program. HotWired, now known as Wired.com, invented the web banner advertisement concept. Launch code for US nukes was 00000000 (eight 0’s). Is that for real? Well, yes, so we should feel that we were lucky enough that no “terrorist” did try launching the nuclear missiles,  one of the interesting technology facts you will not find anywhere on the Internet. Interesting computer technology facts about web browsers is – The first web browser was invented in 1990 by Sir Tim Berners-Lee. It was called as the “WorldWideWeb” (not to be confused with WWW). Later, it was renamed as the “Nexus“. The first website that went online was “info.cern.ch“, which was also created by Tim Berners-Lee at the research lab CERN 1990. To make users familiar with the graphical user interface (newly introduced then), Microsoft packed in the Solitaire game along with the operating system to let the users learn about controlling the movements and operations that can be done a mouse while utilizing the cursor to drag and drop the cards. Toy 2 Story movie file was accidentally deleted from the official workstations. However, an employee – a lady (Susman) – helped recover the movie from the files that she had on her personal computer. The first word to be transmitted over the Internet (when ARPANET existed) was “lo”. It was meant to denote – “login” but the system crashed before transmitting the complete message. You can operate a computer without an Operating System. It sure is an interesting computer fact – only if you know how to do it. The term “GPU” became more popular when NVIDIA released GeForce 256 in the year 1999. The world’s first commercial water-cooled PC was Apple’s Power Mac G5, that’s really one of the amazing computer facts When Apple’s power adapter (of a MacBook) had a teardown. It was found that the microcontroller used inside it was as powerful as the one used in the Macintosh computer (the first generation). INTERLAC was developed as an experiment to test the boundaries of a programming language. It includes a modifier – “PLEASE” – if not sufficiently used – the compiler treats it as an error. Other statements were like – “READ OUT”, “FORGET”, and “IGNORE”. UNIVAC I was the first commercial computer to be sold in the United States. The company (Eckert–Mauchly Computer Corporation) behind it was built by the same people who invented ENIAC. Whirlwind I was among the first vacuum-tube computer which operated in real-time and was meant to be used as a flight simulator for US Army. Programma 101 or P101 was the first commercial “desktop computer” invented by Pier Giorgio Perotto. The first computer (which was in essence – a mechanical computer) had no RAM. Intel 4004 was the first commercially available microprocessor with a maximum clock rate of 740 kHz. Williams tube was the first form of Random-access storage device. The trackball (which was later utilized for a mouse) was invented in 1946 by Ralph Benjamin for a fire control radar plotting system. Xerox PARC was the first computer to demonstrate the GUI (Graphical User Interface) Micral N was the first commercially available microprocessor-based computer. In the year 1969, 1 KB RAM was the largest memory chip by Intel. Scroll Lock key is the least utilized key on a keyboard. Many believe that it’s completely useless. One of the last facts about computers is about the popular Pixar movie – “Monsters University” – implemented technology ahead of its time that it took 29 hours to render a single frame. We have finally known about 32 of the best interesting computer facts that you have ever come across. We are sure that there remains a lot of interesting technology facts that are not mentioned in any of the articles considering various publications, but probably someone old enough knows more than we do at present. Category Tags 
Vijay  Wow, Actually I didn’t know about these facts. One more thing, still I love qwerty keyboards type. 
Mahesh Dabade  Hi Vijay, many of us are unaware of these computer related facts, so we decided to pick a few interesting ones and we are very much happy you liked it. 
Anees Shami  We use the internet, laptop, smartphone, and other accessories but we did not know, the origin of it. Your post tells a lot about technology and computer. Thanks for sharing such an interesting and informative post. Keep sharing more facts about technology and computer. 
Mahesh Dabade  Hi Anees, Thank you for your kind words. 
Ella A  Good article thank you! Interesting price tag for the first 1GB. 
Kumarpal Shah  Good article.Enough Windows. I m gonna use Linux now :p
But don’t know much about Linux that’s why I was scared a bit but anyhow I will learn. 
Mahesh Dabade  Hi Krupal, good idea, try should give a try to Linux atleast once. This will help you – https://www.techlila.com/topics/computer/linux/ 
Vatsal Gupta  Well, I must say I wasn’t aware of most of them except two or three. Computers are really the best thing human has created. 
Mahesh Dabade  Glad you liked it Vatsal. 
Sapna  Great resource, thanks for sharing. These facts are amazing, I was aware about only 2 or 3 of them. I was expecting the first website on simple coding and I wonder it is still the same. 
Gagan Chauhan  Brilliant post, Ankush! It was very nice to learn a few previously unknown facts. Thanks for sharing! I look forward to reading more posts like these! Cheers 
Singh  Extremely needed information, thanks a lot. Well, I must say I wasn’t aware of most of them except two or three. Computers are really the best thing human has created. 
Mahesh Dabade  Yes, computers and the internet have really revolutionized our world. 
Ish Sarwar  Hi,
Thanks for sharing. It’s interesting statistics about technology. Computers and the Internet are some of the best inventions and have change our lives. 
Mahesh Dabade  Yes Ish, they have really changed our lives and we are happy to know you liked the article :) 
Anil patil  Oh yes, this is a very helpful article about computers. I came to know about these facts today only. Digital marketing is a hot topic in the market. I heard about TechLila, this site helps us a lot. 
Mahesh Dabade  Thanks a lot, Anil, it really boosted our confidence. We will try to be better and better with each passing day. 
Dwayne Weiser  Interesting article, Ankush! Glad you were able to share these facts with us. Was definitely surprised to read the part about the price tag for the first 1 GB hard drive back in 1980. I think you had to sell a house back then in order to get one of those. :) 
Mahesh Dabade  Thank you, Dwayne, for your kind words :) 
MoBin  Wow, thanks for sharing these facts! I haven’t heard of them and is really amazed. Big big like. 
Aditya  Great collection of article. I have subscribed. thank you for the great content. 
Satish Panchal  Wired introduced web banner advertisements! That was a shocker. Good to know. Loved this one. Keep it up :) 
Steve  This is one of the best fact that I found here on the internet. This information is new to me and I was amazed to know about this all facts. 
Sumit Hariyani  Very nice and informative fact about technology. I haven’t heard of them and is really amazed. Thanks for sharing. 
Gagan Kamboj  Good to know these facts. One more thing Qwerty keyboard is best. :) Nice article thanks for sharing this amazing information. 
George  Good article thank you! An interesting price tag for the first 1GB. 
Sophia Addison  Its a very good knowledgeable article. In qwerty keyboard, we can type very fast still now. 
Dheeraj Singh  Thanks for letting me know about Dvorak Keyboard & also thanks for sharing this awesome fact. 
Donovan Bone  If technology has advanced this much in about 30 years imagine it in another 30! 
Vamert  Well using new modern technology is be good as long they will be using for humanity not for war. Like Bill Gates, he uses his excellent idea by just creating a usable document platform. 
George  If it keeps on advancing like that then we might as well inhabit another planet lol. 
Neha  Nice information. Everyone wants to gain the knowledge. You are doing a good job. Thanks a lot. 
Nishan Jariwala  Thank you, sir, this is a great article. Got some great thoughts and knowledge. 
Chandan Prasad  Really so interesting facts. Actually, I didn’t know about ILOVEYOU virus. But after reading that I Googled it and got some amazing knowledge. Thanks for sharing :) 
Amit Shah  If Xerox Alto (first computer to support an Operating System based on a Graphical User Interface) would not have been designed, Apple Macintosh probably would have never existed. Thats the great information for me. 
Neha Gupta  Interesting facts. I didn’t know about many things among these facts. Excellent post. 
Asna Ahmed  Extremely needed information, thanks a lot. Well, I must say I wasn’t aware of most of them except two or three. Computers are really the best thing human has created. Computers have become a very important part of our daily life. This awesome machine changed our lives in so many ways made everything so easy in every aspect whether for our business. 
Yogender Singh  I knew most of the facts but some were new to me. Definitely treat to read for computer lovers. 
Sohel Rana Sweet  Very important information, thanks for sharing. These facts are amazing, I was aware about only 2 or 3 of them. 
James  This is a list that I will certainly have to bookmark! I have learnt some amazing facts here and I really want to share it all with everyone else. Thanks to have taken time to put it all together. Keep it up, I will certainly look forward for your next post! 
Evelynn  Please write facts about the QWERTY keyboards >-< 
Radhika Jain  I never thought that the device I daily use has so many facts that were unknown by me. A big thank you for sharing this amazing post. 
Nikita Dikshit  Hi there, Firstly, thank you so much to share your knowledge, the blog was super informative. I can’t imagine these facts about the computer. Thank you so much. 
Kailash Dharaniya  Very interesting facts really. 
Sakitha  Awesome facts to know appreciate you work for your efforts and time Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *     

  Δ Hello and welcome to TechLila, the famous technology blog where you can find resourceful articles for mastering the basics and beyond. At TechLila, our main goal is to provide unique information, such as quality tips and tricks, tutorials, how-to guides on Windows, Macintosh, Linux, Android, iPhone, Security and a few miscellaneous sub-topics such as reviews. Custom Theme Using Genesis Framework Cloud hosting by Cloudways © Copyright  2012–2024 TechLila. All Rights Reserved.