MENU Business.com aims to help business owners make informed decisions to support and grow their companies. We research and recommend products and services suitable for various business types, investing thousands of hours each year in this process. As a business, we need to generate revenue to sustain our content. We have financial relationships with some companies we cover, earning commissions when readers purchase from our partners or share information about their needs. These relationships do not dictate our advice and recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates and recommends products and services based on their research and expertise. Learn more about our process and partners here. Advanced employee monitoring software like Teramind can help you track employee attendance, performance and computer use. At business.com, we strive to provide business owners with unparalleled recommendations for the best HR software and services, along with actionable advice for navigating human resources processes, fostering a healthy company culture and improving employee engagement. We infuse our playbooks and explainers with expertise from real HR advisers, payroll consultants, retirement planners and other human resources professionals. Across our HR reviews and product guides, every solution we recommend — whether it be a payroll platform, PEO/HRO service or employee monitoring software — is thoroughly tested, investigated and vetted independently to ensure vendor claims about products are legitimate and backed by real user experiences. As part of our commitment to fairness and accuracy, each assessment is reviewed by a top business.com editor who was not involved in the analysis process. Learn more about our editorial process. In determining the best employee monitoring software, we compared each product’s pricing, usability, functions and integrations. During our hands-on testing, we explored features like keystroke logging, time tracking and content filtering. We investigated whether... In determining the best employee monitoring software, we compared each product’s pricing, usability, functions and integrations. During our hands-on testing, we explored features like keystroke logging, time tracking and content filtering. We investigated whether the solution was secure and compliant with legal regulations, as well as its compatibility with different operating systems. Customer support options also factored into our analysis. evaluated researched chosen In determining the best employee monitoring software, we compared each product’s pricing, usability, functions and integrations. During our hands-on testing, we explored features like keystroke logging, time tracking and content filtering. We investigated whether the solution was secure and compliant with legal regulations, as well as its compatibility with different operating systems. Customer support options also factored into our analysis. evaluated researched chosen Employee monitoring software is an essential tool for businesses that want to verify that employees are using their time at work to accomplish the responsibilities and tasks assigned to them, not spending hours watching videos and trolling social media, or, worse, engaging in reckless or malicious behavior that jeopardizes the company. User activity monitoring can give you insight into how your employees spend their time each day, uncovering opportunities to improve productivity and cybersecurity. To find this year’s best employee monitoring solutions, we spent dozens of hours researching and testing all of the top options. We looked for affordable, easy-to-use software with comprehensive features for tracking employee productivity, such as app and website tracking, content filters, and screen capture. Here are the options we recommend. Security threat protection Workforce analytics Performance management Larger organizations Affordability No Yes No No No 7-14 days 14 days 7 days 7 days Demo only 5 1 None 5 or 10 1 $11.25-$35 per seat per month; custom rates for Enterprise users $0-$17 per user per month; custom rates for Enterprise users $4.95-$8.25 per employee per month (custom rates available) $15-$25 per user per month; custom rates available $9.99-$69.95 per license per year 4 4 (add-ons available) 2 (add-ons available) 4 6 Monthly and annual Annual Monthly Monthly and annual Annual Cloud and on-premises Cloud Cloud Cloud and on-premises Cloud Windows, Windows Server, Mac, Citrix, VDI, VMware Horizon, terminal servers Windows, Mac, Chrome Windows, Mac, Android, iOS Windows, Mac, terminal servers (VMWare Citrix), Chromebook, iOS, Android Windows, Mac Yes No No Yes Yes Both Both None Both Silent Phone, email, webchat Phone, email, webchat Phone, email, webchat Online ticket, phone Online ticket Teramind is not only the best employee monitoring software for security threat protection, but also one of the most comprehensive monitoring systems we reviewed. In addition to your employees’ behavior on webpages, apps, and social media, you can monitor their emails, browsers, online meetings, file transfers, chats, clipboards, searches, and printing activity. We like that you can establish the permissions each employee has by creating access control policies based on user roles. You can also remotely control devices if necessary, and you have access to audio and video recordings of all users’ activity. When we tested the software, we were pleased to see that you can set rules to prevent external drive usage and detect unusual or unauthorized network logins.  In this Teramind demo we conducted, you can see how easy it is to set up security settings, like behavior rules, within the platform. Source: Teramind *Teramind has a 5-seat minimum Teramind received an 8.1/10 rating from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers praised its user activity monitoring, insider threat detection and alert capabilities. However, because it has so many features, some users say the platform can be overwhelming for new users. CHECK OUT OUR FULL TERAMIND REVIEW ActivTrak is cloud-based employee monitoring software that has everything you need to track your employees’ behavior, productivity, efficiency, workload balance and goals. Its comprehensive analytics and reporting tools are why we recommend it as the best employee monitoring software for workforce analytics. We like how it tracks employees’ hours, productive vs. unproductive behavior, passive vs. active behavior, mouse movements and keyboard activity (except for keystrokes), and website and app usage. When we tested the software, we found that it can also help improve productivity through its integration with Google Workspace. This integration embeds employee work activity metrics into Google Workspace apps (e.g., Gmail, Calendar, Docs, Sheets and Slides), giving employees immediate visibility into their digital habits and workflows. By understanding their work habits, employees can redesign their workdays to minimize task-switching and increase productivity.  ActivTrak’s dashboard gives users a quick overview of workforce metrics. Source: ActivTrak ActivTrak received a 8.9/10 rating from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers praised the platform for its activity tracking, custom grouping, productivity insights, live reports and team management features. However, some users mention the dashboard functionality as a slight limitation, noting that it could use easier navigation. CHECK OUT OUR FULL ACTIVTRAK REVIEW BambooHR is not a standard employee monitoring program. It’s actually cloud-based HR software, but it has plenty of tools to help manage and track your employees, from the day you recruit them to their last day with your company. With its Pro plan, you gain access to several performance management features. For example, we like that it includes 360 feedback, peer feedback, assessment templates, double-blind assessments, custom review cycles and custom questions. When we tested the software, we found the goal and sub-goal tracking to be useful, as well as the ability to upload files and perform mobile assessments. Users can access pre-built reporting and segment data based on employee type (e.g., departments, managers, salary levels, location, types of employment). Because BambooHR bundles several features into one software platform, it’s ideal for busy business owners who want a streamlined way to manage employee performance as well as other HR functions.  BambooHR has a tab dedicated solely to employee performance. Source: BambooHR BambooHR received a 8.3/10 rating from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers praised the platform’s time-tracking features, implementation process, overall usability and customer support. However, some users mentioned limitations when it came to customizability. CHECK OUT OUR FULL BAMBOOHR REVIEW Veriato is a robust employee monitoring and insider threat detection solution suited for businesses in the finance, healthcare, government, and higher education sectors. The scope of Veriato’s monitoring capabilities is why we selected it as the best employee monitoring solution for larger organizations. We like that large businesses can use Veriato to monitor remote employees, measure workplace productivity, detect insider threats, prevent data loss, and conduct investigations on employees. We also like how Veriato offers both cloud and on-premise solutions, offering large organizations the flexibility to choose a monitoring solution that meets their hosting needs.  We like that Veriato offers user activity monitoring and insider risk management. Source: Veriato Veriato received a 2.6/5 rating from users who reviewed the platform on Trustpilot. Customers like how comprehensive the software is. However, some users had platform compatibility errors upon installation. If this is something you experience, we recommend contacting Veriato support to resolve the issue. CHECK OUT OUR FULL VERIATO REVIEW SentryPC is the best employee monitoring software for businesses on a budget. It is a cloud-hosted solution with more service plans than many of the employee monitoring software companies we reviewed, making it an excellent fit for businesses of any size. We like that the annual price starts at just $69.95 for monitoring on one PC and storage of up to 500 screenshots, going up to $9,995 for 1,000 licenses and 2,000 screenshots. Additional licenses range from $9.99 to $29.95 each, making it more affordable than many other competitors we reviewed. We were impressed that every SentryPC plan includes the essential features a company could need for employee monitoring as well. That isn’t something we found with all of the options we researched. Although SentryPC doesn’t offer a free trial, you can try out a risk-free demo account.  This SentryPC demo we conducted shows shows some of the many settings you can manage with this software. Source: SentryPC SentryPC Pricing & Feature SentryPC received a 3.6/5 rating from users who reviewed the platform on Trustpilot. Customers like how feature-rich the software is, but some user reviews say that customer support is lacking. CHECK OUT OUR FULL SENTRYPC REVIEW Employee monitoring software is a digital solution that provides a way for businesses to monitor, record and manage employees’ online behavior while they are on company time. Whether you have a few employees or several hundred, the software can be useful, because there are so many distractions in the modern workplace for both onsite and remote employees, especially for those who use internet-connected devices to complete their daily tasks. While employees can be trusted to do the right thing most of the time, there is always an opportunity for them to engage in unproductive behavior on company time. Worse yet, employees could be insider threats – exhibiting reckless or malicious behavior that jeopardizes your business. There are two cost structures for employee monitoring software. Some vendors rely on a per-user licensing system charged at a monthly or annual rate. Others charge a one-time licensing fee that allows the buying company to use the software forever, though you’ll typically have to pay an annual subscription for tech support and software updates. The cost of employee monitoring software can vary widely, with the scope of the solution and the number of licenses you require affecting the price. Some employee monitoring software can be deployed as an on-premises solution, which means the software is installed and operated on your company’s own servers. This type of monitoring implementation has a higher upfront cost and requires an IT team to maintain and update it, but it grants you greater control over your own data. Another common deployment option is a cloud-based service (or SaaS), which doesn’t require maintenance and has a lower upfront cost. It does require a monthly or annual subscription – typically $5 to $25 per user per month. Some companies offer free employee monitoring plans, but these often have very limited features and accessibility. You should pay attention to three main factors when evaluating pricing. Employee monitoring software typically costs $5 to $25 per user per month, billed monthly or annually.  Most employee monitoring software companies are transparent with their pricing and post rates on their websites. However, most of them have custom pricing for businesses over a certain size, so if you have an especially high number of employees to monitor, you will have to contact the software companies and give them some specifics, like the number of licenses you’re interested in and the features you want. See if the following discounts are available as you compare costs among employee monitoring software. You can track your employees’ activity and productivity on company time with employee monitoring software. The most basic features include web browsing, which allows you to see the websites your employees visit; application monitoring, which shows you the specific apps employees use; and activity tracking, which monitors keyboard and mouse activity so you can detect whether employees are actually working during their work hours. Many solutions include keystroke logging, which shows you what your employees type across web browsers and applications – including chat messages and emails – along with a dated timestamp. This can be an incredibly useful window into your staff’s activity. Some of these programs even look through the devices’ cameras. Employee monitoring software includes a wide range of features to keep tabs on how employees spend their time at work. The best monitoring software lets you and other administrators set specific rules and policies for different members of your company and receive notifications when the rules have been broken. Whether you run a big company with hundreds of employees or a small business with a handful of workers, you can find monitoring software that fits your needs and budget. Before looking for employee monitoring software, determine what type of employee activity you want to track and why. Some businesses may need extensive monitoring solutions, whereas others can save money with more basic software.  Businesses can use different types of monitoring to optimize their operations. Three of the most common methods are software, email and network monitoring. The best employee monitoring software for small businesses helps you manage and enforce your acceptable use policy without requiring a lot of your time to install and maintain it. You need a solution that alerts you when your employees attempt to leak vital business information, access inappropriate content, or simply waste time while they are on the clock. Here are the main aspects to pay attention to in your search. Consider the different types of monitoring features the software offers. For example, how much do you want to control your employees’ internet time? It is all right for them to surf the internet during breaks and lunches, or not at all? What websites do your employees need to access to do their jobs? With some software, you can select times when the internet or certain sites are blocked or accessible. Most applications also let you create user groups, each with its own rules and permissions. Blocking disruptive sites and creating custom permissions for specific groups is one way you can use this type of business internet software to increase your employees’ efficiency and productivity.  Content filtering and blocking can be an easy way to protect your business. Source: ActivTrak Many businesses use employee monitoring software to track employees’ working hours. The software may include login/logout features so employees can record the time they spend working. Activity tracking is a popular feature that shows how active or idle an employee’s keyboard and mouse are during their work hours. Idle time isn’t always a negative thing, though. For example, if an employee spends a lot of time reading or in meetings, they might have low keyboard and mouse activity. The best software records whether the employee’s activity (or inactivity) is productive or unproductive. This gives you insight into where your employees excel and where they are distracted. This is a great feature for tracking and improving employee productivity. Consider the specific areas of computer activity you want to track. The most comprehensive programs keep detailed logs of the websites your employees visit and the apps they use, along with their emails, online chats, created and downloaded files, print jobs, inserted devices, and even physical locations when they’re on company devices. You may not want to keep such detailed tabs on your employees. If you choose software with a full suite of features, you can usually customize exactly what it records (and in how much detail) as well as the exceptions. Depending on your reason for using employee monitoring software, you may want it to record employees’ online searches and takes screenshots of their monitors. These can come in handy if you are sued by a disgruntled employee and need to back up your claims. You may also want to consider software that records keystrokes; however, this feature could feel particularly invasive to employees, so not all monitoring software vendors offer it.  Some employee monitoring software can take periodic screenshots of user activity. Source: SentryPC Pay attention to the software’s reports and notification features. It should provide regular reports (at intervals you choose) with easy-to-read statistics and visual breakdowns of employee habits. For more detailed information, though, you’ll need extensive notification options, and the best software has both real-time monitoring and real-time alerts. For instance, you may choose to be alerted if an employee downloads a document online or tries to access a forbidden website. Since notifications alert you to specific occurrences and reports give you a staffwide overview, you’ll get the most out of your software when you use both options together. Make sure your office web monitoring software automatically archives the data it captures. You never know when you may need to review an employee’s internet history. [Related article: 10 Ways Employee Monitoring Software Can Benefit Your Remote and In-Office Teams] In addition to dashboards you can access from any browser, the best employee monitoring software offers mobile apps that let you monitor your staff when you’re away from the office. Some have both Android and iPhone apps, and others are platform-specific, so if this feature is important to you, verify that the app is compatible with the operating system you use. Good monitoring software should be intuitive to use, with a visually appealing interface that displays all the options without being cluttered and overwhelming. You and the other admins should feel confident using the software, getting a good grasp of the monitoring options after a few minutes of clicking around. In case you do run into issues, though, you want to work with a company that’s easy to reach. You should be able to reach tech support by phone, email, live chat, or online ticket, though even some of the best companies only offer one or two of these support avenues. Live chat is typically the fastest way to connect with a representative. Most companies also have extensive self-help resources on their websites for your reference, such as how-to guides, video tutorials, and FAQs pages. Some companies charge extra for ongoing upgrades and support after the first year. You can forgo this option, but you run the risk of operating outdated and possibly insecure software without help from the manufacturer. While monitoring employees’ computer and internet usage seems like an infringement of their privacy, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2010 that it is legal for companies to monitor employees’ actions while they are on the clock or using company equipment, including laptops, pagers, USB drives, and mobile devices. However, there have never been any regulations on the type of programs companies can use to monitor employees. This means you can use programs that monitor keystrokes and capture passwords; however, there is some ethical controversy around whether these features should be used. While the federal government doesn’t place restrictions on employee internet monitoring, some states require employers to notify their workers if they monitor online activity, including emails and keystrokes. You can disclose this within your use policy or employee handbook, address it in orientation for new employees, or simply send out email reminders. Employee monitoring software (and how employers use it) could also be impacted by the passage of new data privacy laws in the U.S. Provisions in the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), for example, give individual employees the right to request that certain businesses disclose the personal information that has been collected about them. Businesses could also be required to notify individual employees when their personal information has been collected and how that information is being used. These provisions could extend to employee monitoring and require companies to revisit their policies. If your business is subject to the CCPA or similar data privacy regulation, consider whether the employee data you want to collect serves a clear business purpose. Also determine how long you need to store that data and how you’ll ensure its protection from data breaches. Failure to secure it in accordance with data privacy laws could result in fines and lawsuits against your business. If you’re still looking for the right employee monitoring software for your business, here are a few more top-rated vendors worth exploring. Controlio by EfficientLab is a good choice for users who prioritize video monitoring, as it tracks employees’ behavior with snapshots and live video recordings of their screens. You can view your employees’ screens in real time, or watch the video recordings to see current or past activities. This real-time session information is important for companies that need to maintain high security over their employees. Insightful, formerly Workpuls, is a great solution for companies that want to monitor employee activity while letting their staff maintain some privacy. The software monitors activities in real time, giving you an up-to-date view of your staff’s behavior. You can track your employees’ productivity, website and app usage, and time spent on each project or task. To respect your staff’s privacy and data security, you can disable activity tracking and screenshots for specific apps and websites, such as online banking. Insightful encrypts all data with AES-256, secures client data through HTTPS connections, and protects passwords with an advanced hashing algorithm. Hubstaff is a good employee monitoring software for accurately tracking your staff’s hours. Its unique combination of features, which include activity monitoring and time tracking, focuses on ensuring your employees are doing their work and being paid accurately for it. The specific features you can access depend on which service tier you choose. The free plan tracks employees’ time and activity levels, takes random screenshots, and enables automatic payments. As you scale up into paid plans, you gain access to more time-centric features like employee scheduling and attendance tracking, PTO management, idle-time monitoring, invoicing, client and project budgeting, payroll integration, timesheet approvals, and expense tracking. InterGuard is comprehensive, cloud-based employee monitoring software. It monitors your workforce’s apps, emails, website history and searches, social media, files, chats, print jobs, and keystrokes. It’s especially useful for tracking your remote staff’s productivity. For companies that need to monitor employees from afar, InterGuard’s software tracks start and stop times, lunch breaks, geolocations, and idle vs. active time. We like the software’s six-view dashboard that features a chart view for executives, a user view for managers and HR staff, an alert log view for security tech, a data view, a reports and notification view, and a search view for when you’re conducting an investigation. Learn more in our detailed InterGuard review. To determine the best employee monitoring software on the market, our team of HR experts and software analysts evaluated an initial list of 29 platforms. After whittling our list down to 14, we chose five monitoring solutions as our top recommendations. Our experts and analysts studied each solution’s functionality and evaluated the products on nearly 100 factors. These factors were broken down into categories and weighted differently in our overall conclusion. The weights were determined based on how much business owners prioritize these criteria when shopping for business software and services and making purchasing decisions. Based on these criteria, we not only determined which employee monitoring software our readers could trust but also the ways in which each solution could best serve different business needs. Some platforms were better at certain tasks than others or more suited to a particular type of company. These takeaways informed the “Best for” use cases you see on this page. To learn more about our methodology, see our full editorial process. Employee monitoring software is not limited to certain sizes and types of business. Nearly every employer can benefit from employee monitoring software, whether to accurately track work hours, manage and improve productivity, or secure their organization from cyberthreats. That being said, some industries tend to use employee monitoring more than others. For example, a DeskTrack study shows that freelancers take the cake in using monitoring software. Other businesses that often use it include IT companies, staffing agencies, financial organizations, consultants, law firms, accountants and architects. Most of these industries are highly regulated, and employee monitoring software can help them comply. Employee monitoring software can benefit your company in multiple ways, primarily regarding productivity, security, accuracy, and compliance. Although there are many benefits to using employee monitoring software, you should also note some potential drawbacks. You can run employee monitoring software in either silent or transparent mode. Silent mode, also known as “hidden” or “stealth” mode, means employees aren’t aware they are being monitored. Transparent monitoring, also referred to as “visible” or “revealed” mode, is when your employees can see the surveillance program on their computers. While some platforms only permit one mode or the other, most let you choose which mode to deploy. The best type of hosting depends on your business, and most of the top software applications offer both options. With an on-premises solution, you’ll host the software and the data it collects on your server – which means you can keep your data as long as you want. But an on-premises solution requires more IT knowledge and generally takes longer to set up. Cloud-based software is easier to manage and quicker to set up than on-premises deployment, and you don’t need a server to store all your data. But you must trust the vendor to maintain and protect your data. For the most part, yes. Employee tracking software is designed to be installed on multiple computers, including an administrative station. For this type of program to work, you must first turn off your firewall. You can turn it back on once the installation is complete. This punctures a hole in your security system for a short time, leaving your network vulnerable to viruses, Trojans, spyware and other threats. Employee monitoring is more common than you might think – and gaining in popularity with each passing year. A recent study by Digital.com found that 60% of employers with remote workers use employee monitoring software, and another 17% are considering it. Most employers say their primary reason for using the software is wanting to understand how their employees spend their time. If your business owns the computers your employees use, yes, you can install employee monitoring software on them. You can even run monitoring on silent mode. But if your remote worker is using their personal computer for work, they’re not likely to consent to having tracking software installed on it. One solution might be to use a transparent monitoring app, like Hubstaff, that only tracks usage when the employee is clocked in to work. This depends on the software you use and the mode you deploy. For example, you can use employee monitoring software in stealth mode, which does not let your employees know they are being monitored – or in transparent mode, which allows employees to see the surveillance software on their devices. Some platforms can even send employees their own activity reports, giving them a clear look at the information you are tracking. It is up to you whether to inform your employees that they are being surveilled or not. No current federal laws require you to notify staff they are being monitored, although some states have their own limitations and requirements. If an employee is using a company device to perform their work responsibilities, there should be practically no expectation of privacy on said device. It is within your legal rights to install monitoring software to track their performance and productivity. However, just because it is legal doesn’t mean your team will be supportive of it. Start with open communication. Workers are more likely to be receptive if they understand the reasoning. Instead of secretly installing tracking software or letting your employees think you don’t trust them, have a transparent discussion with your team to explain how the software can benefit your company. Focus on areas such as business security, employee development and overall productivity. The workplace in 2024 will be more diverse and distributed than ever, and we expect employee monitoring software to play a significant role in accommodating the shift in employee and employer expectations. For example, employers want to know that their staff is productive wherever they work. Monitoring software can provide insights into which work locations are most effective for each employee. Instead of using employee hours as a metric for success, employee monitoring software can track how productive employees are at various locations. As such, we can expect features and tools related to productivity tracking, project and task tracking, and GPS tracking to take center stage in the coming year. Employee health and wellness has also come to the forefront of many company agendas, and certain aspects of employee monitoring software can help facilitate that. Features that monitor employee productivity and behavior can help employers identify patterns that may lead to burnout. For example, monitoring software can show you when an employee is working extensive hours, which may indicate they need a lighter workload. It can also tell you when resources may need to be reallocated to particular individuals or teams to foster more effective and satisfied employees. Another trend we can expect to see in 2024 is an increase in cybersecurity. Employers are at a higher risk of security breaches with employees working across a wider range of locations, devices and networks. As a result, we anticipate more security features being used, such as content blocking, user permission settings, content filtering, screenshot recording, network monitoring, and security alerts. A trend that gained popularity in 2023, and we can expect to grow in 2024, is the use of artificial intelligence (AI). In 2024, AI is poised to revolutionize employee monitoring by automating certain functions like data analysis, cybersecurity and performance support. For example, we may see a rise in virtual coaching based on employee monitoring analytics like performance, efficiency and work patterns. B. newsletter is your digest of bite-sized news, thought & brand leadership, and entertainment. All in one email. Our mission is to help you take your team, your business and your career to the next level. Whether you're here for product recommendations, research or career advice, we're happy you're here!