Sign up for our daily newsletter There’s a lot of software out there for your PC: some of it good, most of it bad, plenty of it free. As great as the Internet is, it makes it easy to get your hands on the bad stuff through a dodgy advert or malicious message saying that you have a virus and “need to install an antivirus immediately.” We’ve trawled the Internet for 101 of the best free software and apps in every major category we could think of, picking our top choices for each one. Enjoy! Want to improve your PC’s gaming performance? Here are a few tips.  If you want more info about free office apps for Windows, take a peek at our list of the best Microsoft Office alternatives. Tip: Check out our list of the best OneNote alternatives for Windows. Check out these tips that will show you how to improve the sound in Windows.  Tip: If you’re looking to get your groove on, also check out our list of the best free music players for Windows. Want to find out which compression software rules them all? Read our 7-Zip vs WinRAR vs WinZIP comparison. Learn how to hide a Telegram chat without deleting it for good. If you’re looking for something a little more security-focused, read all about email encryption and check out some services that offer it.  Do you really need an antivirus on your PC? Check out our guide on whether antivirus software is relevant anymore. Learn how to take a quick YouTube screenshot in Windows.  If you want more info, we have plenty more to say about the best free photo editors. Here’s an in-depth look at all the free alternatives to Microsoft Visio Seeing the “Bad system config info” error in Windows? Here’s what to do to get rid of it.  We’ve tried to ensure each app we chose is good at what they do, popular and liked by users, and has some recent activity from the developer (aka not completely dead). We’ve also ensured that every app has some free functionality available, even if the app requires payment in some way. We reviewed each of these apps and didn’t find any indication that malware was present in any of them. Most of the apps we listed are very popular and are trusted by thousands or even millions of people. Yet, there is a risk of downloading any program from the Internet, so you should stay safe by ensuring that you have an antivirus program running. There are countless reasons why you could run into installation problems. Some things to try: Alternatively, you can try installing software on the command line using Windows Package Manager. Image credit: Unsplash. Our latest tutorials delivered straight to your inbox Brandon Li is a technology enthusiast with experience in the software development industry. As a result, he has a lot of knowledge about computers and is passionate about sharing that knowledge with other people. While he has mainly used Windows since early childhood, he also has years of experience working with other major operating systems. Which Is Better: Shutting Off Your PC or Putting It to Sleep? What Is VRAM, How to Check It, and Can You Increase It? 5 Best Software to Sync RGB on Your PC How to Set Up a Local Web Server (Windows, Mac, Linux) How to Easily Download Streaming Video on Any Platform Affiliate Disclosure: Make Tech Easier may earn commission on products purchased through our links, which supports the work we do for our readers. © 2024 Uqnic Network Pte Ltd.All rights reserved.