A Lehigh Valley lawmaker is taking another shot at protecting Pennsylvania children from carbon monoxide leaks at day cares. Carbon monoxide detectors are currently not required for child care centers in Pennsylvania, despite repeated efforts by state legislators to change that. State Rep. Jeanne McNeill, D-Lehigh County, last year sponsored a bill for the requirement, but it languished in committee. On Friday, McNeill announced she was reintroducing her legislation, which would require one or more alarms in buildings that house child care facilities with possible sources of carbon monoxide. A key difference this time around is Democrats won control of the Pennsylvania House in special elections earlier this year. The House health committee chair is Rep. Dan Frankel, D-Allegheny County, and Rep. Kathy Rapp is the Republican chair. The new push for the legislation comes after a carbon monoxide leak last fall in Allentown sickened nearly 30 children and five adults. Crews were called the morning of Oct. 11 for an unconscious child at Happy Smiles Learning Center in Allentown. As firefighters arrived, air quality detectors on their gear went off and they began to evacuate the building, officials previously said. Victims were taken to area hospitals for treatment. Lehigh Valley Heath Network said the patients it received suffered from carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning and had 3 to 10 times more than the normal level in their blood. The cause was a malfunctioning heating unit and blocked venting system. Last week, the Pennsylvania Department of Human Services announced certified child care providers could one or two free carbon monoxide detectors from School Health, paid for with federal child care funding and available through April 30. Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to lehighvalleylive.com. Sarah Cassi may be reached at scassi@lehighvalleylive.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices