The European Union aims to be carbon-neutral by 2050. A viral post claims the union recently announced a new initiative to help reach that goal. "BREAKING: The European Union just introduced the first step of a personal carbon credit system," reads a Dec. 18 Instagram post (direct link, archive link). "Every citizen will have to start paying for their carbon emissions in an effort to cut emissions by 55% by 2030. Do you see now why banks & airlines etc were already tracking it?" The post is a screenshot of a Dec. 18 tweet that was retweeted nearly 15,000 times in four days. Screenshots of it have since circulated on other social media platforms, like Facebook. This post mischaracterizes the new initiative, however. While the union implemented new carbon taxes, those are applied at the company level, not to individuals. USA TODAY reached out to social media users who shared the post for comment. Follow us on Facebook! Like our page to get updates throughout the day on our latest debunks The European Union agreed on Dec. 18 to institute the world's first major carbon border tax, according to CNN. The measure requires companies to pay a pollution assessment on certain imports, including cement, aluminum and fertilizers. The European Parliament, the European Union's law-making body, published press releases about the development on its website. However, there is no evidence that the plan calls for the implementation of a "personal carbon credit system." There is no mention of such a system in any of the European Parliament's press releases about the carbon border tax or in any of the credible news coverage about the new rule. "This is indeed fake news," Mohammed Chahim, a Dutch socialist politician and member of the European Parliament who was involved in negotiating the carbon import tax, told USA TODAY in an email. "We are not introducing a personal carbon credit." The new plan has yet to be formally approved, said Chahim. "The deal will be put to vote in the next year in the European Parliament," he said. The Twitter user who shared the tweet was unable to provide any evidence of a personal carbon credit system when contacted by USA TODAY. Instead, the user expressed concern that companies will pass the additional costs of the carbon border tax onto consumers. Based on our research, we rate FALSE the claim that the European Union introduced the first step of a "personal carbon credit system." While the European Union did agree on instituting a new carbon border tax, that tax is imposed on companies, not individuals. Mohammad Chahim, Dec. 21, Email exchange with USA TODAY CNN, Dec. 19, EU agrees to the world’s largest carbon border tax European Parliament, Dec. 18, Climate change: Deal on a more ambitious Emissions Trading System (ETS) European Parliament, Dec. 13, Deal reached on new carbon leakage instrument to raise global climate ambition European Commission, accessed Dec. 21-22, Social Climate Fund European Commission, July, 14, 2021, EUR-Lex - 52021PC0568 - EN - EUR-Lex Euractiv, Dec. 18, EU agrees carbon market overhaul in bid to hit 2030 climate goal Thank you for supporting our journalism. You can subscribe to our print edition, ad-free app or electronic newspaper replica here. Our fact-check work is supported in part by a grant from Facebook. This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Fact check: False claim European Union introducing personal carbon tax New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. It's position preview week at Yahoo Fantasy and the pod and there may be no other position discussed, debated and passionately watched in fantasy more than the wide receiver position. Matt Harmon is back in the host chair and joined by Dalton Del Don to break down every angle of the WR position in 2024. Harmon and Del Don attempt to identify the potential league winners, sleepers and fades at the WR position this season.