STORY: Paris plans to expand their its urban cooling system as it aims to meet rising demand for air conditioning, while curbing carbon emissions Europe's largest cooling network draws water from the Seine river to serve sites across the city including buildings that will be used for the Paris 2024 Games (Raphaelle Nayral / Secretary General, Fraicheur de Paris) "This is where the water from the Seine is pumped in. Here you have two identical levels which are equipped with cooling-making machines that cool down a water circuit. Then this is the pump sector, their purpose is to pump water either inside the network or within the power station. And this is the level where we find Seine water, this is where the interface between Seine water and water happens, that has been heated during the process of creating cool. After, the Seine water goes back, so it stays in the plant only for a few seconds before returning to the river." The plans would develop the system in southern parts of the city and extend it to hospitals, day care centers and retirement homes Paris hopes to triple the network to about 155 miles by 2042 "If we manage to develop such a network of urban cooling instead of stand-alone air-conditioning, we could really manage to control the level of air-conditioning carbon emissions in Paris. Emissions related to producing cool in the world are going to rise anyhow, if we choose collective solutions that are resilient and efficient, the cool balance will keep growing slightly because demand will increase, but it will be very restrained compared to a situation where everyone has its own equipment and every man for himself.'' Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Former President Trump attacked CNN commentator Van Jones on Sunday as a “lowlife” who never thanked him for helping pass a bipartisan bill in 2018 that reformed parts of the criminal justice system. “Lightweight Political commentator Van Jones begged me, while in the Oval Office and with tears flowing from his eyes, to help get… Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married." A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend Khelif was Algeria’s first woman to ever win a gold medal in boxing at the Paris 2024 Olympics