The European Union aims to be carbon-neutral by 2050. A viral post claims the union recently announced a new initiative to help reach that goal. "BREAKING: The European Union just introduced the first step of a personal carbon credit system," reads a Dec. 18 Instagram post (direct link, archive link). "Every citizen will have to start paying for their carbon emissions in an effort to cut emissions by 55% by 2030. Do you see now why banks & airlines etc were already tracking it?"  The post is a screenshot of a Dec. 18 tweet that was retweeted nearly 15,000 times in four days. Screenshots of it have since circulated on other social media platforms, like Facebook. This post mischaracterizes the new initiative, however. While the union implemented new carbon taxes, those are applied at the company level, not to individuals.  USA TODAY reached out to social media users who shared the post for comment. Follow us on Facebook! Like our page to get updates throughout the day on our latest debunks The European Union agreed on Dec. 18 to institute the world's first major carbon border tax, according to CNN. The measure requires companies to pay a pollution assessment on certain imports, including cement, aluminum and fertilizers. The European Parliament, the European Union's law-making body, published press releases about the development on its website. However, there is no evidence that the plan calls for the implementation of a "personal carbon credit system." There is no mention of such a system in any of the European Parliament's press releases about the carbon border tax or in any of the credible news coverage about the new rule. "This is indeed fake news," Mohammed Chahim, a Dutch socialist politician and member of the European Parliament who was involved in negotiating the carbon import tax, told USA TODAY in an email. "We are not introducing a personal carbon credit." The new plan has yet to be formally approved, said Chahim. "The deal will be put to vote in the next year in the European Parliament," he said. The Twitter user who shared the tweet was unable to provide any evidence of a personal carbon credit system when contacted by USA TODAY. Instead, the user expressed concern that companies will pass the additional costs of the carbon border tax onto consumers. Based on our research, we rate FALSE the claim that the European Union introduced the first step of a "personal carbon credit system." While the European Union did agree on instituting a new carbon border tax, that tax is imposed on companies, not individuals.  Thank you for supporting our journalism. You can subscribe to our print edition, ad-free app or electronic newspaper replica here. Our fact-check work is supported in part by a grant from Facebook.