On this day in Boston Celtics history, legendary forward John Havlicek stole the ball. In Game 7 of the 1965 Eastern Conference Finals, Hondo — as Havlicek was called — made one of the most iconic plays in NBA history. With just five seconds remaining and Boston holding a 110-109 lead over the Philadelphia 76ers, Havlicek tipped an inbound pass to Boston’s Sam Jones, who then dribbled out the clock to secure the win. Celtics broadcaster Johnny Most immortalized the event in his play-by-play calling that featured him shouting, “Havlicek stole the ball! It’s all over! It’s all over!” The crowd of course went wild, and Boston would go on to win their eighth title in the Finals over the Los Angeles Lakers after the triumph. Adam Glanzman/Getty Images It is also a sad day in that it is the anniversary of the car crash that killed Chyna Thomas, Isaiah Thomas’ sister in 2017. Fellow Tacoma-area native and teammate Avery Bradley broke the news to Thomas in practice, and while he took the rest of that day off, it did not stop him from playing in the Celtics’ postseason play soon after. Chyna Thomas was just 22 years old — rest in peace. Ethan Miller/Getty Images Former Boston big man Connie Simmons left us on this day in 1989 as well. A member of the Celtics in their first season of existence in 1946-47, he played a total of 92 games for the team before being traded to the (now defunct) Baltimore Bullets in 1948. He averaged 9.4 points and just under an assist per game while with the team. Doug Pensinger /Allsport Today is also the day we lost Celtics center Dwayne Schintzius in 2012 to a rare form of cancer. A product of the University of Florida, Schintzius played for the San Antonio Spurs, Sacramento Kings, (then) New Jersey Nets (now, Brooklyn), Indiana Pacers, and Los Angeles Clippers before he signed with Boston in 1999. He appeared in just 16 contests for the Celtics — averaging 1.2 boards per game — before Boston dealt him with Popeye Jones and Ron Mercer to the Denver Nuggets for Danny Fortson, Eric Washington, Eric Williams, and draft assets that August — rest in peace. Listen to the “Celtics Lab” podcast on” Apple Podcasts: https://apple.co/3zBKQY6 Spotify: https://spoti.fi/3GfUPFi YouTube: https://bit.ly/3F9DvjQ [lawrence-auto-related count=1 category=590969556] [mm-video type=video id=01gvk01vgayb9x60axtx playlist_id=01eqbzegwgnrje4tv2 player_id=01eqbvq570kgj8vfs7 image=https://images2.minutemediacdn.com/image/upload/video/thumbnail/mmplus/01gvk01vgayb9x60axtx/01gvk01vgayb9x60axtx-d1428cfebd52fffd5ccbcb6ed82b9887.jpg] Story originally appeared on Celtics Wire Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs.