Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary Monday through Friday, 8:30am to 3:00pm, please email obits@thereporteronline.com or call us at 610-235-2690 for further information.
 
Saturday & Sunday, please contact obits@thereporteronline.com
  Sign up for email newsletters 
			TRENDING:		 In a continued effort to keep the local business community informed, SCORE Bucks County will offer three free webinars in January.On Jan. 17, SCORE will offer ”Small Business Tax Talk.”Led by H&R Block Senior Tax Analysts Shana Holcomb and Edward Marden, the webinar will offer education and tax tips to help small business owners take advantage of benefits the tax system offers, while minimizing tax liability.Holcomb and Marden will discuss:
Key changes in tax law impacting small business owners in 2022
Pitfalls to avoid
How to minimize tax liability
Entity options and tax implications
Sole Proprietor
Limited Liability Company (LLC)
Partnerships and Corporations
On Jan. 24, SCORE will present “Plan Your Website for Online Success.”Presented by Jessica Baldwin, co-founder of website platform company Cardsetter, the webinar will highlight how to devise a comprehensive plan for your business’s website. This session will provide a better understanding of:
Your website’s audience
Feature and functionality needs
Content planning
How to choose the right platform
Best practices for online success
On Jan. 31, SCORE will offer “How to Navigate the SBA to Obtain Financing.”James Verbeck, Small Business Administration lender relations specialist for the Eastern Pennsylvania District Office, will lead the webinar, which will provide insight on which SBA lenders may be a fit for your business.

Verbeck will discuss:
What are micro lenders and what they offer
The difference between 7a and 504 loans
Other SBA resources available online
To learn more or registerAll webinars will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. For more information about the webinars or to register, please visit https://www.score.org/buckscounty. All webinars are offered free of charge.About SCORE
Since 1964, SCORE has helped more than 11 million aspiring entrepreneurs. Each year, SCORE provides small business mentoring and workshops to more than 375,000 new and growing small businesses. With more than 70 members across Bucks and Eastern Montgomery counties, SCORE Bucks County provides over 4,300 free mentoring services annually to local small business owners through one-on-one counseling and small business seminars. To stay up to date on news and happenings, join SCORE Bucks County’s email list. Text SCOREBUCKS to 22828. On Jan. 17, SCORE will offer ”Small Business Tax Talk.” Led by H&R Block Senior Tax Analysts Shana Holcomb and Edward Marden, the webinar will offer education and tax tips to help small business owners take advantage of benefits the tax system offers, while minimizing tax liability. Holcomb and Marden will discuss: On Jan. 24, SCORE will present “Plan Your Website for Online Success.” Presented by Jessica Baldwin, co-founder of website platform company Cardsetter, the webinar will highlight how to devise a comprehensive plan for your business’s website. This session will provide a better understanding of: On Jan. 31, SCORE will offer “How to Navigate the SBA to Obtain Financing.” James Verbeck, Small Business Administration lender relations specialist for the Eastern Pennsylvania District Office, will lead the webinar, which will provide insight on which SBA lenders may be a fit for your business. Verbeck will discuss: To learn more or register All webinars will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. For more information about the webinars or to register, please visit https://www.score.org/buckscounty. All webinars are offered free of charge. About SCORE
Since 1964, SCORE has helped more than 11 million aspiring entrepreneurs. Each year, SCORE provides small business mentoring and workshops to more than 375,000 new and growing small businesses. With more than 70 members across Bucks and Eastern Montgomery counties, SCORE Bucks County provides over 4,300 free mentoring services annually to local small business owners through one-on-one counseling and small business seminars. To stay up to date on news and happenings, join SCORE Bucks County’s email list. Text SCOREBUCKS to 22828. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group