The Electrical Systems Technology (EST) curriculum provides training for anyone interested in installing and maintaining electrical systems found in residential, commercial and industrial facilities. The curriculum is based on the assumption that a student has no prior knowledge or experience in electricity or electronics. The Electrical Systems Technology faculty are licensed electricians and bring a rich and diverse set of field experiences to the classroom, adding to the educational experience for students. Scholarships are available for qualified individuals. EST offers three programs of study: Associate in Applied Science (AAS) degree, diploma and certificate. These credentials are "stackable," so there is no repetition of coursework. AAS degree and diploma courses are offered only during the day; certificate courses are offered in the evening. Fall and Spring start options are available. Certificate courses cover the installation and maintenance of electrical systems found in residential and commercial applications and include the National Electrical Code requirements. No general education courses are required for the certificate. These classes are also offered at Vernon Malone College & Career Academy. Diploma courses expand knowledge to the following areas: Six hours of general education are required for the diploma. AAS courses expand knowledge to electrical estimating and photovoltaic systems. Sixteen hours of general education are required. Virtual Tour    Hands-on training Emphasized soft skills Graduates from the program can obtain credit toward a licensing exam for "Secondary Experience" as outlined by the Board of Electrical Contractors rules. For more information, email Juan Benitez at [email protected].  The electrical industry prefers workers with education and training from a technical school at the diploma or AAS degree level, or work experience. Graduates of Wake Tech programs should qualify for a variety of jobs in the field as on-the-job trainees or apprentices assisting in the layout, installation and maintenance of electrical systems. Employment opportunities include the following: Graduates can also work toward an electrical contractor’s license, enabling them to operate their own businesses. Graduates are employed based on their abilities and experience, and starting salaries range from $12 to $16 per hour. All areas have advancement potential as well as overtime opportunities, and salaries can rise rapidly as skills and experience improve. Certification and licensure may be available through outside entities, such as the following: You must contact those organizations for the latest details and requirements. Wake Tech academic programs (credit and non-credit) that are designed to lead to professional licenses are tied to North Carolina or national certifications. If you intend to pursue professional licenses outside North Carolina once you have completed your academic program at Wake Tech, please refer to the Professional Licensure section of the college's distance education authorization page for additional information.