We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Updated 29 November 2023 

 
  © Crown copyright 2023
 
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
 
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
 
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/dstls-divisions/cyber-and-information-systems
 The Cyber and Information Systems (CIS) division delivers evidence-based resilient sensing, information and effector systems for the defence and security of the UK. The threats that the UK faces every day are many and varied. We advance the tools, techniques and tradecrafts required to establish world-class capabilities to detect and counter these threats through research, development and technology assessment. CIS collaborates with our partners to offer the skills, knowledge, expertise and facilities needed to support defence in: Our vision is to deliver transformational information superiority. Much of our work is sensitive so, in order to keep the nation and the people who work for us safe, this is just a snapshot of the varied and exciting work we do. We’re recruiting - find out about career opportunities in CIS. The work we do in AI and Data Systems enables defence to turn data into information advantage and accelerates the responsible and ethical adoption of artificial intelligence across defence. Dstl provides a world-class capability applying artificial intelligence, machine learning and data science to defence and security challenges. Our expertise includes: Our work with other nations provides our scientists with exciting opportunities to collaborate with our partners in countries such as the US and we have recently established a hub in Newcastle helping us harness talent from across the UK. Dstl Newcastle Effective and resilient communications and networks are essential to all military operations. The armed forces must be able to operate in all environments from sub-sea to space and face some of the most difficult communication challenges imaginable. One of the huge challenges for defence is how we integrate and communicate information from strategic and operational levels down to the tactical applications in warfare across all domains: land, sea, air, space and cyber. We do this through Command, Control, Communications, Computers (C4) Systems. The C4 Group conducts research to deliver the science and technology advances that enable complex information services like AI to reach into these environments and to overcome threats to our communications. With employees ranging from physicists to engineers working in electronics, computer science, systems, information and data sciences, we identify ways to connect all military commands and equipment (present and future) and exploit the electromagnetic spectrum. This includes building in resilience against threats posed by highly technical adversaries. It will also involve collaboration with allies, organisations and coalition partners, such as NATO. Figure: The Electromagnetic Environment from AJP 3.6 C (NATO EW Doctrine) NATO UNCLASSIFIED; Reproduced with permission from MoD Head of Delegation for NATO EW within the NATO EW. Adversaries will seek to find ways to disrupt communications to deny our forces access to the information that is fundamental to our success. Threats like jamming, interception and cyber-attack are under constant development by hostile states so it is essential that we continually improve our networks to maintain our advantage. Our staff work on developing both next generation and generation-after-next communications and networks systems. Some of our current work includes: We use our expertise to deliver communications options for everything from submarines to fast jets and from complex headquarters to autonomous swarms. We achieve this through designing experiments and conducting trials to prove concepts. And because we’re at the extreme cutting edge of technology, we work  closely with leading experts from academia, commercial companies and international partners. The military and civilian worlds are entirely dependent on electronic systems and data. These computers are in everything from our everyday phones, tablets and laptops through to our vehicles, power distribution, communications systems, and other ‘invisible’ systems. Dstl’s cyber capability plays a vital role in protecting UK defence and security from the cyber threats to our systems. It’s not the stuff that we can say about our work that makes it exciting… it’s the stuff we can’t! Our Cyber group brings diverse, creative minds together to provide unique ideas to solve classified challenges. We work across software, electronics, radio frequency (RF), hardware, security and safety critical systems to: We use our cyber expertise in everything from security, safety and autonomous systems through to hardware, antennas and large complex software to deliver solutions that bring brand new, cutting-edge capabilities to allow the UK to establish strategic advantage. The Electronic Warfare Technology and Enterprise (EWTE) Group is comprised of RF, electrical, electronic, software, system and mechanical engineers, physicists, mathematicians and internationally-recognised experts in electronic warfare (EW). We support the Ministry of Defence (MOD) to deliver substantial EW equipment procurement programmes for the armed forces by: We work on classified operational capability and provide rapid advice on how to overcome challenges, with our expertise in science and technology in areas such as communications and radars, RF systems, signal processing and machine learning, systems engineering and modelling and simulation. We further specialist research by sponsoring and mentoring PhDs, in areas including Information Theory, and we have also launched an Electromagnetic Research Hub to provide highly classified analysis and advice into defence operations. The Intelligence Innovation group develops and delivers transformations in defence analytical capability to UK intelligence through the application of data science, sensor exploitation and collaboration. As an impartial, in-government capability, we: Our expertise includes innovative and forward-thinking individuals from data professionals in science, engineering and fusion to technical professionals within digital signal processing, open-source information exploitation, systems engineering and consultancy. Operational research (OR) is a scientific approach to the solution of problems in the management of complex systems that enables decision makers to make better decisions. The Joint Analysis and Decision Support Group conduct operational research which allows the MOD to make informed decisions on capability in the areas of: We do this through a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods. Qualitative methods are subjective techniques which allow us to explore new concepts and ideas and quantitative methods are objective techniques which allow us to numerically measure difference. To enable the divisions to execute their projects, ensuring value for money, CIS is home to around 150 project professionals. These include project and programme managers who work closely with our scientists and often experience first-hand the exciting science we deliver to our customers. They do not necessarily have a background in science or technology, but focus on applying international, government and MOD best practice in portfolio, programme and project (P3) management. This group is essential in providing exploitable science and technology to realise tangible defence benefits. The ability to find your enemy on land, sea, air or space remains key to military success. Dstl’s Sensing Group is the core of UK MOD’s research and innovation hub dedicated to delivering world leading military sensing technology. Our scientists work hand in glove with frontline forces to understand the military challenges of the modern battlefield and develop the sensors needed for tomorrow’s challenges and beyond. With state of the art laboratory, experimental and field trials capabilities, we shape the military sensing landscape of the future to ensure the UK can always maintain a technology advantage over its adversaries. Covering a plethora of sensing modalities, we: Our Sensing Group includes professionals in quantum technologies, electro-optic sciences, radio frequency engineering, alternative navigation, precision timing, data processing and sensor system modelling. The Space Group is the centre for science and technology support to UK defence and security in space. We work to deliver the UK’s National and Defence Space Strategies, developing the UK’s ability to become a meaningful influencer in space. Our mission is to provide domain advice and use science and technology to deliver freedom of action in and through space. This is a huge remit covering space domain awareness experiments, novel satellite technology; and optical satellite communications. We collaborate with professionals in academia, industry and internationally to develop world-class scientific capability and to design and develop mission demonstrators for Space Command. Our employees work at all levels within the space architecture. This includes: The Space Group also provides the evidence base for decisions around the shape and scale of the defence approach to space in the future. Our professionals in the space team include space systems engineers, payload engineers, synthetic aperture radar scientists, space domain awareness scientists and a wide range of other specialists to deliver the MOD’s growing need for space capability. The CIS division at Dstl is always looking for top talent who can bring innovation, passion and skills to the team. We need people with diverse and creative minds who can bring their individual perspectives to our classified challenges. Working within CIS provides a fantastic opportunity to work on cutting edge technologies, interesting projects (some we cannot disclose) and to work with like-minded professionals internally and across academia, industry and internationally. The benefits of working in CIS include: Find out more about the benefits of working for Dstl. All Dstl job opportunities At CIS and Dstl we actively encourage applicants from diverse backgrounds. Meet AJ, software engineer with a neurodiverse background who works on our exciting projects. Celebrating Neurodiversity at Dstl: AJ’s Story Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      