Processing.... Raytheon Technologies is one of the largest companies serving the aerospace and defense sector. It is an innovator offering solutions to help the world mitigate the effects of national and international security threats through guided missiles and precision weapons. Meet the Raytheon technologies leaders and executives here! Table of Contents Here is the list of Raytheon Technologies leaders and executives. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Gregory Hayes is Raytheon Technologies’ CEO and Chairman of the Board. Formerly, he was the Chairman and CEO of United Technologies until April 2020. During his 21 years of serving UTC, he held various leadership roles spanning corporate strategy, business development, and finance. He is a certified public accountant and served as UTC’s chief financial officer for six years (from 2008 to 2014). Chief Operating Officer  Christopher Calio has been the Chief Operating Officer of Raytheon Technologies since March 2022. He leads the company’s four business units and functions for engineering, operations, supply chain, enterprise services, and more. Mr. Calio brings vast experience in legal matters, business management, and strategy. He has been working at Raytheon for the past 17 years, with 12 years in leadership roles. Before joining Raytheon, he was Pratt & Whitney’s president. Senior Vice President, Enterprise Services, Chief Digital Officer  Vince Campisi has been Raytheon Technologies’ Chief Digital Information Officer and Senior Vice President of Enterprise Services since July 2016. He manages the company’s multiple global business services and digital technology strategy. Mr. Campisi has solid experience in leading Profit and Loss Centers for building new business models with data analytics and software offerings for revenue growth. He also has unrivaled experience in mergers and acquisitions. Before joining Raytheon, he was a Chief Operating Officer at GE Digital for four years. Senior Vice President, Chief Communications Officer  Pamela Erickson was named Chief Communications Officer in April 2020. She leads Raytheon’s global marketing, employed and executive communications, public relations, and corporate social responsibility programs. Ms. Erickson is specifically experienced in working with chief executives on managing issues and crises, building consensus, and positioning with a drive for action. She has been working at Raytheon even before its merger with UTC. Before joining Raytheon, Ms. Erickson was a Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications at Deem. Executive Vice President, General Counsel  In December 2021, Raja Maharajh was appointed Raytheon Technologies’ General Counsel. His decades of legal experience and serving as a trusted advisor to the CEO and senior leadership team made him qualified for the role. Mr. Maharajh’s responsibilities include overseeing legal and regulatory functions, including transactions, corporate governance, intellectual property, and contracts. Before this role, he was the Chief of Staff to the Chairman and CEO at United Technologies. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  Neil Mitchill Jr. has been Raytheon Technologies’ Chief Financial Officer since April 2021. With over 20 years of experience in finance, he has managed the company’s capital allocation activities, enabling Raytheon to exceed its cash savings target and merger-related expectations in 2020. Mr. Mitchill is responsible for financial reporting and controls, investor relations, internal audit, treasury, and tax. Before this role, Mr. Mitchill was a Corporate Vice President (VP) of Financial Planning and Analysis and Investor Relations at the company. Before joining Raytheon. He was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for 17 years. Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer  Mark. Russell is Raytheon Technologies’ Chief Technology Officer. He oversees the company’s end-to-end technological strategy and vision, engineering operations, and research and development investments. Before the merger, he was Raytheon Co.’s Corporate Vice President of Engineering, Technology, and Mission Assurance. He brings computer and electrical engineering knowledge with extensive technology leadership experience in aerospace and defense. Mr. Russell has helped Raytheon Technologies develop 11 technology roadmaps, including autonomy and its approach to advanced missile interceptors. Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer  Dantaya Williams has been the Chief Human Resources officer of Raytheon Technologies since June 2020. She leads the company’s global HR function, mainly on talent management, employee relations, total rewards, employee experience, and workforce diversity. Her efforts started including women in leadership roles during her tenure at Pratt & Whitney, UTC, and Commercial Engines. She worked at UTC before its merger with Raytheon, earning her more than two decades of experience in HR and leadership. With more than 20 years of experience, Ms. Williams continues to leverage her knowledge in leading dynamic and global HR functions vital to establishing Raytheon as a premier global employer in the aerospace and defense sector. (Above Executive Photos from Raytheon Technologies Official Website) Here is a list of Raytheon Technologies Board of Directors. Raytheon Technologies operates through the following businesses: In 1922, Laurence Marshall, Vannevar Bush, and Charles Smith founded the American Appliance Company in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to market a device called the S-tube. In 1925, the company’s name was changed to Raytheon, then known as an electronics giant and defense contractor. Laurence Marshall was the first chairman of Raytheon’s Board of Directors from 1948 to 1950. Raytheon’s global headquarters are in Waltham, Massachusetts. However, in June 2022, Raytheon announced that its global headquarters were moving to Northern Virginia to be close to most of its government customers in the Washington, D.C., area. Raytheon’s presence in Massachusetts will be maintained.    Established in 1992, Raytheon Technologies is one of the U.S. government’s largest aerospace and defense contractors. The aerospace and defense giant expanded its reach since Raytheon Company and United Technologies merged in 2020.  Raytheon Technologies’ government contracts demonstrate a long history of innovation in all technology fields, including satellites, guided missiles, drones, avionics, aircraft engines, and more. The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here