*As per the Economic Survey 2022, India’s GERD as a percentage of GDP stood at 0.66%.​ *There are 1,30,000 startups (besides unicorns) in December 2023 from 350 startups in 2014.​ *As of September 2023, India was placed at 40th position among the top innovative economies globally as per Global Innovation Index (GII) 2023. *The rate of artificial intelligence (AI) adoption in key industries across India reached approximately 48% in FY2024, with expectations to expand by an additional 5-7% in FY25 *India is the top exporter of IT products, has the third-largest pharma sector and a fast-growing contract research segment.​ *State University Research Excellence (SERB-SURE) to create a robust R&D ecosystem in state universities and colleges; Fund for Industrial Research Engagement (SERB-FIRE) to support research and development to solve critical problems that are relevant to industries in a public-private partnership mode.​ *DeepTech increasingly becoming mainstream in the Indian tech start-up ecosystem with DeepTech startups raising US$ 586 million in funding in calendar year 2023. ​ *India’s AI market is growing at a CAGR of 25-35% and is projected to reach around US$ 17 billion by 2027.​​ *In September 2021, India published the amended Patents Rules (2021) and reduced fees by 80% for educational institutions.​ *DST has been a pioneer in establishing a network of Technology Business Incubators (TBI) and Science & Technology Entrepreneur’s Parks (STEP) across the country under the National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations (NIDHI) program.​ *Establishment of CoEs in various areas. NMITLI initiative on PPP basis.​ *Increased investment by private players. Setting up R&D centres. *India has witnessed an investment of over Rs.1,000 crore (US$ 120.21 million) in Space Startups in the last nine months between April to December 2023. Modern India has had a strong focus on science and technology, realizing that it is a key element for economic growth. India ranks third among the most attractive investment destinations for technology transactions in the world. With more and more multinational companies setting up their R&D centres in India, the sector has seen an uptrend in investment in recent years. India is among the top countries globally in the field of scientific research, positioned as one of the top five nations in the field of space exploration. The country has regularly undertaken space missions, including missions to the moon and the famed Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV). India is likely to take a leading role in launching satellites for the SAARC nations, generating revenue by offering its space facilities for use to other countries. The government has introduced multiple policies aimed at projecting India as a science and technology powerhouse and promoting both public and private sector involvement in the R&D practice. As a result, India’s gross expenditure on R&D (GERD) has been consistently increasing over the years. The government has also implemented several fellowship schemes to nurture the human capacity for advanced research in the country. Spending in the Indian information technology (IT) sector is projected to reach US$ 138.9 billion in 2024, compared to US$ 122.6 billion last year, with a double-digit growth rate of 13.2%. The engineering R&D and product development market in India is forecast to post a CAGR of 12% to reach US$ 63 billion by 2025, from US$ 31 billion in 2019. As per the Economic Survey 2022, India’s gross domestic expenditure on R&D (GERD) as a percentage of GDP stood at 0.66%. There are 1,39,018 as May 2024 startups from 350 startups in 2014. India has witnessed an vestment of over Rs. 1,000 crore (US$ 120.21 million) in Space Startups in the last nine months between April to December 2023. India's gross expenditure on R&D (GERD) as a percentage of GDP has remained stagnant at around 0.7% for about a decade, lower than Brazil (1.16%), South Africa (0.83%) and others. IT spending in India will grow 10.7% YoY to reach US$ 124.6 billion in 2024, as forecasted by Gartner. India’s bioeconomy was valued at US$ 137 billion in 2022 and aims to achieve US$ 300 billion mark by 2030. In FY21, the science and technology sector added 1,497,501 employees, becoming India’s top employment generator. Under the Interim Budget 2024-25, the government announced an allocation of Rs. 8,029 crore (US$ 966 million) to the Department of Science and Technology and Rs. 16,604 crore (US$ 2 billion) to the Ministry of Science and Technology. In the Interim Budget 2024-25, the government announced corpus of Rs. 1 lakh crore (US$ 12 billion) to promote Innovation and StartUps coupled with a new scheme for Deep Tech StartUps in Defence. According to Commerce and Industry Minister, Mr. Piyush Goyal, the Indian patent office has granted the "highest" number of 41,010 patents till November 15th, 2023. The Indian Patent Office has crossed the one lakh mark for the first time this year, with 1,01,311 patents being granted by the department between March 15, 2023, to March 14, 2024, reflecting the government efforts to enhance the intellectual property rights framework. India is ranked in 7th position in terms of Resident Patent Filing activity in the world. In India, there are more than 1,580 Global Capability Centres (GCCs), where companies can outsource their product development and receive product engineering services, with the GCC market size crossing US$ 46 billion (as of FY23). These GCCs are home to some of the largest companies, many of which have their largest or second-largest R&D centres located in the country. Accenture offers a framework for assessing the economic effect of AI for selected G20 countries in its latest AI research studies and forecasts that AI will raise India's annual growth rate by 1.3% by 2035. India's National Artificial Intelligence Strategy prepared by NITI Aayog outlined a way forward to harness the potential of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in different fields. State University Research Excellence (SERB-SURE) to create a robust R&D ecosystem in state universities and colleges; Fund for Industrial Research Engagement (SERB-FIRE) to support research and development to solve critical problems that are relevant to industries in a public-private partnership mode. Some of the recent developments in the field of science and technology in India are as follows: Some of the recent initiatives taken by the Government of India to promote science and technology in India are: The policy also encourages NGEs to establish and operate ground facilities for space object operations, such as telemetry, tracking and command (TT&C) Earth Stations and Satellite Control Centres (SCCs). India ranks third among the most innovative lower-middle-income economies in the world. Rising per capita income in India will bring a boom in R&D investment in the country with multiple foreign players shifting R&D bases to India. R&D investment and multiple government policies have helped Indian companies overcome tight competition with affordable products internationally. India plans to move forward with developing its science and technology sector by collaborating with other countries. India has active bilateral science and technology (S&T) programs of cooperation with more than 45 countries, including dedicated programs for Africa, ASEAN, BRICS, EU and neighbouring countries. In 2021, India also collaborated with Denmark and agreed to a five-year plan to implement a green strategic partnership for enhancing partnerships in various areas, including science and technology. India is aggressively working towards establishing itself as a leader in industrialization and technological development. Significant developments in the nuclear energy sector are likely as India looks to expand its nuclear capacity. Moreover, nanotechnology is expected to transform India’s pharmaceutical industry. The agriculture sector is also likely to undergo a major revamp with the government investing heavily in a technology-driven green revolution. The Government of India, through the Science, Technology, and Innovation (STI) Policy-2013, among other things, aspires to position India among the world’s top five scientific powers. References -  Media Reports, Press Releases, Press Information Bureau (PIB), Union Budget 2022-23/ 2023-24 Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi stressed the vital role of India's space sector in achieving the 'Developed India-2047' vision, highlighting its growing vibrancy and long-term strategic focus. Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi stressed the vital role of India's space sector in achieving the 'Developed India-2047' vision, highlighting its growing vibrancy and long-term strategic focus. The FY25 Budget increases Customs duty on PCBA to 15% to bolster domestic telecom manufacturing while expanding Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) and establishing US$ 119.5 million (Rs. 1,000 crore) funds to enhance the space economy. The FY25 Budget increases Customs duty on PCBA to 15% to bolster domestic telecom manufacturing while expanding Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) and establishing US$ 119.5 million (Rs. 1,000 crore) funds to enhance the space economy. AI and ML course enrolments surge by 50%, driving high salaries for skilled professionals in India amid a 12% increase in job openings in these fields. AI and ML course enrolments surge by 50%, driving high salaries for skilled professionals in India amid a 12% increase in job openings in these fields. India's space sector reaches new heights with the successful launch of Agnikul Cosmos' Agnibaan rocket, signalling a promising future for private sector participation and the country's ambitions to become a global hub for small satellite launches. India's space sector reaches new heights with the successful launch of Agnikul Cosmos' Agnibaan rocket, signalling a promising future for private sector participation and the country's ambitions to become a global hub for small satellite launches. NetApp's report underscores India's pivotal role in AI innovation, emphasizing its potential for economic growth and global competitiveness. NetApp's report underscores India's pivotal role in AI innovation, emphasizing its potential for economic growth and global competitiveness. India is the only country to reach mars in the first attempt. Union Minister of External Affairs, Dr. S. Jaishankar and Union Commerce an... Bharat Mobility Global Expo 2024

1 – 3 Feb 2024, Bharat Mandapam, ... India has been one of the fastest growing economies in the world and has demonstrated remarkable flexibility and adaptability. During the past few dec... The Indian manufacturing sector provides livelihood to more than 14 million people (43.4% of the workforce) and contributes ~16% to India’s GDP.... The Indian pharmaceutical industry has proved to be the major player in the domestic and international market. This supremacy has been achieved throug... In 2023, India emerged as the biggest gaming market globally with 568 milli... Fintech has evolved in India, changing how financial services work by using... India has set a target of achieving US$ 7 trillion GDP by 2030, for which g... All material, information, data, images or content on this website is

                    subject to copyright or other applicable intellectual property laws and no part of it can be

                    reproduced in any form (including paper or electronic form) without prior written consent and

                    approval from IBEF. Infringements are subject to prosecution under the applicable laws. For consent

                    related queries and conditions, please write to info.brandindia@ibef.org Copyright © 2010-2024 India Brand Equity Foundation  
 Not a member