Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters 
			Trending:		 Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune A family photo hanging in 2019 in her Tinley Park home shows Carie Ganser, 44, posing with members of the Chicago Bears in her role as a Special Olympics ambassador. Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune Carie Ganser, 44, poses for a photo at home in Tinley Park in 2019 with her parents Frank and Linda Ganser. Melinda Moore / Daily Southtown Carie Ganser of Tinley Park shows off Special Olympics medals she won at 2022 swimming events, her most recent competitions. She earned a gold medal in breaststroke at the state meet and a gold medal for freestyle at the district meet. A family photo hanging in 2019 in her Tinley Park home shows Carie Ganser, 44, posing with members of the Chicago Bears in her role as a Special Olympics ambassador. Ambassador, service clerk, Special Olympics athlete, board member and global messenger are all roles in which Tinley Park resident Carie Ganser has excelled, and now she has another title to add to her list: Hall of Famer.Ganser, a 1993 graduate of Andrew High School in Tinley Park, was among this year’s 11 inductees in the District 230 Foundation Legacy Hall.Carie comes from an athletic family: brother Brian, who played football, sister Katie, who played softball, and father Frank, Andrew High School’s legendary baseball coach and an assistant coach for basketball. Carie initially cheered them on from the sidelines.“When she was young, there was no such word as autism,” said mom Linda Ganser, adding that her daughter is on the spectrum. It wasn’t until after she graduated from the special education program at Andrew that Carie was able to realize her dream of becoming an athlete because at the time, the high school had no athletic program for students like Carie.
Carie Ganser, 44, poses for a photo at home in Tinley Park in 2019 with her parents Frank and Linda Ganser.Carie joined the Orland Park Special Recreation Volleyball League and began competing in track, basketball, powerlifting and other events in Special Olympics, eventually earning more than 100 medals. She became a global messenger for Special Olympics and was the first athlete to serve on the Board of Directors for Special Olympics Illinois.And the achievements don’t stop when she gets to work. Carie, who has been a service clerk for Jewel-Osco in Tinley Park for 28 years and is well-loved by her customers, was named an ambassador for the grocery store’s Change for Champions initiative, which raises money for Special Olympics through donation jars at registers.“This year has been a big one for Carie, all of which seemed to take us by surprise,” Linda said, adding when she became ambassador for Change for Champions “her store made a big deal out of this for her, and she was so excited.”

“A few weeks later the Village of Tinley Park honored Carie at a board meeting with a proclamation — another big night. Next we hear she has been nominated for the District 230 Legacy Hall. Wow! Kind of overwhelming.”Carie was “pretty much in shock” when she learned she was named to Legacy Hall.“I’ve always seen when my dad or brother or sister would get an award,” she said. “Being in special education, I never assumed it would be possible.”She received a corsage for the induction ceremony last month at Silver Lake Country Club in Orland Park, where two tables of family and friends were on hand. “I walked up, I got the award and gave a thank you speech, thanking the person who nominated me,” she said.“She had quite a good portion of the audience in tears. She delivers from the heart,” Linda said, adding with a smile that fellow inductee Brian Forystek, a Sandburg High School alumni who pitched for the Baltimore Orioles for seven seasons, told her “Thank goodness Carie followed me (with her speech). She would be a tough act to follow.”
Carie Ganser speaks with students at Andrew High School in Tinley Park students on Nov. 4, the day she was inducted into District 230 Foundation Legacy Hall.
– Original Credit: School District 230The District 230 Foundation began Legacy Hall in 2008 to “recognize and honor graduates from Sandburg, Stagg and Andrew High Schools who make an impact in their careers, their families and their communities,” according to a foundation news release. Among other qualities, candidates must also show a willingness to give back to their communities and share their time and expertise with others, including at their alma mater.“Carie Ganser is the epitome of what the District 230 Foundation Board looks for in a candidate: a D230 alum who succeeds in her field, and then gives back to her community,” said Ann Oliver, foundation president.“She discovered and competed in the Special Olympics. She not only excelled in them, she took on a leadership role to help others follow their dreams by serving on the Illinois Special Olympics Board of Directors. Carie is a winning athlete who gave back to the community by paving the way for others.”Carie credits her family for her achievements.“I wouldn’t be able to do most of the things I’ve done without the support of my family,” she said. “My mom is the one who found the special recreation program nearby so I could participate.”Linda read an article in a newspaper about the Orland Park Special Recreation volleyball and thought Carie should try it.“She was nervous, but the second time we were driving there she’s saying ‘I did the right thing.’ It was the first time she fit in,” Linda said.
A family photo hanging in 2019 in her Tinley Park home shows Carie Ganser, 44, posing with members of the Chicago Bears in her role as a Special Olympics ambassador.Although Carie performed in plays at school, sports was her passion.“I’ve always wanted to do sports, but with bad coordination it was difficult,” she said. “I have quite a few favorites. I used to love volleyball and enjoyed powerlifting, but I hurt my back. That’s what I found swimming. Now it’s my favorite.”Linda and Frank are proud of their daughter.“As parents of a Special Olympic athlete, our concerns are the same as for our other two (now grown) kids,” Linda said. “As with our other athletes, we are filled with joy and pride when Carie achieves her goals and shines in her sport. Her joy is very contagious. We are all so proud of this gal.”As a global messenger for Special Olympics, Carie has learned to write and deliver her own speeches, presenting them to donors and corporate sponsors.“I’m nervous when I get up there, but once I get going, it just comes naturally,” she said.She’s been interviewed on television and radio, and she has even traveled to spread the word about Special Olympics.“I just love speaking and helping Special Olympics by getting others involved,” Carie said with a smile. “When I’m at work, if I see someone with special needs, I’m constantly asking if they’re involved in Special Olympics.”Carie said she loves seeing customers and interacting with them at work, especially the younger ones.And like many athletes, she has no plans to stop competing any time soon.“It’s like a second family,” she said. “My dream for Special Olympics is to someday represent Special Olympics Illinois at the World Games or nationals. That’s been a goal of mine for a long time.”Melinda Moore is a freelance reporter for the Daily Southtown.  Ganser, a 1993 graduate of Andrew High School in Tinley Park, was among this year’s 11 inductees in the District 230 Foundation Legacy Hall. Carie comes from an athletic family: brother Brian, who played football, sister Katie, who played softball, and father Frank, Andrew High School’s legendary baseball coach and an assistant coach for basketball. Carie initially cheered them on from the sidelines. “When she was young, there was no such word as autism,” said mom Linda Ganser, adding that her daughter is on the spectrum. It wasn’t until after she graduated from the special education program at Andrew that Carie was able to realize her dream of becoming an athlete because at the time, the high school had no athletic program for students like Carie. Carie joined the Orland Park Special Recreation Volleyball League and began competing in track, basketball, powerlifting and other events in Special Olympics, eventually earning more than 100 medals. She became a global messenger for Special Olympics and was the first athlete to serve on the Board of Directors for Special Olympics Illinois. And the achievements don’t stop when she gets to work. Carie, who has been a service clerk for Jewel-Osco in Tinley Park for 28 years and is well-loved by her customers, was named an ambassador for the grocery store’s Change for Champions initiative, which raises money for Special Olympics through donation jars at registers. “This year has been a big one for Carie, all of which seemed to take us by surprise,” Linda said, adding when she became ambassador for Change for Champions “her store made a big deal out of this for her, and she was so excited.” “A few weeks later the Village of Tinley Park honored Carie at a board meeting with a proclamation — another big night. Next we hear she has been nominated for the District 230 Legacy Hall. Wow! Kind of overwhelming.” Carie was “pretty much in shock” when she learned she was named to Legacy Hall. “I’ve always seen when my dad or brother or sister would get an award,” she said. “Being in special education, I never assumed it would be possible.” She received a corsage for the induction ceremony last month at Silver Lake Country Club in Orland Park, where two tables of family and friends were on hand. “I walked up, I got the award and gave a thank you speech, thanking the person who nominated me,” she said. “She had quite a good portion of the audience in tears. She delivers from the heart,” Linda said, adding with a smile that fellow inductee Brian Forystek, a Sandburg High School alumni who pitched for the Baltimore Orioles for seven seasons, told her “Thank goodness Carie followed me (with her speech). She would be a tough act to follow.” The District 230 Foundation began Legacy Hall in 2008 to “recognize and honor graduates from Sandburg, Stagg and Andrew High Schools who make an impact in their careers, their families and their communities,” according to a foundation news release. Among other qualities, candidates must also show a willingness to give back to their communities and share their time and expertise with others, including at their alma mater. “Carie Ganser is the epitome of what the District 230 Foundation Board looks for in a candidate: a D230 alum who succeeds in her field, and then gives back to her community,” said Ann Oliver, foundation president. “She discovered and competed in the Special Olympics. She not only excelled in them, she took on a leadership role to help others follow their dreams by serving on the Illinois Special Olympics Board of Directors. Carie is a winning athlete who gave back to the community by paving the way for others.” Carie credits her family for her achievements. “I wouldn’t be able to do most of the things I’ve done without the support of my family,” she said. “My mom is the one who found the special recreation program nearby so I could participate.” Linda read an article in a newspaper about the Orland Park Special Recreation volleyball and thought Carie should try it. “She was nervous, but the second time we were driving there she’s saying ‘I did the right thing.’ It was the first time she fit in,” Linda said. Although Carie performed in plays at school, sports was her passion. “I’ve always wanted to do sports, but with bad coordination it was difficult,” she said. “I have quite a few favorites. I used to love volleyball and enjoyed powerlifting, but I hurt my back. That’s what I found swimming. Now it’s my favorite.” Linda and Frank are proud of their daughter. “As parents of a Special Olympic athlete, our concerns are the same as for our other two (now grown) kids,” Linda said. “As with our other athletes, we are filled with joy and pride when Carie achieves her goals and shines in her sport. Her joy is very contagious. We are all so proud of this gal.” As a global messenger for Special Olympics, Carie has learned to write and deliver her own speeches, presenting them to donors and corporate sponsors. “I’m nervous when I get up there, but once I get going, it just comes naturally,” she said. She’s been interviewed on television and radio, and she has even traveled to spread the word about Special Olympics. “I just love speaking and helping Special Olympics by getting others involved,” Carie said with a smile. “When I’m at work, if I see someone with special needs, I’m constantly asking if they’re involved in Special Olympics.” Carie said she loves seeing customers and interacting with them at work, especially the younger ones. And like many athletes, she has no plans to stop competing any time soon. “It’s like a second family,” she said. “My dream for Special Olympics is to someday represent Special Olympics Illinois at the World Games or nationals. That’s been a goal of mine for a long time.” Melinda Moore is a freelance reporter for the Daily Southtown.  Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune