The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 Have a question for Alena Hall or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Alena Hall,
                                                    Sarah Davis
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. The way to maintain a healthy weight is to balance the calories you consume with the amount your body uses. But how many calories do you need? While this number can be calculated exactly in a lab, you can also get an accurate estimate by using the Forbes Health Calorie Calculator. It was created with guidance from three Forbes Health Advisory Board members. If you’re looking to maintain or lose weight, this calculator can help. Just slide the bar to the number of pounds you’d like to lose and see your new daily calorie intake, along with the number of days it will take you to reach your goal safely. A healthy reminder: Always consult your doctor or a registered dietitian before starting a weight loss program.  The Forbes Health Calorie Calculator estimates the number of calories your body uses each day. If you want to lose weight, it calculates the number of daily calories you need to consume to achieve your weight loss goal. It also displays how long it will take you to reach your goal weight safely. To calculate your daily calorie needs to maintain your weight, the calculator considers your: Each of these components requires a different amount of calories.



Eat Smarter With Noom
Powered by technology, coaches and psychology, Noom teaches you tips and tricks to develop a positive relationship with food so you can enjoy the foods you love without guilt or shame.

					Start Your Free Trial
				


 


 Eat Smarter With Noom Powered by technology, coaches and psychology, Noom teaches you tips and tricks to develop a positive relationship with food so you can enjoy the foods you love without guilt or shame. 1. Your RMR requires the most energy, far more than physical activity or food processing. It can be measured scientifically in a lab or estimated using an equation. In this calculator, your RMR is measured using the Mifflin-St Jeor equation. It’s the most reliable formula, according to a review of studies in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association. It calculates your RMR based on your sex, weight, height and age. 2. Physical activity burns calories, so athletes need to consume more calories than people who don’t exercise. An activity factor—ranging from 1.2 for people who are sedentary to 1.9 for extremely active people—is assigned based on your physical activity level. The calculator then multiplies your RMR by this number. 3. The thermogenic effect of food makes up the remainder of your daily energy needs (approximately 10%). To find this number, the calculator takes your RMR multiplied by your activity factor and multiplies that number by 10%. To determine your daily calorie needs to lose weight, the calculator decreases the number of calories you use each day by 25%, resulting in a new recommended daily calorie intake. Our Forbes Health Calorie Calculator panel of experts recommended this equation for safe, sustainable weight loss. The calculator won’t display fewer than 1,200 calories a day no matter your starting weight. “If you go below that, it’s very difficult to get all the macronutrients and micronutrients you need for optimal health,” says Melina Jampolis, M.D., a Forbes Health Advisory Board member. The Forbes Health editorial team consulted Forbes Health Advisory Board members Melina Jampolis, M.D., Toby Amidor, R.D. and Sabrena Jo, M.S., the senior director of science and research at the American Council on Exercise (ACE), for this calculator. They reviewed the methods used by this tool to calculate daily calorie needs to maintain and lose weight. The Forbes Health Calorie Calculator panel consists of a physician, a registered dietitian and the senior director of science and research at the American Council on Exercise (ACE). They reviewed the methods used by this tool to calculate daily calorie needs to maintain and lose weight.  Diet / Nutrition Food / Nutrition / Food Safety Exercise and Sports Science / Fitness A calorie is a unit of energy. Calories in food and drinks refer to the amount of energy supplied from the carbohydrates, fat, protein and alcohol in a serving.  Simply explained, there are two types of calories—small (cal) and big (Cal). One big calorie, also known as a kilogram calorie, is equal to 1,000 small calories. “Big” calories (Cal) are more commonly known and indicate the calories in food.  The number of calories you should eat or drink a day depends on several things—your age, sex, height, weight and physical activity. In general, men require more calories than women, and because metabolism slows as people age, older adults generally need fewer calories than younger people. While a calorie calculator gives you the best approximation of your needs, the government’s Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020-2025 offers estimates. Source: Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020-2025 A calorie deficit occurs when a person consumes less calories than their total daily energy expenditure, which may result in weight loss. However, spending too long of a period in this deficit state may create a situation where your body becomes used to the lower energy intake, leading to metabolic adaptation or the “plateau effect.” This may cause weight loss to slow, or “plateau.” Women should consume no less than 1,200 calories per day, while men should consume no less than 1,500 per day (unless otherwise instructed by a doctor). The generally recommended amount of calories that women should consume is around 2,000 calories per day while men should aim for 2,500 calories per day. The following is a compilation of some common foods and their approximate calorie counts, each based on 100-gram portions from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) FoodData Central:  While calorie counting may not be for everyone, some people may find it has advantages. For one, the act of simply tracking your calorie intake can help you become more aware of your patterns and behaviors when it comes to food consumption. Becoming aware of the calories you’re eating daily is often the first step toward a behavioral change in the way you consume calories. Certain individuals may also find power in the act of counting numbers, rather than focusing solely on the type of food they’re eating.  And arguably the biggest benefit to counting calories is possible weight loss, however, you should speak to a health professional when counting calories for weight loss as it can be difficult to sustain and is an often temporary solution. For certain people, calorie counting may lead to some negative outcomes. First off, each person’s body is different. The amount of calories one burns can vary depending on factors including what we eat, our metabolism and the overall health of our gut. Additionally, as a 2015 Open Heart journal article notes, a cycle of losing and regaining weight from fad diets or yo-yo dieting can be harmful to a person’s health and can lead to the development of health concerns like hypertension or insulin resistance [1]Malhotra A, DiNicolantonio JJ, Capewell S. It is time to stop counting calories, and time instead to promote dietary changes that substantially and rapidly reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Open Heart. 2015;2(1):e000273. Published 2015 Aug 10. . Shifting attention to food quality over quantity, explain the authors, is often a better way to reduce obesity and its related conditions Another possible risk of counting calories is the potential for the development of an eating disorder such as anorexia, binge eating or bulimia nervosa. Recent research has also connected the use of calorie tracking apps with perpetuated behaviors or attitudes toward disordered eating. There are a number of online trackers and calorie counting apps available to the public. Some common benefits of these apps include the ability to scan food barcodes to easily enter your foods, compatibility with other health apps or technologies and community support features. Depending on your goals and how you want to track them, and whether you want to lose, gain or stay at your current weight, speak to your doctor or a registered dietitian to figure out the best path for you—and if a calorie counter might help. Generally, it’s recommended that women should aim to consume around 2,000 calories a day, while men should consume around 2,500 calories per day. However, your exact calorie consumption will be unique to you, with data points like age, how active you are, height and ideal weight playing a factor in how much you should aim to consume. The amount of calories one burns walking a mile depends on a variety of factors including pace and body weight. While reducing calories is a good start towards weight management, one 2017 study concluded that more aspects need to be considered for weight management to truly be successful, such as the types of food someone is consuming, how full those foods help them feel, and the type of energy those foods provide. Psychological, environmental, cultural and social factors should also be considered when creating a plan for successful weight management. The number of calories you burn in a day depends on things you don’t control, like your age, as well as things you do control, like your physical activity. In general, moderately active men burn 2,200 to 2,800 calories a day, and moderately active women burn 1,800 to 2,200 calories a day. One pound equals about 3,500 calories. If you consume 500 calories fewer than what your body uses to maintain weight daily, you’ll lose 1 pound in a week. You can also increase the number of calories your body uses with more physical activity to create this caloric deficit. Experts typically recommend losing weight through a combination of eating less and moving more. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Alena is a professional writer, editor and manager with a lifelong passion for helping others live well. She is also a registered yoga teacher (RYT-200) and a functional medicine certified health coach. She brings more than a decade of media experience to Forbes Health, with a keen focus on building content strategy, ensuring top content quality and empowering readers to make the best health and wellness decisions for themselves.
			 
				Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and Bankrate. When she isn’t writing or editing, you can find Sarah with her nose in a book or enjoying the outdoors with her French bulldog, Honey.
			