e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 A Fremont County magistrate has ruled that there was not sufficient evidence to bind over a felony child abuse charge against the mother of a 10-month-old baby who died May 21 after he allegedly was abused by his caregiver.Brook N. Crawford, 20, was arrested in June in connection with the death of her 10-month-old son, Edward Hayes, who died May 23 after he allegedly was abused by William Jacobs, 21, Crawford’s live-in boyfriend. Jacobs has formally been charged with first-degree murder.Magistrate Colette LeBeau issued her order Aug. 28, dismissing Count 1, Child Abuse Resulting in Serious Bodily Injury, a Class 3 felony, in Crawford’s case.Crawford met Jacobs at Motel 6, where she worked and lived, around March 14 and Jacobs moved into her motel room with his German Shepard shortly after. Sometime between April 1 and April 13, Jacobs started caring for Edward while Crawford worked at the motel.On the morning of May 21, Crawford went to work in the lobby of the motel around 7 a.m. During her interview with detectives, she told them that before she went to work that morning, Edward was acting normal, aside from a cold, and that the was smiling and tracking her. She left the baby in Jacobs’ care when she went to work.According to Jacobs’ interview, around 7:30 a.m., Edward turned stiff and arched back like was seizing and became unresponsive. Rescue personnel responded and transported Edward to the hospital.He died May 23 from his injuries.“The prosecution’s theory is that the boy was violently shaken on May 21, 2023, causing severe injuries,” LeBeau’s order states. “There was no testimony that Brook Crawford was present when the was violently shaken. The prosecution’s theory is that William Jacobs shook the boy and that the baby had an immediate reaction to this shaking event.”

On July 26, the court held a preliminary hearing for Crawford, and at the end of the hearing, rather than finding probable cause and binding the charge over for trial, LeBeau took the issue under advisement and invited the parties to submit briefs as to whether the DA’s Office had met their burden to establish probable cause.In a brief submitted by Deputy District Attorney Wendy Owens on Aug. 8, she states that Crawford permitted her son to be unreasonably placed in a situation that posed a threat of injury to life or health.“She permitted Edward to be left with a man she barely knew, who moved in with her a matter of days after they met,” the brief states. “She permitted (Edward) to be left with a man who told her that he had a criminal history,”  but she didn’t tell her family about his criminal history because she wanted them to “give him a chance.”“She permitted Edward to be left with this man even after he admitted to her that he bit (the baby) on the arm, hit his head against a door or door frame, let him fall off the bed,” the brief states. “… Yet (Crawford) did nothing to help (Edward). She did not take him to the doctor or the hospital, except to have him examined (for an unrelated matter). She did not banish Jacobs from her home or call law enforcement to report that Jacobs was abusing (Edward). She did not get appropriate child care for (her son).”The brief states that Crawford consciously disregarded the substantial risk that Edward would continue to suffer at Jacobs’ hands.The defense’s brief submitted to the court Aug. 7 states that the DA’s inference that Crawford knew or was aware of a threat of injury to the life or health of her son is without evidentiary basis.The brief states that the testimony during the preliminary hearing established that Crawford did not cause any injuries to the baby; that Crawford was at work May 21 when any injuries occurred to her son; that at the time of any such injuries, Edward was in the sole care of Jacobs; that any injuries sustained by Edward prior to May 21 were also caused by Jacobs; and that none of the injuries sustained by the baby prior to May 21 resulted in serious bodily injury or the subsequent death of the baby.“The people did not present testimony at the preliminary hearing, and they do not argue in their brief that Ms. Crawford caused any injury to the life or health of the or that Ms. Crawford engaged in a continued pattern of conduct that resulted in malnourishment, lack of proper medical care, or cruel punishment resulting in serious bodily injury (SBI),” LeBeau’s order states.The order also states that Crawford had no information that her baby was being severely beaten or abused. The information that she had was that her baby had sustained three minor injuries while in Jacobs’ care that were caused by either an accident or rough horseplay.“There was no indication that Ms. Crawford tried to cover up known abuse,” the order states. “Ms. Crawford took her baby to the doctor two times in May of 2023, including two days before the baby was hospitalized due to a violent, shaking event. There was nothing alarming about the condition at that doctor’s visit that caused medical staff to make a report of abuse.”Crawford is slated to appear in county court Sept. 25 to set an arraignment date on two misdemeanor counts stemming from this case. Brook N. Crawford, 20, was arrested in June in connection with the death of her 10-month-old son, Edward Hayes, who died May 23 after he allegedly was abused by William Jacobs, 21, Crawford’s live-in boyfriend. Jacobs has formally been charged with first-degree murder. Magistrate Colette LeBeau issued her order Aug. 28, dismissing Count 1, Child Abuse Resulting in Serious Bodily Injury, a Class 3 felony, in Crawford’s case. Crawford met Jacobs at Motel 6, where she worked and lived, around March 14 and Jacobs moved into her motel room with his German Shepard shortly after. Sometime between April 1 and April 13, Jacobs started caring for Edward while Crawford worked at the motel. On the morning of May 21, Crawford went to work in the lobby of the motel around 7 a.m. During her interview with detectives, she told them that before she went to work that morning, Edward was acting normal, aside from a cold, and that the was smiling and tracking her. She left the baby in Jacobs’ care when she went to work. According to Jacobs’ interview, around 7:30 a.m., Edward turned stiff and arched back like was seizing and became unresponsive. Rescue personnel responded and transported Edward to the hospital. He died May 23 from his injuries. “The prosecution’s theory is that the boy was violently shaken on May 21, 2023, causing severe injuries,” LeBeau’s order states. “There was no testimony that Brook Crawford was present when the was violently shaken. The prosecution’s theory is that William Jacobs shook the boy and that the baby had an immediate reaction to this shaking event.” On July 26, the court held a preliminary hearing for Crawford, and at the end of the hearing, rather than finding probable cause and binding the charge over for trial, LeBeau took the issue under advisement and invited the parties to submit briefs as to whether the DA’s Office had met their burden to establish probable cause. In a brief submitted by Deputy District Attorney Wendy Owens on Aug. 8, she states that Crawford permitted her son to be unreasonably placed in a situation that posed a threat of injury to life or health. “She permitted Edward to be left with a man she barely knew, who moved in with her a matter of days after they met,” the brief states. “She permitted (Edward) to be left with a man who told her that he had a criminal history,”  but she didn’t tell her family about his criminal history because she wanted them to “give him a chance.” “She permitted Edward to be left with this man even after he admitted to her that he bit (the baby) on the arm, hit his head against a door or door frame, let him fall off the bed,” the brief states. “… Yet (Crawford) did nothing to help (Edward). She did not take him to the doctor or the hospital, except to have him examined (for an unrelated matter). She did not banish Jacobs from her home or call law enforcement to report that Jacobs was abusing (Edward). She did not get appropriate child care for (her son).” The brief states that Crawford consciously disregarded the substantial risk that Edward would continue to suffer at Jacobs’ hands. The defense’s brief submitted to the court Aug. 7 states that the DA’s inference that Crawford knew or was aware of a threat of injury to the life or health of her son is without evidentiary basis. The brief states that the testimony during the preliminary hearing established that Crawford did not cause any injuries to the baby; that Crawford was at work May 21 when any injuries occurred to her son; that at the time of any such injuries, Edward was in the sole care of Jacobs; that any injuries sustained by Edward prior to May 21 were also caused by Jacobs; and that none of the injuries sustained by the baby prior to May 21 resulted in serious bodily injury or the subsequent death of the baby. “The people did not present testimony at the preliminary hearing, and they do not argue in their brief that Ms. Crawford caused any injury to the life or health of the or that Ms. Crawford engaged in a continued pattern of conduct that resulted in malnourishment, lack of proper medical care, or cruel punishment resulting in serious bodily injury (SBI),” LeBeau’s order states. The order also states that Crawford had no information that her baby was being severely beaten or abused. The information that she had was that her baby had sustained three minor injuries while in Jacobs’ care that were caused by either an accident or rough horseplay. “There was no indication that Ms. Crawford tried to cover up known abuse,” the order states. “Ms. Crawford took her baby to the doctor two times in May of 2023, including two days before the baby was hospitalized due to a violent, shaking event. There was nothing alarming about the condition at that doctor’s visit that caused medical staff to make a report of abuse.” Crawford is slated to appear in county court Sept. 25 to set an arraignment date on two misdemeanor counts stemming from this case. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group