Committed to improving the quality of life for individuals and communities through innovative education and research activities The Faculty of Health is a leader in the development of strategies that prevent disease and injury, protect and promote healthy living, optimize physical ability, and improve well-being across the life course. About Waterloo's Faculty of Health → Our researchers work closely with partners including ministries of health and health promotion, the World Health Organization, Public Health Agency of Canada, private industry, and many others to identify and understand health complex challenges and to develop relevant solutions. Explore our research → Explore faculty, research and postdoctoral positions in the Faculty of Health, including the School of Public Health Sciences, Department of Kinesiology and Health Sciences and Department of Recreation and Leisure Studies. Explore employment opportunities → We celebrate diversity and challenge the social and structural factors that undermine health, including structural bias, social inequities and racism. Learn more about our commitment and resources → Dr. Mark Ferro’s ongoing study supports mental health in children and youth living with physical illnesses across the life span Waterloo researchers say the incorporation of smartphones could be the key to improving the accessibility of self-service devices. Faculty of Health alumni support Canadian athletes with publicity and performance analysis 
  Dean's
  Office:

  B.C.
  Matthews
  Hall
  (BMH),
  Third
  floor
  General
  inquiries
  email

  519-888-4567,
  ext.
  40700

   
 

  Contact
  Health
  Visit
  Health
  Support
  Health
  Work
  for
  Health
 

  See
  all
  social
  media
  accounts
 

  Provide
  website
  feedback
 The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg, and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is co-ordinated within the Office of Indigenous Relations.