e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		  MAKO Medical site lead, Kate Hurtado, left, conducts a COVID-19 test on Caitlyn Bogle, the assistant site lead, right, at the Fremont County testing site on Thursday. (Carie Canterbury/Daily Record)  MAKO Medical site lead, Kate Hurtado, secures a vial after conducting a COVID-19 test at the Fremont County testing site on Thursday. (Carie Canterbury/Daily Record) MAKO Medical site lead, Kate Hurtado, left, conducts a COVID-19 test on Caitlyn Bogle, the assistant site lead, right, at the Fremont County testing site on Thursday. (Carie Canterbury/Daily Record) The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment will close the remaining 20 COVID-19 community testing sites Sunday, but the Fremont County Department of Public Health and Environment has independently contracted to continue testing services with MAKO Medical until July 31.MAKO Medical site lead, Kate Hurtado, secures a vial after conducting a COVID-19 test at the Fremont County testing site on Thursday. (Carie Canterbury/Daily Record)The service will continue to be provided free of charge from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Saturday outside the FCDPHE, located at 201 N. Sixth St.Beginning Monday, MAKO can test for flu upon request from the same sample taken for COVID-19 testing.Coloradans have continued to rely more on at-home tests and demand for testing at community sites has dropped consistently during the last several months, fluctuating between 3-6% of overall capacity since November 2022, the CDPHE reports.MAKO testing in Fremont County served about 300 people per day a year and a half ago; about 30 people per day a year ago; and so far in January, between 3 and 5 people use the drive-thru site each day.“It is still being utilized,” said Kayla Marler, the director of the FCDPHE. “We have some patients coming through because it’s a requirement for surgery and also we get a lot of calls from people who say they have been exposed and ask for testing kits.”The FCDPHE no longer provides the at-home tests, but every home in the U.S. is eligible to order four free at-home tests using COVIDtests.gov or by calling 1-800-232-0233.“A lot of the state has moved to the provider model,” Marler said. “The state is really pushing us to go toward ‘test-to-treat,’ and that is done in medical providers’ offices, not public health.”

FCDPHE is contracted to pay $100 for each test from Jan. 16 to July 31, which includes the collecting, testing and reporting.According to the CDPHE, there have been 18,490 COVID cases reported in Fremont County. The FCDPHE reports there have been 212 deaths and 672 hospitalizations, of which five are active.As immunizations have become more readily available, Marler said the highest turn-out rate for immunizations in Fremont County is among the elderly population.According to the CDPHE, 64,139 doses have been administered to Fremont County residents.“We are starting to see some of our younger come in to get their first immunization, so we are starting to see an increase in preschool and grade school children coming in,” Marler said. “The age group that doesn’t have as great of a turnout is that 30-45 age group.”But Marler said the FCDPHE is not in the business to push any type of vaccine on any resident, but rather to provide vaccine opportunities.“They have the option to come in and utilize our services,” she said. “That’s where we forever will stand. We are here as a resource for those individuals to get those immunizations whether it’s COVID, pneumonia, HPV.”While COVID numbers are down, Fremont County is seeing an RSV outbreak among children. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines RSV as a “common respiratory virus that usually causes mild, cold-like symptoms.”Most people recover in a week or two, but RSV can be serious, especially for infants and older adults. RSV is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways in the lung) and pneumonia (infection of the lungs) in children younger than 1 year of age in the United States, according to the CDC.For more information on the flu and RSV, visit https://cdphe.colorado.gov/flu-rsv.Marler took over as director of the FCDPHE in August 2020, right in the thick of the pandemic. The last few years have been the most challenging time in her career in public health.“Looking back now, how we survived it is I have an amazing team,” she said.She credits her staff, the Fremont County Board of Health, the community, the CDPHE and Fremont County Emergency Manager Mykel Kroll for their support throughout the pandemic.“People have to understand, we are public health servants, we are here to serve our residents of Fremont County,” she said. “There’s really not much thinking that comes to that – it’s just what you do.”To learn about more services and programs available through the FCDPHE, call 719-276-7450. The service will continue to be provided free of charge from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Saturday outside the FCDPHE, located at 201 N. Sixth St. Beginning Monday, MAKO can test for flu upon request from the same sample taken for COVID-19 testing. Coloradans have continued to rely more on at-home tests and demand for testing at community sites has dropped consistently during the last several months, fluctuating between 3-6% of overall capacity since November 2022, the CDPHE reports. MAKO testing in Fremont County served about 300 people per day a year and a half ago; about 30 people per day a year ago; and so far in January, between 3 and 5 people use the drive-thru site each day. “It is still being utilized,” said Kayla Marler, the director of the FCDPHE. “We have some patients coming through because it’s a requirement for surgery and also we get a lot of calls from people who say they have been exposed and ask for testing kits.” The FCDPHE no longer provides the at-home tests, but every home in the U.S. is eligible to order four free at-home tests using COVIDtests.gov or by calling 1-800-232-0233. “A lot of the state has moved to the provider model,” Marler said. “The state is really pushing us to go toward ‘test-to-treat,’ and that is done in medical providers’ offices, not public health.” FCDPHE is contracted to pay $100 for each test from Jan. 16 to July 31, which includes the collecting, testing and reporting. According to the CDPHE, there have been 18,490 COVID cases reported in Fremont County. The FCDPHE reports there have been 212 deaths and 672 hospitalizations, of which five are active. As immunizations have become more readily available, Marler said the highest turn-out rate for immunizations in Fremont County is among the elderly population. According to the CDPHE, 64,139 doses have been administered to Fremont County residents. “We are starting to see some of our younger come in to get their first immunization, so we are starting to see an increase in preschool and grade school children coming in,” Marler said. “The age group that doesn’t have as great of a turnout is that 30-45 age group.” But Marler said the FCDPHE is not in the business to push any type of vaccine on any resident, but rather to provide vaccine opportunities. “They have the option to come in and utilize our services,” she said. “That’s where we forever will stand. We are here as a resource for those individuals to get those immunizations whether it’s COVID, pneumonia, HPV.” While COVID numbers are down, Fremont County is seeing an RSV outbreak among children. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines RSV as a “common respiratory virus that usually causes mild, cold-like symptoms.” Most people recover in a week or two, but RSV can be serious, especially for infants and older adults. RSV is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways in the lung) and pneumonia (infection of the lungs) in children younger than 1 year of age in the United States, according to the CDC. For more information on the flu and RSV, visit https://cdphe.colorado.gov/flu-rsv. Marler took over as director of the FCDPHE in August 2020, right in the thick of the pandemic. The last few years have been the most challenging time in her career in public health. “Looking back now, how we survived it is I have an amazing team,” she said. She credits her staff, the Fremont County Board of Health, the community, the CDPHE and Fremont County Emergency Manager Mykel Kroll for their support throughout the pandemic. “People have to understand, we are public health servants, we are here to serve our residents of Fremont County,” she said. “There’s really not much thinking that comes to that – it’s just what you do.” To learn about more services and programs available through the FCDPHE, call 719-276-7450. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group