Before emailing, refer to our pages that address commonly searched answers: Hours of operation are from 8 am to 8 pm ET, Monday to Friday, closed on statutory holidays. Interpretation services are available in 200+ languages. COVID-19 information line:
		1-833-784-4397 Teletypewriter (TTY): 1-800-465-7735
		(Monday to Friday, 8 am to 8 pm ET) Fraud alert: This number is for inbound calls only. It can't make calls. Calls that appear to come from this phone number are fraudulent and were not placed by the Government of Canada. Don't give out personal information if you didn't initiate the call. Callers who have received a suspicious telephone call can report it by contacting the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre. The Public Health Agency of Canada does not provide individual medical advice. Consult your health care provider for appropriate care and advice about diseases and conditions. Also do not submit personal documents or information, such as medical records or passports. The personal information you provide to the Public Health Agency of Canada will be collected by the Executive Correspondence Unit. This is done under the authority of the Department of Health Act and handled in accordance with the Privacy Act. The Public Health Agency of Canada will follow up with you about the questions or comments that you submit. This is the only reason why we ask for this information. Your personal information may be shared with other federal institutions: If you choose not to provide the requested information, we will be unable to respond to you or process your inquiry. You have the right to access and request a correction or notation to your personal information. You also have a right to complain to the Privacy Commissioner of Canada if you feel your personal information has been handled improperly. Response times may be longer depending on the complexity of the question or if we have a high volume of enquiries. Required fields are marked with an asterisk (*). Public Health Agency of Canada
          130 Colonnade Rd
          A.L. 6501H
          Ottawa ON K1A 0K9Toll-free: 1-844-280-5020 Public Health Agency of Canada
          1015 Arlington St
          Winnipeg MB R3E 3R2 Media Relations line
          613-957-2983