Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     CHARLOTTE, N.C. — A man at a CarMax dealership in North Carolina was arrested after police said he had three pounds of marijuana shipped to the store.  Officers were called to CarMax on Remount Road in Gastonia on May 22 for a possible drug violation. When officers got to the dealership, they spoke with a manager who said a large box was addressed to the CarMax address from California.  Click here to sign up for the daily Wake Up Charlotte newsletter A spokesperson for the used car retailer told WCNC Charlotte the man is an employee of one of their vendors. The manager allegedly told officers it wasn't strange for this person to have packages delivered at work, but this particular delivery had an "unusual odor." When officers opened the box, they found over three pounds of marijuana. Officers seized the weed, resealed the box and waited for the employee to arrive at work to claim the package.  The man, identified as a 39-year-old man from Elgin, South Carolina, arrived at work around 12:30 p.m., according to police. Officers spotted him outside the building with the package and stopped him. The suspect was arrested after confirming to officers that he was the intended recipient of the package. He was charged with possession of marijuana and possession with intent to sell or deliver. He was released from jail after posting a $10,000 bond, according to detectives. Editor's Note: This story has been updated to reflect the man arrested works for a third-party vendor company affiliated with CarMax and is not an employee of CarMax itself. Note: WCNC instituted a new policy in March 2021 regarding the broadcast or posting of mugshots.   WCNC will only air or post a mugshot if the person has been formally charged with a crime and in a few other cases. The exceptions include: If it appears the person could be a danger to themselves or others or if they are wanted by authorities; to differentiate between people with a common name; if the photos could encourage more victims to come forward. The news-editorial leadership may also decide to use a mugshot based on the severity of the crime(s) committed and/or the level of public interest in the crime and ensuing criminal proceedings. Wake Up Charlotte To Go is a daily news and weather podcast you can listen to so you can start your day with the team at Wake Up Charlotte.   SUBSCRIBE: Apple Podcasts || Spotify || Stitcher || TuneIn || Google Podcasts    All of WCNC Charlotte's podcasts are free and available for both streaming and download. You can listen now on Android, iPhone, Amazon, and other internet-connected devices. Join us from North Carolina, South Carolina, or on the go anywhere.  Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.