Tesla (TSLA)’s electric cars are suddenly in hot demand after the company drastically cut the prices for some models by up to 20 percent and made Model Y, its best-selling vehicle, eligible for the $7,500 clean vehicle tax credits under the Inflation Reduction Act. 
					Thank you for signing up!				  
					By clicking submit, you agree to our <a href="http://observermedia.com/terms">terms of service</a> and acknowledge we may use your information to send you emails, product samples, and promotions on this website and other properties. You can opt out anytime.				 Tesla’s U.S. new car inventory has dropped by 51 percent since Jan. 13, the day Tesla slashed prices for many Model 3 and Model Y vehicles, according to tesladata.mattjung.net, an independent site tracking Tesla inventory using data from Tesla’s website and other sources. “I’ve never gotten so many DMs and messages from people showing they’ve ordered a new/inventory Tesla than I’ve gotten In the past 72 hours,” tweeted Sawyer Merritt, a Tesla investor with 375,000 followers, on Jan. 15. The excitement tricked down to the resale market as well. Carmax, an online marketplace for used cars, said it sold more than half of its Tesla inventory within 24 hours of the latest price cuts. Tesla has reduced prices for Model 3 and Model Y, its two mass-market vehicles, since late last year in a bid to boost sales. After the latest discounts, Model Y starts at $52,990, instead of $65,990. Including the $7,500 federal tax credit, the entry-level Model Y is $20,500, or 30 percent, cheaper. (The vehicle previously didn’t qualify for tax credits because of its high retail price.) The Model 3 now starts at $43,990 instead of $46,990. We get it: you like to have control of your own internet experience. But advertising revenue helps support our journalism. To read our full stories, please turn off your ad blocker.We'd really appreciate it. Below are steps you can take in order to whitelist Observer.com on your browser: Click the AdBlock button on your browser and select Don't run on pages on this domain. Click the AdBlock Plus button on your browser and select Enabled on this site. Click the AdBlock Plus button on your browser and select Disable on Observer.com.