Charlene Rhinehart is a CPA , CFE, chair of an Illinois CPA Society committee, and has a degree in accounting and finance from DePaul University.  Ford Motor Company (F) is one of the biggest automotive companies in the world. In addition to its Ford-branded vehicles, it also markets luxury vehicles under the Lincoln brand and auto parts under the Motorcraft name. For the fiscal year ending 2023, it reported annual revenue of $176 billion.
  Ford's wholly-owned automotive subsidiaries operate in numerous countries around the world, including Canada, Brazil, China, Australia, and India. The company's European automotive operations include wholly-owned subsidiaries headquartered in Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom. In addition to these core automotive subsidiaries, Ford owns various other companies around the world. Below are some of the most important of those businesses.
  Ford Motor Credit Company, LLC is a financial services company offering financing products to Ford consumers and Ford dealers. The company provides automobile loans and leases to retail, commercial, and government buyers of new and used Ford vehicles. It also offers business loans and lines of credit to its dealers for inventory and facility investments and other approved business uses.
  Ford Motor Credit Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ford Motor Company. It operates in Europe under its own subsidiary, FCE Bank plc, which is headquartered in the United Kingdom.
  Changan Ford Automobile Corporation, Ltd. is a 50-50 joint venture between Ford Motor Company and China's state-owned Chongqing Changan Automobile Company, Ltd., one of China's four biggest auto manufacturers. The company produces and distributes Ford-branded vehicles in China. Changan Ford operates an engine plant, a transmission plant, and several assembly plants.
 Ford is the third-largest publicly traded car company in the world based on revenues and the eleventh-biggest based on market capitalization.  Rayong, Thailand–based AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co., Ltd. is a 50-50 joint venture between Ford and Mazda Motor Corporation. AutoAlliance operates an integrated automotive manufacturing facility for compact trucks and passenger cars. The company produces Ford- and Mazda-branded vehicles for Thailand and markets in other developing countries in Southeast Asia and beyond.
  Ford Smart Mobility was created to design, build, grow, and invest in new mobility services. The company focuses on connectivity, autonomous electric vehicles, the customer experience, and data analytics. Connectivity focuses on entertainment and communication systems while mobility focuses on car-sharing programs, parking technology, and other mobility services.
  This venture costs Ford a lot of money, but the hope is at least some of these investments will eventually pay off.
  Ford Land is a full-service real estate company originally established in 1970 to develop acreage surrounding Ford Motor Company's corporate headquarters in Michigan. It now owns and manages more than 220 million square feet of real estate globally in 48 countries.
  Ford Land focuses on creating workspaces that maximize employee morale and output. The company provides planning and engineering services, facility management services, and dealership design services in support of Ford's international operations. Ford Land is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ford Motor Company.
 Ford owns many companies, most of which are various subsidiaries of its automaking business. Its two primary vehicle brands are Ford and Lincoln. Lincoln is considered to be the luxury arm of Ford. Ford is not owned by any other company or by any one individual or family. It is a publicly-traded company that is owned by shareholders. No, Ford does not own Mazda. Mazda is its own company. Ford and Mazda have had close ties over the years, including a current 50/50 joint venture in Thailand.  Ford is one of the largest automakers in the world and has expanded beyond its Detroit beginnings to have operations in the majority of the world. The automaker has subsidiaries that cover financing, smart technology, and land development, to ensure that it stays at the forefront of automotive tech and can vertically integrate various parts of its business to remain competitive.
 Statista. "Leading Car Manufacturers by Cumulative Sales Between January and September 2023." Ford. "Ford+ Delivers Solid 2023, Provides Outlook For Healthy ’24; Company Declares Regular, Supplemental Stock Dividends." Ford. "Ford Group Companies." Ford. "Ford Credit." FCE Bank. "About FCE Bank plc." Ford. "Worldwide Locations." Ford Authority. "Changan Ford Automobile Assembly Plant 2 - Chongqing, China." Companiesmarketcap. "Top Publicly Traded Automakers by Revenue." Companiesmarketcap. "Largest automakers by market capitalization." Auto Alliance. "About AAT." Ford. "Worldwide Locations - Thailand - AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co." Ford. "Ford Smart Mobility LLC Established to Develop, Invest in Mobility Services; Jim Hackett Named Subsidiary Chairman." Ford Motor Company. "Form 10-K," Page 46. LinkedIn. "Ford Land." Ford Land. "Designs That Empower Connection." Ford Land. "About."