Since 2020, Milwaukee has been called ground zero for the stolen car epidemic Since 2020, Milwaukee has been called ground zero for the stolen car epidemic The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Since 2020, Milwaukee has been called ground zero for the stolen car epidemic Imagine having a brand-new car but hardly ever driving it. For Milwaukee County resident Melody Domack, it is her reality. "The first new car in my life.  So, yeah, it hurts," Domack told WISN 12 News. The stolen car epidemic plaguing the city has crippled her with fear of driving her KIA. "If I hear a noise outside the house? I think somebody's trying to break into the garage. I went shopping at Kohls's. I kept going over to the door to see if my car was still in the parking spot," Domack said. It's why Domack's three years old KIA Rio is mostly kept locked with a club inside her garage. "I have 195 miles on it," Domack said. And she only drives it in emergencies. Her KIA is one that's most targeted by thieves. It requires a key to start, which means it can be breached with a device as simple as a USB. Speaking to WISN 12 News about her fear of the car being stolen brought Domack to tears. "Because I said I've never had something nice in my life," Domack said. Older models like hers are now eligible for KIA's new software upgrade. Since 2020 Milwaukee has been called ground zero for the stolen car epidemic, Hyundais and KIAs swiped off the streets at record rates. "Every time I see something like that on the news, it makes me sick. I don't know. I would not buy another KIA, never. Because if you can't back a product, you can't take care of the problems. Why would you deal with that company again," Domack said. Now, three years later, Milwaukee's trend on the downswing, stolen cars dropped 34% so far this year. After mounting pressure, KIA rolled out what they touted to be a stolen car "fix." A software upgrade for a longer sounding alarm and a tweak in the ignition to stop the USB trick. WISN went into the service center at Lupient KIA in Glendale to see how it works. "They have a light that illuminates. What happens is it sees the key going in. It sends a signal to the body control module. Once it goes through the body control module, it'll wake that up when the key goes fully in. Now you're able to actually turn the key and start it.   "So if they had somebody else's key and they tried to start it with their key, they can't. So it has to be your key that time there. And then once the ignition is turned down, it sends a signal, and you're able to start the vehicle. So if they broke the ignition, if they broke the trim around it and then tried to start it like they were doing prior during it, they're unable to they're unsuccessful," Service Manager Scott Sekach told WISN 12 News. Sekach said the 40-minute fix is free to eligible vehicles. KIA has been notifying millions of car owners, but Sekach said even if owners don't have the manufacturer letter yet, they can look up the vehicle's VIN number to see what, if any, software upgrades they're eligible for. "How many come in with for the upgrade who have already had their car stolen or broken into?" WISN 12 News' Hillary Mintz asked. "Probably almost all of them," Sekach said. Since this stolen car fix came out, Lupient said they've already upgraded about a thousand vehicles, and they get about 25 per day. "So this is the best solution right now to try to fix this problem?" Mintz asked. "To my knowledge, it's actually the solution," Sekach said. At the height of the stolen car epidemic plaguing Milwaukee, Lupient's general manager Chaun Favre said they were victims too. "You'd come into the store and the multiple times where cars were missing and just a lot of unhappy customers that had purchased cars from us, and then they'd go missing," Favre said. He says it definitely impacted sales. "Yeah, quite a bit. You know, you had a lot of key customers that just did not want to buy another Kia," Favre said. So they alerted KIA. "Unfortunately, for quite a while, I don't think KIA wanted anything to do with any of this getting out to the public and, you know, thinking that it was an issue. And we had many meetings with higher-up KIA people saying 'it's a problem,' like we had them come to the store, we had them walk around our lot and show them cars that had broken windows.11 I mean, at one point we had 40 or 50 cars waiting for parts to get fixed. So I think they finally come to the realization that it is a manufactured problem," Favre said. KIA vehicles eligible for the upgrade are models made before 2021. Domack's 2019 car qualifies but says she's yet to be notified by KIA. And until she gets the upgrade, the car is staying put. " I would stand in front of it and be run down or shot before I let somebody take my car," Domack said. She is unwilling to become the next stolen car victim. According to a corporate spokesperson for KIA, the company has notified over 2.3 million owners around the country and expects to have all notified before June for the anti-theft upgrade. Car owners will also receive an anti-theft sticker on their vehicle which alerts thieves the car now has an immobilizer and requires the vehicles' actual key to start the car. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.