Advertise with us Thank you for Subscribing to CIO Applications Weekly Brief CarMax partners with UVeye to leverage its inspection technology for its wholesale business operations. FREMONT, CA: "CarMax's purpose is to drive integrity by being honest and transparent in every interaction," said Dave Unice, CarMax vice president of Merchandising Operations. "Our partnership with UVeye allows us to further this mission by providing dealers with highly detailed imagery on auction vehicles online." One of the leading national retailers and wholesalers of used cars, CarMax, is partnering with UVeye to provide AI-enhanced condition reports for buyers of vehicles sold at auction. In 2021, CarMax became a strategic investor in UVeye. The companies have been collaborating on innovative solutions to improve used-car auction processes. The wholesale division of CarMax sold over 700,000 vehicles during the last fiscal year. Under a licensing agreement with UVeye, CarMax is leveraging UVeye's industry-first inspection technology in its wholesale business. It uses artificial intelligence, machine learning, sensor fusion, and high-speed cameras to detect issues ranging from worn tires to sheet metal and underbody problems. Some wholesale locations already have UVeye systems, and the company plans to extend the technology throughout its wholesale operations. UVeye vehicle scans will assist CarMax in inspecting the exterior of vehicles, undercarriages, and tires to produce user-friendly reports online with high-resolution photos. "We've been impressed with UVeye's technology, and it will help us maximize efficiencies in our wholesale auction business. We look forward to further implementing this best-in-class solution across our network and exploring new opportunities and potential uses with UVeye." "It's a true privilege to have CarMax on this journey with us both as an investor and as a strategic customer. We will continue to work together on providing the best customer experience possible." Customer Experience & Digital...  Brian Timmeny, Chief Technology Officer Effectively Maintaining Software...  Derek Fisher, Vice President of Application Security Setting MLOps for financial success  Jorge Balestra, Global Head Machine Learning Operations (MLOps) and Platforms Is AI a Cure for Bad Meetings?  Scott Wharton, GM Designing Effective Learning Experiences  Lan Tran, Director of Learning Design and Technology Identifying Gaps In Cybersecurity To...  Keiron Holyome, Vice President – UKI, Middle East and Africa Cheers to More Digital Partnerships...  Pierre-Yves Calloc’h – Chief Digital Officer Read Also  I agree We use cookies on this website to enhance your user experience. By clicking any link on this page you are giving your consent for us to set cookies. More info Copyright © 2024 CIO Applications. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy |  Sitemap  |  Subscribe |  About Us  |  Sitemap |  Editorial Policy |  Feedback Policy  CIO Applications Weekly Brief Be first to read the latest tech news, Industry Leader's Insights, and CIO interviews of medium and large enterprises exclusively from CIO Applications   However, if you would like to share the information in this article, you may use the link below: https://www.cioapplications.com/news/carmax-and-uveye-s-partnership-streamlines-usedcar-auction-processes-nid-10504.html