Autoblog writes about automotive accessories, outdoor gear and other lifestyle products. Our articles may include affiliate links; if you buy something through a link, we may earn a commission. Read more about how we select and test products. Autoblog may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Pricing and availability are subject to change. Keeping your car washed is important. Dirt, grime and more can overwhelm an exterior faster than you might think, and the worse the problem gets, the harder it's going to be to get your car shiny like new again. Luckily, it's pretty easy and affordable to get a good car wash soap that will meet your needs, but with so many soaps out there on the market, we decided to compile a list of some of the "best." Of course, everyone has their own idea of what the best car wash soap is, so this list is based on user ratings and reviews. 






 This SuperCleaner by CarGuys is a bit different in that it's more of a "general cleaner" than a "soap," but it can still be used on your exterior for spot cleaning. It's made to be used on nearly any surface, interior or exterior, and can clean upholstery, vinyl, plastic, bird poop, tree sap, and more. The product is mixed and bottled in the USA and perhaps best of all, it comes in its own convenient spray bottle.  






 This Mr. Pink car wash soap from Chemical Guys comes in a 1 gallon container, can be used with foam cannons or for bucket washing, and undeniably just looks cooler than most other car soaps that might be sitting in your garage. The formula is pH neutral to prevent wax stripping and it's even candy scented. Who doesn't want their car to smell good? 






 This 1 gallon jug of Optimum No Rinse Wash & Shine soap might cost a little more than the others on the list, but it's unique in that, well, it's "no rinse!" This soap should only require 1 - 2 gallons of water total to wash the entire car. As you'd probably expect, it's made to leave no soapy residue after a wash, eliminating the need for additional water. If you're the type of person always doing your best to conserve water, this is the soap for you. 






 This Chemical Guys Extreme Bodywash & Wax Foaming soap is the most affordable option on our list and packs a huge punch. It comes in a 128 oz. container, which should last you ages as it can be diluted by adding just 1 oz. into 5 gallons of water. This soap is pH-balanced, formulated with a synthetic and carnauba wax to reduce water spots and as the name says, it produces "extreme" foam.   






 This Meguiar's Gold Class car wash soap is a top seller for a few reasons. It's an all-in-one soap, making it easy to use for anyone, it can be used with or without a foam cannon, and it's a good price for a full gallon of product, which can be further diluted to make it last even longer. The formula is designed to clean "without stripping wax protection," so you shouldn't have to worry if your car has been recently waxed and you're just looking for a quick, easy clean. Soap specifically made to clean the exterior of your car. Dirt, chemicals and debris can cause damage to your car. Cleaning it regularly can help prevent rust and keep your vehicle looking great. Different soaps have different requirements for proper use. Check on the label of your soap to see how to get the most out of your car wash soap. Car wash soap can cost anywhere from less than $10 to over $100 depending on quality and quantity. The soaps in this article are all under $50. Washing your car will help it retain its shine and protect it from the elements, but it can be time consuming. More top picks 
						7 thoughts about the 2024 Toyota Land Cruiser 1958 
						Shelby Super Snake Mustang could be yours in charity sweepstakes 
						2025 Ford Mustang 60th Anniversary adds Brittany Blue to the palette 
						Here are a few more details about how MLB plans to convert a NASCAR track to play baseball 
						5 promises Elon Musk made about the Cybertruck that never happened 
						Chinese EVs lose ground in Europe as tariffs take effect    Please enter a display name Please sign in to leave a comment.