A Texas cheerleader who was shot and critically injured after another girl mistakenly opened the wrong car door says she was scared during the shooting but tried to stay calm for her even more frightened friends. Payton Washington, 18, was injured in April outside a supermarket in Elgin, about 20 miles east of Austin, shortly after midnight. She was struck three times in her leg and back, damaging her pancreas and diaphragm. She had surgery to remove her ruptured spleen. The incident was one of a string of recent incidents in which young people were shot during apparently safe, ordinary encounters. Payton Washington spoke out for the first time to ABC. - ABC Washington spoke publicly for the first time to Michael Strahan in an interview that aired Friday on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” She said she was writing a text and eating candy at the time of the shooting. “I didn’t know where it was coming from,” Washington said, “With it being so loud and my ears ringing, I knew to turn and do something.” Washington was one of two teens shot in the supermarket parking lot, police said. The other cheerleader, Washington’s cheer teammate Heather Roth, said she had gotten out of a friend’s car in the parking lot and opened the driver’s side door of a nearby car she thought was hers. Roth said she tried to apologize to the man she found in the passenger seat but he got out of the car and started shooting, according to CNN affiliate KTRK. Payton Washington was one of the cheerleaders shot in Texas after opening the wrong car door in April. - Courtesy Payton Washington They got back in the other car and sped away. “I didn’t see him,” Washington said. “We were trying to get away as fast as we could. All the other girls were screaming.” Roth was grazed, and Washington was shot three times. Washington said she was trying to stay calm for the others. “I could tell how sad and scared they were. Of course it was scary but I wasn’t going to act like I was scared.” She saw blood on her seat and threw up blood when the girls pulled over. She was left with holes in her stomach and diaphragm, and part of her pancreas was removed. “The hardest part was after surgeries,” she said. “Hurting to walk or stand is really weird when before you were doing a bunch of flips, running track, doing long jumps.” Roth was treated and released at the scene. Police arrested and charged a 25-year-old suspect with deadly conduct with a firearm. ABC reported he was released on $100,000 bond. “I’m just going to try to get through it,” Washington said. “There’s no point in me thinking about what he did.” She plans to attend Baylor University in the fall, after walking across the stage with classmates at their recent high school graduation. Payton Washington recently graduated high school. - Lilly Nichole Photo “You can literally do anything if you push, if you persevere,” she said. “Don’t doubt yourself ever because you can do anything as long as you’re putting your 120 percent into it.” The other shootings that occurred that week affecting young people in otherwise ordinary encounters involved a 6-year-old and her dad wounded over a reportedly errant basketball in North Carolina; a 16-year-old struck in the head after ringing a doorbell in Kansas City; and a 20-year-old killed allegedly by the owner of a home whose driveway she’d inadvertently turned into. At the time of the shooting, Roth and Washington were commuting in a three-times-a-week carpool to a cheerleading gym in the Houston suburb of Oak Ridge North. For more CNN news and newsletters create an account at CNN.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.