A vandalised car has been spotted driving around Perth with ‘whore’ and ‘cheater’ spray painted on the side. Shocking photographs of a vandalised Perth car have sparked debate online. Snaps posted on Facebook and Reddit show a dark grey Kia Sportage sporting the spray-painted words “cheater” and “whore”, Perth Nowreports. The messages have left people scratching their heads. Is this a lovers’ quarrel? A prank gone wrong? Either way, we need to know the tea behind this fine piece of urban art. On the Facebook page Boorloo Aesthetics where the photo was posted on Thursday, locals threw in their two cents. “As someone who is subjected to these residents on a frequent basis, let’s just say that’s the least of their problems. . .,” one commenter wrote. And the vandalism hasn’t stopped the Sportage owner from getting around. Reddit user u/Weird-Principle277 shared a photo of the car driving towards Rockingham on Friday with the caption “just casual Perth things”. This isn’t the first time a car has been spotted getting around Perth wearing a scarlet letter. Back in 2019, a car was spotted in Joondalup sporting the words ‘CHEATER’ and ‘DOG’. The woman scorned called in to radio show hosts Heidi, Xavier & Ryan revealing that the ‘DOG’ very much deserved it. “As much as there’s been all the jokes and all the laughs, and it has been a little bit funny that it’s gone viral, in all seriousness I am devastated and it’s been very stressful and very difficult,” she said, “I love this man fiercely and I’ve put my heart and soul into trying to help him get better and people who’ve had to live with a drug user will probably know it’s not much fun … a lot of drama, a lot of ups and downs. “I never thought he’d repay me by cheating on me with a girl, she’s not a woman, she’s a girl.” This story originally appeared in Perth Now and was republished here with permission.  A volunteer firefighter has died after he was struck be a police car driven by an on-duty officer, it’s been revealed. Residents have captured the wild moment dozens of driverless cars parked next-door went rogue in the middle of the night. A pedestrian has died after they were hit by a car before being thrown into the path of another vehicle. Our Apps