Autoblog writes about automotive accessories, outdoor gear and other lifestyle products. Our articles may include affiliate links; if you buy something through a link, we may earn a commission. Read more about how we select and test products. Autoblog may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Pricing and availability are subject to change. Weather Tech is a company with great made-in-America products for your car, truck, or SUV. We love their product lines for car enthusiasts, pet parents, and work-from-home warriors at full price, so to be able to highlight a few great deals is exciting. The Weather Tech Amazon shop has a great product finder tool that’s worth checking out if you haven’t. If you’re in need of interior weather protection for your vehicle or accessories to help you out these products will work great for cars, trucks, and SUVs.  $42.00 at Amazon Next to a liner that is laser cut to fit your vehicle, this is the next-best option. However, if you’re on a budget this is the best Weather Tech option, as the laser cut options designed to perfectly fit specific vehicle make-models are more expensive. We should also point out that only the tan-colored liner is on sale for 32% off. The black liner is currently 6% off or you can get 13% off for the grey liner.  $58.36 at Amazon We love to have all-weather mats in our SUVs all year round. These made-in-America Weather Tech mats can be trimmed to fit any make or model SUV. They might not be as fool-proof as the laser cut option from Weather Tech but at $58 these are hard to beat. 






 $49.96 at Amazon We love Weather Tech products. And they rarely go on sale so we’re excited to have three deals to highlight. A hitch step is great if you’re one to load gear to the roof of your SUV. This step easily installs to your hitch to help you access skis, bags, or any cargo you’ve strapped to the roof. And you can take it off the hitch and store it just as easily. We’d recommend Weather Tech products at full price, so this 32% off sale is a steal.  
						2025 GMC Yukon refreshed with a fresh look, more tech and lots more luxury 
						7 thoughts about the 2024 Toyota Land Cruiser 1958 
						2024 Range Rover SV Carmel Edition is a third consecutive tribute to Monterey 
						2025 Ford Mustang 60th Anniversary adds Brittany Blue to the palette 
						Shelby Super Snake Mustang could be yours in charity sweepstakes 
						5 promises Elon Musk made about the Cybertruck that never happened    Please enter a display name Please sign in to leave a comment.