ARRANGING car finance can be a tricky process, but if you do your homework and strike the right deal it could save you a fortune. For those not looking to buy a car outright, exploring various finance packages is definitely worthwhile, but whichever path you choose to take, it’s vital that you’re able to negotiate like a pro on the price you pay. Knowing how to thrash out the best price for your new wheels is all about confidence and understanding what you should be looking out for when car hunting.  Handily, an expert at Zuto car finance has put together a guide to help you confidently negotiate. Lucy Sherliker, Head of Customer at Zuto car finance explains: “When it comes to purchasing a new car, we all know it is worth negotiating to ensure you get the best deal.  “However, many prospective buyers lack confidence when it comes to knowing how to do this effectively, and an understanding of what you should be looking out for.  “Improving your negotiating skills when it comes to car ownership is key, helping you secure the best car finance deal possible.” SUN readers can win a Ford Transit Custom MS-RT R-SPEC + £1,000 or £30,000 cash alternative from just 89p with our special discount code We have teamed up with 7days Performance to offer you a special discounted chance to win the amazing cars this week. Using the code SUN10, you will get 10p off the normal price of 99p. Enter the competition HERE Full terms and conditions can be found here Commercial content notice: Taking one of the offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. So, what exactly should you be keeping in mind when you negotiate on the price of a car to ensure you bag the best finance deal? Lucy offers an interesting Q&A session below: Lucy advises: “Prior to starting any conversation on price, you should run a background check on the vehicle. There are lots of sites available that will help you get a rough idea of market value which will help you to understand how reasonable the car price is.  Lucy says: “Sometimes you may find that when viewing a car, there are some things that don’t quite match the initial advertisement. Many people fail to note the original posting and specifications detailed, but it is well worth doing as this can often be a good bargaining tool.  Lucy explains: “Whilst it’s important to remember that damage will not always bring the cost down if this matches the vehicle listing, it’s still worth checking for the following: Lucy says: “Aside from questioning the overall condition of the car - including mileage and any wear and tear - you should try and figure out how long they have had the car.  "If the car has been sitting there for 30 days or more, it may be due a price reduction." Lucy advises: “Many people struggle to know whether to walk away or close a deal when negotiating but you should never feel pressured to give a final decision in the moment.  "In fact, often the best deals take place following this initial negotiation, so ensure you feel comfortable and confident walking away, allowing time to consider the deal and follow up with confidence.” ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)