
			The first-generation Nissan Leaf is the cheapest used electric car on sale, but the low price isn’t everything
		 Nissan Leaf (first generation) Years sold: 2011-2017 Range: 109-155 miles (official figures, not taking account of battery degradation) Price from: £4,000 Performance: Top speed 89mph, 0-62mph 11.5sec  Charging speed: 50kW (DC), 3.3kW (AC) (optional 6.6kW AC upgrade) Anyone thinking of jumping on the electric car bandwagon has probably been intrigued by precisely how much you get for your money. EVs are expensive, right? Wrong. At the time of writing, the first-generation (or Mk1) Nissan Leaf was the most affordable EV for sale on Auto Trader, with prices starting at only £3,995. The question is, does £3,995 get you one that’s worth buying? Or should you spend a little more? Should you even be thinking about buying a Mk1 Leaf at all?  The answers to those questions, respectively, are “probably not”, “yes, ideally”, and “it depends”. That’s because the Leaf was one of the first electric cars to be widely sold in the UK and as such it suffers from many of the flaws inherent in earlier models – a short range, relatively high battery degradation and slow charging by modern standards.  On the plus side, the Leaf still offers family-car space, high levels of equipment, and a comfortable, if unexciting, driving experience. And that means that in certain circumstances – say, as a second car or commuter for someone with easy access to charging at home – it can still work very well, especially at these relatively affordable prices.  So write off the Mk1 Leaf at your peril. Granted, it’s not the car to get you from Land’s End to John O’Groats and back. But for certain roles, this is an affordable, quiet and hassle-free way of getting around.  Let’s be honest: you’re never going to buy a Leaf seeking automotive ecstasy. Its steering is light and over-assisted with very little feel, so you rarely feel connected to what the car is doing, while the level of grip is never more than adequate. Yet none of this matters, because that’s neither what it was designed for nor what prospective owners require; they’re after a super-easy, hassle-free driving experience, and that’s exactly what the Leaf delivers. That heavily assisted steering is super light around town and makes the Leaf easy to park. There are no gears or clutch to worry about either. You simply select D for and off you go.  Most Leafs are pretty comfortable and those made before 2013 are more so, because they had softer suspension. The flip-side is that they feel a touch less stable on a motorway than later cars, although that’s clearly not a concern for urban use.  Inside, the Leaf is sensibly laid out and reasonably well built. Those pre-2013 cars feature cream dashboard plastics, which give an airier feel but create a lot of reflection in the windscreen; the black plastics of the later models are more dour, but cause less glare.  There’s enough room for the family in both front and rear seats, although boot space is hampered by bulky intrusions which hide electrical components.  Leafs came with two battery pack options: a 24kWh item offered for the duration of the car’s life and a beefier 30kWh version available from 2016 onwards.  Telling them apart isn’t the work of a moment, but a quick shorthand is to check the weight of the car listed on the sticker on the B-pillar, within the driver’s door jamb; the 24kWh car weighs 1,945kg, the 30kWh model will show 1,970kg.  There were three trim rungs on the Leaf ladder throughout its life: Visia, Acenta and Tekna. Even the entry-level Visia had plenty of equipment: climate control, electric windows all round, keyless start and go and Bluetooth connectivity all as standard. To this, Acenta added cruise control and an upgraded stereo with sat-nav as standard, while Tekna brought heated leather seats and a Bose sound system.  Keep in mind that some Leafs were sold with the battery leased, rather than bought outright. These cars are usually described as Flex models, which was the name given to the battery lease plan, and some dealers registered the cars with Flex in the description, which means they show as such on the registration document. These are usually much cheaper than the equivalent battery-owned examples, so they might look like great deals – but beware that when you take one on, you also take on the liability for paying the monthly battery lease fee, which can be quite hefty. On the plus side, you can now buy these cars’ batteries outright by paying a one-off lump sum. Just make sure this figure isn’t going to take the total cost of the car over and above that of an equivalent battery-owned example.  The earliest Leafs, built between 2011 and 2013, are the shortest of range – expect no more than 70 or 80 miles even on a good day with battery degradation factored in, and that’ll drop to around 40 or 50 miles in cold weather.  In 2013, Nissan added a heat pump, which improved efficiency, though the battery size remained the same. This meant the range increased, but only slightly, but crucially it also meant the car wouldn’t be quite as heavily affected by cold weather – expect 60 or 70 miles from a charge when the temperature drops and 80 to 90 in milder conditions.  If you need greater range, seek one of the 30kWh versions. With good battery health, these should achieve between 100 and 110 miles in mild weather, dropping to about 80 miles in colder temperatures.  All Leafs charge using a CHAdeMO socket, a type which is capable of rapid charging, but which has now become somewhat obsolete in favour of Type 2/CCS sockets. Most public rapid chargers still feature CHAdeMO cables, however, and getting hold of a replacement CHAdeMO cable for an untethered home charger is easy. So while this is a downside, it’s only a very minor one in practice.  As standard, Leafs had a 3.3kW AC charger, which means even if your home charging point is able to charge at more than that figure you’ll still be limited to a charge time from 0 to 100 per cent of about eight hours. However, an upgrade to a 6.6kW charger was a cost option, and Leafs with this extra will get from 0 to 100 per cent in four hours on a suitably quick home charger.  All Leafs charge at 50kW on a public DC charger; that means a 10 to 80 per cent charge will take 27 minutes. Given the Leaf’s charging curve, charging speeds will be at their fastest between 10 and 20 per cent, before tailing off gradually.  According to US telematics company Geotab, whose battery degradation survey of more than 6,000 EVs has given us an invaluable insight into the real-world battery life of a variety of models, the Leaf is unfortunately one of those cars whose battery life tails off the fastest. For example, the 2013 Leafs that featured in the survey showed an average state of health (the battery’s capacity expressed as a percentage of its total capacity when new) of 82 per cent at six years old – versus an average of 87 per cent at the same age.  That equates to a battery degradation of three per cent per year, which means an average Leaf that’s 10 years old will likely only retain about 70 per cent of its original battery capacity.  What happens when the battery dies? Thankfully, not even the oldest Leafs are reaching the point at which their ranges start to fall off a cliff – a usual telltale sign that the battery is about to expire completely – in large numbers.  When they do, though, it’s worth remembering that the cost of replacement will be high. Nissan recommends replacement of the faulty modules, rather than the entire battery, at a cost of about £2,000 each; aftermarket suppliers, meanwhile, will fit a recycled, as-new battery for between £6,000 and £7,000, and can also upgrade the Leaf to take the 40kWh power pack from the second-generation car for about £8,000. These costs are especially eye-watering given the values of these cars – however, it’s worth bearing in mind that battery replacement will likely boost the amount you’ll get when you sell the car. Happily, it’s relatively easy to tell how badly degraded a Leaf’s battery is, because its battery level indicator will only show “full bars” – that is, all 12 bars of the level indicator illuminate – if it can reach around 90 per cent battery health.  Below that level, the indicator simply won’t show as full – and the more depleted it is when the car is fully charged (or, more accurately, when it won’t accept any more charge), the worse state the battery is in.  So an older Leaf displaying a relatively high proportion of its bars remaining has a battery in good health. And vice versa; a newer car with fewer bars suggests one whose battery might be the worse for wear. Away from the battery, check the brakes. Some surface corrosion is to be expected, especially at the rear, given the Leaf is light on its brake discs, but beware a car with seriously corroded discs. Look at the brake fluid, too – if it’s dirty and old, it might not have been changed for a while. Inside, early pre-heat-pump examples can suffer from heater failure, which can require a quite involved repair, so check that the heater works. And in Acenta and Tekna models, make sure the SD card containin the satnav data is there – they’re expensive to replace.  The first-generation Nissan Leaf has become something of an exemplar of some of the flaws for which electric cars have become infamous. Its short range and comparatively high battery degradation will undoubtedly be instant turn-offs for many buyers. However an older Leaf can be a brilliant alternative to a costlier, newer EV, or even a similarly-priced petrol or diesel model. If all you need is a family-friendly second car for short urban trips around town, a Leaf gives you most of the same benefits with far less of the financial outlay of a pricier EV, and – as long as it’s usually charged at home – lower running costs than a petrol or diesel equivalent.