The hilarious clip shows a passenger cutting shapes after his flight from Amsterdam lands, with fellow passengers at the luggage carousel watching in in hysterics Don't miss any of Edinburgh Live's biggest stories - sign up to our daily email newsletter We have more newsletters Don't miss any of Edinburgh Live's biggest stories - sign up to our daily email newsletter We have more newsletters The moment Edinburgh Airport passengers were left in hysterics when a man treated them to a rave after getting off a flight from Amsterdam has been captured. The footage shared on social media shows the male cutting shapes, while holding a small black speaker which was blasting hardstyle music. It happened in the baggage carousel area of Edinburgh Airport on Tuesday evening, June 27. It is understood the aircraft had numerous people onboard who had attended Defcon.1 Weekend Festival in the Netherlands. However, it’s not known if the man had been at the event. READ MORE: Edinburgh Tram Inquiry report could be delayed further as probe branded 'farcical' In the clip, he can be seen shuffling his feet and waving his arms about as people around him look on in amusement. Gregor Sleith, 26, from Falkirk said: “He was class, we had just got off our flight and were waiting on our luggage. “The guy wasn’t caring - he was proper going for it like. Everyone was just standing laughing and couldn’t quite believe it. Get all the latest news and headlines from Edinburgh, Fife and the Lothians sent straight to your inbox twice a day by signing up to our free newsletter. From breaking news to the latest on the coronavirus crisis in Scotland, we'll have you covered. The morning newsletter arrives every day before 9am and the evening newsletter, manually curated by the team, is sent at 6.30pm, giving you a round up of the most important stories of the day. To sign up to any of our newsletters, visit this link here. “I think he must have thought he was still at the rave. I don’t even think he was with anyone, it looked like he was just there himself, which makes it even funnier.” Gregor captioned his video on Snapchat “Can see yer da is taking the divorce well.” 