Randall Sunset and Nick Tebon, who work for 3D Electrical Services,  install solar panels on a detached residential garage in southeast Portland. LC- THE OREGONIAN Oregon has adopted ambitious mandates to reduce the state’s carbon footprint and expand reliance on clean energy, including wind, solar and battery storage. Here are key policies driving the changes: – Reduce emissions: In 2020, Gov. Kate Brown established targets to reduce all of Oregon’s greenhouse gas emissions by at least 45% below 1990 levels by 2035 and by at least 80% by 2050. – Climate Protection Program: The state Department of Environmental Quality set goals to more narrowly cut emissions of natural gas, transportation fuels and industrial pollution in Oregon by 50% by 2035 and 90% by 2050. – Clean energy bill: The Legislature set a timeline for the state’s two major electric companies — Portland General Electric and Pacific Power — to reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with electricity sold in Oregon by 80% by 2030. The companies would have to have 100% emission-free electricity sources by 2040. The bill also prohibits the expansion or new construction of power plants that burn natural gas or other fossil fuels. About half of Oregon’s electricity today comes from fossil fuels, including natural gas and coal, from out-of-state plants. – Electric cars: Oregon banned the sale of new gasoline-powered cars by 2035. The state estimates that by 2035 about half of the passenger cars, SUVs and light-duty pickup trucks on Oregon’s road will be electric. – Electric trucks: Oregon also adopted a rule to require manufacturers to produce and sell increasingly higher percentages of electric and hybrid plug-in medium- and heavy-duty trucks – delivery vans, garbage trucks, semi-tractor trailer trucks – starting with the 2025 model year. – Electric buildings: In February, Eugene became Oregon’s first city to ban natural gas hook-ups in new residential construction, starting in July. No other mandates exist yet, but local, state and national incentives are available for Oregonians to switch to electric pumps, water heaters and other electric appliances. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices