Time-critical logistics specialist DANX (part of the DANX Carousel Group) has announced a new joint-venture with Polish logistics specialist, ILS. The strategic partnership will create a strong distribution network in Poland, in response to growing demand for high-quality time-critical and in-night logistics solutions in Eastern Europe. As the sixth largest economy in Europe (by GDP), DANX’s joint venture in Poland will support the DANX Carousel group in realising its ambition to become the European leader for time critical in-night logistics, dramatically growing its service offering and providing a firm foundation for further expansion across Eastern Europe. Both ILS and DANX have extensive experience in aftermarket and spare parts logistics, and this partnership brings together each of their strengths. It is anticipated that the joint venture will be operational by Spring 2023. “With the recent growth in the Polish economy , we recognise the importance of responding quickly to changes in the market. ILS is a national logistics powerhouse in Poland, offering not just a huge physical presence but also in-depth knowledge and vast expertise unmatched in this region. With demand for in-night and time-critical logistics at an all-time high, this partnership combines the very best expertise, dynamic solutions, and a strong network, to ensure our clients can be supported in line with this dramatic market growth,” Lars Bo Larsen, Managing Director at DANX Denmark & Poland, stated. “This joint venture will also provide extensive support to our wider, ambitious growth plans. For instance, it provides the perfect foundation for advancing sector specialisms – such as Materials Handling and Technology/IT – which can both benefit from our vast PUDO network. Ultimately, it’s a great collaboration and we’re looking forward to getting started.” “We would like to provide DANX customers access to the highest quality services in new geographical locations. This includes ILS comprehensive distribution chain and PUDO dense nationwide network, as well as access to modern logistics centres and midi hubs. Customers will also benefit from ILS extensive knowledge of the Polish market,” Wojciech Aleksandrowicz, President and Managing Director at ILS, added. “DANX is a reliable partner, a company with great potential, knowledge and a significant software and technology background. The establishment of the joint venture is an opportunity to provide our customers with new services, the demand for which has increased significantly in recent years. In-night delivery will comprehensively strengthen our portfolio of services. We believe that this strategic partnership will provide extraordinary opportunities and growth possibilities for both parties,” Aleksandrowicz. The joint venture will be established as a 50/50 ownership and the set-up will have a local front and a central infrastructure where the company infrastructure will be delivered by both DANX and ILS. Stay informed. Stay ahead. To get the latest air cargo news and industry trends delivered directly to your inbox, sign up now! Improve your visibility for your brand and products! Advertising opportunities are available to suit any requirement.
Click below to be connected to a member of our sales team.