Despite ever-increasing efforts to improve safety, motorsport remains dangerous through a combination of speed and unpredictability. This was more than evident at a Lithuanian race Saturday when the leading Porsche spun off the track in chaotic scenes. it misses the cars by an inch According to 7News, the incident took place at the Aurum 1006 KM race at the Palanga Circuit in Lithuania. Running on a converted stretch of the Palanga-Klaipeda-Kretinga highway, the event is contested by a variety of endurance and touring cars in mixed-class competition. The incident occurred when the No. 91 Porsche 911 lost control leaving the pits, taking out a camera stand as it tumbled off the circuit and into a ditch. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FXxghcEYx_g In footage shared by local network TV3, adults and children could be seen rushing out of the path of the tumbling structure. The camera operator clung to the falling tower while the Porsche itself wound up on its roof. Miraculously, nobody was hurt, with an ambulance attending the scene for precautionary checks. The Porsche had been leading the race at the time with Baltic Touring Car driver Tautvydas Rudokas behind the wheel. The team had just changed from wet to slick tires as the track dried. Amidst the changing conditions, Rudokas spun out as he accelerated out of the pits in a relatively low-speed incident. The event was later won by the Stateta BRO running a Mercedes-AMG GT3 Evo. The team notably featured ex-F1 driver Jos Magnussen, his former Le Mans teammate Anders Fjordbach, and Lithuanian drivers Eimantas Navikauskas and Edvinas Žadeikis. While nobody was injured in the incident, that's almost entirely down to luck in this case. Rudokas went off track in an area full of trees, spectators, and vulnerable infrastructure. Much of the motorsports world has learned that these elements and high-speed track events simply don't mix. Street circuits like Palanga are naturally compromised when it comes to safety, but measures must be taken to avoid crashes like these turning into tragedies in the future. Barriers, anyone? Got a tip? Let the author know: lewin@thedrive.com ‘Please be careful’ "I hope that you will continue to hold close those you cherish most, just as I was blessed to do with my beloved Phillip," Thomas wrote in an Instagram tribute Often revered as an astute judge of character, Queen Elizabeth II told friends that she found Donald Trump “very rude,” and mused that he must have “some sort of arrangement” with his wife, Melania.The stunning claims are made in a new biography of the late queen which is being serialized in the Daily Mail. It also says that the late monarch “particularly disliked” Trump’s habit of looking over her shoulder, as if “in search of others more interesting.”Elizabeth hosted Trump twice during her rei The Utah-based Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints updated its General Handbook with changes regarding transgender policies, garment wearing for people with medical restrictions, and temple sealing language. Lifeguards working in Long Beach on Monday found a shocking and grotesque item on the sand on Monday — or so they thought. At about 7:15 a.m., lifeguards saw what appeared to be a human skull that had washed ashore in the area of East Ocean Boulevard and Orizaba Avenue, according to the Long Beach […] Peyton Manning knows a thing or two about great quarterback play, having won two Super Bowls and earned a spot in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. At this past weekend's Fanatics Fest, he listed his five top quarterbacks in the NFL. While not a surprising list, it does… Multiple people were injured during an incident at a western Pennsylvania amusement park ride Saturday night. Given Donald Trump's hostility toward democracy, it's worth pausing when he asks supporters, "Why are we having an election?” JD Vance, the Republican vice presidential nominee, may have earned some side-eyed glances in Philadelphia on Monday after he asked workers at Pat’s King of Steaks why they didn’t serve Swiss cheese on their sandwiches.Vance, who was in Philadelphia campaigning, made the pilgrimage to the famous steak sandwich joint on Monday after a speech at a waste management facility. Pat’s, alongside its South Philly cross-street rival Geno’s Steaks, is one of the most famous steak sandwich shops in the Cit "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Safari guests in India were treated recently to a rarely witnessed interaction between a tiger and cobra, which appeared to culminate in a standoff. Several clips are being shared via social media but the accompanying footage is reported to have been captured in early August… Marlo Thomas released an emotional statement after the death of her husband, Phil Donahue. “Hello, Friends. I'm sure by now you've heard the very sad news that I lost my sweetheart last night, so I know you understand that I'll be stepping away from this page for a while to take care of myself and... The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Then they acted like nothing happened. A former conservative federal appellate judge is urging the Supreme Court to keep Donald Trump off the ballot, arguing the ex-president’s effort to cling to power after his 2020 election loss was “broader” than South Carolina’s secession from the US that triggered the Civil War. The daughter of an Orange County supervisor and a nonprofit are being sued by the county after they allegedly “brazenly plundered [tax dollars] for their own personal gain,” the suit claims. The Viet America Society received as much as $13.5 million to help feed the elderly and those in need during the pandemic, but instead, […] A Buford man who attempted to rob a then teenager in 2021 will spend the rest of his life in prison. The coach of the Golden State Warriors took a page from star player Steph Curry's book. Please take me to the universe where Old Yeller lives. Whether or not you're familiar with the name Miista, you'll likely have come across the Spanish...