Pittsburgh International Airport is hosting its 12th annual auction this weekend, with a wide variety of abandoned items and vehicles up for grabs. “Each year, it’s been getting bigger and bigger,” said airport spokesman Bob Kerlik. “We had over a thousand people come last year.” PHOTOS: Annual auction at Pittsburgh International Airport Hundreds are expected to bid, while many others are expected to come and observe the event. Doors open at 8:30 a.m. Saturday and the auction is set to begin at 10 a.m. Don’t travel to the terminal to participate; the auction is held elsewhere — within the airport’s Heavy Equipment Building. About 12 abandoned traveler automobiles are among the fleet for sale, along with 10 retired Airport Authority vehicles. Attendees also have the chance to bid on countless unclaimed items left behind at security checkpoints, gates, or other locations throughout the terminals. “We have a lot of laptops, iPads, phones, things like that,” Kerlik said. Among the more unusual items is a pair of snakeskin boots. Channel 11 had the chance to peruse the items, observing a lot of strollers, car seats, jewelry pieces and sunglasses. Kerlik said that airport staff make every attempt to reach the owners of the left-behind items, but oftentimes there’s no identifying information available. Abandoned vehicles only go up for sale after being left at the airport for more than 45 days. County police and PennDOT both make attempts to reach the owners before bidders get a chance at them. The money earned on those vehicles goes to the state. Profits from the Airport Authority vehicles and equipment meanwhile go back to the authority. Proceeds from the items left behind by passengers benefit the Airport Authority Foundation. “[The foundation] funds military programs at the airport, scholarships, art in the airport, things like that,” Kerlik said. “It’s a good way to raise money for different causes.” Those interested in participating do not need to pre-register. However, those looking to bid will need to register at the event. Directions to auction: Follow Business Loop I-376 to Hangar Road; turn left at the traffic light toward Airport Maintenance Facilities; at the next intersection turn left onto Cargo Road and follow to the top of the hill. Airport Authority employees will direct attendees to the parking location. Download the FREE WPXI News app for breaking news alerts. Follow Channel 11 News on Facebook and Twitter. | Watch WPXI NOW TRENDING NOW: Butler man dead after being struck by train 2 males shot, killed in Pittsburgh overnight Reminder: All phones, TVs in the US will be getting an emergency alert test on Wednesday VIDEO: TSA has found 33 guns at PIT airport checkpoint in 2023; on pace to set new record nationwide DOWNLOAD the Channel 11 News app for breaking news alerts New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run.