The News Media of the Pre-Owned Industry Freeride mountain bike star rider Jaxson Riddle shows off his Ford Raptor purchased online from Carvana. Image courtesy of Carvana. Last October, Carvana became the title sponsor for the Professional Pickleball Association (PPA). This week, the online used-vehicle retailer finalized its newest sports partnership in another growing outdoor activity, forging a relationship with renowned professional mountain biker and Red Bull athlete Jaxson Riddle ahead of the world’s premier big-mountain freeride event, Red Bull Rampage.










According to a news release, Carvana has teamed up with Riddle to give away a different set of wheels at this year’s event — a fully customized mountain bike from Riddle’s personal collection, that he has trusted on some of the most daring trails in the world.
“At Carvana, we are driven by our dedication to providing our customers with the best experiences possible,” Carvana co-founder and chief brand officer Ryan Keeton said in the news release.
“By partnering with Jaxson Riddle for the Styled & Dialed giveaway, we hope to showcase our commitment to supporting athletes and adventure seekers alike, and inspire people to embrace the thrill of getting out there and going — no matter what type of wheels you choose to get you there,” Keeton continued.
Through Oct. 23, fans can enter to win Riddle’s bike in the Styled & Dialed giveaway. Riddle’s bike will also be displayed at this year’s Rampage so that spectators making the trip in person can comb over every detail of Riddle’s ride.
“Partnering with Carvana has been an incredible opportunity,” Riddle said. “Carvana has made the whole process so easy and enjoyable. It was amazing to share my world and what I do with their team.”
Riddle has gained recognition for his unique motocross-inflected style and his tenacious dedication to the sport.
Additionally, as part of this new partnership, the 21-year-old Red Bull-backed rider recently purchased a rugged Ford Raptor from Carvana.
Taking place in Virgin, Utah on Friday, Red Bull Rampage celebrates the wonders of Southern Utah amid one of the premier freeride biking events in the world.
For those unable to attend, Red Bull Rampage will be streamed live exclusively on ESPN+ in the U.S., and on Red Bull TV in all other countries.
Fans can get a look at Riddle’s customized bike on www.carvana.com/giveaway.
 According to a news release, Carvana has teamed up with Riddle to give away a different set of wheels at this year’s event — a fully customized mountain bike from Riddle’s personal collection, that he has trusted on some of the most daring trails in the world. “At Carvana, we are driven by our dedication to providing our customers with the best experiences possible,” Carvana co-founder and chief brand officer Ryan Keeton said in the news release. “By partnering with Jaxson Riddle for the Styled & Dialed giveaway, we hope to showcase our commitment to supporting athletes and adventure seekers alike, and inspire people to embrace the thrill of getting out there and going — no matter what type of wheels you choose to get you there,” Keeton continued. Through Oct. 23, fans can enter to win Riddle’s bike in the Styled & Dialed giveaway. Riddle’s bike will also be displayed at this year’s Rampage so that spectators making the trip in person can comb over every detail of Riddle’s ride. “Partnering with Carvana has been an incredible opportunity,” Riddle said. “Carvana has made the whole process so easy and enjoyable. It was amazing to share my world and what I do with their team.” Riddle has gained recognition for his unique motocross-inflected style and his tenacious dedication to the sport. Additionally, as part of this new partnership, the 21-year-old Red Bull-backed rider recently purchased a rugged Ford Raptor from Carvana. Taking place in Virgin, Utah on Friday, Red Bull Rampage celebrates the wonders of Southern Utah amid one of the premier freeride biking events in the world. For those unable to attend, Red Bull Rampage will be streamed live exclusively on ESPN+ in the U.S., and on Red Bull TV in all other countries. Fans can get a look at Riddle’s customized bike on www.carvana.com/giveaway.