NEW YORK, July 3, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Pomerantz LLP is investigating claims on behalf of investors of  Carvana Co. ("Carvana" or the "Company") CVNA.  Such investors are advised to contact Robert S. Willoughby at newaction@pomlaw.com or 888-476-6529, ext. 7980. 



 The investigation concerns whether Carvana and certain of its officers and/or directors have engaged in securities fraud or other unlawful business practices.  [Click here for information about joining the class action]  On June 23, 2023, Forbes published an article entitled "The Untold Story of HyperSport, Carvana's Mysterious And Scandal-Plagued Former Vendor".  The Forbes article reported that HyperSport Industries ("HyperSport"), formerly one of Carvana's reconditioning vendors, regularly submitted duplicative billings to Carvana.  The article also suggested that a Carvana manager controlled HyperSport.  On this news, Carvana's stock price fell $4.13 per share, or 16.17%, to close at $21.41 per share on June 23, 2023. Pomerantz LLP, with offices in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, London, Paris, and Tel Aviv, is acknowledged as one of the premier firms in the areas of corporate, securities, and antitrust class litigation. Founded by the late Abraham L. Pomerantz, known as the dean of the class action bar, Pomerantz pioneered the field of securities class actions. Today, more than 85 years later, Pomerantz continues in the tradition he established, fighting for the rights of the victims of securities fraud, breaches of fiduciary duty, and corporate misconduct. The Firm has recovered billions of dollars in damages awards on behalf of class members. See www.pomlaw.com. CONTACT:Robert S. WilloughbyPomerantz LLPrswilloughby@pomlaw.com888-476-6529 ext. 7980  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/shareholder-alert-pomerantz-law-firm-investigates-claims-on-behalf-of-investors-of-carvana-co---cvna-301869155.html SOURCE  Pomerantz LLP © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.