Search Share    SeafoodSource is closely following seaweed innovation by compiling a regular round-up of updates from the sector. - Cascadia Seaweed, a seaweed cultivator based in Sidney, British Columbia, Canada that produces products for crop and cattle farmers, has secured CAD 1.5 million (USD 1.1 million, EUR 1 million) in funding from the British Columbia Centre for Innovation and Clean Energy (CICE). The funds will be allocated toward seaweed commercialization to reduce greenhouse gases.  “Cascadia Seaweed and some Indigenous communities on the BC Coast have built a strong collaboration that involves cultivating seaweed and transforming it into agricultural products. This commendable joint initiative reduces methane emissions from cattle and improves soil carbon retention,” BC Centre for Innovation and Clean Energy Executive Director Ged McLean said in a release. “Recognizing the vital role of kelp in future carbon management solutions, CICE is excited to support Cascadia in becoming a global leader in seaweed cultivation, pioneering first-of-its-kind advancements on the west coast.”  Cascadia Seaweed has received additional support from Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC), Sustainable Development Technology Canada (SDTC), and the CICE.  "We are thrilled to receive support from CICE, which will accelerate our plans to scale up the cultivation and bioprocessing of seaweed into agricultural products. This builds on the support we've received from SDTC and AAFC and enables us to deliver nature-based and climate-positive solutions in a timely manner," Cascadia Seaweed CFO Rob Napoli said. "These agencies have vetted our solutions, which are expected to avoid the release of 1 megaton of CO2e by 2035." - On 17 June, Halifax Brewery Market, based in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada hosted vendors at the market from the kelp sector to showcase kelp products. The event, hosted by the Ecology Action Centre and the Halifax Brewery Market, aimed to showcase kelp products and attract entrepreneurs in the sector. "We really think this is an amazing economic opportunity for Nova Scotia and we're really excited to help support folks as the sector takes off," Anika Riopel of the EAC told the CBC.  - Schiedam, Netherlands-based The Seaweed Company announced a partnership with sustainable technology development company Holoss and Longline Environment, a technology and information company. The companies will collaborate to work on the NOVAFOODIES project, which was launched in May to encourage innovation of new seaweed products for human consumption. “Brace yourselves as we lead the charge in implementing (at our Irish farm) and evaluating upscaled IMTA systems that hold the key to a greener future for our oceans,” The Seaweed Company wrote on its LinkedIn. Photo courtesy of Cascadia Seaweed   [email protected]      BROWSE ALL RESOURCES › Become a Member Gain full access to the most trusted resource in seafood industry news by becoming a Premium member! 