Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost is continuing to argue a consumer protection lawsuit his office filed in November. (Abbey Oldham, MLive.com) COLUMBUS, Ohio – Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost says his office has received more than 100 consumer complaints against Dollar General Corp., including several from Cleveland and elsewhere in Northeast Ohio, since his office sued the company in November, alleging deceptive pricing at its stores. In a Wednesday court filing, Yost asked a judge in Butler County to issue an order immediately forbidding Dollar General from charging prices that are different than advertised on its stores shelves. The filing says Yost’s office, since suing the company, has received 116 complaints from Dollar General shoppers alleging they were charged more at the cash register than the prices listed on shelves. “Defendants’ behavior shows a disregard for the law, as well as a disregard of their obligations to come into compliance with the law,” says the filing, which accuses the company of violating the state’s consumer protection laws. The only way to make the company change its practices is an immediate court order, the filing says. Yost first sued Dollar General two months ago, the same week he filed a similar lawsuit against Family Dollar, a similar discount retailer. Cleveland.com and The Plain Dealer has left a message with Dollar General seeking comment for this story. In a court filing last week, a lawyer for Dollar General asked the Butler County judge to dismiss the case. The company gave two reasons. First, it said that Yost’s lawsuit wasn’t specific enough in its allegations, like including names of customers who said they were ripped off, or store locations where it happened, to make a legally enforceable claim. And second, it said that customers are given a last warning about prices at the cash register, when the item’s price is displayed before they check out. “The display of this information constitutes both a final offer of the price of the goods before a customer’s acceptance by payment, and it serves to cure any prior incorrect shelf display price,” Dollar General said in the filing. On Wednesday, Yost’s office’s new court filing included written copies of dozens of customer complaints, including five from Cleveland, in addition to complaints from Akron, Brunswick, Canton, Geneva and Ravenna. One complaint from Cleveland describes a customer’s experiences getting overcharged for diapers and body wash at two Dollar General stores, one on Euclid Ave. and the other on St. Clair Ave. and East 157th St. “I thought it was just those two stores since they are in close proximity and possibly managed by the same person but after reading a news article about it happening all over Ohio, I see it is a much bigger problem,” the complaint reads. Yost’s office also said in the filing that county auditors in Butler County, Franklin County, Montgomery County and Hamilton County, as well as the Cuyahoga County Consumer Affairs office, all have notified Dollar General after finding it failed price-check inspections. In Franklin County, the filing reads, the auditor’s office has required the company to display stickers on their cash registers stating that prices may ring up incorrectly after the company failed multiple inspections. Andrew Tobias covers state government and politics for Cleveland.com and The Plain Dealer. Read more of his work here. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices