Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Thursday May 04, 2023 , 2 min Read Payments and API banking solutions fintech firm ﻿Cashfree Payments﻿ announced the elevation of Arun Tikoo as Chief Business Officer (CBO) and Ramkumar Venkatesan as Chief Technology Officer (CTO).   Tikoo, who was previously SVP-Business and Strategy at Cashfree, will now handle strategic partnerships, and go-to-market plans, and will be responsible for the company's development and growth, including market penetration and development on a global scale.   He will also be responsible for strengthening the existing distribution network across industries and overseeing compliance, pricing, and operational setups of new product launches, the company said in a statement.  On the other hand, Venkatesan, who worked as SVP-Engineering, will be responsible for leading the firm’s technology, engineering, and innovation strategies, security, and product development and integration.   The changes in the leadership team are expected to help the company accelerate its innovation and growth, it said.   In addition, there have been additional internal promotions across roles in the organisation to support the company's strategic plans.  “We are at an exciting phase of growth and expansion and with the new appointments, I am sure that Ramkumar and Arun will help us in driving this growth at a rapid pace," said Akash Sinha, Co-founder and CEO, Cashfree Payments. "They bring with them a wealth of knowledge, differentiated skills, and experience in the area of innovation, technology, product, and business."   Founded by Akash Sinha and Reeju Datta, Cashfree works with banks to build the core payments and banking infrastructure that powers the company’s products and is also integrated with major platforms such as Shopify, Wix, Paypal, Amazon Pay, Paytm and Google Pay, offering them full-stack payments solutions.   The fintech has built a presence across eight countries, including the US, Canada, and the UAE.   It claims to be processing transactions worth $40 billion annually, enabling more than three lakh businesses with payment collections, vendor payouts, wage payouts, bulk refunds, expense reimbursements, loyalty, and rewards.   Cashfree is backed by Silicon Valley investor Y Combinator, Apis Partners, and the State Bank of India (SBI), and was incubated by PayPal.  Edited by Kanishk Singh 1 2 Slice receives NCLT approval for merger with North East Small Finance Bank 3 An entire movie theatre to yourself and your family, PVR Cinemas introduce private screening  4 5 books for entrepreneurs to build successful businesses
 5 How Flipkart’s reach, warehousing and logistics support helped this Chennai-based apparel brand grow into a multi-crore business The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.