WITH the internet providing a wide variety of casino games, players have access to endless entertainment, available right at their fingertips. But finding the best online casino games doesn't have to be a daunting task. Just follow my recommendations! Find The Sun's betting publishing principles here In my guide I attempt to help you to cut through the noise, pointing you in the direction of the best casino games, at the top online casinos that we work with.  I will even break down the merits of each type of popular game, and tips for selecting the right game for you, so those of you who aren’t sure where to begin will gain a head start into the (sometimes confusing) world of online gambling.  Before hoping in to the core of the article, the first thing I have to explain is what each game entails, what are the chances of success against the house, and how frequently I came across each game at popular casino sites. It’s also worth noting that some gambling games are downloadable, while other mobile casino games I played directly via the website. Here’s everything you need to know, game by game.  House edge: 3% to 15% In my opinion, slots are the most fun out of all casino games, however, the house edge on slots can be anywhere from 3% to 15%. And, unfortunately when I am playing slots I have 0 impact on the game other than clicking spin. Slot machines and video slots are probably the most popular casino games. More often than not, these are random number generator (RNG) games, meaning they’re run on a mathematical algorithm that results in completely random outcomes. There’s absolutely no skill involved in slot games, and winning is entirely dependent on luck. I believe there are several quality providers of slot games, with Pragmatic Play, Play’n GO, Red Tiger Gaming, and so many more. The best online casinos partner only with quality providers to offer players the best experience possible when it comes to free spins and general slot gameplay.  I found that the best chance to gain a mind-boggling win through spins is by playing jackpot slots and progressive jackpots. Not every slot game contains a jackpot feature, but the ones that do will be clearly indicated. Jackpots can come in multiple forms, they can drop at random one per month, every few months, annually, or even hourly. I also found giant network jackpots available at leading online casinos. These are pooled and shared money pots that could see you winning millions. Game providers like Microgaming, Pragmatic Play and Red Tiger are famous for their exciting and highly rewarding online jackpot slots.  Table games are pretty self-explanatory. Any game that’s played on a table format and manned by a croupier is considered a table game. These can be played in-person, via live casino, which we'll talk about in the next section, or as a RNG digital game against a machine. The most popular table games are blackjack, roulette, baccarat, craps, poker, and keno. House edge: 0.5% to 2% Blackjack is the most widely played casino banking game in the world, and for good reason. I like playing blackjack because I am actually able to influence the game, and depending on your skill, so can you. It has the highest percentage for the ability to impact the house edge out of all table games. Giving players the best edge against the house, players use decks of 52 cards to play against the dealer in an effort to hit 21 or Blackjack - or get as close as possible. House edge: around 2.70% In roulette, Players place bets on the black or red numbered compartments of a spinning wheel. The outcome is decided on where a small ball, spun in the opposite direction, comes to rest.  Take a look at Sun's roulette strategy guide to increase your chances of winning.  House edge: 1.06% to 1.24% One of the most popular card games besides poker is baccarat. Played between two hands, the "player" and the "banker", every baccarat play can result in a player win, a banker win or a tie. Wherever you placed your bet determines your win or loss. House edge: 1.36% to 1.41% Players bet on the outcomes based on rolling a pair of dice on the craps table. You can wager against the bank or against other players. Because the number combinations are finite, craps is a win big or lose it all kind of game. House edge: 2.5% to 20% Played in several formats. Fundamentally, poker is a card game in which players compete to win based on who has the strongest hand, or who bluffs it out and gets all the other players to fold.  There are multiple types of poker games, such as Texas hold'em, Omaha, Three Card Poker Four Card Poker, Pai Gow poker, Caribbean Stud Poker, Mississippi Stud, Let It Ride, and more. All of these casino games have different rules, so find the casino game you like and you can start playing. House edge: 25% or more This lottery-like game is played all over the world, in bars and restaurants, as well as casinos and lottery sites and retailers. Players choose numbers from 1 through 80 and hope to have as many as possible in a single draw. Live dealer games, also called live casino games, are an extremely compelling aspect to online casinos. While I have found some online gambling sites that have yet to introduce live dealer games, more often than not live casino games will come as standard. These games allow me to tune in to live studios, where real dealers run table games and game shows of every kind. I can play classic blackjack and roulette, or twists on these classics like infinity blackjack and lighting roulette.  I have also stumbled upon live dealer games inspired by board games and tv shows, including Monopoly Live and Deal or No Deal Live. Games like Crazy Time also feature a rewarding wheel of fortune. Who doesn’t love a Wheel of Fortune game? I sure do! There’s no need to watch from the sidelines, online casinos allow players to experience the excitement on demand. These flashy spinning wheels dole out cash prizes and more in multiple formats.  Many live dealer games are built on a wheel of fortune format, you can also play RNG slot games based entirely on this model. Often, bonus features on reel-based games will offer a spin on a wheel of fortune as a prize. However you access it, it’s a fantastic way to score cash, free spins and other prizes. The idea of casino entertainment has been going strong for as long as anyone can remember. With its origins in simple wagering and games of chance, it has now expanded to an extent where sprawling casino resorts are the main draw of several cities like Las Vegas and Atlantic City. Online casinos were created to fill in the gaps when travel isn’t possible  Today, online casinos have come close to eclipsing land-based casinos in popularity. Here are the 6 best things about online casinos - which might explain their astronomical traction over the last few years. If you’re new to online casinos, then you might need a little help getting started. With so many choices, it can be overwhelming. Instead of choosing a game at random, here’s what we recommend: More than anything, when I am playing casino games it is all about the fun. But there are things I watch out for to ensure the fun goes on for as long as possible, or to use the best strategy and maximize my winnings. These are the 5 factors I keep my eye on when gambling at a casino or online casino. Here are my top picks where you can enjoy playing all-time favourite casino games from our partners.  MrQ is a fantastic place to gamble on slot games. You’ll have access to thousands of spinning reels from all the best providers in the business. These games come in a range of volatility ranking, special bonus features and RTPs. Pragmatic Play, Red Tiger, Push Gaming, Play’n GO and so many more contribute to an ever-expanding game library. You’ll recognise many of the titles, including Big Bass Bonanza, Book of Dead, Sweet Bonanza, Temple Tumble, Buffalo King Megaways, and so many more.  Ask anyone who knows anything about live dealer games or live casino games and they’ll tell you that Evolution Gaming games are the best in the biz. These are closely followed by Pragmatic Live games. Luckily,  Duelz Casino has a fully stocked live dealer library from both providers. You’ll be tuned into a live studio in just a couple clicks or taps on any table game or novelty game that takes your fancy. From classic games like blackjack and baccarat, to original games like Crazy Time and Monopoly Live - it’s all there for the taking.  Jackpot slots give players the chance to always be just one spin away from a mind-blowing win. They come in multiple formats, with some jackpots dropping every hour. But not all online casinos host jackpot games, or won’t play host to the million pound wins offered by the big network jackpot slots. Mr Vegas has a fantastic progressive jackpot selection, including ‘must go jackpots’, ‘drops and wins’, and famous jackpots like Mega Moolah, Divine Fortune, Major Millions, and so many more.  If you’re looking for a varied selection of blackjack games, then Karamba Casino will probably suit your needs. Classic Blackjack, Progressive Blackjack, European Blackjack, Blackjack Switch, and Spanish 21 Blackjack are all on the menu. Play against the casino algorithm with RTP table games, or switch things over to live blackjack to step inside a true casino experience in seconds. Either way, you’ll be free to implement your favourite blackjack strategy to give yourself the biggest chance of success at walking away with a stack of chips.   Roulette comes in as a close second for most popular casino table games. There’s no getting around the fact that nothing quite beats a live experience, watching that little ball circle the gleaming wheel in real time. At Grosvenor Casinos' online site, you can get the real experience in their live game section, or you can keep things simple with a range of automated table games. Blackjack Gold, Perfect Pairs, 21, and several other titles are ready and waiting for you to rack up your chips and pull up a seat.  The best thing about online casinos is that they’re constantly evolving. Operators are motivated to constantly improve and beat out the competition. Mobile casino games are where the focus lies, as more players are more likely to use their phones to log in and play games online. The convenience of being able to gamble on the go is irresistible to most.  Initially, online casinos simply focused on optimising their websites so that they worked well on mobile devices. Today, it’s more and more common for online casinos to build iOS and Android apps that you can download from the App Store and Google Play Store. These apps are effectively downloadable casino games, without the hassle of individual downloads. The apps offer a superior experience, and a more intuitive interface, allowing players to get straight to the fun quickly and easily. The most obvious difference between playing casino games for real money versus playing for fun is that with the latter you can’t make any sort of financial gain. Playing for fun is always the best idea if you don’t want to risk real cash. Free play casino games are also a great way to explore how a game functions, or practice your table game strategy before laying any real cash on the line.  If you want to play with a bonus, then you’ll have to play for real money, as these are excluded from free play casino games. If you do choose to only play for fun, you’ll find that you won’t have access to the full game library, as live casino games in particular are only available for real money gambling. In summary, if you really want to experience the thrill of authentic online casino gameplay, then playing for real money is the way to go. However, playing for fun is a good substitute for those who are risk-averse.   Every casino, regardless of the online casino you choose, has a predetermined mathematical advantage in favour of the player or the house. It describes the chances of success for the player if they play a particular game repeatedly over a period of time. No. So long as you play at a licensed and reputable online casino, you’re guaranteed that all casino games are 100% fair. If you’re looking for a game that responds well to strategy, then slot games aren’t for you. While you can win a lot of money playing slots, the outcome is entirely random and can’t be influenced by the player. On the other hand, table games like blackjack and poker are a great option, as the chances of success are improved if the player is skilled or knowledgeable.  You certainly can. Online casinos are designed to be accessed wherever you have a solid internet or WiFi connection. Whether that’s at home or on your morning commute, the choice is yours. Online casinos often allow players to try out games for free with play money. These tend to be slot games or RNG table games. Players who are registered at an online casino can also be offered free spins and bonus cash to play with completely free. I've noticed that while some casino games are still downloadable, it's becoming less necessary these days. I prefer the convenience of logging in to a website directly from my mobile device. If there's an option, I might also consider downloading a casino app. Occasionally, I come across web apps, which provide quick-access widgets on my PC, laptop, or mobile device. Find The Sun's betting publishing principles here A responsible gambler is someone who: Find our detailed guide on responsible gambling practices here. For help with a gambling problem, call the National Gambling Helpline on 0808 8020 133 or go to www.gamstop.co.uk ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/