 The best night vision goggles, binoculars, and monoculars can be perfect for surveillance, security, and nocturnal wildlife 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The best night vision goggles can open up a whole new nocturnal world. Many can also capture images and videos, giving you the opportunity to record your night-time explorations and adventures. But night vision goggles are not the only option for seeing in the dark. Actually, there are really three types of devices you can use for night-time viewing. They all do much the same thing but vary in their physical design (there is also a choice of tech under-the-hood, which we'll discuss in the FAQs at the end).  1. Night vision goggles are wearable, hands-free devices that use image enhancement and light amplification to see in the dark.  2.  Night-vision binoculars are a combination of analog and digital viewing, with an optical lens and a digital LCD that allows you to see what the night-vision technology sees. 3. Night-vision monoculars are a lighter alternative to night-vision binoculars. Security and surveillance is just one aspect of this kind of technology. Night vision goggles are also perfect for wildlife watching, especially species that are primarily nocturnal. If wildlife is your thing, we also have a guide to the best trail cameras. For nearly two decades Sebastian's work has been published internationally. Originally specializing in Equestrianism, his photos have been used by The Fédération Equestre Internationale (FEI), The Jockey Club, Horse & Hound, and many more.  As well as being a pro sports photographer he is also a big country sportsman who can be often found in or around the shooting field, sailing on the open sea, or taking part in other country pursuits, and quite often has either a pair of binoculars, a monocular or a scope in his hand. Best budget  We found the light, but slightly bulky, NightFox Corsac to be a good choice if you want night vision without spending a fortune. Read more below... Best for all weathers  In our test, we appreciated the Sigweis's solid construction and felt the slightly bulky size reflected a sturdy build. Read more below... Best compact solution  For the price and the functions available, we found the NightFox Cub is a very capable digital night vision monocular that delivers good results. Read more below... Best military grade  This best option for those wanting military-grade night vision, but the performance will cost you dear. Read more below... Great for beginners  If you're a beginner looking to buy for first set of night vision goggles, these are a great option at an affordable price. Read more below... Best for tracking  For those looking at big game, this is one of the best options out there to keep take of your target. Read more below... Why you can trust Digital Camera World 


Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out how we test.  Our expert review: I personally found the NightFox Corsac to be a great affordable option, despite its slightly bulky build, especially considering its reasonable price. What really stood out was its ability to record Full HD footage, whether in night vision mode or vibrant daytime color. It's not just for those seeking the unseen – it's useful for anyone. During my own testing, I was able to see clearly up to 150 meters, although the image did become a little bit soft beyond 180 meters. Nevertheless, even at that distance, I was able to spot smaller animals like rabbits. Overall, I was quite impressed with its performance. Read more: NightFox Corsac review   Our expert review: During my testing, I found the solid construction of the Sigweis impressive, and the slightly bulky size gave a sense of sturdiness. I was pleased to discover that I could record Full HD footage in both night vision mode and color during the day for up to 2 hours and 38 minutes – a very useful amount of time. With space for 9,999 3MP images, I never ran out of storage, and I doubt you would either. Using a Micro-USB cable or microSD card reader, transferring files was a breeze, if not slightly clunky. If size and weight aren't a concern for you, I would confidently recommend the Sigweis over similarly priced alternatives. Its superb night vision capabilities, along with the ability to capture usable video footage and images, make it a standout choice. You'll definitely have something impressive to show off to all your friends. Read more: Sigweis night vision binoculars review  Our expert review: In my experience, the NightFox Cub proved to be an effective digital night vision monocular, especially considering its price and available functions. I found it to deliver good results up to around 100 meters (330 feet), with the image becoming a little fuzzy beyond that distance – though still perfectly usable for observing deer, for instance. During my testing, I particularly appreciated the adjustable display brightness and sensitivity settings, as well as its portable size, which made it convenient to carry around at night. In my review, I noted that, given its price point, the NightFox Cub may not offer the highest recording rates or choice of formats on the market. However, the quality is more than sufficient to share with friends and family. Considering its affordability, it's a great piece of equipment. Read more: NightFox Cub review  If you've got a military budget – and you're in the USA – then this is the real deal. This is the same grade of photo amplifier used in military applications in a monocular with a generous field of view. It will work effectively in starlight or brighter at all distances and has an IR illuminator for near subjects. (You can take it out of the USA if you can fill in an export license, but retailers won't do that for you, even for friendly countries.)  Designed to be head or helmet-mounted, or hand-held, this surprisingly compact and not excessively weighty monocular has manual gain control so the magnifier tube can be adjusted for comfort. It also has diopter adjustment. The image uses white phosphors; not the traditional green that you might expect, but it makes for a clear image. Auto-gated intensifiers prevent damage to the eyes in rapidly changing lighting (think lights being switched or gunfire).  Gear of this grade really isn't cheap, but we do appreciate the full kit bag including a winged eye cup and carry case.  This pair of night vision goggles are designed to be used with the supplied head mount, but they do not provide any additional magnification – they are simply for seeing in the dark. This does mean it is possible to walk with them without difficulty. They use their own 840nm infrared LEDs as an active illumination source and a built-in digital camera to create the image, giving a quoted maximum range of 70m (76 yards). The Nightfox uses a rechargeable battery giving you between 90 minutes and three hours of operation, depending on which of the seven LED brightness settings you opt for. We were disappointed by the resolution of the screen which, at 320x240-pixels, is not especially high and the 10° angle of view is a touch narrow, but for the price, these goggles provide a great entry to those who want to observe wildlife after dark or other special ops assignments.  Our expert review: The Equinox Z2 monocular from optical specialist Bushnell offers a magnification factor that, at 6x, is bigger than most of its ilk, coupled with an effective light-gathering tool in a 50mm lens.  This Wi-Fi-enabled option shows its mettle by enabling users to Livestream footage straight to a mobile device, and even control the zoom video, image capture, and IR brightness directly.  A built-in IR illuminator enables users to view long-range subjects comfortably during the day or night, while video capture is full HD 1080p resolution, which is respectable for its class. Overall, this monocular is a comprehensive choice, if a little weightier than lower-specified alternatives. See our Bushnell Equinox Z2 6x50 review Can night vision devices see when it appears completely dark? Yes and no... Amplifying night vision won't work in absolute darkness because there is nothing to see, but the effect is powerful enough that you'll be able to see things that are otherwise imperceptible because it is nearly completely dark. Realistically, on a planet surrounded by stars, this is more likely. (Thermal-type night vision works even in total visual darkness because it 'sees' different wavelengths.) Active night vision, however, with its own infrared lighting, makes its own 'light' so will work in darkness, at least as far as the light reaches. A lot of the night vision goggles on this list use infrared. Why? There are two key advantages: • Active lighting – the night vision device can illuminate the subject using invisible infrared light. • Built-in cameras – infra-red cameras and displays are relatively cheap and  if you have a camera it is easy enough to add a record or capture option. There are two main technologies for night vision: image intensification and thermal imaging. • Image Intensification – makes the image brighter by multiplying the number of photons from the light source. The amplification process has three powered screens, the last of which is green. That gives this night vision its recognizable glow, and is the classic version of the tech. • Thermal Imaging – a camera and a live display show otherwise-invisible infra red light that reveals relative heat. It can be used to detect living creatures (or people) in any lighting, or lack thereof. We list thermal cameras separately. • Fusion night vision – by overlaying a thermal image onto an intensified one, it is possible to create a fusion – or hybrid – night vision. • Active infrared night vision – this kind of night vision is relatively inexpensive and often used in security cameras too. An IR light, invisible to human eyes, is placed near the lens to illuminate subjects. Many products in this category call themselves military, but does it have a specific meaning? Different armed forces use different equipment, but you can get an idea of what a government considers 'military' by what it restricts exports of. In the USA, so-called 3rd generation photo-multiplier tubes fall into this category. Another factor in meeting military spec is the protective housing, which varies depending on the purpose but is typically hard-wearing. We've all seen the movies. Night vision is always green, right? Well, yes, mostly. The image intensification/image application type of night vision is usually green because the amplification tubes are designed that way. It takes advantage of the fact our eyes are more sensitive to green (light at wavelength 555 nanometers, if you want to get technical) so the phosphor screen at the eye-piece end of the photomultiplier is typically made green. This is also more comfortable to view in the dark.  It sounds a bit scary to read the term 'military grade' and you might think you're not allowed to buy them. But you are. Where you can get into trouble is exporting some products outside the country, especially to unfriendly countries. Buying for yourself, however, is fine. In our buying guides, I personally field-test the night vision equipment, examining their performance on moving subjects and landmarks. My focus is on finding a night vision device that offers a blend of magnification, sturdy construction, and crisp image clarity, suitable for a full day of birdwatching or wildlife spotting. Additionally, I verify the manufacturer's track record for reliability and quality. Budget is an important consideration, and I strive to include spotting scopes in our guide that caters to various budget ranges. With our team's expertise in night vision technology, we conduct thorough testing and evaluations, not only on spotting scopes but also on related equipment such as binoculars and thermal cameras. You can trust our recommendations to help you make informed decisions about your night vision gear. Find out more about how we test and review on Digital Camera World The best camera deals, reviews, product advice, and unmissable photography news, direct to your inbox! For nearly two decades Sebastian's work has been published internationally. Originally specializing in Equestrianism, his visuals have been used by the leading names in the equestrian industry such as The Fédération Equestre Internationale (FEI), The Jockey Club, Horse & Hound, and many more for various advertising campaigns, books, and pre/post-event highlights.  He is a Fellow of The Royal Society of Arts, holds a Foundation Degree in Equitation Science, and is a Master of Arts in Publishing.  He is a member of Nikon NPS and has been a Nikon user since the film days using a Nikon F5 and saw the digital transition with Nikon's D series cameras and is still to this day the youngest member to be elected into BEWA, The British Equestrian Writers' Association.   He is familiar with and shows great interest in street, medium, and large format photography with products by Leica, Phase One, Hasselblad, Alpa, and Sinar. Sebastian has also used many cinema cameras from the likes of Sony, RED, ARRI, and everything in between. He now spends his spare time using his trusted Leica M-E or Leica M2 shooting Street photography or general life as he sees it, usually in Black and White. Digital Camera World is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 