There are still a ton of mysteries surrounding Apple’s Vision Pro headset, and one of them is how the device will work with prescription lenses. A new patent might have shed some light on that, and it reveals a pretty remarkable idea from Apple. According to the recently published patent (number 20230258944), the Vision Pro could use lenses made out of liquid instead of glass. This would apparently allow them to be highly customizable, allowing you to fine-tune them to perfectly match your prescription and your vision needs. After we learned that the next Vision Pro could send you on a mood-altering trip, it’s another instance of Apple envisioning a wacky idea to elevate its headset. The latest patent states that “Each lens may have a lens chamber filled with liquid. The lens chamber may have rigid and/or flexible walls that form optical lens surfaces.” It goes on to explain that “Actuators and/or pump and reservoir systems may deform the lens surfaces in response to control signals from a control circuit to tune the lens.” In other words, you’d press a button or rotate a dial on the headset and the device would morph the lenses accordingly. The way this would work is a little technical. Apple describes how “Inorganic dielectric particles or other refractive- index-adjustment particles may be used to adjust the refractive index of the liquid in the lens chamber and thereby adjust the refractive index of the lens.” Liquid lenses are not the only way the patent aims to improve the visual experience for headset wearers. To account for differences in users’ eyes, the Vision Pro could adjust the spacing between its eye modules so that they better align with your pupils. This could be done by gathering information on the position and location of a user’s eyes using cameras, then providing a way to adjust the eye modules’ positioning (this could be done manually by yourself or automatically by the system). The patent follows another that was published in July 2023, which outlined how a pair of augmented reality glasses may come with adjustable lenses that could be tweaked on the fly using the device’s Digital Crown. While that revealed that Apple was working on implementing adjustable lenses into future products, the patent didn’t mention the possibility of using liquid instead of glass. The most recent patent has brought that idea to the surface. It all suggests Apple is thinking carefully about how to account for users with different visual needs. We can’t know if its ideas are on the money just yet, but whether the company gets it right will come into sharp focus when the Vision Pro launches sometime in 2024. A person looks at a large Mac Virtual Display while wearing an Apple Vision Pro. Apple At the WWDC 2024 event, the biggest news was Apple Intelligence bringing AI power to the iPhone and Mac, but the tech giant hasn’t forgotten about the Vision Pro. It's only been four months since Apple released the Vision Pro, but it's already working on the the second version of the VisionOS operating system powering the headset. At WWDC 2024, Apple announced a long list of updates coming to VisionOS 2 that will impact apps, the virtual desktop, and even gestures.
Train mode
One of the key updates is the new Train Mode. The Vision Pro caught some flak after launch when influencers took the headset out on busy streets and subways. With VisionOS 2, Apple is adding train support to the headset's Travel Mode, which will automatically turn on when the headset's sensors detect that you're on a train or plane.
Spatial photos and a new camera lens Elsewhere, Apple updated the Photos app in VisionOS 2. A big feature coming to the headset is the ability to turn 2D images into spatial photos. Apple says the OS does this with machine learning, allowing you to see a spatial photo even if you didn't take it with a spatial camera. You can share these photos through SharePlay as well. Apple says VisionOS 2 allows you to look at spatial photos and videos together through SharePlay. The Vision Pro is a great piece of technology that's built specifically to fit into Apple’s ecosystem, but there are plenty of other great VR headsets to choose from. Many cost less while offering similar experiences. A few even challenge Apple head-on, matching and exceeding the Vision Pro's advanced technology. Here are five headsets you should buy instead of the Vision Pro and why you might like them better than Apple's spatial computer.
Meta Quest 3 Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.