My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Shares of L&T Technology Services shed over 5 percent in the morning session on January 13 and was the top midcap loser with over 38 percent decline in the last one year. The pure-play engineering services company, a listed subsidiary of Larsen & Toubro Limited (L&T), announced on January 12 an agreement to acquire the parent company's Smart World & Communication (SWC) business, which was founded in 2016 to cater to the demands in smart cities, smart utilities, and digital infrastructure. SWC's business will be acquired for Rs 800 crore, its statement said. The acquisition will be completed in three months, subject to satisfaction of conditions precedent identified under the agreement. According to LTTS, SWC business generated Rs 1,098 crore in annual revenue for FY 2021-22. SWC is an intelligence solution provider operating in three segments – communications, safe and smart solutions, and cybersecurity. LTTS said this acquisition will allow it to combine synergies and bring next-gen communications, sustainable spaces, and cybersecurity offerings to the global market. Catch all the market action on our live blog Global research firm Morgan Stanley has maintained its 'underweight' stance on the stock with target at Rs 3,300 per share. The agreement to acquire the parent company's Smart World & Communication (SWC) business is one of the largest M&A deals by the company since its inception. Transition of SWC's domestic business to global clientele profile will weigh on sentiment, the brokerage firm said. At 9:58am, L&T Technology Services was quoting at Rs 3,441.90, down Rs 198.60, or 5.46 percent on BSE. It has touched an intraday high of Rs 3,625.15 and an intraday low of Rs 3,421.00. Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by experts on Moneycontrol are their own and not those of the website or its management. Moneycontrol advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.​   Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.