Most Popular 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. OpenAI's DALL-E 2 made a huge splash as the first mainstream AI image generator. Other companies have since released models that rival DALL-E 2, and OpenAI has even released a more advanced model, DALL-E 3, replacing its predecessor. Also: The best AI chatbots of 2024: ChatGPT, Copilot and worthy alternatives To help you discover which models are better for different tasks, I put the image generators to the test by giving each tool the same prompt: "Two Yorkies sitting on a beach that is covered in snow." I also included screenshots to help you decide which tool best matches your needs.  Because the actual image output is only one factor in choosing an image generator, I also included details on cost, speed, accessibility, and other standouts from my testing. Microsoft Designer's Image Creator is the best overall AI image generator. Like DALL-E 3, it combines accuracy, speed, and cost-effectiveness and can generate high-quality images in seconds. Unlike DALL-E 3, Microsoft's tool is entirely free. Also: Microsoft launches free mobile app versions of Designer, its AI photo creator Whether you want to generate images of animals, objects, or even abstract concepts, Image Creator can produce accurate depictions that meet your expectations. It is highly efficient, user-friendly, and cost-effective. For the full roundup of the best AI image generators, keep reading. Microsoft Designer's Image Creator is powered by DALL-E 3, OpenAI's most advanced image-generating model. It produces the same quality results as DALL-E, but it's free, so you don't have to pay the $20-per-month ChatGPT Plus subscription to use DALL-E. To access the image generator, visit the Image Creator website and sign in with a Microsoft account, or create one for free if you don't have one.  Another major perk about this AI generator is that you can also access it in the same place where you access Microsoft's AI chatbot, Copilot (formerly Bing Chat).  This means that in addition to visiting Image Creator on its standalone site, you can ask it to generate images for you in Copilot. To render an image, all you have to do is conversationally ask Copilot to draw you any image you'd like. Also: How to use Image Creator from Microsoft Designer (formerly Bing Image Creator) This is convenient: you can satisfy all your image-generating and AI-chatting needs in the same place for free. This facilitates tasks that could benefit from image and text generation, such as party planning, as you can ask the chatbot to generate themes for your party and then create images that follow the theme. To do this, just visit Copilot's website and log in to access image generation. Note that if you use a school or work account, there may be some limitations in place that won't let you generate images, so use a personal account. Image Creator from Microsoft Designer features: Powered by: DALL-E 3 | Access via: Copilot, browser, mobile | Output: four images per prompt | Price: Free  OpenAI, the AI startup behind ChatGPT, launched DALL-E 2 in November 2022. The tool quickly became the most popular AI image generator on the market. After launching its most advanced image generator, DALL-E 3, OpenAI discontinued DALL-E 2. DALL-E 3 is even more capable than the original model, but this comes at a cost. To access DALL-E 3, you must be a ChatGPT Plus subscriber, and the membership costs $20 per month. Once subscribed, you can access DALL-E 3 via ChatGPT or the ChatGPT app. Also: How to subscribe to ChatGPT Plus (and 5 reasons why you should) Using DALL-E 3 is very intuitive. Type in whatever prompt you'd like, specifying as much detail as necessary to bring your vision to life, and DALL-E 3 will generate one to two images that match your prompt. As you can see in the image at the top of the article, the renditions are high-quality and very realistic. OpenAI even recently added new ways to edit the generated images, including easy conversational text prompts and the ability to click on parts of the image you want to edit.  Also: DALL-E adds new ways to edit and create AI-generated images. Learn how to use it Like with Copilot, you can chat and render your images on the same platform, making it convenient to work on projects that depend on image and text generation. If you don't want to shell out the money, Image Creator is a great alternative since it's free, uses DALL-E 3, and can be accessed via Copilot. DALL-E 3 features: Powered by: DALL-E 3 by OpenAI | Access via: ChatGPT website and app | Output: One image per prompt | Price: ChatGPT Plus subscription, $20 per month Since launching Gemini (at the time Bard), Google has updated the service to let you generate photos. Using Imagen 2, the image generator can produce high-quality, realistic outputs, even of objects that are difficult to render, such as hands. Like ChatGPT and Copilot, you can access it while chatting with Gemini, which is useful to avoid context-switching between different platforms for your text and image generation needs. Unlike DALL-E, it generates four images simultaneously, helping you get the most out of a single prompt.  If you are a Google user, you will probably enjoy Gemini's user interface because it keeps the same look and feel as in Google Search. It also has attributes that connect you directly to Google Search, such as a Google icon that double-checks the response's validity with Search and clickable links that take you to the search engine. Imagen 2 in Gemini: Powered by: Imagen 2 | Access via: Website or app | Output: four images | Price: free  Stability AI created the massively popular, open-sourced, text-to-image generator, Stable Diffusion. Users can download the tool and use it for free, but it may require some technical skill. Also: How to use Stable Diffusion AI to create amazing images To make the technology more accessible to everyone (regardless of skill level), Stability AI created DreamStudio, which incorporates Stable Diffusion in a UI that is easy to understand and use.  One of the platform's standout features is that it includes many different entries for customization, including a "negative prompt" where you can delineate the specifics of what you'd like to avoid in the final image. You can also easily change the image ratio -- that's a key feature, as most AI image generators automatically deliver 1:1.  To access it, you need to create a Stabillity.ai account, or sign in with your existing Google or Discord accounts.  DreamStudio features: Powered by: SDXL 1.0 by Stability AI | Access via: Website | Output: one image per two credits | Price: $1 per 100 credits | Credits: 25 free credits when you open an account; buy more once you run out This app took the first-place spot for the best overall app in Google Play's 2022 awards, and it has 4.8 stars on Apple's App Store with 142.9K ratings. Dream lets you create art and images with the simple input of a quick prompt. An added plus is that this AI image generator lets you pick different design styles, such as realistic, expressionist, comic, abstract, fanatical, ink, and more. This helps take the guesswork out of crafting the perfect prompt to get your desired output. Also: How to use Dream by WOMBO to generate artwork in any style In addition to the app, the tool has a free desktop mobile version that is simple to use. If you want to take your use of the app to the next level, you can pay $90 per year or $10 per month. Dream by WOMBO features: Powered by: Wombo's machine-learning algorithm | Access via: Mobile and desktop versions | Output: one image with a free version, four with a paid plan | Price: Free limited access Despite originally being named DALL-E mini, this AI image generator is not affiliated with OpenAI or DALL-E. Rather, it is an open-source alternative. Nevertheless, the name somewhat fits as the tool does everything DALL-E does, but with less precise renditions. Also: How to use Craiyon AI (formerly known as DALL-E mini) Unlike DALL-E, the outputs from Craiyon aren't as high quality and take longer to render -- approximately a minute, which, all things considered, is still pretty quick. A major plus is that because you have unlimited prompts, you can continue to tweak the prompt until you get exactly what you envisioned.  You can also include "negative words," which help you describe what you don't want to see, ensuring you get the best result. The tool also generates nine images, more than any other chatbot listed.  Craiyon features: Powered by: Craiyon's AI model | Access via: Craiyon website | Output: nine images per prompt | Price: Free, unlimited prompts I often play around with AI image generators because they make it fun and easy to create digital artwork. Despite all my experiences with different AI generators, nothing could have prepared me for Midjourney. The output of the images were so crystal clear that I had a hard time believing they weren't photos that someone had taken. This software is so good that it has produced award-winning art. That said, Midjourney isn't very user-friendly. It confuses me every time, and I have tested dozens of generators. If you also need extra direction, check out our step-by-step how-to here: How to use Midjourney to generate amazing images and art. Another problem with Midjourney is that you may not be able to access it for free. When I recently tried to render images, I got this error message: "Due to extreme demand, we can't provide a free trial right now. Please subscribe to create images with Midjourney." If you're looking for realistic quality, however, I would say it is worth the investment.  To show you the quality of renditions, I've included a close-up below from a previous time I tested the generator for free. The prompt was: "A baby Yorkie sitting on a comfy couch in front of the NYC skyline." Midjourney features: Powered by: Midjourney | Access via: Discord | Output: nine images per prompt | Price: Starts at $10/month Adobe has been a leader in developing creative tools for creative and working professionals for decades. As a result, it's not surprising that its image generator is impressive. Accessing the generator is easy: just visit the website and type the prompt of the image you'd like generated. As you can see above, the   rendered images of the Yorkies are high-quality, realistic, and detailed. Also: This new AI tool from Adobe makes generating the images you need even simpler This chatbot's biggest standout features are Structure Reference and Style Reference. Structure Reference lets you input an image you want the AI model to use as a template. The model then uses this structure to create a new image with the same layout and composition. Style Reference uses an image as a reference to generate a new image in the same style. These features are useful if you have an image you'd like the new, generated image to resemble, such as a quick sketch you drew or a business logo or style you'd like to keep consistent. When creating a new image, you can also tweak the "strength" of the structure reference (how much the model adheres to the reference's image structure), allowing you to rely on your reference as lightly or heavily as you need. Another perk is that Adobe Firefly was trained on Adobe Stock images, openly licensed content, and public domain content, making all the   generated images safe for commercial use.  Adobe Firefly features: Powered by: Firefly Image 2 | Access via: Website | Output: four images per prompt | Price: Free  One of the biggest issues with AI image generators is that they typically train their generators on content scraped from the internet, which means the generators use aspects of creators' art without compensation. This approach also puts businesses that use generators at risk of copyright infringement. Generative AI by Getty Images tackles that issue by generating images with content solely from Getty Images' vast creative library, with full indemnification for commercial use. The generated images have Getty Images' standard royalty-free license, assuring you that the content is fair to use without fearing legal repercussions. Another pro is that contributors whose content was used to train the models are supposed to be compensated for their inclusion in the training set. This is a great solution for businesses that want stock photos that match their creative vision but do not want to deal with copyright-related issues.  Generative AI by Getty Images features: Powered by: Nvidia Picasso | Access via: Website | Output: four images per prompt | Price: Paid (price undisclosed, have to contact the team) Microsoft Designer's Image Creator is the best overall AI image generator. Like DALL-E 3, Image Creator combines accuracy, speed, and cost-effectiveness, and can generate high-quality images in seconds. Unlike DALL-E 3, Microsoft's tool is entirely free. Whether you want to generate images of animals, objects, or even abstract concepts, Image Creator can produce accurate depictions that meet your expectations in a user-friendly interface. AI image generator  Price  Output speed  Accessibility  Microsoft Designer's Image Creator  Free  Fast Web and app DALL-E 3 in ChatGPT $20 per month Fast Web and app Imagen 2 in Gemini Free Fast Web and app Stability AI's DreamStudio Free + Credits  Fast  Web  Wombo's Dream Free + Subscription Fast Mobile and Desktop Craiyon Free Slower Web Midjourney Starts at $10/month Fast Web Adobe Firefly  Free Fast  Web Generative AI by Getty Images Cost determined by chatting with the sales team Unknown Web Note: Prices and features are subject to change. Since Generative AI by Getty Images is a business tool, I have not tested it, and therefore, couldn't gauge its speed. An AI image generator is software that uses AI to create images from user text inputs, usually within seconds. The pictures vary in style depending on the software's capabilities, but they can typically be rendered in any style you want, including 3D, 2D, cinematic, modern, Renaissance, and more.  If you've ever searched Google for hours to find an image you needed, artificial intelligence (AI) may be able to help.  With AI image generators, you can type in a prompt as detailed or vague as you'd like. These tools can help with branding, social media content creation, and making invitations, flyers, business cards, and more. Also: ChatGPT no longer requires a login, but you might want one anyway. Here's why Even if you have no professional use for AI, don't worry -- the process is so fun that anyone can (and should) try it out. Like other generative AI models, AI image generators require a lot of data to run. Typically, these models are trained on billions of images, which are then used to create new images. Because of the extensive data these generators are trained on, they can produce impressive photos.  Follow these simple steps to get started using one yourself:  1) Visit the website of the generator you are interested in using. 2) Sign in or create an account if the site requires you to have one to access the generator.  3) Type a detailed prompt about what you'd like the generator to output.  For a more thorough breakdown of how to start using AI Image generators, check out: How to use Microsoft Designer's Image Creator (formerly Bing Image Creator). Although I crowned Image Creator the best AI image generator overall, other AI image generators perform better for specific tasks. For example, suppose you are a professional using AI image generation for your business. In that case, you may need a tool like Generative AI by Getty Images, which renders images safe for commercial use. On the other hand, if you want to play with AI art generation for entertainment purposes, Craiyon might be the best option because it's free, unlimited, and easy to use.  Choose this AI image generator... If you want... Microsoft Designer's Image Creator The best AI image generator overall. In Copilot, you can get all your image-generating needs met while chatting with the bot and getting all your questions answered. The image generator is reliable, quick, and accessible.  DALL-E 3 in ChatGPT An upgraded version of the original best AI image generator that combines accuracy, speed, and cost-effectiveness. It lets you generate high-quality images quickly and easily, making it an ideal tool for artists, designers, and anyone looking to create unique and original content. Imagen 2 in Gemini The best AI image generators for beginners with multiple features that facilitate prompt writing, including expressive chips and style suggestions.  Stability AI's DreamStudio The best customizable AI image generator with a UI that makes it easy to get the exact rendition you want. The fields include size, style, negative prompts, and image prompts. Wombo's Dream The best AI image generator for your phone with multiple templates, realistic renditions, and a mobile app. It also has a free limited access version, making it a great option for those who don't want to spend too much money. Craiyon The best no-frills AI image generator with unlimited prompts and a straightforward interface. Midjourney The best AI image generator for high-quality renderings and crystal-clear images with a Discord community, allowing you to share and view other users' outputs. Adobe Firefly  The best AI image generator if you have a reference photo you'd like for the AI image generator to use as inspiration in either structure or style when rendering a new image. Generative AI by Getty Images The best AI image generator for business applications. It generates images with content from Getty Images's vast creative library, meaning the images rendered are commercially safe. To find the best AI image generators, I tested each generator listed and compared their performance across UI/UX, image results, cost, speed, and availability. Each AI image generator had different strengths and weaknesses.  UI/UX: The interface design and overall user experience are a big factor. Even though using an image generator should be as simple as typing in a text prompt, some platforms overcomplicate things, making it hard to get started. Image results: If you use an image generator, it is likely because you want to produce high-quality art, pictures, or other media. Therefore, one of the biggest factors is the ability to create realistic and detailed images with as few artifacts as possible. Cost: There are so many great free AI image generators. We thus want to ensure that if you have to pay to use a model, it is worth every penny, since some of the free generators can produce incredible outputs. Speed: Many image generators can produce images in seconds, setting the expectation for image generators to be quick. Therefore, it is noticeable when a model takes longer. Slowness is a significant con. The best free image generator is Microsoft Designer's Image Creator because it uses OpenAI's DALL-E 3 and is free. When accessing DALL-E 3 from OpenAI's services, you need to pay.  AI image generators are trained on billions of images found across the internet. These images are often artworks belonging to specific artists, which AI reimagines and repurposes to generate your image. Although the output is different, the new image has elements of the artist's original work that are not credited to them. Whether an AI-generated image is copyrighted depends on the terms of the generator you are using. The copyright policies also vary between subscription tiers. The best way to proceed is not to make assumptions, and double-check before you use or publish any generated image. Contrary to what you might think, there are many AI image generators other than DALL-E 3. Some tools produce even better results than OpenAI's tool. If you want to try something different, check out one of our alternatives above or the two additional options below. Nightcafe is a multipurpose AI image generator. It lets you create unique and original artwork using different inputs and styles, including abstract, impressionism, and expressionism. Canva has a versatile and powerful AI image generator that offers a wide range of options within its design platform. It lets you create professional-looking designs for different marketing channels, including social media posts, ads, flyers, and brochures. 