 By AdExchanger Here’s today’s AdExchanger.com news round-up… Want it by email? Sign up here. Take It To The Max Google’s Performance Max is a black box that uses automation to serve ads across the Google portfolio, and there’s no arguing that it’s a powerful tool. But PMax also invites tinfoil hat theories about how Google might be serving its own interests by obscuring where exactly an advertiser’s budget is going. For instance, does PMax push advertisers to YouTube Shorts because of the ROAS … or because Shorts is a priority for Google? And what about claiming credit? PMax could be retargeting site visitors and branded search queries to scoop easy conversions that would have been organic sales. The latest example is a change to Google’s search redundancy recommendations. Over the past couple of years, Google has collapsed some of the controls it previously offered for search campaigns. The trend has been toward broader controls that allow Google’s machine learning to make decisions. Starting Jan. 19, Google will go even broader by recommending that advertisers remove far more terms and set wider search parameters at a keyword level.  The controversy is that although PMax bids aggressively on branded search terms – when someone Googles a brand’s name, it’s a strong conversion signal – it previously had to defer to advertisers with an exact keyword match. The new search recommendations, however, will greatly reduce exact keyword matches, calling them “redundant.” 



 



 Podcasting The Line DTC brands have become a pillar of podcast advertising, but some agencies aren’t optimistic that they’ll stick around. “Long-term brands that have been in the space for three to five years are starting to see diminishing returns,” Glenn Rubenstein, CEO of podcast agency Adopter Media, tells Marketing Brew. Fortunately for podcast producers, the retail and financial services sectors look ready to fill a potential vacuum. Get our editors’ roundup delivered to your inbox every weekday. According to research from podcast media planning database Magellan AI, retailers spent 136% more on podcast ads from January through October last year compared with 2021, with Macy’s, Amazon and Walmart as the top three advertisers. The finance vertical, including brands such as Intuit and Capital One, increased spend by roughly 61% over the same time frame. No doubt that for podcasters looking to monetize, it’s the more the merrier. And some buyers are even still bullish on DTC podcast advertisers. “I see no signs of DTC brands pulling back,” says Cameron Hendrix, co-founder of Magellan AI. Let’s Be Upfront It’s conventional wisdom at this point that the upfront TV ad-buying model is outdated, antiquated and generally on the way out.  Except, maybe not. To paraphrase Mark Twain, reports of the death of the TV upfront may be greatly exaggerated. Fact is, the revenue and pricing guarantees generated during the upfronts are just too sweet to pass up. For advertisers, the upfront “is like signing a year-long lease on a home,” rather than paying month to month, quips Digiday senior media editor Tim Peterson in a YouTube video. Traditional TV advertisers, meanwhile, get the equivalent of a rent-controlled apartment, with legacy pricing to match. To be fair, the inflexibility of year-long commitments may inspire some ad buyers and sellers accustomed to shorter-term investments to put their dollars into digital or other time-limited engagements. In the meantime, though, the upfront isn’t going to be fully transformed until at least 2024. But Wait, There’s More! Microsoft eyes a $10 billion bet on ChatGPT. [Semafor] Google says traffic is not a measure of search quality. [Search Engine Roundtable] YouTube will begin sharing ad revenue with Shorts creators in February. [Engadget] How much Netflix can the world absorb? [New Yorker] Facebook will no longer allow gender-based targeting of teens or targeting based on previous account engagements. [blog] Amazon is expanding its Buy with Prime service, which brings Prime to third-party sites, to US merchants by January 31. [TechCrunch] You’re Hired! Contextual in-game ad tech company AdInMo appoints Yasin Dabhelia as VP of programmatic. [release] Epsilon brings on Susan Rothwell as CRO. [release] Hearst TV promotes Michael Rosellini to senior VP of digital services. [Adweek] Spectrum Reach names Jason Brown as CRO. [release] History can be a burden for a brand, if it means that company is too set in its ways to pivot and try new things. Just consider e.l.f. Cosmetics, the digitial-first, social-native brand that made good.  Digital-native brands need to figure out how to win in retail shelves. They’re finding it difficult, to say the least.  A group of 20 web app developers sent a letter to the CMA claiming the regulator’s proposed remedies for increasing competition among mobile browsers do not address barriers to entry for mobile web extensions on iOS and Android. “There are billions of additional screens outside of mobile phones,” says Dan Page, TikTok’s global head of partnerships and new screens. “We want to be in all of them.” The Trade Desk delivered another smash earnings report. Meanwhile, Unified ID 2.0, the open-source identity initiative, has “reached a critical mass of adoption,” CEO Jeff Green told investors. Many of Publicis’ fastest-growing and most strategic business units – including CitrusAd, Profitero, Epsilon and Conversant – earn a large chunk of their revenue from other agencies. Is that a problem? Sensodyne wanted to do more than just get a sense of whether people were paying attention to its TV ads – it also wanted to optimize for attention. Social commerce is already huge in the Asia-Pacific market, and it’s poised to blow up worldwide. Here’s how the success of TikTok Shop forecasts the future development trends of ecommerce and social commerce in the US. Meta is working on AI-powered optimization updates to its ads system so advertisers can customize business objectives, measure incrementality and have direct integrations with third-party analytics tools. Until last year, video was a largely untapped revenue opportunity for Advance Local, a media group that operates local news sites. And then 2023 happened. Many of Publicis’ fastest-growing and most strategic business units – including CitrusAd, Profitero, Epsilon and Conversant – earn a large chunk of their revenue from other agencies. Is that a problem? Join the AdExchanger Community AdExchanger is where marketers, agencies, publishers and tech companies go for the latest information on the trends that are transforming digital media and marketing, from data, privacy, identity and AI to commerce, CTV, measurement and mobile. Programmatic I/O New York September 24-25, 2024Marriott MarquisNew York, NY Learn More © 2024 Access Intelligence, LLC - All Rights Reserved