The Prime Minister returned from holiday in California to visit Milton Keynes University Hospital and announce the extra capacity - but Labour pointed out how many have been lost Brazen Rishi Sunak trumpeted 900 extra hospital beds today - but 12,000 have been cut since the Tories returned to power. Returning from his Disneyland holiday in California, the Prime Minister visited a hospital to mark what No10 has dubbed “health week”. Speaking at Milton Keynes University Hospital, claimed the £250million announcement "is another step" on the "journey to a better performing NHS, delivering better care for people particularly this winter". He added: “These 900 new beds will mean more people can be treated quickly, speeding up flow through hospitals and reducing frustratingly long waits for treatment.” But Labour claimed 2023 “has been the worst year in the history of the NHS … on every measure”. It pointed to figures showing 570,000 people waited more than four hours in accident and emergency departments in July, 7.6 million patients are stranded on waiting lists, one in five patients wait longer than two weeks to see a specialist when they are referred for suspected cancer and ambulances took an average 32 minutes last month to reach patients with conditions like heart attacks or strokes, compared with an 18-minute target. The new beds may not be available until January - leaving the struggling health service battling its annual winter crisis for weeks without them. NHS Providers director of policy Miriam Deakin said extra beds were “just one piece of a much larger puzzle”. She warned: “Not only will these new beds need to be staffed, but underlying issues including workforce shortages, a lack of investment in capital and the desperate need for social care reform will ultimately hinder progress unless also addressed. Similarly, other parts of the health system, including mental health and community services, need adequate investment in physical capacity to meet high demand. As winter is the busiest time of the year for urgent and emergency care, trust leaders will be very concerned that this extra capacity is only expected to be in place by January. For the best results, trusts would need these new beds before winter begins.” King's Fund health think tank chief analyst Siva Anandaciva welcomed extra beds, but added: "To improve care for patients the NHS also needs enough clinical professionals to staff these extra beds. While progress is being made to increase staffing numbers and deliver on the workforce plan, the NHS is facing 112,000 vacancies. Additionally, hospitals don't work in isolation. “The latest performance figures showed that 11,900 patients remained in hospital on an average day despite being medically fit to be discharged. To free up more beds and staff in hospitals, there needs to be a focus on boosting capacity in community and primary care settings as well as social care reform." Royal College of Nursing chief executive Pat Cullen said: "The elephant in the room is who will staff these additional beds? Nursing staff are already spread too thinly over too many patients.” Shadow Health Secretary Wes Streeting accused the Government of saddling the health service with "huge backlogs, unacceptable waiting times and an annual winter crisis". He said: "Now Rishi Sunak is offering a sticking plaster which comes nowhere near the 12,000 beds the Conservatives have cut over the last 13 years." As the PM arrived at the hospital yesterday(TUES), the local news website highlighted NHS England figures showing 46,035 patients were waiting for non-urgent elective operations or treatment at Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust at the end of June – up from 45,336 in May and 37,461 in June 2022. Of those, 4,479 had been waiting longer than a year. * Follow Mirror Politics on Snapchat, Tiktok, Twitter and Facebook Get UK politics insight with our free daily email briefing straight to your inbox