"Keepin it together." The cast of Superstore have reunited, with the show's stars sharing a sweet photo from a dinner that they enjoyed together.  The sitcom followed a group of employees at the Cloud 9 superstore, with the ensemble cast including America Ferrera, Ben Feldman, Lauren Ash, Colton Dunn, Nico Santos and Nichole Sakura.  The series ended in 2021 after its sixth season, and the cast have now reunited by attending a dinner together, with Feldman recording a clip as he panned around the table; the caption for the post read: "Keepin it together." Related: Superstore spin-off gets disappointing update following s6 finale Dunn, who played Garrett McNeil in the series, also posted to commemorate the event, sharing a photo of the cast as they posed in the restaurant.  "'If you're lucky, maybe you even get to be friends with a coworker or two along the way. I'm not sure what else you could want in a job.' Sometimes I miss this show. All times I miss these people. #superstore forever", Dunn wrote in the caption, with fans expressing joy at the reunion.  "The best show, I watch it on repeat and it's my feel good show," wrote one fan in the comments, whilst another admirer of the show responded: "I said it once and I'll say it again. If each character got their own spinoff, I'd watch them all." Related: Superstore star lands next lead movie role "I teared up when you made that speech on the finale. One of my all time favorite shows! Fun seeing you all together again!" wrote another fan in the comments, with a fellow viewer adding: "I have been playing superstore before bed for 3 years now almost every night". Whilst the series finale was praised by viewers, showrunners Jonathan Green and Gabe Miller teased the details of a prospective seventh season, with the pair confirming that Cloud 9 would have become a hybrid fulfilment store. Reporter, Digital Spy George is a freelance writer who specialises in Movies and TV. After graduating with a degree in Film Studies and Journalism from De Montfort University, in which he analysed the early works of Richard Linklater for his dissertation, he wrote for several websites for GRV Media.  His film tastes vary from blockbusters like Mission: Impossible and John Wick to international directors such as Paolo Sorrentino and Hirokazu Kore-eda, and has attended both the London and Berlin film festivals.
  Virgin River star caused production to be halted Iconic '00s mystery drama is trending on Netflix Everything available on Apple TV+ in the UK Grey’s Anatomy star reveals female co-stars' help Rings of Power star on casting in "creepy" roles Kit Harington says GoT s8 had "mistakes" Marvel responds to X-Men boss's firing allegations Sex Education star's show cancelled after 1 season Bridgerton season 4 casts Halo star in major role Emily in Paris falls into a messy bisexual trope The Batman spin-off The Penguin lands UK release You's Penn Badgley shares look at final episode DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.