Be that fab floats or powerful punches, there are drinks here to suit everyone Summer is well and truly here and we're now braced for months of scorching temperatures while enjoying cooling drinks in the garden. But if you find yourself getting bored with the usual lager or G&T, we have some amazing cocktail recipe ideas for you to spice things up with. Be that fab floats or powerful punches, there are drinks here to suit everyone - and the best thing is you don't need a PhD in mixology to rustle one up. Although we suggest you keep quiet and enjoy all the plaudits! We have several non-alcoholic options, too, for those of us who'd rather stay off the booze. Apple & Raspberry Wine Spritzer Method: Add the raspberries to a glass and muddle. Fill with ice and pour over the white wine and the apple juice. Stir gently to combine and then top with soda water and garnish with an apple fan. Pink Gin Pitcher 300ml Gordon's Premium Pink Distilled Gin 600ml Lemonade 2 large handfuls of fresh berries 1 handful basil leaves Ice Method: Fill your sharing jug up to around a third with ice and add the gin, then top with your lemonade, Add in your berries and about half a handful of basil leaves, then use your muddler to distribute the ice and berries through the jug, and make sure everything’s combined. Top with the remaining basil leaves for that oh-so-shareable finish. Gin Garden Method: Add the cucumber, basil and a sprig of mint to a cocktail shaker, then bash and crush using a muddler or rolling pin. Pour in the gin and the apple juice.Strain the cocktail into two glasses, over ice, then garnish each drink with a sprig of mint and slice of cucumber. Persian Lime & Orange Blossom Martini Method: Add both ingredients to a mixing glass with ice and stir for at least 15 seconds. Strain into a chilled martini glass and garnish with lemon oils and zest. Raspberry Crush Spritz  Method: Fill glass with ice before adding Smirnoff, Prosecco and lemonade. Garnish with 2-3 raspberries. Sicilian Lemon Gin Pitcher Method: Fill your sharing jug up to around a third with ice and add the gin, then top with your ginger ale. Add in your lemon and about half a handful of mint leaves, then use your muddler to distribute the ice and berries through the jug, and make sure everything’s combined. Top with the remaining mint leaves for that oh-so-shareable finish! Malibu Strawberry Spritz Method: Pour everything into a glass with ice. That’s it, enjoy! Mezcal Soda Float  Method: Add the mezcal and soda to a double rocks glass. Stir to combine, then top with a scoop of vanilla ice cream Conker Affogato Method: Add the ice cream to a martini/coupe glass, then pour over the Conker Cold Brew Coffee Liqueur. Sex on the Peach Method: Take 200g of sliced peach and immerse in 200g of caster sugar and refrigerate. After a minimum 24 hours add 200g of white cider vinegar, stir and then strain the peach out. Add ice to a tall glass and then pour in the Conker and Peach Shrub. Top with soda and stir gently. Conker Iced Tea Royal Method: Brew Earl Grey tea and allow to cool. Fill tumbler with ice and add gin. Top up with cooled Earl Grey tea and add a dash of lemon juice and sugar to taste Dark ‘N Stormy Float Method: Add ice to two highball glasses, then pour in the ginger beer. Top with the rum, then finish with a scoop of ginger ice cream and a grating of lime Mango & Passionfruit Twist & Lemonade Method: Fill a tall glass with ice. Add the Smirnoff Mango & Passionfruit Twist and lemonade to a glass. Stir to mix and then add garnish. Piña Co-Lager Method: Pour the rum, pineapple juice and coconut water into a large stein or tankard. Add a handful of ice and mix to combine. Top with the Einstök White Ale. Garnish with three pineapple leaves. South Shore Method: Fill a glass with ice, add the Goslings Gold Seal Rum, lemonade and ginger beer. Slap 3-4 mint leaves to release the oils, add to the glass and stir. Garnish with a lemon wedge and a few mint leaves. Summer Fruit Daiquiri Method: Squeeze the juice of 1 lime into a cocktail shaker. Fill with ice, then add the rum and summer fruit puree. Shake until well combined, then pour into chilled coupe/margarita glasses. Garnish each cocktail with a fresh raspberry and a fresh blackberry. Fruit Gin & Tonic Ice Lollies Method: Pour the tonic water into a large jug. Add the caster sugar and stir until fully dissolved and the tonic has lost its fizz. Stir in the gin, lime juice and zest. Push a couple of slices of peach and a slice of lime into each lolly mould, followed by a couple of raspberries. Divide the gin and tonic mixture between the moulds. Close the lids and push in the lolly sticks. Freeze until solid, preferably overnight. The lollies will last in the freezer for up to two months. Dark ‘n Stormy Granita Method: Pour can of Goslings ginger ale into a freezer-proof container and freeze for three hours. Every 30 minutes, go back and break up the ice. Add to the slushy to a glass and tip the Goslings Black Seal rum on top. Garnish with a slice of lime Tropical Passionfruit Gin Pitcher Method: Fill your sharing jug up to around a third with ice and add the gin, then top with your Indian tonic water. Add in your lime wheels then use your muddler to distribute the ice and fruit through the jug, and make sure everything’s combined. Top with the coconut water or pineapple juice. Clockwork Orange Insane Pitcher Method: Add ice to a 1 litre or 1 half litre jug and then pour in the Conker Gin and Cointreau, stirring gently. Next add the orange juice, the slices of orange and lemons and the sugar syrup. Stir again to combine and finally, top with the fizz. Serve in a small wine glass or nick & nora glass with one large ice cube. Summer Rummer Pitcher Method: Take the frozen summer fruits straight from the freezer and blend with a JAZZ apple juice until you have a smoothie-like consistency. Add ice to a 1 litre or 1 ½ litre jug and the pour the smoothie mixture on top. Next pour in the Goslings Black Seal Rum and stir well. Finally, top with the Prosecco. Serve with one large ice cube in a single rocks glass and garnish with a mint sprig. Strawberry Gin Smash Method: Cut the limes into small pieces, add the sugar, place in a cocktail shaker and muddle well to help release those oils from the peel and incorporate the sugar to the juice. Strain into the jug and then add half the punnet of strawberries before smashing everything together. Next add ice, the Hernö gin, the rest of the strawberries which have been sliced and some basil leaves. Gently stir the ingredients together before topping up with the soda water. Serve in highball glasses with strawberries and basil to garnish. Rumango Kiwi Punch Method: Peel the kiwi fruits and cut two in cubes and smash the other two in the bottom of a jug with a few mint leaves. Next add the cubes of kiwi along with one of the limes which has been sliced. Juice the other lime and add to the jug. Next add the Goslings Black Seal rum, the mango nectar and British Cassis before mixing well and then chilling. When ready to serve, add ice to the jug to refresh and serve in a Nick and Nora glass or wine glass Dark ‘n Stormy Ice Cream Float Method: Allow the vanilla ice cream to soften. Add chopped crystalized ginger and Gosling’s Black Seal Rum and blend it all in. Re-freeze and serve when ready. Add one generous scoop of the ice cream to a large milkshake glass.. Add 50 ml of Golsings Gold Seal Rum and then slowly pour ginger beer on top. Decorate with a slice of candied lime. Rum Swizzle Method: Into a pitcher, fill a ⅓ full with crushed ice, then add Goslings Black Seal Rum, Goslings Gold Rum, pineapple juice, orange juice, Grenadine and aromatic bitters. Churn vigorously until a frothing appears or mix in a cocktail shaker. Strain into a tumbler with fresh ice. Garnish with a lime slice and a cherry. Cross Court Cocktail Method: Pour the gin and strawberry syrup into a champagne flute. Top up with pink prosecco and stir, then garnish with the raspberry Gin & Tonic Float Method: Add the gin and tonic to a large glass (wine or rocks) and stir to combine. Top with a scoop of raspberry ripple ice cream. Goslings Iced Tea Rum Punch Method: Brew black tea and allow to cool. To a jug, add all the other ingredients and stir. Garnish with lime and pineapple and serve. Cassis Iced Tea Spritz Method: Brew green tea and allow to cool. Add the British Cassis to a bulbous glass and fill with ice, Add the dash of Lime and top up with soda water. Garnish with blackcurrants and blackberries Kombucha, Peach & Mint Fizz Method: Cut the peaches into segments and add to a pitcher. Add the mint (reserving some for garnish) and muddle until the peaches are thoroughly crushed. Pour in the gin and kombucha, top with ice, then stir well to combine. Place a peach segment and a mint sprig into four rocks glasses, followed by a large ice cube, then pour the cocktail into the glasses Recuerdo Mezcalita Method: Add the mezcal, cucumber juice, lime juice and agave nectar to a cocktail shaker. Fill with ice and shake until well combined and very cold. Wrap cucumber ribbons around the inside of two highball glasses, then pour in each cocktail Herno Earl Grey Ice Tea Method: Add all the ingredients to a mixing jug and stir well to combine. Check for sweetness and then strain into an old-fashioned glass over a large ice cube. Garnish with a lemon wheel. Wildcard G&T Method: Pour the gin into a highball glass, then fill with ice. Add the raspberries, then pour over the tonic water. Add the slice of lemon to garnish and finish by wedging the half strawberry on the rim of the glass. Harbor Patrol Strawberry daiquiri Pina colada Method: Blend up an ounce of Saint Luna, fresh strawberries, lime and simple. Next, make a colada, adding an ounce of Saint Luna, a handful of fresh pineapple, pineapple juice and coconut cream. Layer your blended colada right on top of the strawberry daiquiri. The Ace Cocktail Method: Build in an ice-filled highball or large wine glass. Garnish with the strawberry, mint and orange slice. The Chimera Fix Method: Add all ingredients except for the seltzer and berries to a shaker filled with ice. Shake until cold and then pour over fresh, crushed ice. Top with seltzer and garnish with a variety of mixed berries. Cucumber and Fresh Basil Method: Muddle cucumber slices and two leaves of fresh basil. Add liquid ingredients with exception of club soda to shaker and load with ice, shake vigorously and strain over fresh ice into collins glass. Top with club soda. Garnish with cucumber ribbon and one basil leaf (slap the basil to release the aroma). Jazz Gin Spritz Method: Add the gin, apple juice, lime juice and ice to a shaker and shake well. Strain into a glass over ice and then top with Prosecco and garnish with a slice of Jzzz Apple and lime Jazz Jungle Bird Method: Add all the ingredients to a shaker with crushed ice. Shake well and strain into a highball glass with several cubes of ice. Garnish with lemon, oranges and lime slices.