WHY US 


		                        Partner with us for Press release distribution and get best in class service, guaranteed postings on tier 1 media and maximum reach


 CSC, an enterprise-class domain registrar and world leader in mitigating domain and domain name system (DNS) threats, today launched its new DomaincastingSM digital blocking network—a complement to its current Enforcement services. Using global intelligence from our network of partners, CSC helps organizations block and take down domains that are taking advantage of their trusted brands to commit fraud. Powered by CSC’s proprietary DomainSecSM platform, Domaincasting is the largest global blocking network that includes domain-related malicious data and can be used while enforcing against bad actors with takedowns. It can share malicious data and threats with partners in near real time. The blocking network shares data with partners such as global internet service providers (ISPs), security providers, browser carriers like Google®, security information event management (SIEM) systems, telecom providers, registrars, web hosting providers, and law enforcement agencies. “CSC’s Domaincasting blocking network is an integral part of an organization’s domain security posture and zero trust model. This cutting-edge technology will assist CISOs and security professionals in blocking and remediating threat vectors targeting the external attack surface, such as phishing, malware, DNS, and brand targeted attacks,” says Ihab Shraim, chief technology officer of CSC’s Digital Brand Services division. “CISOs can integrate the Domaincasting threat vector data into their security operations center, and merge it with their own internal threat data, providing a comprehensive look at the threat landscape.” “As part of our DomainSec platform, Domaincasting offers our clients access to an innovative blocking network to continuously monitor active and dormant suspicious domain names and their corresponding DNS records,” said Mark Calandra, president of CSC’s Digital Brand Services division. “As an enterprise-class domain registrar with the largest global footprint online, CSC can detect and mitigate fraud and brand abuse faster, creating an essential allow list to protect companies, their employees, and customers from fraudulent domains.” Learn more about how to use CSC’s Domaincasting digital blocking network by visiting our website at cscdbs.com. About CSC CSC is the trusted security and threat intelligence provider of choice offering domain security solutions for the Forbes Global 2000 and the 100 Best Global Brands® including secure domain portfolio management, domain name system (DNS), digital certificate management, as well as digital brand and fraud protection. As global companies make significant investments in their security posture and continue efforts to protect their external attack surface, CSC can help them understand their domain security risks and how it aligns to their zero trust model. By leveraging CSC’s proprietary technology, companies can solidify their security posture to protect against cyber threat vectors targeting their online assets and brand reputation, helping them avoid devastating revenue loss, and significant financial penalties because of policies like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). CSC also provides online brand protection—the combination of online brand monitoring and enforcement activities—taking a holistic approach to digital asset protection, along with fraud protection services to combat phishing. Headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware, USA, since 1899, CSC has offices throughout the United States, Canada, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. CSC is a global company capable of doing business wherever our clients are—and we accomplish that by employing experts in every business we serve. Visit cscdbs.com.  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230613557057/en/ Joyson CherianW2 Communications[email protected] CSC News Room 
Submit your press release 
 
 [email protected] 
 +91 70 4246 9444 (North & East) +91 70 4247 1444 (West)  +91 70 4248 7444 (South) 
        Accept the use of cookies. Learn more | View Privacy Policy

            I Accept
        
