Need help logging in?     Reporter Blue Mountain Eagle reporter covering the city of John Day, education, and sports. jdavis@bluemountaineagle.com (541)-219-6266 Blue Mountain Eagle reporter covering the city of John Day, education, and sports. jdavis@bluemountaineagle.com (541)-219-6266    Kristal Hansen and Robyn Miller are the third-grade teachers at Humbolt Elementary. A previous version of this story transposed the wrong name for Hansen's. The error has been corrected.  CANYON CITY — Profiles of great Americans from days gone by, catapults, chicks and egg drops were all part of the Humbolt Elementary open house on Wednesday, May 17, at Humbolt Elementary in Canyon City. Events for the open house were organized by students in kindergarten through sixth grade and featured rainbow, chick hatching and caterpillar/butterfly journals, as well as a wax museum, catapult launch, egg drop and survival guide. Classrooms around the campus were opened, highlighting each grade’s specific activity. Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. Reporter Blue Mountain Eagle reporter covering the city of John Day, education, and sports. jdavis@bluemountaineagle.com (541)-219-6266 Blue Mountain Eagle reporter covering the city of John Day, education, and sports. jdavis@bluemountaineagle.com (541)-219-6266       
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 
                    Sign up to receive news directly to your desktop. Click the bell icon in the nav bar, at any time to change your settings.
                 
 
Advertising 
Phone: 541-575-0710 ext 2
email: kim@bmeagle.com

Subscriptions 
Phone: 800-781-3214
email: support@bmeagle.com
 
Subscriptions 
Phone: 800-781-3214
email: support@bmeagle.com
  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Receive email alerts anytime there is breaking news Discover hidden treasures, unique finds, and unbeatable bargains with your weekly scoop on area garage sales.  A weekly note from our editor about the inner workings of the newsroom. Find out what's happening with the latest events in our community. Start your day with the top headlines Receive the most recent obituaries  Get the best independent source of news and analysis of Oregon state government delivered to your inbox once a week. Best trending stories from the week. Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.