Dee Devine should have been enjoying her dream holiday in Mexico, but was left shaken after a rat started stalking her room at night and leaving droppings on her bed A woman says she suffered a TUI holiday from hell after she rolled over in bed to come face-to-face with a rat. Dee Devine was left “disgusted” after finding the rodent in her hotel room - and as if that wasn’t bad enough, she also found its droppings on her pillow. The 56-year-old from Whitwell, Derbyshire was supposed to be enjoying her holiday in Playa del Carmen, Mexico earlier this month. But she was left feeling “sick” after discovering rat's dropping around the room, including in her own bed. The retiree also captured a video of the creature as she lay in bed, getting ready to go to sleep on her eight-day £2,700 TUI holiday. As Dee lay in bed in the dark, two bright, beady eyes stared directly into the camera from the curtains. The rat then quickly looked left, before scurrying out of sight of Dee and her sister, who occupied the bed closest to the window. Separate images shared by Dee show three instances of rat droppings in the room, including on the bedsheets. The small brown pellets appear to sit just inches from the pillows of the bed, which left the sisters horrified as they returned to their room and discovered the revolting mess. Another picture shows the back end of the rat as it scurries up a hole next to the shower in the hotel room, with the rodent's large tail clearly visible poking out. Dee said: "My sister and I still feel sick about it now as for four days we had no idea where it had been. "My sister told me she felt something move on her during the second night but we didn't expect it to be a rat. "The hotel and TUI are not denying that it is a rat. "We're absolutely disgusted, the rat had been in our room for all of that time, we never left the door open due to mosquitoes. "The morning after we had removed the rat pee and poo my eyes began to puff up and I started to panic. "We're still having flashbacks to those four days and wondering where the rat went while in our hotel room. "I am registered as having a disability but didn't care that I had a flight of stairs to contend with when we moved rooms as I just needed to get away from that room." A TUI spokesperson said: "We are sorry to hear about Ms Devine’s experience in Playa del Carmen.  "We recognise that on this occasion services fell short of our usually high standards and our customer care is in contact with Ms Devine.  "We’d like to reassure customers that this was an isolated incident and health and safety is our highest priority." Fancy an escape? Sign up to the Chill newsletter for weekly inspiration and advice on UK holidays 