Bryan Gil has departed Tottenham to return to former club Sevilla on loan for the remainder of the 2022/23 campaign following limited playing time under Antonio Conte Don't miss any of the latest and best Spurs news - sign up to the free Tottenham newsletter for updates straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Don't miss any of the latest and best Spurs news - sign up to the free Tottenham newsletter for updates straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Bryan Gil has rejoined Sevilla on a loan deal until the end of the 2022/23 campaign. Coming through the Spanish side's academy as a youngster, the 21-year-old has returned to his former club from Tottenham with limited opportunities coming his way in north London. Initially struggling for minutes following his move to Tottenham in July 2021, Gil first departed Tottenham Hotspur Stadium last January to join Valencia on a deal until the end of the campaign. After helping Lo Che to the final of the Copa del Rey, the talented winger was expected to return to the Mestalla Stadium in the summer but another move didn't come to fruition, with Tottenham unable to bring in a replacement on deadline day. With game time extremely limited under Antonio Conte in the first few months of this term, Gil did catch the eye when handed starts in the wins over Crystal Palace and Portsmouth at the beginning of the year. It did appear that he would be remaining in N17 beyond the January transfer window following those performances, but Arnaut Danjuma's arrival from Villarreal on loan has seen him drop a further place down the pecking order. READ MORE:Davinson Sanchez drops Tottenham transfer hint and discusses his relationship with Antonio Conte Arriving in Spain on Monday afternoon, Gil has now put pen-to-paper on a loan deal with Sevilla until the end of the campaign. He will now join forces with head coach Jorge Sampaoli, who was very keen to sign him for Marseille last season. Gil could potentially make his second Sevilla debut when they travel to the Camp Nou to take on Barcelona on Sunday evening. The player departs Tottenham after making 11 appearances for the Lilywhites this campaign. READ NEXT: Pedro Porro transfer problems as Tottenham try to salvage deal in final hours of window Tottenham make decision over talented teen striker Dane Scarlett's future and Portsmouth loan Every word Cristian Stellini said on Son, Danjuma, Richarlison injury and Sol Campbell chants Find the footballs on the football.london website to win cash prize, vouchers and TV worth £3,000 Tottenham news and transfers LIVE: All the latest news, rumours and gossip from the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium 