Former Manchester United midfielder Tom Cleverley and his wife Georgina have put their luxurious mansion on the market for £3.8million. The six-bed property is located in Carrwood, Hale Barns, and will catch the eye of any celebrity looking for a new home. Cleverley came through the academy at United before being handed his debut in 2008 on a pre-season tour. The midfielder then enjoyed spells on loan at Leicester, Watford and Wigan before breaking into Sir Alex Ferguson’s side, winning the Premier League once under his management. The midfielder also met his now-wife Georgina as he announced himself on the Old Trafford stage, meeting through a mutual friend. Georgina is a familiar face to The Only Way Is Essex fans, making one appearance on the show where she was whisked away on a date with reality star Joey Essex. Tom and Georgina now have four children, Neveah Rose, Albie, Sloane and Summer, and are looking to move house. They have listed their six-bed mansion for sale, providing an insight into the type of properties that footballers reside in. READ MORE: Man Utd's jaw-dropping XI if Elon Musk buys club for £4.5bn and spends £161m  The stunning house has an open-plan kitchen and dining area, with a living area also built into the back of the property with another sofa space to seat all of Cleverley’s Watford teammates. The house also has a personal gym for Tom, with signed shirts spotted on the walls. The well-equipped mansion also has an indoor swimming pool, allowing the playmaker to rest properly after training and matches. There is also a games room with a fully-stocked bar as well as a pool table, which will be a welcome distraction from the stresses of footballing life. DON'T MISSGreenwood 'reaction' to phone call with Man Utd boss Ten Hag comes to lightMan Utd coach Benni McCarthy called team-mates 'motherf******' for two weeksQatar 'to bid for Man Utd in its entirety' by end of week but left with PSG headache We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy  Though Cleverley may be using his house’s luxurious more than he would hope in the coming few weeks, with Watford manager Slaven Bilic confirming that his captain had sustained another injury in the warm-up for the match against Burnley on Tuesday. The former West Ham boss said: “Tom had just come back from a long injury but unfortunately he felt a pop in his thigh and it’s never a good sign when you hear a pop. It’s not a cramp, it’s a pop. “We’ll assess it. We’ll be happy with a couple of weeks (absence) but it may be worse, we’ll see,” said Bilic. “It’s a shame for him to miss out, he’s our captain, our leader, a great pro and had worked so hard to come back. We were trying to build him up to play 60 minutes then in the warm-up there you go.” SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?