Open menu OneFootball's home page Search Settings Sign In In partnership with The 4th Official ·12 January 2023 Everton will welcome Southampton at Goodison Park earlier today as they look to earn a victory in the Premier League in front of their home fans. The Toffees suffered a 3-1 loss at the hands of Manchester United in the FA Cup recently. Hence, they will be desperate to produce a much-improved display versus the Saints this weekend. Frank Lampard will probably opt for a 4-3-3 formation and could make some changes to his starting XI for this game. We can expect Dominic Calvert-Lewin to lead the line for the Merseyside club in the final third while Neal Maupay makes way for him and drops to the bench. Defence Jordan Pickford will function in goal for the Toffees after conceding three goals in his last appearance. Lampard could name a back three of Ben Godfrey, Conor Coady and James Tarkowski as they focus on keeping the opposition at bay throughout the game. All three of them need to defend their penalty box with conviction if Everton are to earn a clean sheet this weekend. Michael Keane is unlikely to recover in time for this game. However, Mason Holgate will provide cover for the centre-back positions on the bench. Goodison Park Midfield Idrissa Gueye and Amadou Onana will anchor the midfield for the Merseyside outfit as they try to make life difficult for the Saints at the centre of the park. Vitaliy Mykolenko will probably retain his spot on the left flank while Seamus Coleman tries to put in a hard-working performance as the right wing-back. Both of them need to be solid when defending at the back so that they can restrict the opposition attackers from creating too many opportunities from the wide areas. Abdoulaye Doucoure will be named on the bench as he waits for his chance to shine in the second 45 minutes if Lampard opts to call upon his services. Attack Demarai Gray will function as the left-sided wide player while Dwight McNeil hopes to catch the eye as the right-winger. Dominic Calvert-Lewin will lead the charge for Everton on the attacking end of the pitch. The English striker has to find a way to cause a few problems for the Southampton defenders this weekend. Neal Maupay will have to settle for a spot on the bench and might come on to make an impact in the latter stages of the game if needed. Revealed: Sean Dyche Drops Huge Dominic Calvert-Lewin Transfer Hint EPL Index Sean Dyche makes Dominic Calvert-Lewin transfer admission amid Manchester United and West Ham links Evening Standard Marseille considering loan move for Everton’s Neal Maupay Get French Football News Everton Rated As Club’s Strongest Competitors For Brazilian Inside Futbol 🦁 Premier League opening Saturday delivers as Arsenal and Liverpool win OneFootball 3️⃣ things we learned as Vardy resurgence earns Leicester draw with Spurs Leicester fought back to draw 1-1 with Tottenham at the King Power Stadium on another iconic night for Jamie Vardy.

Here is what we made of events at the King Power... Chelsea agree Joao Felix return with Conor Gallagher to complete Atletico Madrid move Portuguese forward to clinch unlikely Stamford Bridge comeback after deal for team-mate Samu Omorodion collapsedChelsea are closing in on the signing of Joao Felix, in a deal that will pave... Jude Bellingham scolds new teammate Kylian Mbappe and Real Madrid forwards: ‘Finish the attack’ Jude Bellingham appeared to issue an expletive-laden message to his teammates during Real Madrid’s draw with Mallorca.

The defending La Liga champions were expected to cruise to victory after adding Kylian... In partnership with OneFootball is proud to partner with Yahoo! Sports to deliver quality football content to fans in USA and Canada. OneFootball's home page © 2024 OneFootball