
		Related Vendors	 The consortium has been selected by Calpine for a Feed contract in order to develop a carbon capture unit project in Baytown, Texas, USA. The project is expected to capture two million tons per annum of CO2.  Paris/France – Technip Energies, together with Shell Catalysts & Technologies and Zachry Group, have been awarded a Front-End Engineering and Design (Feed) contract for a carbon capture unit project in Baytown, Texas, USA. The project will be designed to capture two million tons per annum of CO2, which represents 95 % of CO2 emissions from processed flue gas from Calpine’s Baytown Energy Center (BTEC) and a natural gas combined cycle power plant (CCGT). Technip Energies and Shell Catalysts & Technologies have a strategic alliance to collaborate on the marketing, licensing and execution of projects using Shell’s Cansolv CO2 Capture System technology. The two organizations recently strengthened this alliance, which began in 2012, to allow them to better respond to the rapidly growing carbon capture and storage (CCS) market and the need for affordable and proven solutions. Zachry’s scope in the Feed study will include outside battery limits (OSBL) engineering, which includes utility systems, loading and off-loading facilities, operation and maintenance buildings, and site preparation. Zachry will also conduct detailed construction planning and estimating for the overall project, with the ultimate development of a final EPC cost estimate and schedule development. Calpine’s BTEC is a natural gas-fired power plant that incorporates combined-cycle and cogeneration technologies for highly efficient operations. The plant consists of three combustion turbines with three heat recovery steam generators and has been recognized as a Showcase Plant by the U.S. Department of Energy. Do you want the latest news, specialist articles and information on new products? Then you can register for our free newsletter: Laure Mandrou, SVP Carbon Free Solutions of Technip Energies, stated, “While we are currently executing the Feed to capture carbon at Calpine’s power plant in Deer Park, we are pleased to also be selected to execute the Feed for this large carbon capture project at its CCGT power plant in Baytown. We are fully committed to support Calpine in its ambition to decarbonize its assets and make this project an industrial success together with our partner Zachry. This award confirms the robustness of our carbon capture offering in partnership with Shell utilizing its Cansolv technology and our proven execution capability. We are pleased to continue to grow our footprint in the CCS space in the US and provide a leading contribution to the decarbonization of the power industry.” Nick Flinn, Vice President, Decarbonization Technologies, Shell Catalysts & Technologies, said: “We are delighted to have been selected by Calpine for another CCS project. Building on the success of the ongoing Deer Park CCS project, we look forward to developing more learnings and generating more value together with Calpine by deploying the Cansolv technology at Baytown. By working closely with Technip Energies, which is performing the engineering and procurement of the Cansolv plant, and Zachary Group, which is performing the balance of plant engineering, procurement and construction for the project, we will deliver a complete end-to-end solution for Calpine that could serve as a blueprint in the industry.” Mike Kotara, President, Zachry Sustainability Solutions, Zachry Group, stated, “We are excited to support Calpine and to contribute to the design of this significant carbon capture project. Zachry Sustainability Solutions is committed to supporting the energy transition through engineering and construction of decarbonizing technologies, including carbon capture, hydrogen/ammonia, renewable fuels, and nuclear energy.” Caleb Stephenson, EVP of Commercial Operations, Calpine, commented: “We’re excited about expanding this collaboration, which creates another opportunity for Calpine to provide reliable, clean, and affordable energy 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Our Baytown project is an important part of our far-reaching efforts to showcase the full potential of CCS as a critical emissions-reduction technology and we are eager to continue with its development”. (ID:49269787) Please enter a valid mailadress.                     By clicking on „Subscribe to Newsletter“ I agree to the processing and use of my data according to the consent form (please expand for details)  and accept the Terms of Use. For more information, please see our Privacy Policy. 
 
 
 
 
Stand vom 23.03.2021
 
    Naturally, we always handle your personal data responsibly. Any personal data we receive from you is processed in accordance with applicable data protection legislation. For detailed information please see our privacy policy.
 
    I hereby consent to Vogel Communications Group GmbH & Co. KG, Max-Planck-Str. 7/9, 97082 Würzburg, Germany, including any affiliated companies according to §§ 15 et seq. AktG (hereafter: Vogel Communications Group) using my e-mail address to send editorial newsletters. A list of all affiliated companies can be found here
 
    Newsletter content may include all products and services of any companies mentioned above, including for example specialist journals and books, events and fairs as well as event-related products and services, print and digital media offers and services such as additional (editorial) newsletters, raffles, lead campaigns, market research both online and offline, specialist webportals and e-learning offers. In case my personal telephone number has also been collected, it may be used for offers of aforementioned products, for services of the companies mentioned above, and market research purposes.
 
    In case I access protected data on Internet portals of Vogel Communications Group including any affiliated companies according to §§ 15 et seq. AktG, I need to provide further data in order to register for the access to such content. In return for this free access to editorial content, my data may be used in accordance with this consent for the purposes stated here.
 
Right of revocation
 
    I understand that I can revoke my consent at will. My revocation does not change the lawfulness of data processing that was conducted based on my consent leading up to my revocation. One option to declare my revocation is to use the contact form found at https://contact.vogel.de. In case I no longer wish to receive certain newsletters, I have subscribed to, I can also click on the unsubscribe link included at the end of a newsletter. Further information regarding my right of revocation and the implementation of it as well as the consequences of my revocation can be found in the data protection declaration, section editorial newsletter.
 
 
 
 
 Related content 

Feed Contract
 
MHI, Worley Win Contract for UK’s First CO2 Capture Plant at Cement Production Unit
 

Green Innovation
 
Sustainability Becomes a Driver for Chemical Plant Construction
 

			Cookie-Manager            		

			Imprint            		

			About            		

			Media            		

			Privacy            		

			General Terms & Conditions            		

			Help            		

			AI-Guidelines            		
 Copyright © 2024 Vogel Communications Group This portal is a brand of Vogel Communications Group. You will find our complete range of products and services on				 www.vogel.com				
