Select Page Posted by Merrell Bergin | Oct 6, 2023 | Buena Vista, Chaffee County, Education, Extremism, Salida Image courtesy American Library Association In case you haven’t visited the Salida or Buena Vista libraries lately, it’s still not too late to observe the annual Banned Books Week, running now through Saturday, October 7.  According to the American Library Association (ALA) the theme for Banned Books Week 2023 is “Let Freedom Read.” “When we ban books, we’re closing off readers to people, places, and perspectives. But when we stand up for stories, we unleash the power that lies inside every book. We liberate the array of voices that need to be heard and the scenes that need to be seen.” The American Library Association is facing a partisan firefight unlike anything in its almost 150-year history. The once-uncontroversial organization, which says it is the world’s largest and oldest library association and which provides funding, training, and tools to most of the country’s 123,000 libraries, has become entangled in the education culture wars. Saturday, Oct. 7 is Let Freedom Read Day “Any book worth banning is a book worth reading”. Merrell Bergin photo The ALA is asking everyone to take at least one action to help defend books from censorship and to stand up for the library staff, educators, writers, publishers, and booksellers who make them available. And, just because the designated Banned Books Week ends Saturday, it’s not too late for everyone to take a small, first step. In fact, given the pressure on our libraries, this week should only be the beginning of efforts to encourage people to read what they choose, from the vast array of published content, without limitation or outright censorship. A few of the ALA’s suggested actions are shown below and the full text of their helpful suggestion flyer is here. Most of all, talk with your family (and especially your children) about the value of the freedom to read what you choose. And, take a moment to stop by your library, thank the staff for the challenging job they hold and show support for their efforts. Share: Copy Editor
Merrell Bergin has lived in Colorado for 54 years, including the last 20 in downtown Salida. A retired “road warrior”, he implemented software for major hospital systems as a consultant, technical writer and trainer.
Having “free time” at last, he enjoys reading and cooking, served four years as the Salida City Treasurer and is the Board President of Ark Valley Voice' parent, the Truth Has a Voice Foundation.
As Ark Valley Voice copy editor, his job is to help ensure the finished story reflects the writer’s voice as well as aims for accuracy and readability. He contributes the occasional short piece and gets lucky with photography now and again. 77 Days Until America Votes.
 Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress ©2024 Ark Valley Voice. All rights reserved to Truth Has a Voice Foundation DBA Ark Valley Voice. For permission to reuse content, please email Jan@arkvalleyvoice.com.