The report evaluates 10 vendors and finds Cato to be the "poster child" for ZTE and SASE. Cato SASE Cloud receives the highest marks in recommended areas defining ZTE TEL AVIV, Israel, Aug. 16, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Cato Networks, provider of the world's leading single-vendor SASE platform, announced today it was named a "Leader" in The Forrester Wave™: Zero Trust Edge Solutions Q3 2023 Report. The report's comprehensive review of Zero Trust Edge (ZTE) solutions, Forrester's term for SASE, gave Cato the highest possible scores across subcategories aligning with three recommended areas for considering ZTE – unified and centralized cloud management, a resilient backbone with sophisticated controls, and Zero Trust Network Access for remote access. "Cato Networks is the poster child for ZTE and SASE," notes the report. "Founded by Shlomo Kramer of Check Point Software Technologies and Imperva fame, Cato Networks started with a strong security pedigree and built a global platform of distributed PoPs from which to deliver security as a service. Cato has a strong strategy paired with a truly unified networking and security solution and has shown real security innovation within its single-pass architecture platform." "We are honored to be recognized by Forrester as a "Leader" in this Wave. Cato architected a platform that was purpose-built for ZTE and SASE, one that is valued by our thousands of customers and partners for its simplicity, agility, security posture, and optimal performance," says Shlomo Kramer, CEO and co-founder of Cato Networks. "We are happy to see their excitement reflected by leading industry analysts' reports." ZTE Converges Networking and Security as a Unified Service The Forrester report found that early-adopting reference customers were enthusiastic about the Cato SASE Cloud. "Multinationals, financials, and firms looking to consolidate security functions and replace MPLS will find Cato a compelling choice," according to the report. "Cato has a strong strategy paired with a truly unified networking and security solution and has shown real security innovation within its single-pass architecture platform," writes Forrester. Zero Trust edge architectures merge and deliver networking and security functions as a service. Forrester recommends customers look for ZTE solution providers that meet three criteria: Have unified and centralized cloud management. Achieving higher levels of trust and automation requires ruthless standardization. This applies to ZTE solutions. Customers should ensure that their ZTE provider has a single, cloud-based interface that provides standard and consistent methods to create and deploy both network and security policies. The configurations and monitoring data should reside in a single data lake to eliminate data duplication, multiple security policies, and poor collaboration. Build a resilient backbone with sophisticated controls. Business wide networking fabrics need more than first- and last-mile connectivity controls. ZTE vendors have recognized the value of optimizing and conditioning application traffic throughout the application's journey by including managed backbones as part of their ZTE offering. The number of points of presence (PoPs) that connect to the backbones, the types of links between backbone nodes, and the amount of services (such as traffic optimization or virtual fires) at node and PoP can vary dramatically. Some ZTE vendors have developed backbones with a richer set of controls than vendors using infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) networks exclusively. Utilize Zero Trust network access for remote access, replacing VPNs. All ZTE solutions have a combination of Zero Trust network access (ZTNA), secure web gateways (SWGs), and cloud security gateways (CSGs, aka CASBs). Look to providers offering a strong ZTNA capability to reduce your organization's threat surface and protect your critical data. The best of these solutions can also help discover the applications that you need to protect. Cato SASE Cloud Excelled in Core ZTE Criteria Cato SASE Cloud earned the highest score possible in sub-criteria aligned with all three of these areas. In terms of management, Forrester found that Cato delivered: In terms of a resilient backbone with sophisticated controls, Forrester found that Cato delivered: And in terms of utilizing ZTNA for remote access, Forrester found that Cato delivered: For more information about Cato Networks' ranking, download The Forrester Wave™: Zero Trust Edge Solutions Report, Q3 2023 here. Digital Assets  Supporting Resources  About Cato Networks Cato provides the world's most robust single-vendor SASE platform, converging Cato SD-WAN and a cloud-native security service edge, Cato SSE 360, into a global cloud service. Cato SASE Cloud optimizes and secures application access for all users and locations everywhere. Using Cato, customers easily replace costly and rigid legacy MPLS with modern network architecture based on SD-WAN, secure and optimize a hybrid workforce working from anywhere, and enable seamless cloud migration. Cato enforces granular access policies, protects users against threats, and prevents sensitive data loss, all easily managed from a single pane of glass. With Cato, businesses are ready for whatever's next.  View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cato-networks-named-a-leader-in-zero-trust-edge-zte-report-by-leading-research-firm-301902583.html SOURCE  Cato Networks © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.