Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 19 Jan, 2023, 18:00 GMT Share this article VANCOUVER, B.C., Jan. 19, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The network as a service market size reached USD 16.65 Billion in 2021 and is expected to register a CAGR of 22.4% during the forecast period, according to latest analysis by Emergen Research. Network as a Service (NaaS) is significantly deployed for scaling IT infrastructure by replacing hardware-centric virtual private network (VPN) and multiprotocol label switching (MPLS) connections. Many IT organizations are incorporating network as a service (NaaS) to improve the speed, agility, and scalability of workloads. Network as a Service (NaaS) allows IT clients to easily scale their network resources as needed and reduces the cost and complexity of managing a network. Some examples of NaaS providers include Cisco Systems Inc, Cloudflare, Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., and others. Network as a Service (NaaS) is expected to continue as more organizations seek to take advantage of flexibility, scalability, and cost-effectiveness by deploying NaaS solutions. Additionally, introduction of 5G networks and the internet of things (IoT) in functional areas of business are significantly driving demand for more advanced networking capabilities. Request Free Sample Copy (To Understand the Complete Structure of this Report [Summary + TOC]) @ https://www.emergenresearch.com/request-sample/1548 Drivers: Increasing utilization of network as a service in digital transformation of businesses is driving revenue growth of the market. NaaS enables businesses to outsource their network infrastructure and management to a third-party provider to scale and manage network resources efficiently. Additionally, internet penetration in digital transformation of business is significantly supporting the growth of the market. According to The International Telecommunication Union (ITU), globally 5.3 billion people, or 66 % of the world's population are using the internet in 2022. Moreover, several organizations are using network as a service (NaaS) for saving costs by eliminating the requirement for in-house network management. Network as a Service (NaaS) reduces costs by introducing new virtualized network infrastructure processes for hardware, software, operations, and maintenance. NaaS enables businesses to access advanced network features and technologies, such as software-defined networking (SDN) and network functions virtualization (NFV). This allows companies to stay competitive in the digital landscape and to adapt more quickly to changing business needs. Furthermore, network as a service (NaaS) providers charges a monthly subscription-based cost for network function virtualization (NFV) and bandwidth on demand, which enables enterprises to leverage their monthly IT budget. These factors are considerably accelerating market expansion. Restraints: Complex deployment procedures of NaaS tools and global shortages of experienced information technology (IT) are restraining growth of the market. Deploying a network as a service in API-based operation, software-defined networking (SDN), programmable networking, WAN services, hybrid cloud, and multi-cloud distribution includes complex deployment structures for integrating with current IT environment. These network distribution parameters significantly impact organizational operational costs. Moreover, global shortages in skilled experienced IT professionals may hinder the growth of the market. According to, International Monetary Fund (IMF), there will be a global shortage of more than 85 million tech workers by 2030, which is representing USD 8.5 trillion in loss of annual revenue. These factors may lead to delays in implementing NaaS and other advanced technologies and may also lead to increased costs as organizations find and retain qualified IT professionals. These factors are restraining the growth of the market. Emergen Research is Offering Limited Time Discount (Grab a Copy at Discounted Price Now) @ https://www.emergenresearch.com/request-discount/1548 Growth Projections: The network as a service market is expected to register a CAGR of 22.4 % over the forecast period and revenue is projected to increase from USD 16.65 Billion in 2021 to USD 103.24 Billion in 2030. Subscription-based network as a service (NaaS) to deliver enterprise-wide area network (WAN) services. Current Trends and Innovations: The network as a service market is undergoing gradual changes during the forecast period. Network as a Service (NaaS) technology ensures network infrastructure and connectivity services are delivered over the internet as a fully managed service. This allows organizations to outsource the management and maintenance of their network infrastructure to a third-party provider, rather than having to manage it in-house. This can help to reduce costs and improve the scalability and flexibility of network infrastructure. The NaaS industry is significantly expanding as businesses are deploying network infrastructure, connectivity services and virtual network services in functional business areas. Strategic Initiatives: Major companies included in the market report are Cisco Systems Inc, Cloudflare, Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP, Verizon Communications Inc., Nokia Corporation, Dell Inc., Tata Communications Limited, Cato Networks Ltd., Amdocs Management Limited, Palo Alto Networks, Inc., Perimeter 81 Ltd., ALE USA Inc., NTT Communication and among others. Browse Full Report Description + Research Methodology + Table of Content + Infographics@ https://www.emergenresearch.com/industry-report/network-as-a-service-market Scope of Research  Report Details Outcome Market size in 2021 USD 16.65 Billion CAGR (2022–2030) 22.4 % Revenue forecast to 2030 USD 103.24 Billion Base year for estimation 2021 Historical data 2019–2020 Forecast period 2022–2030 Quantitative units Revenue in USD Billion and CAGR in % from 2022 to 2030 Report coverage Revenue forecast, company ranking, competitive landscape, growth factors, and trends Segments covered Type, organization size, application, industry vertical, and region Regional scope North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle East & Africa Country scope U.S., Canada, Mexico, Germany, France, U.K., Italy, Spain, Benelux, Rest of Europe, China, India, Japan, South Korea, Rest of APAC, Brazil, Rest of LATAM, Saudi Arabia, UAE, South Africa, Turkey, Rest of MEA Key companies profiled Cisco Systems Inc, Cloudflare, Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP, Verizon Communications Inc., Nokia Corporation, Dell Inc., Tata Communications Limited, Cato Networks Ltd., Amdocs Management Limited, Palo Alto Networks, Inc., Perimeter 81 Ltd., ALE USA Inc., NTT Communication and among others Customization scope 10 hours of free customization and expert consultation Custom Requirements can be requested for this Report [Customization Available] @ https://www.emergenresearch.com/request-for-customization/1548 Emergen Research has segmented network as a service market on the basis of basis of type, application, organization size, industry vertical, and region Latest Research Reports Published by Emergen Research: Network Engineering Services Market, By Service Type (Network Assessment and Network Deployment), By Organization Size (Small & Medium Enterprises and Large Enterprises) and By End-Use (BFSI Telecom and Healthcare), By Region Forecast to 2030 Operational Technology Market, By Component (Field Instruments and Control System), By Networking Technology (Wired, and Wireless), By Industry (Process Industry, Discrete Industry, and Others), and By Region Forecast to 2030 Medical Devices Batteries Market, by Product Type (Implantable and Non-Implantable Batteries), by Battery Type, by End User, and By Region Forecast to 2030 Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats Technology Devices Market, By Product & Service (Kits & Enzymes, Libraries, Cell Line Engineering, and gRNA Design), By Application(Biomedical and Agricultural), By End-Use, and By Region Forecast to 2030 Pediatric Oncology Market, By Indication (Leukemia and Neuroblastoma), By Treatment (Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy), By End-Use (Hospitals and Cancer & Radiation Therapy Centers), and By Region Forecast to 2030 Cardiogenic Shock Market, By Treatment Type (Drugs, Devices, and In-Vitro Test Kits), By End-Use (Hospitals, Ambulatory Surgical Centers, and Others), and By Region Forecast to 2030 Subscriber Identity Module Cards Market, By Type, By Application (Mobile Phone, Tablet, Wearable Device, and Others), By SIM Memory, and By Region Forecast to 2030 Smoke Detector Market By Power Source (Battery-powered and Hardwired), By Product Type (Photoelectric Smoke Detectors, Ionization Smoke Detectors, and Others), By Service, By End-use, and By Region Forecast to 2030 About Emergen Research  Emergen Research is a market research and consulting company that provides syndicated research reports, customized research reports, and consulting services. Our solutions purely focus on your purpose to locate, target, and analyze consumer behavior shifts across demographics, across industries, and help clients make smarter business decisions. We offer market intelligence studies ensuring relevant and fact-based research across multiple industries, including Healthcare, Touch Points, Chemicals, Types, and Energy. We consistently update our research offerings to ensure our clients are aware of the latest trend's existent in the market. Emergen Research has a strong base of experienced analysts from varied areas of expertise. Our industry experience and ability to develop a concrete solution to any research problems provides our clients with the ability to secure an edge over their respective competitors. Contact Us: Eric Lee Corporate Sales Specialist Emergen Research | Web: www.emergenresearch.com Direct Line: +1 (604) 757-9756 E-mail: sales@emergenresearch.com Emergen Research Media Citations: https://www.emergenresearch.com/media-citations Visit for More Insights: https://www.emergenresearch.com/insights Explore Our Custom Intelligence services | Growth Consulting Services Read our Press Release @ https://www.emergenresearch.com/press-release/global-network-as-a-service-market Trending Titles LiDAR Market | Metaverse Market Logo - https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1579538/Emergen_Research_Logo.jpg