Send your company’s latest business news to Ben Swanger at Ben.Swanger@DMagazine.com  Dallas-based data center giant CyrusOne, which sold for an industry record $15 billion in 2022 to KKR & Global Infrastructure Partners, is entering a joint venture with $25 billion Japan-based utility provider Kansai Electric Power Company.  CyrusOne KEP, the name of the joint venture, plans to invest more than $7 billion over the next decade into building data centers that can hold a combined 900 megawatts of data. Both CyrusOne and KEPCO invested into the joint venture equally.  Japan’s overall data center capacity is projected to reach 11,000 megawatts by 2030, reported by Jiji Press, meaning CyrusOne KEP could capture around eight percent of the country’s market share.  “This is a unique partnership that brings data center and power knowledge and capability together and provides a unique opportunity to simultaneously optimize digital and power infrastructure,” Eric Schwartz, president and CEO of CyrusOne, said. “KEPCO is one of the largest utility providers in Japan with extensive local expertise. Their knowledge and relationships plus CyrusOne’s design, development and commercial operations of data centers positions us to further serve customers with growth aspirations around the world.”  CyrusOne and KEPCO plan to build in the Kansai region, where Kyoto is located, and other major markets across Japan.  North Texas nonprofit Ability Connection, an agency that specializes in care for youth and adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities, is relocating its headquarters to a 30,000-square-foot space in Irving. The nonprofit signed an 11-year lease for the new HQ, which will leave its Harry Hines offices in May.  Ability Connection serves more than 900 people across Texas. Jim Hanophy, the nonprofit’s president and CEO, says that this new training center and HQ—which is 8,000 square feet larger than their previous space—will amplify their reach to serve more people by the end of this year.  “A large number of our population resides closer to this part of town, so this will be much easier for them to access,” Hanophy said. “Not to mention, we’re now able to reach a new group of individuals we weren’t able to before. This move is going to have a significant impact on our mission, our programming, and increase capacity for those we serve.”  Dallas-based private data center operator Aligned Data Centers completed its acquisition of Latin American data center provider ODATA. ODATA will now operate as ODATA, an Aligned Data Centers Company, led by CEO Ricardo Alário. Financial terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.   The acquisition puts Aligned in control of data centers in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Mexico. More ODATA data centers are currently under construction across Latin America. At full power, Aligned will hold more than 2.5 gigawatts in data capacity across more than 40 centers.   “Driven largely by the needs of hyperscale companies, cloud service providers, and government customers, the demand for energy-efficient and scalable infrastructure continues its upward trajectory across Latin America,” said Andrew Schaap, CEO of Aligned Data Centers. “Joining forces with an incumbent data center provider whose focus on strategic scale, thoughtful innovation, and sustainable design could not be better timed.”  Aligned struck the deal in part due to ODATA’s affinity for renewable energy synergizing with their environmental, social, and governance objectives. Currently, around 85 to 90 percent of the energy consumed by ODATA’s data centers is renewable. In Brazil, the provider recently purchased a minority stake in Omega Energia’s 212 megawatt wind farm, located in the northeast region of the country. With this deal, it is aiming to power its Brazilian data centers with 100 percent renewable energy.  Lyda Hill Philanthropies and the Texas Academy of Medicine, Engineering, Science and Technology announced a new $2.5 million prize program to help Texas scientists further their research.   The Hill Prizes, funded by Lyda Hill Philanthropies, will award five winners’ respective institutions and organizations with $500,000 in direct funding.  A committee of TAMEST members will evaluate The Hill Prizes applicants based on criteria including their work’s uniqueness and its potential for commercial application and real-world impact. Winners will be announced on February 5, 2024, at the opening reception of the TAMEST 2024 Annual Conference in Austin, Texas.  “Our organization is committed to funding game-changing advances in science and nature and that is exactly what the Hill Prizes’ mission is,” Lyda Hill said. “We hope that the funding awarded to these Texas scientists will help enable them to launch their pivotal research into development and continue to make advancements in scientific innovation.”   The Hill Prizes have five categories:  Prizes in the first four categories will be given to researchers at academic and medical institutions. The prize in Technology will be given to individuals in the private sector in applied sciences and engineering.  Making Dallas an Even Better Place 
750 North St.Paul St.
Suite 2100
Dallas, Texas 75201
 
Tel: 214.939.3636
               
              Fax: 214.748.4579
