MacIntyre spent a night with Sam Torrance but insists he wasn't picking his brains about how to get it done on golf's biggest stage. Get the latest news from Record Sport with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Record Sport with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Oban ace Bob MacIntyre is inspired to write his own piece of Ryder Cup history after a night with European icon Sam Torrance. And the 27-year-old has revealed that skipper Luke Donald is bang on board with his decision to buck the trend and play in this week’s Cazoo French Open just prior to the clash against the US. MacIntyre joined his 11 Ryder Cup team-mates at Wentworth last week for the BMW PGA Championship as he fine-tunes for Rome. During his time in Surrey, he linked up with countryman Torrance for a dinner catch-up ahead of his dream appearance in Italy. Torrance is a legend of the matches having represented Europe as a player on eight occasions consecutively between 1981 and 1995. In 1985, he holed the winning putt at The Belfry to give Tony Jacklin’s side a first-ever success over the States as Team Europe. Torrance returned to the Warwickshire venue as captain in 2002 to grab back the trophy that was lost in the Battle of Brookline three years previously. He has also been a vice-captain and MacIntyre enjoyed soaking up golden tales from the past and collecting key tips for the future. He said: “It was good. Once I got into The Ryder Cup team, it was all set up. “It wasn’t a case of picking his brains, it was just listening to him tell stories about his past experiences and how he can help me. It was a great laugh, to be honest. I saw a photo of his trophy cabinet and there are eight Ryder Cup trophies. “He’s been there, he’s done it and achieved everything he’s needed to achieve. I mean it is good just to get snippets of how he did certain things. I am trying to create my own history now but it’s to get little bits of information from these guys and my team-mates, like Justin Rose. Through the past week, I’ve just asked questions. Not so much detail, just little questions that may help me” MacIntyre’s immediate future lies in France as he takes in the event on his way south towards the Eternal City. The Scot has taken the key decision to play the week before the big one in a move which has surprised some onlookers. While Rory McIlroy has headed to Mykonos for a stag do and other team members are taking the chance to unwind and refresh before the Ryder Cup, MacIntyre believes keeping a competitive edge is the best way for him to get ready for Rome. Donald and his backroom staff have no issues as they’ve told players to do just exactly what makes them feel comfortable. MacIntyre, who is the only one of the 12 in France, said: “I didn’t ask Luke or anyone within the team about what I should do or shouldn’t do. “All they said to me is, ‘how do you play your best golf? Do you play better with a week off or not?’ Now I play better on a run and you can see that. My win in Italy might have come after three or four events. My win in Cyprus came in a run of events. “I start to work things out. The golf clubs don’t change but I do start to work out tendencies and that’s the thinking. The Ryder Cup will be my third straight event and that is kind of when I play my best. Third or fourth week of a run.” MacIntye was able to back that theory as he departed Surrey to make the short hop across the English Channel. There were some good signs at Wentworth as, crucially with Marco Simone in mind, he drove the ball superbly during his 72 holes on the West Course. However, there are areas that need tightening up and France will be perfect for sharpening up those particular aspects. MacIntyre summed up his BMW PGA outing which ended with a final putt seconds before the horn went off for a Sunday lightning delay by saying: “It was a disappointing week if I am being honest. “I wasn’t quite at the races. My iron play wasn’t sharp but the short game is looking good, I’m driving the ball reasonably well and I was just happy to get out of there when I did!” It was a key stepping stone on the path to Rome as he continued: “That’s exactly what it was for and I know how to fine-tune the long game. It’s just keep working and I’m looking forward to France and then the week after. It’s a building block. I said earlier in the year that everything in the lead-up to the Scottish Open and Open was about building towards those two events. Everything is now building up for The Ryder Cup.” MacIntyre was also able to build more bonds with a unit that started Wentworth week with a practice day at Marco Simone before he joined Matt Fitzpatrick and Rose on the first two days. Players’ Lounge chats were also beneficial as he said: “It was good to get to know the guys better.” 