Having paid just $11m for Lindeman Island, Queensland developer Shaun Juniper and wife Samantha are selling up their luxury home on the coast for $15m. Having paid just $11m for Lindeman Island, Queensland developer Shaun Juniper and wife Samantha are selling up their luxury home on the coast for $15m. The Australian Digital subscription costs $4 charged for the first 4 weeks then automatically renews to $44 charged every 4 weeks. Renewals occur unless cancelled as per full Terms and Conditions. Each payment, once made, is non-refundable, subject to law. Not in conjunction with any other offer. New customers only. Prices after the first 4 weeks may be varied as per full Terms and Conditions. See www.theaustralian.com.au/subscriptionterms for full details. The Australian Digital subscription costs $4 charged for the first 4 weeks then automatically renews to $44 charged every 4 weeks. Renewals occur unless cancelled as per full Terms and Conditions. Each payment, once made, is non-refundable, subject to law. Not in conjunction with any other offer. New customers only. Prices after the first 4 weeks may be varied as per full Terms and Conditions. See www.theaustralian.com.au/subscriptionterms for full details. The Australian Digital 12 Month Plan costs $416 (min. cost) for the first 12 months, charged as $32 every 4 weeks. This automatically renews after the first 12 months to be charged as $32 (min. cost) every 4 weeks. Renewals occur unless cancelled as per full Terms and Conditions. No cancellations during the first 12 months. Each payment, once made, is non-refundable, subject to law. Not in conjunction with any other offer. Prices after the first 12 months may be varied as per full Terms and Conditions. See www.theaustralian.com.au/subscriptionterms for full details. The Australian Digital 12 Month Plan costs $416 (min. cost) for the first 12 months, charged as $32 every 4 weeks. This automatically renews after the first 12 months to be charged as $32 (min. cost) every 4 weeks. Renewals occur unless cancelled as per full Terms and Conditions. No cancellations during the first 12 months. Each payment, once made, is non-refundable, subject to law. Not in conjunction with any other offer. Prices after the first 12 months may be varied as per full Terms and Conditions. See www.theaustralian.com.au/subscriptionterms for full details. The Australian Digital + Weekend Paper subscription costs $56 charged every 4 weeks unless cancelled. Renewals occur automatically unless cancelled as per full Terms and Conditions. Each payment, once made, is non-refundable, subject to law. Not in conjunction with any other offer. Home Delivery not available in all areas. Weekend Paper is for The Weekend Australian delivered on a Saturday. Allow up to 5 days for home delivery to commence (10 days in WA). Prices may be varied as per full Terms and Conditions.See www.theaustralian.com.au/subscriptionterms for full details. The Australian Digital + Weekend Paper subscription costs $56 charged every 4 weeks unless cancelled. Renewals occur automatically unless cancelled as per full Terms and Conditions. Each payment, once made, is non-refundable, subject to law. Not in conjunction with any other offer. Home Delivery not available in all areas. Weekend Paper is for The Weekend Australian delivered on a Saturday. Allow up to 5 days for home delivery to commence (10 days in WA). Prices may be varied as per full Terms and Conditions.See www.theaustralian.com.au/subscriptionterms for full details. The Australian Digital subscription costs $4 charged for the first 4 weeks then automatically renews to $44 charged every 4 weeks. Renewals occur unless cancelled as per full Terms and Conditions. Each payment, once made, is non-refundable, subject to law. Not in conjunction with any other offer. New customers only. Prices after the first 4 weeks may be varied as per full Terms and Conditions. See www.theaustralian.com.au/subscriptionterms for full details. Ooops, an error has occurred! Please call us on 1800 070 535 and we’ll help resolve the issue or try again later. Need assistance? Call 1800 070 535. Monday to Friday 7.00am – 6.00pm or 7.00am – 11:30am on weekends (AEST or AEDT).Already a subscriber? Manage your subscription or submit an enquiry in My Account.