The Detroit Lions caught a lot of people by surprise this weekend with their NFL draft selections. While some feel shaky about the Lions’ picks, CBS Sports analyst Pete Prisco has praised Detroit. In his 2023 NFL draft grades, Pete Prisco gave the Detroit Lions an A. The substantial grade was built on the foundation of Iowa Hawkeyes, particularly Detroit’s second-round pick Sam LaPorta. Prisco listed the Iowa tight end as his favorite pick for the team. I love the pick of tight end Sam LaPorta in the second round. He’s a playmaking tight end who can run like a receiver. Jared Goff will love him. The offense will be better with his skills. – Prisco, CBS Sports. For the best local Iowa news, sports, entertainment and culture coverage, subscribe to The Des Moines Register. Many quickly questioned the Lions opting for LaPorta, especially with Notre Dame tight end Michael Mayer still on the board. However, those who are truly in the know realize how good a pick Big Sam is for Detroit. Obviously, Pete Prisco is a man of great taste, immediately seeing the skillset LaPorta can add to the Lions’ offense. LaPorta was the favorite target of Spencer Petras over the past few years, quickly getting open over the middle of the field and creating magic with the ball in his hands. It makes total sense why Goff would equally fall in love with his new tight end’s game. LaPorta is not the first Iowa Hawkeye Prisco has extolled praise on. Earlier, Prisco gave the first-round selection of former Hawkeyes linebacker Jack Campbell an A+. Contact/Follow us @HawkeyesWire on Twitter, and like our page on Facebook to follow ongoing coverage of Iowa news, notes, and opinions. Follow Jacob on Twitter: @Jacobkeppen Story originally appeared on Hawkeyes Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless?