Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter The 2023 Emmy Awards are officially moving off their usual September airdate as actors and writers continue their strikes against media conglomerates. The 75th annual awards had been scheduled to air Sept. 18 on Fox. A new date has yet to be set, but sources close to the show confirm that the original date and […] 

Rick Porter, Mikey O'Connell 
 
	The 2023 Emmy Awards are officially moving off their usual September airdate as actors and writers continue their strikes against media conglomerates. 
	The 75th annual awards had been scheduled to air Sept. 18 on Fox. A new date has yet to be set, but sources close to the show confirm that the original date and month are no longer in consideration. Ideally, the show won’t take place until SAG-AFTRA and the Writers Guild of America reach agreements with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers — but both the TV Academy and 2023 broadcaster Fox are still in talks on when the rescheduled event will take place.  
	Had the Television Academy and Fox stuck with the Sept. 18 date, they ran the risk of playing to a mostly empty room: Sixteen of the 25 awards given during the 2022 Emmy telecast went to actors or writers. SAG-AFTRA’s strike rules call for actors not to do publicity for work made by struck companies, and an awards show would fall under that. WGA writers also pen material for the host and presenters (who would almost certainly be SAG-AFTRA members). 
	The postponement is the first for the Emmy Awards in more than two decades. The Television Academy and CBS pushed back the 2001 ceremony in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks; it aired in early November of that year.  
	Phase two voting for the Emmy Awards is still moving forward as originally planned. TV Academy members will vote on the nominees starting Aug. 17. Whether the 2023 Emmys are actually handed out in 2023 is still up in the air for the moment.  While the writer and actor strikes are driven by multiple concerns (questions about compensation being a big one), there’s no question that the role of artificial intelligence in entertainment has emerged as a hot-button issue. In a fiery speech in Times Square on July 25, actor Bryan Cranston epitomized the concerns of actors, telling the […] 
							By 

	Alex Weprin
 Media & Business Writer 
	While the writer and actor strikes are driven by multiple concerns (questions about compensation being a big one), there’s no question that the role of artificial intelligence in entertainment has emerged as a hot-button issue. 
	In a fiery speech in Times Square on July 25, actor Bryan Cranston epitomized the concerns of actors, telling the crowd of hundreds: “We’ve got a message for Mr. Iger [Disney CEO Bob Iger]: I know, sir, that you look at things through a different lens. We don’t expect you to understand who we are. But we ask you to hear us, and beyond that to listen to us when we tell you we will not be having our jobs taken away and given to robots.” 
	The actors fear that studios will take their likenesses or voices, and reuse them over and over for little or no pay, and with little in the way of notice. The writers fear that studios will use large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT to write or rewrite scripts, harming their livelihoods. The producers, aka the AMPTP, argue that AI use should be “a balanced approach based on careful use, not prohibition.” 
	While the future of AI in Hollywood is unclear, there is no question that the major studios and streaming services are intrigued by the technology. Job listings at almost every major entertainment company show that there is a veritable AI hiring spree going on as companies seek to understand how the technology can change their businesses.  
	And, fittingly given Cranston’s speech, Disney seems particularly intrigued by the tech. The company has a number of open positions focused on AI and machine learning across the country, per a review of open positions by The Hollywood Reporter. 
	Some are part of Disney’s “Imagineering” team, the group responsible for turning Disneyland and Walt Disney World into world-renowned attractions. 
	One job, for an R&D Imagineer focused on generative AI, is looking for someone who has the “ambition to push the limits of what AI tools can create and understand the difference between the voice of data and the voice of a designer, writer or artist.” The role will “collaborate with third party studios, universities, organizations, and developers to evaluate, adopt, and integrate the latest generative AI.” The job promises a base salary of up to $180,000 per year, with the possibility of bonuses or other compensation as well. 
	Another role, for a machine learning engineer in the Disney Streaming Advanced Research division (it’s “responsible for creating AI-enabled solutions for Disney+, Star+, and ESPN+,” per the listing) will use AI to “work on advanced personalization efforts involving digital avatars.” 
	In total, THR spotted some half-dozen AI-focused jobs at Disney. But the company is far from alone in exploring the space. 
	Netflix made some headlines after The Intercept noticed an AI Product Manager job that promises compensation of up to $900,000. 
	“Our business is driven by Machine Learning/Artificial Intelligence, which fuels innovation in content creation and acquisition, personalization, payment processing, and other revenue-centric initiatives,” the company writes in the listing. 
	But Netflix has a number of job openings focused on AI and machine learning, dealing with video games, research, R&D, customer experiences and other areas. 
	In fact, nearly every studio owner seems to be thinking about AI, whether it’s for content, customer service, data analysis or other uses. 
	Amazon and Apple, of course, have dozens and dozens of AI and ML jobs open. But some of those jobs appear specifically geared to their media businesses, like an Amazon job for a senior project manager for Prime Video. 
	“Want to define the next big thing in localizing content, enhancing content, or making it accessible using state-of-the-art Generative AI and Computer Vision tech? This is for you!” the listing blares, promising a base salary of up to $300,000. 
	And at Sony, which owns Sony Pictures Entertainment, its “Sony AI America” division is looking for an AI “Ethics” engineer. 
	“We believe in researching and developing AI techniques that empower the imagination and creativity of artists, makers and creators around the world,” the listing writes. “Our aim is to advance AI so that it augments — and works in harmony with — humans to benefit society.” 
	Sony AI, the company notes, “works closely with Sony’s other business units, including Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC., Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc., and Sony Music Entertainment.” The job pays a base salary of up to $160,000 (ethics, it seems, isn’t as lucrative as some other areas). 
	And the list goes on. Warner Bros. Discovery has a few AI and ML jobs open, in its video game division and in corporate; Paramount has an opening for a machine learning engineer in its CBS division; and NBCUniversal owner Comcast has a number of AI and ML jobs, focused on research, customer service and other areas. 
	And the hiring comes amid a larger job pullback at many of these companies. Disney just finished laying off some 7,000 employees, and Paramount, Warner Bros. Discovery, Amazon and others have had painful cuts in recent months. But jobs focused on AI appear to be an exception. 
	Of course, the investment in AI should come as no surprise. The technology has taken all of corporate America by storm, and media companies are no exception when it comes to trend-hunting. But the role AI can play in the future of entertainment has caused much anxiety among the workers responsible for that content. 
	“It’s like, you’ve got a house and you need to redo the kitchen, you really need to redo the bathroom, the master bedroom hasn’t been redone for 40 years, you want to do all these things,” writer, director and former actress Justine Bateman told THR’s TV Top 5 podcast earlier this month. “But AI is the front door. And you can get all of these things from the AMPTP, but if you don’t get those strong restrictions on AI, you’ve just given them the key to the front door, and none of those other gains will matter.” 
	It’s also an area Iger, the strike’s villain of the moment, is well aware of. In his first town hall after returning as Disney CEO last November, an employee asked Iger about how the company plans to adapt to fast-moving technologies, referencing generative AI tech that was just becoming mainstream. 
	“Nothing is going to stop technological advancement,” he replied, adding that Disney has typically embraced new technology to tell better stories. Generative AI tech, Iger added, is “something that at some point in the future the company will embrace.” 
	The AI arms race may be in the early stages, but the entertainment giants are all in the mix. And regardless of the deal they cut with the unions, AI appears poised to become a part of that future. Nearly four years after its last new episode aired, Suits is having a moment in the streaming world. The former USA Network series set a viewing time record for an acquired series in the week of June 26-July 2. Suits had 3.14 billion minutes of watch time, according to Nielsen, easily surpassing the previous mark […] 
							By 

	Rick Porter
 Television Writer 
	Nearly four years after its last new episode aired, Suits is having a moment in the streaming world. 
	The former USA Network series set a viewing time record for an acquired series in the week of June 26-July 2. Suits had 3.14 billion minutes of watch time, according to Nielsen, easily surpassing the previous mark of 2.49 billion minutes for Manifest (before it became a Netflix original) in June 2021. The show became available on Netflix June 23; it also streams on Peacock. 
	The huge tally for Suits dwarfed the two other shows that topped the billion-minute mark for the week: The debut of The Witcher‘s third season on Netflix pushed that show to 1.31 billion minutes of viewing, and The Bear grew by 18 percent week to week to 1.01 billion minutes. The latter is the second Hulu series (and the first produced by FX) to break the billion-minute threshold for a single week, after The Handmaid’s Tale. 
	The final season of Jack Ryan, which premiered June 30, pushed the Prime Video series into the top 10 with 778 million minutes of watch time. Disney+’s Secret Invasion was steady in its second week with 464 million minutes, vs. 461 million for the prior week. Netflix’s Glamorous (414 million) also entered the top 10 originals a week after its premiere. Extraction 2 (443 million minutes) was the top feature film, but it fell off by 57 percent in its third week. 
	Nielsen’s streaming ratings cover viewing on TV sets only and don’t include minutes watched on computers or mobile devices. The ratings only measure U.S. audiences, not those in other countries. The top streaming titles for June 26-July 2 are below. 
Overall 
	1. Suits (Netflix/Peacock), 3.14 billion minutes viewed2. The Witcher (Netflix), 1.31 billion3. The Bear (Hulu), 1.01 billion4. SWAT (Hulu/Netflix/Paramount+), 891 million5. Black Mirror (Netflix), 853 million6. Bluey (Disney+), 803 million7. Jack Ryan (Prime Video), 778 million8. Grey’s Anatomy (Netflix), 734 million9. The Big Bang Theory (Max), 602 million10. NCIS (Netflix/Paramount+), 579 million 
Original Series 
	1. The Witcher, 1.31 billion minutes2. The Bear, 1.01 billion3. Black Mirror, 853 million4. Jack Ryan, 778 million5. Manifest (Netflix), 495 million6. Secret Invasion (Disney+), 464 million7. Glamorous (Netflix), 414 million8. Muscles & Mayhem: An Unauthorized Story of American Gladiators (Netflix), 404 million9. Catching Killers (Netflix), 394 million10. Is It Cake, Too? (Netflix), 381 million 
Acquired Series 
	1. Suits, 3.14 billion minutes2. SWAT, 891 million3. Bluey, 803 million4. Grey’s Anatomy, 734 million5. The Big Bang Theory, 602 million6. NCIS, 579 million7. Cocomelon (Netflix), 562 million8. Heartland (Hulu/Netflix/Peacock), 448 million9. Bunk’d (Netflix), 436 million10. SpongeBob SquarePants (Paramount+/Prime Video), 420 million 
Movies 
	1. Extraction 2 (Netflix), 443 million minutes2. Avatar: The Way of Water (Disney+/Max), 364 million3. Run Rabbit Run (Netflix), 333 million4. Moana (Disney+), 253 million5. The Perfect Find (Netflix), 239 million6. Encanto (Disney+), 191 million7. M3GAN (Peacock), 184 million8. Take Care of Maya (Netflix), 182 million9. The Boss Baby (Netflix), 181 million10. The Mule (Netflix), 153 million The adolescent reptiles are back in a new big-screen animated incarnation with a stellar voice cast including Jackie Chan, Ice Cube and Rose Byrne. 
							By 

	Frank Scheck
 
	Early in the new animated film directed by Jeff Rowe, the title characters, all teenagers, blow off their grocery-shopping errand to go watch an outdoor screening of the classic comedy Ferris Bueller’s Day Off. It seems exactly the sort of thing that fun-loving adolescents would do on a beautiful summer night, even if they are Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. 
	That rebellious, anarchic vibe permeates Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem, the umpteenth spin on the classic characters, the screenwriters and producers of which include Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg. Adopting a decidedly younger spin toward its teenage heroes, the hugely entertaining and funny film seems destined to reinvigorate the franchise and attract plenty of nostalgic adults as well as young fans. 
	Those looking for an in-depth analysis of the film’s handling of the long-running media franchise created by Peter Laird and Kevin Eastman — one that has seen innumerable incarnations from its comic-book origins, including animated and live-action television series and films, not to mention mega-selling toys, video games and other merchandise — will have to look elsewhere; my exposure has strictly been of the casual kind. But I can report that this CGI-animated effort is the most engaging version I’ve encountered thus far, which bodes well for those who haven’t grown up as TMNT lovers. 
	Three other writers besides longtime creative partners Rogen and Goldberg contributed to the screenplay, which not surprisingly turns out to be an origin story. That story is told in flashback, related by the quartet’s adoptive rat father Splinter (Jackie Chan, voicing his role with gusto) to his sons to explain why he’s kept them isolated from the human world. Suffice it to say that the mutant, martial-arts expert rodent hasn’t exactly warmed to the human population in New York City as a result of the way they’ve treated him over the years. 
	The story kicks in when the Turtles (Micah Abbey, Shamon Brown Jr., Nicolas Cantu, Brady Noon) meet April O’Neil (Ayo Edebiri, The Bear), in this rendition an ambitious teen reporter at her high-school television station who went viral after she unfortunately had an epic vomiting session while on the air. Learning of her hopes to bring down the criminal mastermind Super Fly (Ice Cube), who’s been terrorizing the city with his evil crew of fellow mutants, they decide to help her in her ambitious mission, reasoning that if they become heroes the city’s human denizens may embrace them and they can live normal lives. Which is exactly the way that headstrong teenagers would think. 
	The alliance leads to epic action-movie-style confrontations with Super Fly (love the name!) and his gang, an all-star assemblage of TMNT characters and voice performers including Leatherhead (Rose Byrne), Ray Fillet (Post Malone), Mondo Gecko (Paul Rudd), Wingnut (Natasia Demetriou) and Genghis Frog (Hannibal Buress). 
	Similar in look to the Spider-Verse animated films and resembling underground comics in its deliberately rough-hewn character and background designs, the film directed by Rowe (The Mitchells vs. the Machines) and co-directed by Kyler Spears features vibrantly distinctive visuals that perfectly suit the rambunctious and frequently violent proceedings. The dialogue proves consistently amusing (not surprising considering Rogen’s participation), and the fact that the young actors voicing the TMNTs were actually teenagers when they recorded their performances infuses a welcome youthful energy to the goings-on. The celebrity performers seem to be having a blast as well; when Super Fly delivers dialogue quoting lyrics from the classic O’Jays song “Backstabbers,” it’s hard not imagine Ice Cube grinning in the recording booth. 
	Speaking of classic songs, the supercool soundtrack features a plethora of original and reworked ‘90s-era hip-hop numbers by the likes of A Tribe Called Quest and De La Soul, with one action sequence exuberantly accompanied by “No Diggity.” But it also has room for a retro pop song like Bobby Vinton’s “Mr. Lonely” when it suits the occasion. Send us a tip using our anonymous form.