In a report released today, Shannon Cross from Credit Suisse maintained a Buy rating on Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE – Research Report), with a price target of $21.00. The company’s shares opened today at $17.08. According to TipRanks, Cross is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 16.1% and a 77.63% success rate. Cross covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Apple, CDW, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. In addition to Credit Suisse, Hewlett Packard Enterprise also received a Buy from Bernstein’s Toni Sacconaghi in a report issued today. However, on the same day, Bank of America Securities maintained a Hold rating on Hewlett Packard Enterprise (NYSE: HPE). See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Based on Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending April 30, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $4.24 billion and a net profit of $418 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $6.59 billion and had a net profit of $250 million
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 83 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of HPE in relation to earlier this year. Earlier this month, MacDonald Neil B, the EVP, GM of Compute of HPE sold 5,668.00 shares for a total of $96,356.00. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co. engages in the provision of information technology, technology and enterprise products, solutions, and services. It operates through the following segments: Hybrid IT, Intelligent Edge, Financial Services, and Corporate Investments. The Hybrid IT segment provides a broad portfolio of services-led and software-enabled infrastructure and solutions. The Intelligent Edge segment comprises of enterprise networking and security solutions for businesses of any size, offering secure connectivity for campus and branch environments, operating under the Aruba brand. The Financial Services segment offers investment solutions, such as leasing, financing, information technology consumption, utility programs and asset management services. The Corporate Investments segment includes Hewlett Packard Labs and certain business incubation projects. The company was founded in 1939 and is headquartered in San Jose, CA.  Read More on HPE: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks