Celanese Corp. announced that Ganesh Moorthy has been elected to the board of directors of the Irving-based global chemical and specialty materials company. Ganesh Moorthy “We’re very excited to welcome Ganesh to the Celanese Board, where his executive leadership experience and deep perspective into the high-technology sector and complex global manufacturing operations will be invaluable to our Board and our strategy,” CEO and President Lori Ryerkerk said in a statement. “His proven ability to drive growth at Microchip, through both organic investment decisions and integrating large acquisitions, will add strength to our Board as we execute on our key strategies going forward.” Moorthy, 63, is president, CEO, and a member of the board of directors of Microchip Technology Inc. Celanese said he will join its board effective Dec. 1, bringing the total number of board members to 11 (10 of whom are independent). Microchip Technology is a provider of smart, connected, and secure embedded control solutions. Before his appointment as CEO and board member, Moorthy was Microchip’s president and chief operating officer (2016 – 2021), chief operating officer (2009 – 2016), executive vice president (2006 – 2009) and vice president of several Microchip divisions (2001 – 2006). Previously, Moorthy served in various executive capacities with other semiconductor companies. He currently serves on the board of Rogers Corp. and serves on its audit committee and as the chairperson of its nominating, governance, and sustainability committee. Moorthy will stand for re-election at the 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the company said.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   "Since data is crucial for maintaining ongoing DEIB initiatives and dedication, Kanarys leads the way in establishing quantifiable DEIB strategies, thanks to its data-centric methodology aimed at creating a fairer future for all work settings," says Google CDO and Kanary's Board Member Melonie Parker. Here’s how your company could be named one of the most innovative, fastest-growing companies in North America. The prestigious Fast 500 rankings honor companies large and small, public and private. Time is ticking: Apply by June 23, 2023. Irving-based consumer products giant Kimberly-Clark Corp. announced that Deeptha Khanna has been elected to its board of directors and that the size of the board will be increased from 12 to 13 members. Khanna will be appointed to serve on the board's Audit Committee. "We are thrilled to have Deeptha join our board," Chairman and CEO Mike Hsu said in a statement. "She brings a wealth of experience in strategy and transformation, innovation, and M&A. Her deep international expertise in CPG and the health sector will provide invaluable perspective to executing our growth strategy and delivering our purpose of Better… Blackboxstocks Inc. announced that Keller Reid has been appointed to the company's board of directors. The Dallas-based company is a financial technology and social media hybrid platform that offers real-time proprietary analytics for stock and options traders of all levels. “We are extremely pleased to welcome Keller Reid as a member of our board. We believe that Keller’s vast industry knowledge and long-standing relationships with leading financial institutions will benefit Blackbox as we launch an initiative to sell our proprietary technology on an enterprise level and expand our addressable market to include a B2B model,” Gust Kepler, CEO of Blackboxstocks,… The nation’s highest honor for technological achievement will be bestowed by President Biden, the USPTO said. The medal is awarded to individuals, teams, and companies for outstanding contributions to the nation’s economic, environmental, and social well-being—through tech products, tech innovation, and strengthening America's tech workforce. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Venture Dallas 2024 isn’t just another networking event—it’s where multi-million dollar deals get done and North Texas startups secure game-changing investments. Backed by J.P. Morgan and Perot Jain, this year’s summit will shine a spotlight on the region’s defense tech, biotech, and software startups, attracting investors from across the country eager to connect with the next big thing.... North Texas is a big place with plenty of opportunities. Here’s a curated roundup of contests and competitions; accelerator and recognition programs; and resource and grant opportunities for North Texas innovators. ... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Venture Dallas 2024 isn’t just another networking event—it’s where multi-million dollar deals get done and North Texas startups secure game-changing investments. Backed by J.P. Morgan and Perot Jain, this year’s summit will shine a spotlight on the region’s defense tech, biotech, and software startups, attracting investors from across the country eager to connect with the next big thing.... North Texas is a big place with plenty of opportunities. Here’s a curated roundup of contests and competitions; accelerator and recognition programs; and resource and grant opportunities for North Texas innovators. ... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.