businessLocal Companies By  Paul O'DonnellBusiness Editor By  Paul O'DonnellBusiness Editor 6:15 AM on Jun 23, 2023 CDT Irving-based Celanese Corp. signed a deal Thursday with Japanese conglomerate Mitsui & Co. to form a food ingredients joint venture. The joint venture will operate as Nutrinova, with Celanese owning a 30% stake and Mitsui acquiring the remaining 70% for $472.5 million. Celanese also will contribute assets, technology and employees to the business. The companies expect the deal to close later this year. Become a business insider with the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Celanese, a global chemical and specialty materials company with $9.7 billion in sales last year, said it will use the cash to pay down debt. Its food ingredients business generated about $170 million in sales in 2022. The Nutrinova joint venture builds on an existing partnership between the two companies. Mitsui holds long-standing positions across Asia’s food chain. Celanese will continue to supply acetyls to the new joint venture. Acetyls are petrochemicals with a wide variety of uses, including food flavoring and preservation, pharmaceuticals, paints and adhesives. Celanese said its food business is a leading producer of acesulfame potassium sweetener known as Ace-K, as well as sorbic acid and potassium sorbate preservatives. The company invented the zero-calorie sweetener Sunett Ace-K. Mitsui is one of Japan’s largest companies, ranking 107th in this year’s Fortune 500, with sales of $106 billion. Its business spans nearly every sector — including iron and steel products, energy, machinery, infrastructure and food resources. The companies’ intention to form the joint venture was announced earlier this year. Paul O'Donnell, Business Editor. Paul directs the work of an award-winning staff covering business news in the nation's fourth largest metro region. He's been The News' business editor since 2015. Before that, he was editor-in-chief at the Dallas Business Journal and business editor at the Cleveland Plain Dealer. 