Tuesday August 20, 2024  Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina today said that the government is facing various challenges regarding the development projects in the country. "Challenges arise when we go for any (development) work… We completed all the projects, facing these challenges," she said. The prime minister said this while delivering her introductory speech at the weekly Cabinet meeting, held at her office (PMO). Read more  Among a number of incidents taking place on Monday (9 January), take a quick look at some of the most important news items The Business Standard has compiled for you… India has allowed shipment from Russia for Rooppur Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) in Bangladesh to dock at West Bengal's Haldia port amid concern in regards to receiving a sanctioned Russian ship following American restrictions, The Economic Times reported. The Russian ship, which had to be turned away from Bangladesh, hovered in the Bay of Bengal since late December. Read more Professor Ahmedul Kabir has been made the acting director general (DG) of the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), effective until the appointment of a regular DG. Kabir, currently the additional director general of DGHS, will also perform the responsibilities of a finance official during his tenure as the acting DG, according to a release issued by the health directorate on Monday (9 January). Read more The High Court (HC) has sought to know the progress of the investigation into two complaints filed with the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) regarding the purchase of 14 houses in the United States (US) by Dhaka Water Supply And Sewerage Authority (Wasa) Managing Director (MD) Engineer Taqsem A Khan. Read more  Dhaka Water Supply And Sewerage Authority (Wasa) Managing Director (MD) Engineer Taqsem A Khan has said that he does not own any houses in the USA.He has dismissed the recent media reports that claimed he owns 14 houses in the USA. Read more E-ticketing will begin on buses of 15 more companies on the Mohammadpur-Azimpur, Gabtali routes from 10 January. The 15 companies have 711 buses on these routes which will be brought under e-ticketing, disclosed Bus Owners Association Secretary General Enayet Ullah at a press conference on Monday (9 January). Read more The Counter Terrorism and Transnational Crime (CTTC) unit of Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP) has arrested 3 militants with large quantities of arms and explosives from the remote hilly area of Naikhongchhari in Bandarban district. Police said one of the arrestees is the main arms supplier of Jamaatul Ansar Fil Hindal Sharqiya. Read more Tetulia of Panchagarh recorded the season's lowest temperature in Bangladesh at 7 degrees Celsius, in 24 hours till Monday morning as a mild cold wave is sweeping parts of the country. Dhaka recorded 13.2 degrees Celsius during this period. Read more  Bangladesh has opened the Banglabandha Dry Port for Nepali traders to export yarn to third countries. "The National Board of Revenue, the apex body of Bangladesh in tax-related issues, has recently incorporated the matter in its Statutory Regulatory Orders and had it published in the country's national gazette," Nepal's Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies said in a public notice two weeks ago, reports My Republica. Read more Fashion brands sourcing clothes from Bangladesh for the British market reportedly paid the factories below the cost of production, found a study by the University of Aberdeen alongside UK-based justice charity Transform Trade. Read more The Border Security Force (BSF) personnel of the 193 battalion deployed in Meghalaya on Sunday seized 300 kg of human hair meant for illegal sale in the international market, officials said. Read more A sedition complaint was filed against Nurul Haque Nur, former Ducsu VP and leader of Bangladesh Gono Odhikar Parishad at a police station in Sylhet. Emon Ahmed, secretary of the district unit of Bangladesh Muktijoddha Mancha lodged the complaint with Kotwali Police on Sunday afternoon. Read more Supporters of Brazil's far-right former President Jair Bolsonaro invaded and defaced the country's Congress, presidential palace and Supreme Court on Sunday, in a grim echo of the US Capitol invasion two years ago by fans of former President Donald Trump. Read more  Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva declared a state of emergency in the country's capital due to the riots staged on Sunday by supporters of former head of state Jair Bolsonaro. He read out the relevant decree, speaking to reporters. Read more Supporters of Brazil's far-right former President Jair Bolsonaro on Sunday invaded the country's Supreme Court and its Congressional building and surrounded the presidential palace in Brasilia.  Read more Daily brief / Evening brief While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments. The Business Standard Main Office -4/A, Eskaton Garden, Dhaka- 1000 Phone: +8801847 416158 - 59 Send Opinion articles to - [email protected] For advertisement- [email protected]