Comment Talent is the cornerstone of any successful tech ecosystem. In the last two decades, we’ve seen a wealth of strong founders and operators emerge across Europe and Israel, building innovative products and category-defining, unicorn companies that are competing on the global stage. This in turn has encouraged employees from some of Europe’s biggest tech success stories to take their experience working at a unicorn, use it to found the next generation of startups and win venture backing. As a result, we’re now seeing a spinning flywheel effect, in which unicorn pedigree and know-how is trickling down and fueling the next wave of ambitious entrepreneurs similar to what we have seen in the U.S. over the last few decades. Since opening our London office 23 years ago, the Accel team has backed some of Europe’s greatest startup success stories, including Celonis, Miro, Monzo, Personio Spotify, Supercell, UiPath and Vinted. Our recently launched Founder Factories Report explores the unicorns, or “founder factories,” now producing the largest amount of entrepreneurial talent in the region and the resulting journey from unicorn employee to tech founder. Our data paints a clear picture: the ecosystem is in a strong position despite current macroeconomic headwinds, thanks to its flywheel of inter-generational talent spawning from unicorns. To illustrate this, let’s take a look at some key takeaways from the report: Established juggernauts in the European and Israeli ecosystem are fast becoming hotbeds of talent. These “founder factories” are attracting and upskilling the region’s brightest tech operators – and inspiring many of them to become founders and start new ventures in the process. Our data reveals that 221 of the region’s 353 VC-backed unicorns have fueled 1171 new tech-enabled startups through their alumni, illustrating this trend. Moreover: In our experience, founders who have worked at unicorns often have the networks and connections that make it easier to quickly kickstart a new business. Potential co-founders, operators, mentors, employees, angel investors and even customers will generally be easier to find for a second-generation founder. Moreover, as investors we are naturally drawn towards operators, builders and leaders who have already been on the start-up journey before and navigated the challenges associated with building a company. It’s therefore no surprise that we are seeing certain successful unicorns create countless new founders from their ranks. Successful founders can come from any educational or professional background, but our data illustrates that many entrepreneurs who do secure venture backing have spent considerable time working in tech, including at an established unicorn, and have been through higher education. The data also reveals that almost two thirds (63%) of these “second-generation” founders had at least seven or more years work experience before founding their startup, with a fifth benefitting from joining a unicorn early on (within two years of its launch), and being a part of its hyper-growth journey, with the median time spent on the team being 28 months. After cutting their teeth at a unicorn, many founders are often quick to start a new business, with over half (60%) founding their startups within a year and almost a fifth (18%) have even gone on to create more than one startup after leaving. We’ve found that ambitious entrepreneurs often feel a sense of urgency to pursue their own ideas and passions after helping scale other entrepreneurs’ ideas. In some cases, second-generation founders may feel that the market is ripe for their ideas and that they need to move quickly to capitalize on the opportunity – innovation waits for no one. Finally, a common educational background emerged in the data, with 70% of second generation founders having gone through higher education and, of those, 60% had a master’s degree. This suggests that higher education is an advantage – but not a prerequisite – to entrepreneurial success. Europe and Israel also continues to shine as a fintech powerhouse when it comes to producing second generation startups, with nearly a fifth (17%) of all startups spun out of unicorns being fintechs according to our data. Currently, 63 fintech unicorns have seen 333 startups founded by former employers, of which 38% of which were also in fintech too. Many of the top founder factories in the region fall under fintech, with the likes of Revolut producing 26 new startups – including Screenloop and Tesseract – and N26 producing 24 including Penta, Spoke.ai and Wonder. The prevalence of fintech founder factories is unsurprising, given the size of the opportunity in the industry, Europe’s access to leading financial markets and a more flexible regulatory environment. The barriers to entry in the sector are lower than other industries too, with many fintech startups leveraging existing infrastructure (e.g. payment networks) to roll out their products. This makes it easier for second-generation startups to enter the market and compete with established players from the get-go. All in all, while founders and their teams are navigating a tough macroeconomic environment, the European and Israeli tech ecosystem is in a much stronger position than during the 2008/9 financial crisis due to the compounding effect of repeat entrepreneurs. As our data reveals, with over 350 venture-backed unicorns across the continent, there’s a strong foundation of talent and success that we firmly believe will be passed onto the next generation of ambitious entrepreneurs. The future remains bright for Europe and Israel. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Powered by WordPress VIP