WEATHER ALERT Paul Gross, Meteorologist Published: January 2, 2023 at 3:46 AM Updated: January 2, 2023 at 9:40 AM Paul Gross, Meteorologist 4Warn Weather – Happy New Year! I hope you had a great New Year’s weekend, and that your 2023 is off to a good start. We have a quiet weather day in store for today, until things start changing tonight. But first, some breaks in the overcast have allowed temperatures to fall near the dewpoint in some areas, particularly south of 8 Mile Road. This has allowed some locally dense fog to develop, so the National Weather Service has issued a Dense Fog Advisory for Lenawee, Livingston, Monroe and Washtenaw counties until noon. Today’s sunrise is at 8:02 a.m. We’ll have mostly cloudy skies through the first Monday of 2023, and it’ll be mild with highs in the mid-40s. The wind will be light and variable. Tonight’s sunset is at 5:13 p.m. (The sun is setting about 13 minutes later than it was a couple of weeks ago!) Rain will develop tonight, and there could be some downpours at times. Lows will be in the upper 30s to near 40 degrees. An east wind will move at 5-10 mph. A steady rain Tuesday morning will become more showery in the afternoon. Temperatures will surge to near 60 degrees following passage of a warm front -- although it’ll be a little cooler for you if your south wind comes off the cooler waters of Lake Erie and Lake St. Clair. Tuesday’s record high temperature is 59 degrees, set in 1950. We’ll be close! Showers will continue Tuesday night, with lows in the mid-40s. It’ll be colder on Wednesday with showers still possible. Temps will remain nearly steady in the mid-40s, but may fall during the afternoon. Note: For those of you who record temperatures in diaries or weather logs, Wednesday’s high will technically be set at midnight, with temperatures then probably still in the low 50s, but it will be cooler than that during the daytime when you are most likely to be out experiencing the conditions. Colder air will continue filtering in Wednesday night, with some light snow showers possible. Lows will be in the upper 20s to near 30 degrees. It’ll be mostly cloudy on Thursday with a few light snow showers possible. Highs will only rise a few degrees into the mid-30s. Thursday night will be mostly cloudy with lows in the upper 20s. Mostly cloudy on Friday, with highs in the low-to-mid 30s. The upcoming weekend looks dry right now, with increasing sunshine as the weekend progresses, and highs in the mid-30s. Remember to download the free 4Warn weather app -- it’s easily one of the best in the nation. Just search your app store under WDIV and it’s right there available for both iPhones and Androids! Or click the appropriate link below. Copyright 2023 by WDIV ClickOnDetroit - All rights reserved. Click here to take a moment and familiarize yourself with our Community Guidelines. Recommended Videos Cookie Preferences If you need help with the Public File, call (313) 222-0556. At WDIV, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence. Copyright © 2024 ClickOnDetroit.com is managed by Graham Digital and published by Graham Media Group, a division of Graham Holdings.