Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 
You’re reading a free article with opinions that may differ from The Motley Fool’s Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources, and more.
Learn More
 Here are the top stocks to buy now that could unlock explosive gains in your growth stock portfolio, including one hidden gem. Today, I share the three best stocks to buy in August 2023, which I believe have significant upside for long-term investors. These stocks are attractive at today's prices and lower, and one is an under-the-radar small-cap stock that could be a hidden gem with 10x potential over the next decade. Please don't forget to subscribe to the channel for future updates.  *Stock prices used were the afternoon prices of Aug. 15, 2023. The video was published on Aug. 15, 2023. John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Eric Cuka has positions in Amazon.com, Apple, Celsius, Indie Semiconductor, Snowflake, and Tesla. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon.com, Apple, Axon Enterprise, Celsius, Snowflake, and Tesla. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.  Eric is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through his link, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.