Jefferies analyst Kevin Grundy maintained a Buy rating on Molson Coors (TAP – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $74.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $64.00. Grundy covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Procter & Gamble, Molson Coors, and Celsius Holdings. According to TipRanks, Grundy has an average return of 5.1% and a 62.47% success rate on recommended stocks.  In addition to Jefferies, Molson Coors also received a Buy from Roth MKM’s William Kirk in a report issued on May 3. However, on May 4, Barclays maintained a Hold rating on Molson Coors (NYSE: TAP). See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Based on Molson Coors’ latest earnings release for the quarter ending March 31, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $2.35 billion and a net profit of $72.5 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $2.23 billion and had a net profit of $151.5 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Molson Coors Beverage Co. is a holding company, which engages in the provision of beer. It operates through the following segments: United States, Canada, Europe, International, and Corporate. The United States segment consists of production, marketing and sales of its brands, and other owned and licensed brands in the United States. The Canada segment includes production, marketing and sales of its brands, and other owned and licensed brands in Canada. The Europe segment comprises of production, marketing and sales of its brands as well as a number of regional brands in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, and Central Europe. The International segment focuses its operations on Latin America, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Africa. The Corporate segment represents interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. It operates under the brands Blue Moon, Coors Banquet, Coors Light, Miller Genuine Draft, Miller Lite, taropramen, Carling, Molson Canadian, Creemore Springs, Cobra, Doom Bar, Henry’s Hard and Leinenkugel’s. The company was founded in 1786 and is headquartered in Denver, CO.  Read More on TAP: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks