Apply Now
 Large and small organizations employ data scientists to determine profitable lines of business, characterize customers, evaluate and predict risks, improve operational efficiencies, predict system performance, and perform complex simulations. The OU Online M.S. in Data Science and Analytics is a 33-credit program that helps students develop analytical models and methods to extract new knowledge from vast, complex data. Graduates will gain the skills to design and build tools to extract, assimilate, and analyze data and the systems understanding to predict and enhance future performance for enterprises across all domains of the private and public sectors.   Request Information Rolling admissions (applications due 14 days before the intended start date). Fall, Spring, Summer Stay up to date with OU holiday closings, deadlines, and more. View Calendar As a data scientist or data analyst, you’ll have many opportunities in diverse fields, including IT, human resources, banking, health care, and education, with organizations of all sizes. Whichever career path you choose, you will play an integral part in the business decision-making process. OU’s Data Science and Analytics Institute offers various training opportunities and collaboration with industry partners in the data science field. You will get a head start in transitioning from the classroom to the real world. Learn in a flexible online program designed for working professionals. You’ll engage in online discussions with professors and fellow students while gaining skills and experience applicable to various job sectors. OU Online graduates find employment within six months after graduation* OU Online graduates report earning an annual salary of $75,000 or more* OU Online students say the skills they gained in their program made them more competitive in their career field* *Source: OU Online Graduate Outcomes Survey, 2023 Take the next step in your career with a degree from the University of Oklahoma. Applications are reviewed year-round for fall, spring, and summer sessions. Choose your program, choose your start, and apply today. In the M.S. in Data Science and Analytics program, you will learn in-demand skills like advanced programming, statistical modeling, data mining, data visualization, and systems understanding to predict and enhance future performance for enterprises. Admission to the University of Oklahoma’s M.S. in Data Science and Analytics program is selective. The Data Science and Analytics Institute in the Gallogly College of Engineering has the following requirements for admission: To apply, students must: The admissions committee operates under a rolling admission process, and admissions may continue until two weeks before classes start. The committee strives to respond to all applicants within two weeks of submitting a completed application. For more information on the admissions process, please complete the contact form below, and an admissions counselor will be in touch shortly. If you would like to compare the estimated cost of your program with a typical financial aid package, use the cost calculator on our OU Online financial aid page.  Graduate tuition waivers cannot be applied to OU Online programs. OU Online programs qualify for the OU Faculty/Staff Tuition Waiver & Fee Exemption, and we encourage you to check your eligibility.   Tuition waiver and fee exemption package application If you have questions regarding financial aid for your online program, please get in touch with the Online Aid office by emailing onlineaid@ou.edu or calling 405-325-2929. Apply Now Like every OU Online program, the M.S. in Data Science and Analytics is built on the foundation of world-class University of Oklahoma faculty mixed with professors of practice providing valuable instruction. By linking industry experts with our online programs, we offer the most advanced curriculum and prepare students for future career success.   Earning an M.S. in Data Science and Analytics from OU Online gives you the skills to succeed in a growing and evolving field. It also gives you access to career support and an expanded professional network as part of the global OU alumni community. Stand out where the industry is moving while enjoying the potential for higher pay, career advancement, and new opportunities. Tuition and fees for the program are $32,505 ($985 per credit hour). Books and additional materials are not included.  Once accepted into the program, students must submit a $350 nonrefundable deposit within two weeks. Deposits are applied toward tuition expenses and secure a student’s place in the upcoming class. There is no application fee for this degree. Our tuition calculator can help you estimate your tuition and financial aid for your program of interest. ESTIMATE COSTS
 We are a top-tier public institution offering high-quality, affordable, professional undergraduate and graduate programs committed to maintaining academic excellence online. Every OU Online program is built on the foundation of world-class faculty mixed with professors of practice providing valuable instruction. By linking industry experts with our online programs, we offer the most advanced curriculum and prepare students for future career success. When you graduate from an OU Online program, you’ll join the network of 250,000 OU alumni and be forever part of the OU family. Become part of the tradition of excellence that OU has established in its 130-year history. Apply Now          