UNH, CVS, and MCK top the list of the 10 biggest healthcare companies based on revenue Hispanolistic / Getty Images  The healthcare sector includes companies that produce medical goods, such as drugs and medical devices, and companies that furnish medical services, such as health insurance or hospital administration.
  Here are the 10 biggest companies in the healthcare field based on trailing 12-month (TTM) revenue as of June 20, 2024. This list is limited to companies that are publicly traded in the U.S. or Canada. All data is from TradingView.
  UnitedHealth is a health insurance company that also provides data analytics and consulting services to healthcare providers, as well as pharmacy care services. Its principal divisions include UnitedHealthcare, OptumHealth, OptumInsight, and OptumRx.
  The parent company of a leading drugstore chain, CVS Health is also among the biggest pharmacy benefits management (PBM) firms. The company's strategy includes healthcare teams that address the “whole” patient’s physical and emotional needs through the CVS HealthHUB and MinuteClinic locations.
  McKesson is a distributor of pharmaceuticals and other medical products in the U.S., Canada, and Europe. Working with biopharma companies, care providers, pharmacies, manufacturers, and governments, McKesson employs around 51,000 people worldwide.
  Cencora, formerly known as AmerisourceBergen, is a distributor of medications and medical supplies. The company partners with manufacturers to bring products to market.
  Cardinal Health is a global manufacturer and distributor of medical and laboratory products and a provider of products and services for healthcare facilities. Through services like ambulatory surgery centers, home care, and long-term care, Cardinal Health serves 90% of all U.S. hospitals and 10,000 specialty physician offices and clinics.
  Cigna is a global health services company with healthcare providers, clinics, and facilities serving customers and patients in more than 30 countries.
  Elevance Health supports health at every life stage, offering health plans and clinical, behavioral, pharmacy, and complex-care products and services that promote whole health. Through its affiliates Anthem and Wellpoint, Elevance Health offers commercial, Medicare, and Medicaid plans for employers, individuals, families, and communities.
  Centene is a managed healthcare company focused on administering government-sponsored programs. With its acquisition of WellCare Health Plans Inc., Centene increased its market share in Medicaid, Medicare Advantage, and Medicare Prescription Drug Plans across 50 states.
  Walgreens Boots Alliance operates drugstores in the U.S. under the Walgreens and Duane Reade names, as well as Boots drugstores globally.
  Humana is a health insurance provider that also provides healthcare services through the CenterWell brand.
 The U.S. has long outranked other large, high-income countries in per capita spending on healthcare. In 2022, the last year for which worldwide data is available, the U.S. spent almost double the average amount spent on health per person in comparable countries, according to the Peterson-KFF Health System Tracker. That year, the U.S. spent about $12,600 per person, with Switzerland and Germany in second and third place at just over $8,000 per capita each. Meanwhile, comparable countries spent $6,651 per person on average. But greater spending didn't necessarily provide better health outcomes; the U.S. average life expectancy is about 4.5 years less than its peers. The answer again is the U.S., which spends about $1,432 per person, followed by Germany and Malta, which each spend over a third less per capita. However, as a percentage of healthcare dollars spent, Bulgaria and Greece are ahead of the U.S., with Bulgaria spending more than 30% of its healthcare funding on medications. Pharmaceutical companies earn revenue through the sale of prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, and vaccines. Medical device companies generate income from selling medical instruments, diagnostic equipment, and surgical tools. Hospitals and healthcare providers derive revenue from patient services, including inpatient and outpatient care, surgeries, and consultations. In addition, the companies above receive funding from government programs, insurance reimbursements, and research grants, contributing to their overall revenue streams. They are also usually diversified among pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and healthcare for their revenue streams.  The healthcare sector is vast and includes companies that produce medical devices, provide medical services, and offer health insurance. Among the top healthcare companies by TTM revenue are UnitedHealth Group, CVS Health, and McKesson, each having a significant role in the health and lives of Americans.
  UnitedHealth Group primarily generates revenue through its health insurance plans and healthcare services, while CVS Health earns revenue from its extensive retail pharmacy network, PBM services, and healthcare clinics. Other firms among the top 10 derive revenue from pharmaceutical distribution and are seeing growth in various ancillary services, such as health and wellness programs, specialty pharmacy services, and medical consulting.
 TradingView. "Stock Screener." UnitedHealth Group. "What We Do." CVS Health. "Our Company Strategy." McKesson. "Company Profile & Description." Cencora. "Who We Are." CardinalHealth. "About Us." Cigna. "Company Profile." Elevance Health. "Our Companies." Centene Corp. "Who We Are." Walgreens Boots Alliance. "About Us." Humana. "Humana Reports First Quarter 2024 Financial Results; Affirms Full Year Adjusted 2024 Financial Guidance." Peterson-KFF. "How Does Health Spending in the US Compare To Other Countries?" Peterson-KFF. "How Does US Life Expectancy Compare To Other Countries?" OECD. "Pharmaceutical Spending."