UK Edition One in 20 GP surgeries are now owned by chains, who say the model of a traditional family doctor is “no longer viable”. Firms which own at least five practices run 6.1 per cent of all surgeries in England, about 400 in total. This is up from 2.1 per cent a decade ago, according to a report by the healthcare data provider LaingBuisson. The largest chain, AT Medics, which runs 49 NHS practices in England, is owned by the UK arm of Centene, a US healthcare insurance giant. GP leaders say the rise of these super-practices is being driven by “financial expediency”, rather than what is best for patients, who have raised concerns about the continuity of care. However, owners of the GP chains, which centralise resources and some staff, say that patients should give up on the idea of having “their” family doctor. Andy Scaife, the chief executive of SSP Health, which owns 40 practices in the northwest of England, said: “It’s no surprise that the figures show a growth in multi-practice GP networks in the UK . . . the vast majority of single practices are no longer viable. “Many patients feel secure with the idea of a trusted family doctor who has known them for years, aligned with the traditional model of general practice in the UK that has been based on a small group of doctors and nurses working in a single practice. While this model has served the UK well in the past, it is no longer fit for purpose.” He added: “While patients continue to expect to have ‘their’ doctor, they will find it difficult to accept new technologies and care-delivery mechanisms that ensure more people can receive the high-quality, personalised care that meets each individual’s needs. In any event, there simply aren’t enough GPs to provide this service and that outdated model is no longer financially viable.” SSP has recently been involved in a dispute over the takeover of Withnell Health Centre, a rural GP practice serving 5,500 patients near Chorley, Lancashire. The firm was awarded the contract by regional NHS bosses over its existing partner, Dr Ann Robinson, a GP who had worked at the practice for ten years and developed close relationships with patients. The NHS was forced to abandon the plan last month, after hundreds of patients were involved in a community campaign to prevent the practice from changing hands. The campaign was led by Dr Margaret France, 67, a retired GP who worked at Withnell for 30 years. She said: “It was a David and Goliath battle. We are a lovely small village practice of 5,500 patients, taking on a big conglomerate. The expansion of these big GP chains is very sad and threatens traditional family doctors, who are rooted in the community. The best model for general practice is when people have a named doctor. “Withnell had always offered a very personal service, with same-day appointments, and doctors who know you, and know your story and circumstances. This continuity of care is not possible with these very large practices. But it is absolutely vital, it can be the difference between life and death.” AT Medics posted revenues of £57.4 million for the year ending March 2021. It was acquired in February 2021 by Operose Health, the UK arm of Centene, which also runs 20 GP clinics. The company is responsible for more than half a million NHS patients in total, mainly in London. Patients have also campaigned against Operose’s expansion. A Panorama investigation last year claimed that Operose was using lower-qualified medical staff without adequate oversight, but the firm denied putting profit before patient care. According to LaingBuisson, there are 42 multi-practice groups with five or more NHS GP services registered by the Care Quality Commission in England. This expansion was made possible by reforms first introduced under the Labour government in 2004, which allowed corporate providers to buy GP practices, which until then could only be owned by professional GPs. Dr Steve Taylor, a GP and spokesman for the Doctors’ Association UK, said: “Larger practices have some advantages in terms of economies of scale and some GPs have moved in this direction, not necessarily because it is good for patient care but out of financial expediency. “There is clear evidence that continuity of care is both good for patients and more rewarding for the GPs providing care. If the current partnership model was properly resourced and funded, most of the drive to larger practices would be removed. This in my view would be better for patients and GPs alike.” • The cure for Britain’s A&E crisis? The robots will see you now Dr Victoria Tzortziou-Brown, vice-chairwoman of the Royal College of GPs, said: “The important thing is that whatever the model of general practice implemented, it is done so in the best interests of local populations and the care and services delivered are tailored to local patients’ health needs. However, no model of general practice will be sustainable without sufficient numbers of GPs and other practice staff, and that’s what is currently lacking.” The Times investigates the crisis facing the health and social care system in England. Find out more about The Times Health Commission © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.