Not hot or humid. Rain and storm-free. Passing clouds.
                                 Clouds decreasing.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 4:32 pm   CenterPoint Energy is taking responsibility for carbon monoxide issues in southern Indiana over Christmas weekend.    LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WDRB) -- CenterPoint Energy is taking responsibility for carbon monoxide issues in southern Indiana over Christmas weekend. The company issued a statement Tuesday that said too much propane was added into the natural gas system.  The mistake led to more than 100 calls of carbon monoxide issues in Clarksville, Jeffersonville and New Albany around Christmas Eve. At least four people were hospitalized. A high-pitched beeping sound rang throughout Roger Baylor's New Albany home on December 24. It was Baylor's carbon monoxide detector telling him and his wife to leave. "What I'm never going to forget about this, maybe this is too much information, but -- they just denied it," Baylor said. "There were people just point going to the hospital in Clarksville. And they're saying, well, you know, it must be the way you were maintaining your equipment. You must have not had it vented right. It must be your fault as the consumer, couldn't be our fault, it must be yours, as the consumer. So, that kind of sticks with me, the tone of that denial, especially later in the day." Baylor said the leak caused damages to his furnace, which cost him around $1,200, so far. CenterPoint said it regretted its initial indications and accepts responsibility. "We would like to extend our sincere apologies to those who were affected by carbon monoxide issues in their homes and businesses following the events that occurred in our natural gas service areas of Clarksville, New Albany and Jeffersonville, Ind. on Dec. 24," a statement from the company said. "The safety of our customers and the communities we serve is our top priority." Ashley Babcock with CenterPoint Energy says "there are a number of factors that contributed to the incorrect mixture of gas at the facility". "Early indications from the operations of our plant was that nothing was operating abnormally, and from what we were seeing from responding to our costumers carbon monoxide calls, we were seeing issues with our costumer's appliances venting, or issues with their own natural gas appliances, so at that time we did not believe we had any issues on that side," Babcock said. The company first denied an incorrect mixture of propane caused the issue, but said "with the assistance of a third-party," investigated whether its operations "could have contributed to the reports."  "We have ceased operations at our Jeffersonville propane air facility," CenterPoint said Tuesday. "To prevent a recurrence, the facility will remain shut down through the end of 2023 as we assess its future. Based on our review, there are no signs that any incorrect mixture remains in our system." The Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) is investigating, and already reviewed the utilities records at several CenterPoint facilities in southern Indiana. Frogg Corpse, who lives in Clarksville, escaped his home and carbon monoxide when police knocked on his door. "I knew I had to go to the door because somebody was knocking, I saw the fire department," Corpse said. "I was like, 'oh this is not good.' And then they opened the door and was like, 'you got to go.'" CenterPoint said it continues to cooperate with the IURC, and is also taking steps to make sure mistakes like this don't happen again.  In a statement, the town of Clarksville said it was "encouraged to finally have answers." "We would like to commend CenterPoint Energy for working diligently to determine the case and to prevent it from happening again," the statement read. Clarksville Town Manager Kevin Baity said in a news release accompanying the statement that the next step is for residents to "receive support for any natural gas appliances damaged because of the carbon monoxide situation" on Dec. 24. Those residents should contact CenterPoint Energy by emailing indianaclaim@centerpointenergy.com or calling (713) 207-7724. "The town of Clarksville will continue to work with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission and CenterPoint Energy as they continue to assess their operations and take the appropriate corrective actions to guarantee the safety of our residents," the statement concluded. Residents in southern Indiana are still frustrated with the lack of transparency.  "Someone could have died here," Baylor said. "There's mental anguish involved with that too. When you think about at the time itself that you could have been sick, it could have been worse; and afterwards when you think this happened all over the place and still this company denied it." This is a developing story that may be updated. Copyright 2023 WDRB Media. All Rights Reserved.   Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: