Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript. Advertisement Tissue engineering is a set of methods that can replace or repair damaged or diseased tissues with natural, synthetic, or semisynthetic tissue mimics. These mimics can either be fully functional or will grow into the required functionality. The study of epithelial folding is often hampered by limited real-time observation and limited control of experimental parameters. Here, the authors develop a tissue-scale in vitro epithelial folding model that incorporates an epithelium and extracellular matrix hydrogel, thus emulating folding behaviors found in in vivo contexts. Using engineered cardiac tissues, Fleischer, Nash et al. found that patients with lupus-mediated cardiac damage have unique autoantibodies that can independently alter tissue function. They also identified autoantibodies associated with heart injury. We combined human intestinal immuno-organoids and single-cell transcriptomics to investigate intestinal inflammation triggered by cancer-targeting biologics, which was associated with an activated population of CD8+ T cells that progressively acquired intraepithelial and cytotoxic features. Volumetric compression is a pervasive phenomenon in the human body, manifesting during development, limb movement, digestion, tumorigenesis and injury. This Review provides an in-depth discussion of emerging engineering methods centred on volumetric compression, including foundational rationales, design principles and illustrative applications. Glycoengineered cells containing bioorthogonal tethers function as building blocks for the programmable fabrication of human living materials with distinct structures and tissue functionalities. Minimally invasive insertion requires small sizes of scaffolds. Here, the authors inspired by the shrinking of puffed food in humid air develop a hydrogel scaffold posttreatment where lyophilization and dampening result in scaffold shrinkage of 90% in volume with post-surgery size recovery and lower foreign body response. An article in Nature reports the generation of human chimeric brain organoids that integrate cells from multiple donors. An article in Nature Communications presents a synthetic biodegradable void-forming hydrogel that supports in vitro formation of 3D networks from human primary cells for bone-on-a-chip applications. Many scientific breakthroughs occur when researchers with different expertise come together to work collaboratively, an effort welcomed by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH). This Comment provides the perspective of two program officers from the National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) to help researchers with collaborative projects apply for NIH funding. An article in Nature Communications reports the development of cultured meat with organoleptic properties by regulating the differentiation of stem cells to produce muscle and fat blocks. Pharmaceutical companies continue to advocate for the use of in vitro models towards the reduction of animal use in drug discovery and development while acknowledging that further advancements are needed to heighten the models’ current state of readiness. 

                    Nature.com 
                
 © 2024 Springer Nature Limited