Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript. Advertisement Connective tissue diseases are a heterogeneous group of autoimmune disorders that affect any of the body's connective tissues. These disorders can be inherited or acquired, and can present with a wide range of systemic inflammatory and immunological features. Sjögren syndrome is a chronic autoimmune disease affecting exocrine glands, causing dryness and systemic symptoms. Treatment has been primarily symptomatic, but advances in our understanding of its pathophysiology offer promise for targeted therapies, aiming for personalized care and improved outcomes. Relapsing polychondritis, a rare inflammatory disorder that affects cartilaginous structures, presents challenges in diagnosis owing to overlapping symptoms with other conditions. This Review provides a clinical update on relapsing polychondritis, emphasizing the importance of distinguishing this disease from similar conditions. The management of antiphospholipid syndrome is hindered by heterogeneous clinical presentations. Whole-blood transcriptomics have the potential to identify previously unknown disease endotypes, which could inform new treatment strategies. However, such hypothesis-generating data must still account for the results of randomized clinical trials, such as those focused on direct oral anticoagulants in APS. The peptide hormone adropin, which is downregulated in dermal fibroblasts in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), inhibits TGFβ-mediated fibrosis in in vitro and ex vivo models of human skin, and has potential for the treatment of SSc. Age-related B cells (ABCs) have pathogenic roles in autoimmune diseases. Research has now identified ZEB2 as the transcription factor that mediates differentiation into ABCs. A meta-analysis of data from six genome-wide association study cohorts implicates several signalling pathways, including Hedgehog and Notch signalling, in Dupuytren disease. The identification of novel risk variants in the largest genome-wide association study of Raynaud phenomenon to date provides insights into the pathophysiology of the condition, including the potential role for α2A-adrenoceptors, and suggests opportunities for drug repurposing. New findings suggest that targeting the DAMP protein S100A4 could mitigate both inflammatory and fibrotic pathways in systemic sclerosis. 

                    Nature.com 
                
 © 2024 Springer Nature Limited