EVANSVILLE, Ind. (WFIE) - CenterPoint Energy is continuing to move toward renewable energy. CenterPoint officials say they have a proposed plan to end its use of Indiana coal by 2027. According to a company report, about 85% of current electricity generated for Southwest Indiana customers comes from coal. Vice President of Generation Operations Shane Bradford says all of those customers will be able to reap the benefits of CenterPoint going coal-free. Outside of the financial sphere, the plan itself might also be looking at making a serious green impact. “The proposed plan is to save customers nearly $80 million when comparing it to the continued use of coal,” says Bradford, “and it reduces carbon emissions by 95% over the next 20 years.” CenterPoint officials say by 2030, it is expected that more than 80% of their electricity will be generated by solar and wind, with the remainder provided by natural gas. “Our recommended mix of renewable and natural gas resources is expected to maintain the ability to turn on generating resources during times of greatest demand supporting reliability and continuing our strategy of providing cleaner electricity that meets customers’ future energy needs,” said Richard Leger, Senior Vice President, Indiana Electric. The IRP, or Integrated Resource Plan, preferred portfolio was shared at CenterPoint Energy’s public stakeholder meeting. Their IRP is conducted every three years and submitted to the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC). The plan includes the following: Company officials say their customers want clean, renewable energy. This plan offers them the chance to do so, and it’s something they are really excited about. “It’s a great aspect for us. We want to provide clean and reliable energy to our customers,” says Bradford. Leger said, “Customer and stakeholder engagement were heavily considered throughout this process. We appreciate the thoughtful insights which helped us arrive at our go-forward plan that will help meet the growing demands of our residential and business customers in the region and maintain our environmental responsibilities. We continue our goal to provide a responsible, resilient and reliable energy future, which requires fast-ramping resources like natural gas turbines to keep the power flowing when renewable generation is not sufficient.” The IURC previously granted approval for the construction of two natural gas combustion turbines, with a capacity of 460 MW. CenterPoint Energy also has five previously announced solar projects in various stages of development. In addition, a wind generation project has been filed and is awaiting IURC approval. Senior Communications Specialist at CenterPoint Energy, Erin Merris, says because this plan is still a proposal, they can’t give exact details about what sort of price changes customers might see or how it will impact people at home. The completed IRP is expected to be submitted to the IURC by June 1. A director’s report, detailing the IURC’s comments, will likely be issued by the second quarter of 2024. Copyright 2023 WFIE. All rights reserved.