WEATHER ALERT Amy Davis, Investigative Reporter Andrea Slaydon, Senior Investigative and Special Projects Producer Published: March 27, 2023 at 4:46 AM Updated: March 27, 2023 at 7:46 AM Amy Davis, Investigative Reporter Andrea Slaydon, Senior Investigative and Special Projects Producer HOUSTON – You’re getting a little relief on your electric bill as energy charges tacked onto everyone’s bills just went down. But before you spend those small savings, brace your budget for another increase that is coming within a few months. There is good news and bad news. Let’s start with the good news. The transmission and delivery charge on our bills went down on March 1. This rate adjusts every year in the spring and goes up in the fall. On your bill, it may be labeled “TDU” or Centerpoint energy delivery. Centerpoint’s rate was a flat $4.39 for each bill and then 4.9 cents a kilowatt. The rate is now 3.56 cents a kilowatt. If you use a thousand kilowatts in a month, you would pay $14 less this month than what you paid for the same amount of electricity last month. Now for that bad news. The Public Utility Commission just gave Centerpoint permission to recover $200 million from Houston customers for costs it paid to lease mobile power generation units during emergencies. Centerpoint will get that money by charging customers about $1 extra every month. The PUC hasn’t signed the final order yet so we don’t know exactly when it will hit your bill but it will likely be within the next couple of months. These are charges you’ll pay no matter which electric provider you choose but if you need to shop for a new plan, the COO of Energy Ogre says rates are looking a lot better than they were last fall. “If you haven’t looked at your electricity rates for some time, it’s probably a good time to do that,” said Energy Ogre COO David Kinchen. “You know, if you were signed by the peak of the market, there’s certainly better rates to be had a lot of the rates have come off significantly from the highs that we’re looking at today.” Even if you don’t sign up with Energy Ogre to help you find a new electric plan, you can use their comparison tool online. Scroll all the way to the bottom where it says “compare texas electric rates.” Type in your zip code to see the lowest rates in your area for 6-month and 12-month plans. For example, right now the lowest rates for zip code 77375 are between 10-point-8 and 13 cents a kilowatt. RELATED: 3 steps to find the best electricity rates Copyright 2023 by KPRC Click2Houston - All rights reserved. Passionate consumer advocate, mom of 3, addicted to coffee, hairspray and pastries. email facebook twitter instagram Award-winning TV producer and content creator. My goal as a journalist is to help people. Faith and family motivate me. Running keeps me sane. email Recommended Videos Cookie Preferences If you need help with the Public File, call (713) 778-4745. At KPRC, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence. Copyright © 2024 Click2Houston.com is managed by Graham Digital and published by Graham Media Group, a division of Graham Holdings.