Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail at toiblogs@timesinternet.in with a brief bio and we will get in touch with you. S D Pradhan has served as chairman of India's Joint Intelligence Committee. He has also been the country's deputy national security adviser. He was chairman of the Task Force on Intelligence Mechanism (2008-2010), which was constituted to review the functioning of the intelligence agencies. He has taught at the departments of defence studies and history at the Punjabi University, Patiala. He was also a visiting professor at the University of Illinois, US, in the department of arms control and disarmament studies. The ministry of defence had utilized his services for the preparation of official accounts of the 1971 war and the counterinsurgency operations in the northeast. In the JIC/National Security Council secretariat, he was closely involved with the preparation of the reports of the Kargil Review Committee and the Group of Ministers on national security as also with the implementation of their recommendations. His publications include two books and several articles. LESS
...  MORE  Japan’s PM Kishida unveiled the Japanese plan for a Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP) in concrete terms while delivering his speech entitled “The Future of the Indo-Pacific-Japan’s New Plan for a ‘Free and Open Indo-Pacific-Together with India, as an Indispensable Partner” at the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA), on March 20, 2023. The salient points made in the speech are given in the following paragraphs.   First, at the outset, he explained that the concept of FOIP had become more important than ever before for enhancing cooperation in the world community rather than toward division and confrontation, especially when the international order is getting fractured.  Second, he underlined that the core principles of the FOIP like defending freedom and rule of law and respecting diversity, inclusiveness, and openness, remained relevant in the current environment. On his approach toward the FOIP, he emphasised “rulemaking through dialogue,” “equal partnership” among countries, and focusing on “people.” He rightly observed that at a time when the paradigm in international relations was changing, there was no consensus on an acceptable new world order that could best protect the interests of stakeholders.      Third, he announced the “new” four pillars of FOIP. The first pillar, the principles for peace and rules for prosperity, is the backbone of Japan’s FOIP. It includes respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity and opposition to unilateral changes to the status quo by force.  He expressed that the centrality of a free, fair, and just economic order was essential, while emphasising the need for further liberalisation.   “Addressing challenges in an Indo-Pacific way,” constitutes the second pillar. This pillar emphasises cooperation to face increasing challenges to global commons such as climate and the environment, global health, and cyberspace in addition to dealing with the fundamental challenge of defending peace. While assuring increased cooperation of Japan in these areas, he pointed out that Japan decided to provide 50 million US dollars in emergency food aid to support vulnerable countries in Asia, the Middle East, and Africa, as well as corn seeds and other assistance to vulnerable farmers in Ukraine. Crucially, he highlighted that “proliferation of disinformation is a common challenge in all countries that hinders people’s political self-determination and threatens the autonomy of nations.”  The multi-layered connectivity is the third pillar, which is the core element of cooperation for FOIP. It is considered important for economic growth. He indicated that Japan would focus on three regions. The first area is Southeast Asia. He remarked that the ASEAN Outlook for Indo-Pacific and Japan’s FOIP have similarities. Kishida assured that Japan will make a new contribution of 100 million US dollars to the Japan-ASEAN Integration Fund. The second area is South Asia with special focus on Northeast India. He stated that Japan will promote the Bay of Bengal-Northeast India industrial value chain concept in cooperation with India and Bangladesh to foster the growth of the entire region. The third area is the Pacific Islands region, which is facing multiple challenges. He averred that Japan will continue to support the countries in this region.  The fourth pillar is “extending efforts for security and safe use of the sea to the air.” The aim is to free the oceans from the growing geopolitical risks. In this, Japan places importance on the fact that states should clarify their claims based on international law, no use of force or coercion, and settlement of disputes by peaceful means. Japan assured help to strengthen the maritime law enforcement capabilities of each country through human resource development, strengthening cooperation among coast guard agencies, and joint training with the coast guards of other countries.    Kishida committed to strengthen diplomatic efforts to implement an optimal combination of various methods and to introduce a new framework for “private capital mobilization-type” grant aid that will attract investments. This is aimed at supporting start-ups by motivated young people in each country in the region. “Japan will mobilize a total of more than 75 billion US dollars in public and private funds, through private investments, yen loans and other means, in the Indo-Pacific region by 2030 in infrastructure, for which there are major demands from each country.”   Kishida in his conclusion remarked that to achieve the objectives of FOIP, “India is an indispensable partner.” This reflects the growing relationship and trust between the two countries. Significantly, Japan’s concept of FOIP is like India’s concept of Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI), which has seven pillars: Maritime Security; Maritime Ecology; Maritime Resources; Capacity Building and Resource Sharing; Disaster Risk Reduction and Management; Science, Technology and Academic Cooperation; and Trade Connectivity and Maritime Transport. Broadly, both cover the same fields. Both aim at economic growth of the region with a rule-based order governing the region. Japan has also assured investment for infrastructure development. The centrality of ASEAN is common in both concepts.  PM Modi, while welcoming Kishida, remarked that “the India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership is based on our shared democratic values, and respect for the rule of law in the international arena. Strengthening this partnership is not only important for both our countries, it also promotes peace, prosperity, and stability in the Indo-Pacific region.” There was also a fruitful discussion on the importance of reliable supply chains in semiconductor and other critical technologies. The two PMs also noted that the India-Japan Industrial Competitiveness Partnership, established in 2019, is progressing satisfactorily in areas like logistics, food processing, MSME, textiles, machinery, and steel.    Notwithstanding some differences on the Ukraine conflict, Japan remains one of India’s closest friends in Asia given their shared concerns over the aggressive Chinese activities. It is also an important partner for investments in key projects. Both give priority to diplomacy to resolve disputes in the Indo-Pacific. With Japan announcing its concept of FOIP, along with necessary investments, it is hoped that soon there will be a visible progress in reducing tension in the South China Sea, which needs urgent attention in view of spiralling tensions.  Kishida has aptly pointed out that the proliferation of disinformation is common challenge to all countries that hinders people’s political self-determination and threatens the autonomy of nations. This aspect deserves the urgent attention of all countries and should be countered effectively.         Views expressed above are the author's own. Bestsellers by machine Kolkata rape: Rage is justified, revenge is not Model for medals Meditation is all about dedication and diligence ‘Hasina had to go…Yunus govt formed unconstitutionally…Can’t have secularism and state religion…Hindus can’t all come to India’ Wisdom shines through inner silence of the mind She’s still gold Cop out in Kolkata In its true sense, Raksha Bandhan is gender-neutral A Bangla lesson Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail at toiblogs@timesinternet.in with a brief bio and we will get in touch with you. TOI Edit Page,Voices Erratica,TOI Edit Page,Tracking Indian Communities Juggle-Bandhi,TOI Edit Page TOI Edit Page Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service