Though France has cultivated ties with India for decades, the relationship only became a partnership in 1998. Back then, India faced US sanctions because of its nuclear tests. Jacques Chirac, France’s president then, refused to condemn New Delhi and, instead, went ahead with the strategic partnership. Since then, bilateral ties have greatly deepened. For New Delhi, France is a major Western partner that allows its policymakers to diversify India’s diplomatic options. Contrary to the United States, France’s approach towards the Indo-Pacific does not impose the idea of a bipolar competition with China as a central driver. Rather than great power competition, Paris promotes a policy centred on ad hoc regional cooperation. Over the past five years, France has grown to become India’s second largest arms supplier, with 29 per cent of its orders. This is still far behind Russia (45 per cent) but much more than the US (11 per cent). This breakdown may evolve in coming years; many speculate the Russian share will decrease further. New Delhi may be looking to increase its imports from the US defence industry too, but its decision-makers are wary that an over-reliance on US arms could expose them to political pressures from Washington. This is why they are keen on balancing their rapprochement with the US through their partnership with France. Still, the French-Indian partnership will face challenges. At the economic level, bilateral relations have been less vibrant than politicians expected. Cooperation in the defence and space sectors is intense but less so in other domains. Though French investments in India have steadily increased, the European country is only the 11th investor in India. French companies often lament the intricacies of the Indian business environment that may demand years of efforts before a profit can be made. India does not have Canberra’s historical ties with Washington and is therefore unlikely to replicate that scenario. But if tensions escalate in the Indo-Pacific, India may consider a closer partnership with the US its safest bet. In that context, the French idea of a “third way” would quickly lose its appeal for India. Jean-Loup Samaan is a senior research fellow at the Middle East Institute of the National University of Singapore and a former adviser with the French Ministry of Defence and Nato