Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Entrepreneur Store
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Jason Fell
              


            May 12, 2023
          
 
          Share         
          Disclosure: Our goal is to feature products and services that we think you'll find interesting and useful. If you purchase them, Entrepreneur may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners.
       There is risk in running a business, but every bump along the way is a lesson for entrepreneurs. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, as many as 90% of startups fail. That may sound intimidating at first, but that just means businesses need to be careful when they're trying to scale up. The OWNBN Business Success Tool could help you scale your business by giving you access to professional courses on important topics and helping you save on essential software. Start saving and get a lifetime membership for just $79.99 (reg. $223). Scale smarter by accessing your over 100 hours of curated videos that may help you learn about social media marketing, building a strong business from the ground up, and becoming a successful Solopreneur. You can even access tips and guides for finding funding for your startup. If you're finding investors, don't forget to check out the pitch deck tips and guides. You'll also get access to a wide menu of curated interviews and podcasts that you can listen to or watch as many times as you want. If you're moving any functions of your business onto the cloud, make sure to see what kinds of software deals your membership opens up for you. Whether that means getting IBM Cloud Credits or access to Amazon AWS Services, it's up to you to find out. This membership is only available to new users. Once activated, you can access your deals from any modern browser on your desktop or mobile device. Start scaling up your startup with the information and tools to make it a success. For a limited time, get the OWNBN Business Success Toolkit: Lifetime Membership on sale for $79.99 (reg. $223). Prices subject to change.  Entrepreneur Leadership Network® Contributor Entrepreneur Store 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          The data is thought to have been collected over the past two decades.
         
          A hacking group allegedly leaked 2.7 billion pieces of data.
         
          I've helped many founders grow and scale their companies, and I've noticed that top business leaders often make a few key decisions early on. 
         
          Arsha Jones, founder and CEO of Capital City Mambo Sauce, wanted to satisfy a very specific craving — and it led to a seven-figure business.
         
          On her journey to disrupt the beauty industry with her brand OUI the People, here are three lessons founder Karen Young shares.
         
          As companies grow, developing internal talent to take on leadership roles becomes essential — especially when budgets are tight. Learn how to support first-time leaders and what they need to succeed.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
