LT Technology Services’s daily trend is bullish to sideways. RSI for monthly is showing sideways momentum. However, RSI for weekly and daily is showing bullish momentum. Based on option chain analysis, the range is between 3800 and 4300. Let’s plan a trade around this. Gift A Story Share member-only stories with your friends or family and help them read it for free. Gifting Limit Reached! Hey , no more stories left for you to gift. No worries! You will get a limit of 15 stories next month to share with your friends and family.  Stories Left! You can gift upto 15 stories in a month. LINK COPIED Worry not. You’re just a step away. It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits Log out of your current logged-in account  and log in again using your ET Prime credentials  to enjoy all member benefits.  To read full story, subscribe to ET Prime ₹34 per week 
                    Billed annually at 
                    ₹2499 ₹1749 Super Saver Sale - Flat 30% Off On ET Prime Membership Offer Exclusively For You Save up to Rs. 700/- ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 40% Off Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Offer Exclusively For You ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Freedom Offer Get flat 20% off on ETPrime     90 Days Prime access worth Rs999 unlocked for you Exclusive Economic Times Stories, Editorials & Expert opinion across 20+ sectors Stock analysis. Market Research. Industry Trends on 4000+ Stocks ​Get 1 Year Complimentary Subscription of TOI+ worth Rs.799/-​ Quick Links Trending Now Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Calculators Top Commodities Top Videos Top Definitions Private Companies Top Searched Companies Top Prime Articles Top Story Listing Top Slideshow Latest News Follow us on: Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed