By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:14 EDT, 10 May 2023   |  Updated:  04:14 EDT, 10 May 2023      View  comments  A race is on to ensure a brave little boy gets the lifesaving surgery he needs to finally take his first steps unassisted. Just like any other four-year-old, Reef Scoble loves The Wiggles, singing and playing with his friends. But unlike his mates, Reef can't walk independently or run around so he relies on a paediatric walker and crawling to get around. The Gold Coast preschooler has faced a series of daunting challenges since being diagnosed with spastic cerebral palsy, a condition caused by abnormal brain development that affects being able to control the muscles. Abnormal muscle tightness in his lower limbs makes getting around difficult for Reef as the condition takes a gradual a toll on his young body and has left him in constant pain. His only hope of being to walk independently is Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy surgery, which involves testing and cutting the abnormal nerve fibres in the lower spinal cord in a bid to eliminate or permanently reduce spasticity. Parents Alana Radford and Tim Scoble are scrambling to raise $130,000 needed to pay for their firstborn's surgery in US, hospital fees and intensive therapy so Reef can live an independent and pain-free life. Reef Scoble (pictured) needs lifechanging surgery so he can walk independently Ms Radford said the surgery will  be life-changer for her bubbly and determined son. 'Surgery would eliminate spasticity and Reef would no longer be in constant pain,' she told Daily Mail Australia. 'It would 100 per cent improve his quality of life and allow him walk independently. 'It's a life-changing opportunity. Reef is at the stage where if he was going to walk on his own, he would have taken his first steps by now so surgery is the next step.  ' Reef wears orthotics, has had multiple rounds of Botox in his legs and serial casting on his feet The Gold Coast community have rallied around the family to raise more than $45,000 and have 10 weeks left to raise the rest. A surgeon is scheduled to operate on Reef in St Louis, Missouri on July 18. 'Reef is now at the age where he understands the symptoms of his cerebral palsy are putting limitations on things that he wants to and tries to do,' Ms Radford said. 'He's super excited that he may soon be able to walk without his walker.  He's a very intelligent, determined and resilient boy who wants to succeed and do all the things his friends do.' Reef was all smiles at his fourth birthday party recently, despite his legs and feet being in pain  Reef (pictured as a premmie baby) was born at 30  weeks and was diagnosed with spastic cerebral palsy Reef weighed 1.9kg when he was born 10 weeks early in 2019 and spent the first two months of his life in hospital. After he finally arrived home, his parents and friends noticed his body was always stiff, had difficulty with movement and wasn't reaching his milestones. Reef was diagnosed with spastic cerebral palsy at 16 months. 'My world came crashing down at the time as I didn't know what the future would like,' Ms Radford recalled. 'Tim and I have always been Reef's biggest advocates determined to give him the best life possible.' 'My hope now for Reef is that the surgery doesn't let anything stop him and that he can achieve anything he wants to do.' Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy surgery would allow Reef (pictured at a Wiggles concert) enjoy a better quality of life Tim Scoble and Alana Radford (pictured with son Reef) have until July to raise $130,000  The upcoming surgery costs almost $US67,000 alone. The family must also scrape together additional funds for travel, accommodation and post-surgery therapy, which will continue when Reef returns home. 'Tim works as a chef and Alana is an admin assistant,' an online fundraiser states. 'The cost of surgery is beyond our financial capacity and this is why we are asking for community support.' The family have also set up a Facebook page and shared a heartwarming video documenting Reef's journey. 'We're staying positive that we can raise money for Reef's surgery,' Ms Radford said. 'Once people meet Reef, everyone wants to be in his corner and get around him.' Alana (left) hopes to see the day Reef will no longer need to his walker to get around Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group