Due to the downward trend in respiratory viruses in Maryland, masking is no longer required but remains strongly recommended in Johns Hopkins Medicine clinical locations in Maryland. Read more. The experts at the Johns Hopkins Hydrocephalus and Cerebral Fluid Center evaluate and treat patients with all forms of disorders affecting cerebral fluid (also called cerebrospinal fluid, CSF or spinal fluid), including conditions related to the accumulation of CSF in the brain (hydrocephalus). We offer a unique environment where neurosurgeons, neurologists, pain experts and therapists work together to provide patients with well-rounded treatments. People who experience hydrocephalus since childhood find a comfortable transition from pediatric to adult care at our center. Learn more about: Our Team | Appointments | Tests and Procedures | Patient Stories | Clinical Trials Request an Appointment: 410-955-7482 Our multi-specialty team includes neurosurgeons, neurologists, a geriatrician, as well as advanced practitioners (physician assistants and nurse practitioners) who work together to develop a custom treatment plan for each patient. The Johns Hopkins Hydrocephalus and Cerebral Fluid Center continues a 100-year legacy of research and treatment for patients diagnosed with hydrocephalus and CSF disorders. Hear from leaders in the field who are working to advance surgical approaches and improve diagnosis and follow-up, and from the patients who are benefiting from this work. As part of evaluation or treatment, we may perform multiple diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. We hope to eliminate misdiagnosis that commonly happens in patients with hydrocephalus, and to provide the best medical and surgical treatment so you can regain health and continue to lead a productive, meaningful life. 
Neurologic evaluation, including gate and balance testing
Neuro-ophthalmological examination, including testing of the vision function
 
Stenting helps open up narrowed passageways that carry blood and CSF from the brain to the jugular veins and eventually to the heart.
 
Shunt placement to help drain cerebrospinal fluid and redirect it to another location in the body where it can be reabsorbed.
Shunt patency study to evaluate shunt performance
 
Lumbar puncture to measure CSF pressure
Removing a larger volume of CSF to assess and temporarily relieve symptoms of hydrocephalus
Lumbar drain for extended CSF drainage to assess a potential benefit of a shunt
 
Helps detect changes in pressure over time and can be done in two ways:

Lumbar ​via a lumbar catheter
Direct via a small pressure-sensitive probe inserted through the skull


  Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus: Patricia's Story Pseudotumor Cerebri: Ashley’s Story Pediatric neurosurgeon Dody Robinson and neuroscientist Lauren Jantzie have been collaborating on research to better understand the disease processes that cause brain damage in infants and to identify targeted therapies that might prevent and reverse the hydrocephalus. Pediatric neurosurgeon Dody Robinson and neuroscientist Lauren Jantzie have been collaborating on research to better understand the disease processes that cause brain damage in infants and to identify targeted therapies that might prevent and reverse the hydrocephalus. When you call to schedule your appointment, we may ask you to prepare and send us the following items to help with scheduling: · If you have a shunt, pacemaker, stent or any metallic implant, please forward operative notes from your surgeon with details of the make and type of the device. The device type determines if an MRI is safe for you. Knowing the type of shunt also helps us choose the best way to assess if the shunt is working as it should. Please complete the MRI screening form for your safety. Please complete the Physician to Physician Request and return using the contact information below. Use the following information to send records and referrals to our center. After we receive all the requested information, a physician reviews it to determine if additional studies are needed during your visit. This review can take up to 7 days. ATTN: Tammy Counts
Cerebral Fluid Center
The Johns Hopkins Hospital, Phipps 126
600 North Wolfe Street
Baltimore, MD 21287-1454 Phone: 410-955-7482
Fax: 410-955-9126 We generally schedule new patients within 3 to 4 weeks for routine appointments. We can see some patients within 7 to 10 days if an urgent assessment is needed. If you need tests in addition to your clinic visit (such as MRIs, shunt patency studies, lumbar punctures, ICP monitoring or extended CSF drainage), it may take longer to coordinate all appointments so you can complete them in a single visit. Evaluating cerebral fluid disorders requires certain sequences to be performed during the MRI procedure to ensure accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment. If the MRI you had does not provide the level of detail necessary, we may recommend further MRI studies. Occasionally, based on findings on your neurologic exam, an MRI of the spine may also be recommended. If your insurance permits, we prefer that MRI is done in our facility using special protocols developed for CSF disorders by our experts. If you make an appointment with us, we will download these images into Johns Hopkins electronic system so our experts can view them. The fee for this download ranges from about $13 - $133 depending on the complexity of the exam, and most insurance companies will cover their portion of this charge. Some test results will be available the same day as your clinic visit, while other radiology exams may require a specialist review and can take up to 5 days for a final report. Certain blood tests are sent to specialty labs and can take up to 3 or 4 weeks. Please call the ordering physician to confirm the reports. In this research study, researchers are studying how well cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunt systems work in decreasing the symptoms of hydrocephalus.  View more CSF and hydrocephalus clinical trials active at Johns Hopkins on clinicaltrials.gov. Adult Neurology: 410-955-9441 | Pediatric Neurology: 410-955-4259
Adult Neurosurgery: 410-955-6406 | Pediatric Neurosurgery: 410-955-7337 Existing Patients: Schedule a follow-up appointment through MyChart