One year ago, Cerebral was soaring. In December 2021, it scored $300 million in a funding round led by SoftBank Vision Fund 2. It called itself the fastest-growing mental-health company. Valued at $4.8 billion, the startup provided therapy and medication for conditions including anxiety, depression, and ADHD.  But Cerebral quickly came crashing down. The startup faced scrutiny for how it prescribed medication with potential for addiction, including stimulants like Adderall, online. Nurses told news outlets they felt pressured to prescribe the medications in visits that were too short. Cerebral struggled to care for people with serious mental-health conditions, including bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, and sometimes prescribed drugs with potential for addiction to patients who were vulnerable to misusing them, Insider reported in June. It has halted most prescriptions for those kinds of drugs and fired its founder, though it still prescribes certain controlled drugs to treat opioid addiction, as well as noncontrolled medications, such as antidepressants and antipsychotics. And the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Department of Justice are investigating its prescribing practices, Insider first reported in May. Now Cerebral is fighting for its survival. Its future is in the hands of its new CEO, Dr. David Mou, who's been with the company since 2021 as its chief medical officer. While the company has pinned its problems on the ousted CEO Kyle Robertson, Mou, a Harvard-trained psychiatrist, was in charge of ensuring the quality of Cerebral's care at the height of its prescribing problems.  In a statement to Insider, a spokesperson for Cerebral said that the company is not fighting for its survival and that its clinicians do not struggle to care for their patients. She added that Cerebral is advancing behavioral health by incorporating technology, such as measuring clinical outcomes through surveys. 
                          
                        Mou said in November that the company was betting its future on a far more difficult task than the prescribing that turned it into a unicorn: improving care for vulnerable patients with serious mental illness. To pull this off, Cerebral is hiring more nurses with psychiatric training and developed a tool to detect suicidal content in patients' messages, he said. As part of the shift, Cerebral laid off 20% of its workers and wound down some business lines. However, treating complex patients has historically been a challenge for Cerebral. Insider reported in June that Cerebral enrolled patients with complex conditions, such as bipolar disorder, and assigned them to clinicians who lacked sufficient training, oversight, and support to treat them. The reporting was based on a review of 2,060 company incident reports, interviews, and other internal documents.  The spokesperson said that while Cerebral is committed to providing high-quality care for all of its patients, especially the most vulnerable, the majority of its patients are people with mild to moderate depression and anxiety. At times, these clinicians prescribed risky medications with abandon, which led to missed side effects, hospitalizations, and confusion, the investigation indicated. Some Cerebral clinicians told Insider they were uncomfortable treating the patients assigned to them and felt their licenses were at risk. 
                                Related stories
                               Cerebral said that its providers exercise their own independent clinical judgment, and have sufficient training, oversight, and support. That includes access to UpToDate, a decision-support resource, and the option to consult with psychiatrists at the company about patient cases. "No clinician should treat a patient if they are uncomfortable doing so, which Cerebral has made clear to its clinicians," the spokesperson said in the statement. Mou oversaw some of the practices that landed Cerebral in hot water, such as encouraging clinicians to prescribe Adderall widely, internal documents reviewed by Insider suggested.  Plus, Robertson has said Mou "was responsible for the very prescription policies the government is currently investigating," according to a leaked letter he sent to Cerebral in November. Many online mental-health startups shy away from treating patients with serious mental illness. It's difficult to do without a brick-and-mortar presence, it's expensive, and there are already established community mental-health providers that have close relationships with local behavioral-health authorities and Medicaid agencies, said Steve Ramsland, the CEO of Catalyst Health Resources, where he advises digital mental-health companies. "Part of me wants to applaud innovators for wanting to tackle tougher patients and make improvements for people with serious mental illness," Ramsland said. But he added that "I have a hard time seeing how a pure telehealth company delivering psychiatry, pharmacy, therapy, care management can really be successful" at treating these patients. In the past few years, highly funded startups have tried to disrupt mental-health care and struggled. Cerebral's next steps will dictate its future, and its story could influence what's ahead for online mental-health care. Cerebral launched in 2020 and was one of the few online mental-health startups to capitalize on a temporary change that allowed online prescriptions of highly regulated substances. The ability to prescribe drugs like Adderall turbocharged its business. But as concern over its prescribing practices mounted, some major health insurers severed ties with Cerebral. Some pharmacies, including its preferred-pharmacy partner, Truepill, stopped filling its prescriptions for controlled substances. The DEA in December moved to revoke Truepill's license to fill prescriptions for controlled drugs. Cerebral still works with many insurers, the spokesperson said. Now Mou is trying to burnish the startup's reputation by touting changes the company has made. But his involvement in Cerebral's questionable prescribing practices has cast a shadow over those efforts. In December 2021, Mou signed off on a program meant to increase stimulant prescriptions, in part by emailing clinicians and asking them to reassess cases in which they hadn't prescribed stimulants, according to an internal document recently reviewed by Insider. The program was directed toward increasing, over a period of months, the percentage of ADHD patients with no other medical conditions treated with stimulants to "near 100%" from 52.7% in November 2021, according to the document. The Wall Street Journal earlier reported details of the program. Mou has defended the practice of prescribing stimulants to patients with ADHD, since they're considered first-line treatments. Earlier in the year, the company had found that ADHD patients treated with stimulants subscribed to Cerebral for longer periods than other patients, according to a slide from an internal presentation from July 2021 recently reviewed by Insider. "Consider expanding ADHD more quickly," the slide reads. There were consequences to Cerebral's push into controlled medications and its decision in May to cease prescribing them. A former Cerebral provider told Insider the ban was frustrating because many patients who were improving on the drugs lost access to care at Cerebral. She worked to connect more than 100 of them to other resources such as local clinics.  Clinicians who worked for the company are still dealing with the fallout. Some have had trouble getting prescriptions they write for controlled substances filled at certain pharmacies because of their past or current affiliations with the startup, two of them told Insider. Cerebral's troubles have become a lesson on chasing growth at the expense of patients. Investors and industry observers told Insider the events at Cerebral inspired more caution. "There was too much exuberance, too much capital chasing, too many undifferentiated companies," Eric Larsen, the president of The Advisory Board Company, a healthcare consulting firm, told Insider. He said it's becoming harder for companies to raise money, which forces them to pull back or merge with rivals. Some venture capitalists attribute Cerebral's rise to an era when raising funds was easier and some big investors failed to adequately scrutinize the companies they backed. They say this period of cheap capital gave founders the edge in negotiations for investments, and healthcare-industry outsiders like SoftBank placed bets quickly and valued startups too highly. Even so, traditional healthcare investors, such as Oak HC/FT, backed Cerebral, too, and some are betting on other startups that have come under scrutiny over claims of putting growth ahead of patients.  As capital has become more expensive, and mental-health startups proliferate, being good at practicing medicine is the best way to stand out now, Michael Yang, a managing director at OMERS Ventures, told Insider. Dr. Caroline Carney, the president of the health insurer Magellan Health's behavioral-health arm, said there needed to be more federal oversight of the online mental-health space.  "The spotlight has been put on Cerebral because they have or had a real problem," Carney said. "But the broader question we should be talking about is what is quality behavioral healthcare? What does that mean, and how are we going to measure it or monitor it?" 
                                Read next
                               Jump to