The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Anna Baluch or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Anna Baluch,
                                                    Abram Bailey, Au.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. The Whisper Hearing System is a subscription-style hearing aid option that pairs hearing aids with an artificial intelligence (AI) powered, pocket-sized wireless processor that adjusts hearing aid settings based on the user’s listening experience and pushes software upgrades to the hearing aids as they become available. While the monthly fees might be expensive for some people, the company intends to keep user costs manageable by updating their existing hearing aids rather than requiring device replacements as technology evolves. After witnessing the effects of hearing loss on their loved ones and how little traditional hearing aids helped them, Whisper Hearing System founders Dwight Crow, Andrew Song and Shlomo Zippel set out to design a better hearing solution. “They were inspired to build a new kind of hearing aid company that combined convenient, accessible telehealth audiology care with a device that didn’t just have the best audio processing the day it was made, but one that could learn and actually get better over time,” explains Joey Hawilo, the director of growth and ecommerce at Whisper. Similar to traditional hearing aids, the Whisper Hearing System includes two RIC hearing aids through which the user experiences sound. Where it differs is its use of the Whisper Brain, a portable processor that uses AI to both power Whisper’s sound separation engine and provide system upgrades in real time. The Whisper System also includes an app that offers remote volume and setting control, as well as real-time battery readings for both the hearing aids and the Brain device. While the hearing aids can work independently of the Brain, the remote accessory must remain within range of the hearing aids in order for them to use the sound separation engine, as well as enjoy hands-free calling and maintain access to the volume control. The Brain provides significant processing power that hearing aids cannot maintain on their own. The user should charge the Brain daily before use and keep it in their pocket or purse so it’s always nearby. With the Brain powered on, the user turns on the hearing aids (which sync with the Brain) and places them in their ears. They can then use the mobile app to adjust the volume and settings for the hearing aids. The “dynamic” setting adjusts to the user’s environment automatically, and the “custom” setting lets the user set the system to accommodate various situations, such as being outdoors or watching television. Whisper offers a 60-day, risk-free trial of the system, giving users a chance to test it out and determine whether it works for them. Once a user signs up for the trial, Whisper ships a full system to their door. Next, the user arranges to meet with one of Whisper’s audiologists virtually, at which time they complete a hearing test in the comfort of their home. Whisper uses the results of this test to customize the settings of the system for the user. The audiologist also walks the user through how to use the Whisper system and answers any questions. At the end of the 60-day trial, the user can decide whether to keep the system or send it back for a full refund. Those who keep the system will receive regular software updates via the Brain as they become available, keeping the hearing aids in line with the latest technology, according to the company. Whisper offers two payment options: a one-time payment of $2,449 or a monthly payment plan of $69 per month for 36 months. Paying for the system in full upfront saves the user $35. With both payment options, the user receives all the system components and accessories they need to get started, regular updates, three years of expert telehealth professional care and a three-year warranty that provides both loss and damage coverage. Whisper customers also maintain access to ongoing support throughout this time. As customers approach their third year of service, they can contact the company for information regarding continued support for their system. While Whisper doesn’t accept health insurance to cover the costs of the system, many insurance providers can reimburse customers for their Whisper purchase, according to Hawilo. “I think the use of AI in hearing aids is compelling,” says Ruth Reisman, Au.D., an audiologist at Urban Hearing in New York. “It’s definitely the way of the future. These hearing aids can learn a patient’s usage and adjust for environmental factors and continue to improve over time.” For patients who are tech savvy, within the fitting range of the device and medically cleared for hearing devices, Whisper could be a great option that also has virtual telehealth support, says Dr. Reisman. However, with Whisper, they’re limited to the RIC style and may not be able to continue using the system should their degree of hearing loss grow more severe. “For those who are less tech savvy and don’t have family support, this [system] may not be the ideal option,” she adds. Some reviewers are impressed by the sound quality Whisper offers. One HearingTracker reviewer writes: “Sound quality seems pretty good so far. I can hear well behind me now. I hear lots of things in and around my house that I didn’t know existed, which is great. I think these [hearing aids] do a much better job of providing the missing high frequency sound instead of just making things louder. Negative reviews, however, report issues with the Brain. Another HearingTracker reviewer shares: “They work well enough, but I’m finding connectivity with the Brain to be intermittent through my phone, and that’s the main reason I purchased these hearing aids. When the Brain does work, it seems to help, so I’m holding out for the fix and then will decide whether to keep them.” Whisper is accredited by the Better Business Bureau (BBB) and maintains an A+ rating with the organization. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Anna Baluch is a freelance writer from Cleveland, Ohio. She enjoys writing about a variety of health and personal finance topics. When she's away from her laptop, she can be found working out, trying new restaurants, and spending time with her family. Connect to her on LinkedIn.
			 
				Abram Bailey, Au.D. is a leading expert on hearing enhancement technology and a staunch advocate for person-centered hearing care and audiological best practices. Dr. Bailey holds a doctoral degree in audiology from Vanderbilt University Medical Center. He is the chief executive officer of Hearing Tracker, Inc., an independent shopping resource that helps find and compare hearing aids, and a cofounder at HearAdvisor, an independent hearing aid sound performance lab.
			