We have opening point spreads and betting lines for the Kansas City Chiefs’ divisional-round matchup with the Jacksonville Jaguars. According to Tipico Sportsbook, Kansas City (14-3) are 8.5-point favorites over Jacksonville next Saturday (10-8). The over/under point total is set at 51.5  points scored, which is 1.5 points more than their regular season matchup (27-17). The money line is now -380 for the Chiefs, giving K.C. a 79.17% implied win probability. Keep in mind this Kansas City team is now 6-10-1 against the spread this season and they’re also 8-9 on the over/under point total in their last 17 games. Oddsmakers were pretty spot on with the point spread back in Week 10. The Chiefs were favored by 10 points and they beat the Jaguars by 10 points. This Jacksonville team has clearly improved in the eight weeks since that game. They’re going to be heading into Kansas City with a major chip on their shoulder after the comeback win against the Los Angeles Chargers in the wild-card round. As for the Chiefs, they’ll look to keep Andy Reid’s record of post-bye week success alive. He has an 87.1% winning percentage after the bye week during his NFL career (combined regular season and postseason games). Extra time to prepare has always been a boon for his team and should prove to be the case again in the divisional round. For more information on the rest of the NFL and college football, please check out our sister site, Sportsbook Wire. Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside.
 Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy 
				Please re-enter your email address.			 
			You'll now receive the top Chiefs Wire stories each day directly in your inbox.		 





 
				© Copyright Chiefs Wire 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		