Without revealing when the problems started, the rail giant said operations gradually resumed from 7.41pm. It also promised to update passengers on any service disruptions through the high-speed rail website, its mobile app and announcements at stations. The MTR Corp said affected passengers would be able to seek refunds within 30 days on the online ticketing platform 12306 or the related mobile app, as well as at the West Kowloon terminus. Some passengers had complained on mainland Chinese social media platform Xiaohongshu that they were stuck on trains for at least half an hour while others were left stranded at the West Kowloon terminus for an hour or more before the corporation announced the service suspension. Passenger Jack Chen, 47, said he had expected to arrive in Hong Kong at about 6pm but his train was stuck at Futian station in Shenzhen for two hours. Chen, an IT entrepreneur, said it was announced on the train that the service problem had been resolved at about 7.45pm, and he finally arrived in Hong Kong at around 8.15pm. “Some people on the train became impatient and had arguments with some crew members when they were not sure how long the delay would be,” he said. One Xiaohongshu user reported having plans to visit Hong Kong on Saturday evening for a classical music concert, and had boarded a train at Shenzhen North station that was set to depart just after 6pm. However, the train left Shenzhen North more than 10 minutes late, the user said, and was then stuck for another hour or so at Futian station. “People were starting to get really frustrated – some had flights to catch,” the user said. “Staff began counting the number of people who wanted to get off right there and then, and finally after another half an hour, we were allowed to leave the train at 8pm.” But passengers were then notified that services at West Kowloon had returned to normal and they were asked to board the train again. “We got moving again at 8.08pm, but unfortunately, I missed the Tchaikovsky violin concerto I had been looking forward to for such a long time.” Traffic at the terminus had been busy earlier in the day with Hong Kong celebrating the 26th anniversary of its return to Chinese rule. Saturday also marked the start of three long-haul routes to Leshan, Yibin West and Chengdu in Sichuan province while the frequency of services was increased to Guangzhou East, Shenzhen North and Futian. The corporation said the high-speed rail network now covered 69 destinations while the daily frequency had risen 11 per cent to 182 trains.