PARSIPPANY, N.J., July  25, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Lincoln Educational Services Corporation LINC ("Lincoln") announced today that it will host a conference call to discuss its second quarter financial results on Monday, August 7, 2023 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time. A news release outlining Lincoln's results will be issued before 9:30 a.m. Eastern time on that day. To access the live webcast of the conference call, please go to the investor relations section of Lincoln's website at http://www.lincolntech.edu. Participants may also register via teleconference at: Q2 2023 Lincoln Educational Services Earnings Conference Call. Once registration is completed, participants will be provided with a dial-in number containing a personalized PIN to access the call. Participants are requested to register a day in advance or at a minimum 15 minutes before the start of the call. An archived version of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days at http://www.lincolntech.edu. About Lincoln Educational Services Corporation  Lincoln Educational Services Corporation is a leading provider of diversified career-oriented post-secondary education. Lincoln offers recent high school graduates and working adults career-oriented programs in five principal areas of study: automotive technology, health sciences, skilled trades, business and information technology, and hospitality services. Lincoln has provided the workforce with skilled technicians since its inception in 1946. Lincoln currently operates 22 campuses in 14 states under 4 brands: Lincoln College of Technology, Lincoln Technical Institute, Lincoln Culinary Institute and Euphoria Institute of Beauty Arts and Sciences. For more information, go to www.lincolntech.edu. CONTACT:         Lincoln Educational Services Corporation Brian Meyers, CFO 973-736-9340 EVC Group LLC  Michael Polyviou, mpolyviou@evcgroup.com  732-933-2754   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.