
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  Fort Collins, Colorado, Oct. 01, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- DataHorizzon Research Published a report titled, "Electronic health Records market Size, Growth, Share, Statistics Report, By Product (Client Server Based & Web Based), By Type (Acute, Post Ambulatory y, Post-acute), By End-use (Hospital & Ambulatory), By Business Models (Licensed Software, technology Resale, Subscription, Professional Services, Others), By Region, And Segment Forecasts, 2023-2032."    According to DataHorizzon Research, The electronic health records market was valued at USD 31.7 Billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 53.5 Billion by 2032 with a CAGR of 5.5%.  The report comprehensively analyzes the market conditions at global and regional levels in the healthcare and clinical sectors. It also highlights the collaborative strategies between key players and their overall impact on the global market. Implementing electronic health records (EHR) helps in exchanging health information electronically and provides accurate, up-to-date information that helps deliver better and more managed care for patients along with a safer and more reliable prescription. Also, it reduces the paperwork and encourages the use of digital data, which drives the market for EHR. Moreover, it can cut administrative costs, including the need for transcriptions, physical charts, storage, and claims, thus reducing the turnaround time for hard copy communication between labs, pharmacies, and insurance providers. EHR enhances the privacy and security of medical records over traditional paperwork. Also, it preserves the legit and complete documentation for streamlined coding and billing. With the implementation of EHR, the databases have helped improve patient and provider interaction along with healthcare convenience. The introduction of big data in healthcare is helping the market to grow further. The continuous data collection of the patients allows the healthcare providers to address the prevailing and expected upcoming health issues, such as the chances of flu or pandemics. This helps the government to prepare for the upcoming conditions in a preventive way. Health records are also turning digital, increasing government and corporate investments. Besides, the emphasis on strong and dedicated IT infrastructure is helping to fasten the deployment of electronic health records.    Request Sample Report:         Report Snapshot:       Report Title    Electronic Health Records Market     Market Size in 2022   USD 31.7 Billion     Market Size by 2032   USD 53.5 Billion     CAGR from 2023 to 2032   5.5%     Largest Market   North America     Forecast Period   2023 to 2032     Historic Period   2021     Base Year   2022     Report Scope & Coverage   Market size, estimations, competitor analysis, trends, and growth factors     By Product   Client server-based & web-based     By Type   Acute & post ambulatory, post-acute     By End-use   Hospital & ambulatory     By Business Models   Licensed software, technology resale, subscription, professional services, others     Region   North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, and Middle East & Africa.     Countries Covered   U.S., Canada, U.K., Germany, France, China, Japan, India, Brazil, Mexico, UAE, Saudi Arabia, and South Africa, among others     Major Market Players   Cerner Corporation (Oracle), GE Healthcare, Allscripts Healthcare, McKesson Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, NextGen Healthcare, Inc. (McAfee), eClinicalWorks, Medical Information Technology, Health Information Management Systems, CPSI, CureMD Healthcare, Greenway Health.      Electronics Health Records Market Report Highlights:     The global electronic health records market size is anticipated to grow to USD 53.5 billion at a CAGR of 5.5% by 2032.     The electronic health records market growth is highly anticipated due to the growing need for digital systems to collect, sort, and analyze patient data. In addition, the digitization of clinical records is paramount to the healthcare industry based on the massive data generation in the clinical industry.     The hospital segment accounted for a larger share in 2022 based on end-use. EHRs are widely deployed in hospitals for better patient clinical records access.     By end-use, the acute care segment is dominant due to rapid access to clinical data during emergencies.     North America has a large footprint in the global market and is anticipated to grow higher in the forthcoming years, mainly due to the dominance of digital mediums across the healthcare infrastructure.     Some prominent players in the electronic health records market report include Cerner Corporation (Oracle), GE Healthcare, Allscripts Healthcare, McKesson Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, NextGen Healthcare, Inc. (McAfee), eClinicalWorks, Medical Information Technology, Health Information Management Systems, CPSI, Broadcom, and Greenway Health.     Buy This Research Report:         Key Developments in the Industry:     In April 2023, Saint Joseph's Medical Center, located in Austin, Texas, extended Oracle's Health Electronic Record (EHR) and patient accounting throughout all its locations. With the deployment, the facility intends to consolidate the systems to make patient records consistent and accessible throughout the hospital and ambulatory care facilities.     In Aug 2023, the Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS) Australia-based remote health services provider launched electronic health records powered by Oracle Cloud Infrastructure and Oracle Autonomous Database to simplify clinical data collection and analysis to support faster decision-making in the clinical staff.     Looking Exclusively For Region/Country Specific Report?         OR     Ask For Discount         Electronic Health Records Market Report Segmentation:     Electronic Health Records Market, By Product (2023-2032)     Client Server Based   Web Based     Electronic Health Records Market, By Type (2023-2032)     Acute   Post Ambulatory     Electronic Health Records Market, By End-use (2023-2032)     Hospital   Ambulatory     Electronic Health Records Market, By Business Models (2023-2032)     Licensed Software   TECHNOLOGY RESALE   Subscription   Professional Services   Others     Electronic Health Records Market, By Region (2023-2032)     North America   U.S.   Canada      Europe   U.K.   Germany   France   Rest of Europe      Asia Pacific   China   India   Japan   South Korea   Rest of Asia Pacific      Latin America   Brazil   Mexico   Rest Latin America      Middle East & Africa   UAE   Saudi Arabia   South Africa   Rest of Middle East & Africa      About DataHorizzon Research:   DataHorizzon is a market research and advisory company that assists organizations across the globe in formulating growth strategies for changing business dynamics. Its offerings include consulting services across enterprises and business insights to make actionable decisions. DHR's comprehensive research methodology for predicting long-term and sustainable trends in the market facilitates complex decisions for organizations.   Contact:     Mail:     Ph:  +1-970-672-0390   Website:     Follow Us:  LinkedIn      Recent Publications   Dental Implants Market 2023 to 2032 Biopesticides Market 2023 to 2032 Disposable Gloves Market 2023 to 2032 Home Healthcare Market 2023 to 2032 Oral Care Market 2023 to 2032   Tags Electronic Health Records EHR Market EHR Market Size EHR Market Growth EHR Market Value Related Links   Cancer Diagnostics Market   Status Epilepticus Market   Stem Cells Market   Coronary Stent Market   Digital Health Market   Digital Genome Market   Cancer Immunotherapy Market   Contact Lenses Market   Dermatology Devices Market   Small Scale Bioreactors Market   Wearable Injectors Market   Exosomes Market   Remote Patient Monitoring Market   Sleep Apnea Devices Market   Telehealth Market   DNA Synthesizer Market   Cell Therapy Market  MENAFN01102023004107003653ID1107172425    According to DataHorizzon Research, The electronic health records market was valued at USD 31.7 Billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 53.5 Billion by 2032 with a CAGR of 5.5%.  The report comprehensively analyzes the market conditions at global and regional levels in the healthcare and clinical sectors. It also highlights the collaborative strategies between key players and their overall impact on the global market. Implementing electronic health records (EHR) helps in exchanging health information electronically and provides accurate, up-to-date information that helps deliver better and more managed care for patients along with a safer and more reliable prescription. Also, it reduces the paperwork and encourages the use of digital data, which drives the market for EHR. Moreover, it can cut administrative costs, including the need for transcriptions, physical charts, storage, and claims, thus reducing the turnaround time for hard copy communication between labs, pharmacies, and insurance providers. EHR enhances the privacy and security of medical records over traditional paperwork. Also, it preserves the legit and complete documentation for streamlined coding and billing. With the implementation of EHR, the databases have helped improve patient and provider interaction along with healthcare convenience. The introduction of big data in healthcare is helping the market to grow further. The continuous data collection of the patients allows the healthcare providers to address the prevailing and expected upcoming health issues, such as the chances of flu or pandemics. This helps the government to prepare for the upcoming conditions in a preventive way. Health records are also turning digital, increasing government and corporate investments. Besides, the emphasis on strong and dedicated IT infrastructure is helping to fasten the deployment of electronic health records.    Request Sample Report:         Report Snapshot:     Electronics Health Records Market Report Highlights:     Buy This Research Report:         Key Developments in the Industry:     Looking Exclusively For Region/Country Specific Report?         OR     Ask For Discount         Electronic Health Records Market Report Segmentation:     Electronic Health Records Market, By Product (2023-2032)     Electronic Health Records Market, By Type (2023-2032)     Electronic Health Records Market, By End-use (2023-2032)     Electronic Health Records Market, By Business Models (2023-2032)     Electronic Health Records Market, By Region (2023-2032)     About DataHorizzon Research:   DataHorizzon is a market research and advisory company that assists organizations across the globe in formulating growth strategies for changing business dynamics. Its offerings include consulting services across enterprises and business insights to make actionable decisions. DHR's comprehensive research methodology for predicting long-term and sustainable trends in the market facilitates complex decisions for organizations.   Contact:     Mail:     Ph:  +1-970-672-0390   Website:     Follow Us:  LinkedIn      Recent Publications   Dental Implants Market 2023 to 2032 Biopesticides Market 2023 to 2032 Disposable Gloves Market 2023 to 2032 Home Healthcare Market 2023 to 2032 Oral Care Market 2023 to 2032  MENAFN01102023004107003653ID1107172425 MENAFN01102023004107003653ID1107172425 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN