
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- News Direct)            New York, NY | April 26, 2023 01:59 PM Eastern Daylight Time Meme generation platform aidoge ($ai) launched its much-anticipated crypto presale today, and investors proved ready to jump in. The project raised $105,000 within minutes of the presale going live.That's impressive by the standards of any new token launch, but AiDoge was built with virality in mind. The project leverages artificial intelligence (AI) to create new memes based on text prompts from users. It's poised to be a highly efficient tool that anyone can use to create the next fan-favorite meme.Investors can buy $Ai during the first stage of the presale at a price of $0.00002600. The AiDog team plans to launch $Ai on exchanges at a price of $0.00003360, so early investors could earn paper gains of 29.3% even before trading takes off.The price of $Ai will rise once the presale raises $650,000. So there's no time to waste to lock in the lowest price for this exciting new token.AiDoge combines the best of AI tech and meme coinsAiDoge is launching in a red-hot environment for AI technology and meme coins.Some of the most recent cryptocurrencies in this market include Pepe Coin, Conflux, The Graph, and Singularity. All four of these tokens generated triple-digit returns for investors within days of launching.The rapid investment into the aidoge presale signals that investors are still hungry for more projects at the intersection of AI and memes.Investors who missed out on the skyrocketing prices of Pepe Coin or Conflux may have another chance to earn exceptional returns with AiDoge.AiDoge makes it easy to create viral memes with AIInvestors may come to AiDoge looking for a pump, but they'll stay thanks to the coin's long-term value. This project aims to make it easier than ever before for users to create viral new memes.AiDoge uses the same AI technology as ChatGPT and DALL-e. Users simply feed it a text prompt and AiDoge will do the hard work of turning it into a meme. It only takes seconds to go from an idea to a ready-to-publish meme that can spread across the internet like wildfire.AiDoge's algorithm has been trained on an enormous dataset of memes and crypto news to ensure the memes it generates are always up to date and high-quality.The platform offers a straightforward user experience so that even novice meme-makers can turn their wildest ideas into memes in minutes. It can also push veteran memesters to a new level of creativity.  visit aidoge  Top meme creators earn $Ai rewardsTo encourage inventiveness on the platform, AiDoge has established a rewards system for the top memesters.All of the memes generated with AiDoge will be displayed on a public wall for users to explore. The wall can be sorted and filtered to make it easy for users to discover the best new memes in their favorite niche.Users can vote on their favorite memes and the most popular creations are chosen at the end of each month. The creators behind these top-rated memes earn $Ai rewards.Even better, as the aidoge community grows, so do the monthly rewards for top creators. That means that as there's more competition for creating the best new memes, the prize for being more inventive than everyone else gets bigger.This system is designed to encourage creators to think outside the box and use AiDoge to the full extent of its capabilities. These ever-better memes will also serve as a viral advertisement for AiDoge, encouraging new memesters from across the internet to give this platform a try.The public wall resets each month, so there's always room for exciting new memesters to make it to the top of the leaderboard.$Ai offers staking rewards and utilityThe $Ai token plays a central role in the AiDoge ecosystem.First, memesters can use $Ai to purchase credits to generate memes using AiDoge's platform.Users can also stake $Ai tokens to earn rewards. Rewards will primarily be in the form of daily credits to use for meme generation. This means that users who own $Ai and stake it can use AiDoge without paying for credits every time they want to create a new meme.Finally, $Ai is used to reward top memesters for creating viral content. It can also be given as a reward to community members for voting on memes on AiDoge's public wall.AIDoge's smart contract has been fully audited by Certik and will be made available on the presale soon. Users can feel confident that $Ai staked to this decentralized blockchain-based platform is completely safe.AiDoge presale is headed to the moonAiDoge's presale is progressing at breakneck speed, with more than $100,000 raised within a few minutes of launch. If the presale continues at that pace, the first price raise for $Ai could come in less than a day.So, investors have no time to lose to lock in the best price for $Ai. During the presale, investors can buy $Ai with Ethereum, Tether, Binance Coin, or a credit or debit card.  visit aidoge  twitter | instagram | discord | telegram community DISCLAIMER: This is not to be taken as investment advice. Crypto is a volatile asset, do your own research before investing and only invest money you can afford to lose. We may receive commission for clicking links in this article.MENAFN26042023005728012573ID1106104680  Meme generation platform aidoge ($ai) launched its much-anticipated crypto presale today, and investors proved ready to jump in. The project raised $105,000 within minutes of the presale going live. That's impressive by the standards of any new token launch, but AiDoge was built with virality in mind. The project leverages artificial intelligence (AI) to create new memes based on text prompts from users. It's poised to be a highly efficient tool that anyone can use to create the next fan-favorite meme. Investors can buy $Ai during the first stage of the presale at a price of $0.00002600. The AiDog team plans to launch $Ai on exchanges at a price of $0.00003360, so early investors could earn paper gains of 29.3% even before trading takes off. The price of $Ai will rise once the presale raises $650,000. So there's no time to waste to lock in the lowest price for this exciting new token. AiDoge is launching in a red-hot environment for AI technology and meme coins. Some of the most recent cryptocurrencies in this market include Pepe Coin, Conflux, The Graph, and Singularity. All four of these tokens generated triple-digit returns for investors within days of launching. The rapid investment into the aidoge presale signals that investors are still hungry for more projects at the intersection of AI and memes. Investors who missed out on the skyrocketing prices of Pepe Coin or Conflux may have another chance to earn exceptional returns with AiDoge. Investors may come to AiDoge looking for a pump, but they'll stay thanks to the coin's long-term value. This project aims to make it easier than ever before for users to create viral new memes. AiDoge uses the same AI technology as ChatGPT and DALL-e. Users simply feed it a text prompt and AiDoge will do the hard work of turning it into a meme. It only takes seconds to go from an idea to a ready-to-publish meme that can spread across the internet like wildfire. AiDoge's algorithm has been trained on an enormous dataset of memes and crypto news to ensure the memes it generates are always up to date and high-quality. The platform offers a straightforward user experience so that even novice meme-makers can turn their wildest ideas into memes in minutes. It can also push veteran memesters to a new level of creativity.   visit aidoge   To encourage inventiveness on the platform, AiDoge has established a rewards system for the top memesters. All of the memes generated with AiDoge will be displayed on a public wall for users to explore. The wall can be sorted and filtered to make it easy for users to discover the best new memes in their favorite niche. Users can vote on their favorite memes and the most popular creations are chosen at the end of each month. The creators behind these top-rated memes earn $Ai rewards. Even better, as the aidoge community grows, so do the monthly rewards for top creators. That means that as there's more competition for creating the best new memes, the prize for being more inventive than everyone else gets bigger. This system is designed to encourage creators to think outside the box and use AiDoge to the full extent of its capabilities. These ever-better memes will also serve as a viral advertisement for AiDoge, encouraging new memesters from across the internet to give this platform a try. The public wall resets each month, so there's always room for exciting new memesters to make it to the top of the leaderboard. The $Ai token plays a central role in the AiDoge ecosystem. First, memesters can use $Ai to purchase credits to generate memes using AiDoge's platform. Users can also stake $Ai tokens to earn rewards. Rewards will primarily be in the form of daily credits to use for meme generation. This means that users who own $Ai and stake it can use AiDoge without paying for credits every time they want to create a new meme. Finally, $Ai is used to reward top memesters for creating viral content. It can also be given as a reward to community members for voting on memes on AiDoge's public wall. AIDoge's smart contract has been fully audited by Certik and will be made available on the presale soon. Users can feel confident that $Ai staked to this decentralized blockchain-based platform is completely safe. AiDoge's presale is progressing at breakneck speed, with more than $100,000 raised within a few minutes of launch. If the presale continues at that pace, the first price raise for $Ai could come in less than a day. So, investors have no time to lose to lock in the best price for $Ai. During the presale, investors can buy $Ai with Ethereum, Tether, Binance Coin, or a credit or debit card.   visit aidoge   twitter | instagram | discord | telegram community  DISCLAIMER: This is not to be taken as investment advice. Crypto is a volatile asset, do your own research before investing and only invest money you can afford to lose. We may receive commission for clicking links in this article.  MENAFN26042023005728012573ID1106104680 MENAFN26042023005728012573ID1106104680 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN