We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Published 23 December 2022 

 
  © Crown copyright 2022
 
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
 
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
 
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/cross-country-rail-services-prior-information-notice/cross-country-rail-services-prior-information-notice
 T01: Prior information notice for public service contract 

Department for Transport  
Great Minster House  
33 Horseferry Road  
London  
SW1P 4DR  
United Kingdom 

 Email: railprocurement@dft.gov.uk United Kingdom UKI32 – Westminster Additional information can be obtained from the above-mentioned address. Ministry or any other national or federal authority. Contract for Cross Country rail services. Currently operated by XC Trains Ltd 60200000 – Railway transport services Services Areas covered by the public transport services: rail transport services. 60210000 – public transport services by railways Cross Country spans parts of England, Scotland and Wales, with its network centered at Birmingham New Street station, it serves both commuters and long-distance passengers. They serve the key cities of: Contract for provision of commuter, regional and long-distance rail services on the UK conventional mainline rail system. It is envisaged the services will be substantially similar to those currently operated under the XC Trains Limited Rail Contract (dated 13 October 2020), but subject to route operating and value for money (VfM) review. It is envisaged the services would run between: A Direct Award is now envisaged, in line with the policy published in March 2013 issued further to Section 26 of the Railways Act 1993.II.1.4 (nature and quantity of services or indication of needs and requirements). There is a mixture of leisure, business and commuter travel on these rail services. 15 October 2023. 96 months. The contract will be a core term of 4 years with available additional rail periods up to a maximum of 8 years. Direct awards for railway transport under Regulation 1370 Article 5(6). Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      