The Cardiff-based electronic point of sales tech venture continues to expand Get the latest business news from across Wales We have more newsletters Get the latest business news from across Wales We have more newsletters Leading electronics point of sale tech venture, Vista Technology Support, has created a new network infrastructure projects team to support it latest growth phase. The Cardiff-based business, which previously traded as Vista Retail Support, has established Vista Infrastructure Project Services - headed by former sales director with ISG Tech Mark Robinson. He is being supported by newly appointed portfolio manager Ian Lewis and project manager Barry Snaden. The team has over 50 years’ experience in data cabling overseeing a large number of store openings and network projects for some of the biggest retail and hospitality firms in the UK and Ireland. With significant growth in recent years Vista’s project services team, led by Sarah Jones, will continue to provide technology deployment projects and new store opening services to Vista’s existing customers. Mr Robinson said; "“In a world of hyper-connected services and with a constant drive for technology integration it’s easy to forget that everything needs high performance physical infrastructure to operate with optimum performance. Ms Jones said::“This is a very exciting time for Vista, and the introduction of the infrastructure team to complement and expand the existing project services offering, will no doubt bring a wealth of opportunity for the business, our staff and our customers - both existing and new. Vista chief executive, James Pepper, said: "It’s great to welcome Mark, Ian and Barry to the team. We have built a reputation for delivering on our promises to customers and provide industry leading technology projects to some of the most well-known brands in retail, hospitality and pharmacy and I believe that investment in key people to continue to drive Vista’s growth will ultimately be a huge success for our business. "This initiative will also provide added value to our customers. Mark and the team are already opening new doors for Vista and I look forward to working with the team and new clients in the near future.” 