NCP crisis: A family drama over power sharing in a party in Indian politics is not new. In recent times, family-based political parties witnessed ugly slugfest between kin. Often, when a member of a family especially a younger one seeks a bigger share in the party, he faces the wrath of elders and ended with the elimination from the party. Subsequently, several prominent political families suffered revolts led by ambitious kin. Interestingly, 'chacha' and 'bhatija' (uncle and nephew) often resort to a dramatic tussle to control the party. The fresh incident is seen in Maharashtra's National Congress Party (NCP) in which uncle Sharad Pawar and nephew Ajit Pawar waged a war against each other to control the party.   



 However, it is not an ideal situation in a democratic setup. Though, experts say challenging political dynast is a good thing for democracy. Such tussle will strengthen 'Loktantra' (democracy). Here are 5 incidents when 'chacha-bhatija' locked themselves in ugly fights Also read- Sharad Pawar was removed as NCP chief on June 30, claims Ajit Pawar's camp  Top News Congress targets govt, says 500 per cent jump in food complaints in trains, IRCTC responds Chhaava teaser: Vicky Kaushal as Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj fights enemies with swords | WATCH India TV Sports Wrap on August 19: Today's top 10 trending news stories Related Explainers News Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India? Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida? What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained  What is Waqf Board Bill? Why was there a need for amendment? Latest News Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips  Zelenskyy defends Ukraine's incursion into Russia's Kursk, says 'has to create a buffer zone there'  Patna: Railway hospital catches fire, patients safely evacuated | VIDEO  Chhaava teaser: Vicky Kaushal as Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj fights enemies with swords | WATCH  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Vedang Raina Says His Dating Life Has Taken A 'Back Seat’     Kolkata Rape Murder Case: Union Min Suresh Gopi says "Let's end this draconian life system"    US Election 2024: Trump hurls 'socialist lunatic' jibe at Kamala Harris, calls her 'easy opponent’    Justice for Abhaya: Sushma Swaraj's 2012 Parl. speech on capital punishment for rape goes viral    Horoscope Today, August 19, 2024: Know Your Zodiac-Based Predictions    Shivraj Singh Chouhan shares PM Modi's roadmap to empower farmers, bring revolution in agriculture    Breaking News, August 19 | LIVE Updates   Kolkata rape-murder: Delhi doctors to provide free OPD on road outside Health Ministry from today   Kolkata rape-murder: Padma awardee doctors write to PM Modi seeking law for healthcare workers   Champai Soren to join BJP? Jitan Manjhi's 'welcome to NDA' post hints at 'Jharkhand Tiger' switch   Zelenskyy defends Ukraine's incursion into Russia's Kursk, says 'has to create a buffer zone there'   Trump Vs Harris: Good news for Kamala Harris as favorable views have risen ahead of Chicago DNC   China accuses Philippines of ramming ship into its vessel in contentious Sabina Shoal   Russia: Volcano erupts after powerful earthquake in Far East, scientists warn of stronger one    Indian-origin couple, daughter killed in car crash in US, police call it 'worst' crashes in 26 years   Chhaava teaser: Vicky Kaushal as Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj fights enemies with swords | WATCH   Stree 2 vs Khel Khel Mein vs Vedaa: Who is leading after box office battle on Sunday?   Raksha Bandhan 2024: 7 best Bollywood films that celebrate sibling love    Mohanlal, Malayalam actor, hospitalised following breathing issues | Deets inside   Ananya Panday UNVEILS first poster of Prime Video series Call Me Bae, trailer to be out on THIS date   India TV Sports Wrap on August 19: Today's top 10 trending news stories   List of the Hundred winning teams, player of the series winners in men's and women's competitions   Oval Invincibles defend The Hundred title with win over Southern Brave, Sam Billings creates history   Cricket West Indies announce squad for T20I series against South Africa; KKR star misses out   Deepti Sharma's late heroics against Welsh Fire power London Spirit to The Hundred Women 2024 title   Massive price drop on Google Pixel 8a: Save up to Rs 13,000 on Amazon India   Poco Pad 5G tablet set to launch with 10,000mAh battery: Details    Realme introduces 320W charging: Phones fully charge in just 4 minutes, but is it safe?   OnePlus Buds Pro 3 set to launch on August 20: Expected features and price   WhatsApp brings Custom Sticker creation with Meta AI: Here’s how it works   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    What is Waqf Board Bill? Why was there a need for amendment?   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   'India needs to create 148 million additional jobs by 2030': IMF's Gita Gopinath   Union Cabinet gives nod to two new airport, three metro rail projects across India | DETAILS   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study   How can PCOS/PCOD impact female fertility? Know from expert   5 important things men should do in their 20s, 30s and 40s to lower cancer risk  