PLYMOUTH − Charter commission members are questioning some of the most recent cost estimates associated with proposed charter revisions on the ballot next month.    The most recent estimate, compiled by select board member Harry Helm in consultation with town officials and lawyers, put the cost at $1.45 million in the first year and $952,000 each year after. It was previously estimated at $1.38 million in the first year and then $880,000 annually. Helm said he compiled the figures by diving deeper into the previous estimate through further consultation with town administrators and lawyers, including independent attorneys and those working for the town.   "I created it because our residents and voters should have all the information available to make an informed decision," he said during the April 20 meeting of precinct chairmen.  Helm said the figures have generated controversy as both sides of the charter debate have used the estimates for their own purposes.   "It has become clear to me that it has become ammo to one side and an embodiment of nefarious intentions on the other," he said. Among concerns raised by charter proponents is whether town staff were using their taxpayer-funded work time to promote a political position.   Town Manager Derek Brindisi disagrees with that assessment.   "Knowing that there would be questions from the public, our staff conducted a cost analysis based upon the revisions of the proposed charter," he said in an email. "This process is no different than addressing cost questions at town meeting or with the select board." He said it would be irresponsible for the town not to provide that information before the May 20 election.  The town's nine-member charter commission did not seek a cost estimate during their 18-plus months of work, nor did the town offer one until a March 13 forum sponsored by PACTV and hosted by its executive director, Julie Thompson.   The precinct chairmen pressed commission Chairman Bill Abbott about why his group did not seek a dollar figure to go with the changes, whose costs would largely consist of salaries and benefits for an estimated 8.5 full-time-equivalent positions. Abbott said the commission did not seek that out since its proposal does not mandate any new positions.  Commission member Frank Mand, a planning board member and select board candidate, said at an April 19 commission meeting that he was "shocked at how silly many of these new costs are that they would be willing to share them with the public."   An April 24 response from the town to the Old Colony Memorial's Freedom of Information Act request for supporting documentation used to determine the estimates stated there is no such information on file. The most expensive item on the list − $500,000 to review and update the town's master plan − accounts for more than a third of the the cost estimates.    Charter commission members say this cost arose when the town decided two years ago to start looking at its master plan. They contend it isn't a cost contingent on the charter changes being passed. More:Proposed charter would bring big changes to the town. Here are some highlights "On the face of it, we can subtract that $500,000 from these alleged new costs and watch as their estimate drops immediately from $1.4 million to $900,000," Mand said.   The last full update to the plan was 20 years ago. Both the master plan task force and the charter commission want it to be updated more often in the future.   Abbott said grants were not included in the estimate. Abbott also said the $47,500 estimate for the charter violation complaint process is overblown. "The town of Falmouth, which was the source of our charter enforcement provision, had only had one case when we checked last year," Abbott said in an email. "So the town's $47,500 for that item seems out of whack with what will most likely happen regarding the process."   The measure would allow people who suspect a violation to file a written complaint with the town clerk's office, which would then forward it to the person or group accused. The accused would then either deny the accusation in writing or accept it and offer ways to prevent it from happening again. All of this would be be filed with the clerk's office. No punitive actions would be taken against the accused party, whether they admit to the violation or not. The cost estimate also includes $172,000 to hire a communications director and an assistant. But Abbott said this position isn't required and therefore shouldn't be included in the cost of passing the charter changes.   More:How to understand Plymouth proposed charter changes "It just states we should have goals of good communication," he said.   Brindisi said he supports expanded communication, but doing so comes at a cost the town can't afford right now. "I focus very heavily on communications and trying to get the message out and trying to dispel all the misinformation, so I really appreciate this component in the charter, but there's a cost associated with communications and engaging the community," he said.   Abbott's arguments, particularly on the master plan and communications issues, found some favor among the precinct chairmen. "These resources that we've covered don't sound like they're necessarily connected to the new charter," committee Chairwoman Kathryn Holmes told Brindisi during its April 20 meeting. Another large line item, for $195,000, would be required to hire a second assistant town manager.   While the estimate sheet lists the new position as associated with increasing the select board from five to seven members, Brindisi said that position would need to be created anyway within the next few years.   "This town is already on the cusp of a second assistant town manager," he told the precinct chairmen. Precinct chairmen and members of the public said the debate over costs has overshadowed a discussion of the merits of the actual changes proposed, such as creating legislative oversight and appointment committees. "The cost justification is only one part of this," Precinct 8 member Don Williams said. "We need to talk more about whether we really need this stuff here."   Although Brindisi stood behind the figures, he said that whatever the outcome, the decision remains in the hands of voters.   "It doesn't matter what happens because on May 22, we're going to come to town hall, and we are going to execute whatever the voters decide," he said.   More: How to understand Plymouth proposed charter changes Thursday, April 27, at 7 p.m.: League of Women Voters, town hall, live on PACTV.  Monday, May 8, at 6 p.m.: Plymouth First, town hall, live on PACTV. Visit the league’s site at plymouthlwv.org to read the charter and the summary guide. Information is also available on the charter commission’s page of the town’s website, plymouth-ma.gov.  Additional printed copies are available at town hall, the library and the Center for Active Living.