The "near-absolute silence" Cooler Master X Silent power supply is available in a completely fanless 750W model. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Completely passively cooled power supplies are absolutely a thing, but it's rare that you will find one that can deal with any graphics card up to, and including something so beefy as an Nvidia RTX 4080. Cooler Master has got your back with the X Silent 750W PSU it's been showing off at Computex this week. The smart X Silent PSU in 750W trim has no fans at all and relies entirely on the passive cooling capability of the finned chassis and a copper baseplate with flat heatpipes helping dissipate the heavy thermals such a power supply will generate under load. Almost two sides of the PSU case itself are given over to acting as an external heatsink, and I guess that's designed to be on the bottom of your PC case. Which is probably going to get rather toasty itself. It's a proper modular ATX 3.0 design PSU, and that means you get a specific 12VHPWR connection to power that big ol' Nvidia RTX 40-series GPU you covet. The connections also include a USB connection for your motherboard so you can hook into Cooler Master's own software utility to monitor temps and power load of the supply itself. I've seen 600W fanless Seasonic PSUs in the past, and Cooler Master's own semi-passive designs (you're either passive or not, right?), but not something with this sort of wattage available. That's a positive boon for those of us hankering for a high-powered silent gaming PC build. But if you're after something quiet that can cope with the rigours of something even more powerful, such as the RTX 4090 in all its thirsty glory, then Cooler Master is also offering the X Silent PSUs in 1350W trim, too. Pick your jaw up off the floor, though, because this version isn't fanless. It comes with an extra ARGB fan so it can at least look pretty, even if it can't claim to actually be silent. Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. The best CPU coolers in 2022 
Wet or dry, the best CPU coolers around
Best AIO coolers for CPUs 
All-in-one, and one for all... components 
Best CPU air coolers 
CPU coolers with or without fans that go brrrr Dave has been gaming since the days of Zaxxon and Lady Bug on the Colecovision, and code books for the Commodore Vic 20 (Death Race 2000!). He built his first gaming PC at the tender age of 16, and finally finished bug-fixing the Cyrix-based system around a year later. When he dropped it out of the window. He first started writing for Official PlayStation Magazine and Xbox World many decades ago, then moved onto PC Format full-time, then PC Gamer, TechRadar, and T3 among others. Now he's back, writing about the nightmarish graphics card market, CPUs with more cores than sense, gaming laptops hotter than the sun, and SSDs more capacious than a Cybertruck. 'Without using these inventions, Western Digital would not be able to compete in the market': WD owes $262,000,000 in damages over a HDD patent dispute Super-svelte CAMM2 memory can deliver higher clock speeds, lower latencies, costs, and even better system cooling says MSI Today's Wordle answer for Sunday, August 18 PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 