Armed with some data from our friends at CrunchBase, I broke down the largest NYC Startup funding rounds in New York for January 2023. I have included some additional information such as industry, description, round type, and total equity funding raised to further the analysis of the state of venture capital in NYC. The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. 
8. ChartHop $20.1M
Round: Venture
Description: ChartHop is an information technology company that specializes in the fields of software development and management. Founded by Ian White in 2019, has now raised a total of $74.1M in total equity funding and is backed by Cox Enterprises, Andreessen Horowitz, Cowboy Ventures, Tokyo Black, and Company Ventures.
Investors in the round: Andreessen Horowitz, Cox Enterprises
Industry: Data Visualization, Human Resources, Productivity Tools, Software
Founders: Ian White
Founding year: 2019
Total equity funding raised: $74.1M The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. 
7. Dayforward $25.0M
Round: Series B
Description: Dayforward is a provider of a life insurance platform designed to bring financial security to families. Founded by Aaron Shapiro and Mallika Khandelwal in 2019, has now raised a total of $45.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Tusk Venture Partners, Juxtapose, AXA Venture Partners, Hudson Structured Capital Management, and HSCM Ventures.
Investors in the round: AXA Venture Partners, HSCM Ventures, Juxtapose, Munich Re Ventures
Industry: Family, Financial Services, InsurTech, Life Insurance
Founders: Aaron Shapiro, Mallika Khandelwal
Founding year: 2019
Total equity funding raised: $45.0M
AlleyWatch’s exclusive coverage of this round: Dayforward Raises Another $25M to Make Life Insurance More Accessible Through its Tech-Enabled Platform The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. 
6. Welcome Homes $29.0M
Round: Series A
Description: Welcome Homes is the online home building platform that makes buying and designing new homes simple and more affordable. Founded by Alec Hartman, Ben Uretsky, Jesse Mauro, Marc Hartman, Mitch Wainer, and Moisey Uretsky in 2020, has now raised a total of $34.4M in total equity funding and is backed by Gaingels, Alumni Ventures, Founders First Capital Partners, Foundamental, and Soma Capital.
Investors in the round: Activant Capital, Arkin Holdings, Elefund, Era Ventures, Foundamental, Gaingels, Global Founders Capital, Montage Ventures, Parker89
Industry: Real Estate, Residential
Founders: Alec Hartman, Ben Uretsky, Jesse Mauro, Marc Hartman, Mitch Wainer, Moisey Uretsky
Founding year: 2020
Total equity funding raised: $34.4M The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. 
5. Candy Digital $38.4M
Round: Series A
Description: Candy Digital is an NFT company that allows MLB fans to buy and trade officially licensed nonfungible tokens. Founded by Michael G. Rubin and Mike Novogratz in 2021, has now raised a total of $138.4M in total equity funding and is backed by ConsenSys, Gaingels, Insight Partners, Galaxy Digital, and New Enterprise Associates.
Investors in the round: 10T Holdings, ConsenSys, ConsenSys Mesh, Galaxy Digital
Industry: Blockchain, Collectibles, Sports
Founders: Michael G. Rubin, Mike Novogratz
Founding year: 2021
Total equity funding raised: $138.4M The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. 
4. Precision Neuroscience $41.0M
Round: Series B
Description: Precision Neuroscience is a neural platform that engages in brain-computer interface technology. Founded by Benjamin Rapoport, Demetrios Papageorgiou, Mark Hettick, and Michael Mager in 2021, has now raised a total of $53.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Alumni Ventures, Draper Associates, Steadview Capital, Mubadala Capital Ventures, and B Capital Group.
Investors in the round: Alumni Ventures, B Capital Group, Draper Associates, Forepont Capital Partners, Mubadala Capital Ventures, re.Mind Capital, Steadview Capital
Industry: Medical, Medical Device, Neuroscience, Product Research
Founders: Benjamin Rapoport, Demetrios Papageorgiou, Mark Hettick, Michael Mager
Founding year: 2021
Total equity funding raised: $53.0M The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. 
3. Chronosphere $115.0M
Round: Series C
Description: Chronosphere develops a scalable, reliable, and customizable monitoring solution built for cloud-native applications. Founded by Martin Mao and Rob Skillington in 2019, has now raised a total of $342.5M in total equity funding and is backed by GV, Founders Fund, Lux Capital, General Atlantic, and Spark Capital.
Investors in the round: Addition, Founders Fund, General Atlantic, Geodesic Capital, Glynn Capital Management, Greylock, GV, Lux Capital
Industry: Analytics, Cloud Infrastructure, Information Technology, Productivity Tools, SaaS
Founders: Martin Mao, Rob Skillington
Founding year: 2019
Total equity funding raised: $342.5M The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. 
2. VettaFi $175.0M
Round: Venture
Description: VettaFi is a finance company that specializes in offering investment advice, indexing, and distribution for veterans and entrepreneurs. Founded by Tom Lydon in 2005, has now raised a total of $175.0M in total equity funding and is backed by TMX Group.
Investors in the round: TMX Group
Industry: Finance, Financial Exchanges, Financial Services
Founders: Tom Lydon
Founding year: 2005
Total equity funding raised: $175.0M The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. 
1. Paradigm $203.0M
Round: Series A
Description: Paradigm is rebuilding the clinical research ecosystem. Founded by Milind Kamkolkar in 2022, has now raised a total of $203.0M in total equity funding and is backed by General Catalyst, GV, ARCH Venture Partners, Mubadala Capital Ventures, and F-Prime Capital.
Investors in the round: ARCH Venture Partners, BrightEdge Fund, F-Prime Capital, General Catalyst, GV, Lux Capital, Magnetic Ventures, Mubadala Capital Ventures
Industry: Health Care, Hospital
Founders: Milind Kamkolkar
Founding year: 2022
Total equity funding raised: $203.0M The AlleyWatch audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties, AlleyWatch serves as the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key decision-makers in the New York business community and beyond. Learn more about advertising to NYC Tech at scale. ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
EDITORIAL GUIDELINES
LEGAL
PRIVACY
TERMS OF USE CONTACT US
ADVERTISE
TIPS
WRITE FOR US NYC VC
NYC TECH EVENTS
NYC TECH NEWS
NYC STARTUPS
NYC COWORKING
TECH DIRECTORY  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC Join the millions and keep up with the stories shaping entrepreneurship. Sign up today. 