 Si votre email correspond à un compte, vous recevrez un lien de réinitialisation. SAN FRANCISCO, April 25, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- RSA Conference -- Sumo Logic (NASDAQ: SUMO), the SaaS analytics platform to enable reliable and secure cloud-native applications, today announced several native innovations across the Sumo Logic platform to give security analysts better visibility to solve new use cases and enable coordinated defense. “Siloed tools and teams are a major barrier to scaling security operations and addressing the dynamic threat landscape of cloud-developed applications,” said Dave Frampton, SVP and General Manager, Security Business Unit at Sumo Logic. “By combining SIEM, UEBA, SOAR, and log analytics with comprehensive observability capabilities in an integrated platform, we’re enabling seamless collaboration across the DevOps, application, and security teams which all play essential roles in modern defense.” Acknowledges one early adopter, “Sumo Logic gives us the opportunity to accelerate and expand growth and adoption of behavioral analytics across our organization. With the number of potential unknown threats to investigate, it is easier for us to make confident, data-driven decisions quickly,” said Brandon Hess, a Security Architect with deep experience in both the financial and professional services sectors. Here are the new benefits: With these additions, Sumo Logic is a leading SaaS platform delivering the flexibility, speed, and agility to innovate without jeopardizing security and control. Sumo Logic will demonstrate these capabilities from Booth #5151 in the North Hall at the RSA Conference. More Reading: Solution Brief: Sumo Logic Cloud SIEMBlog: How using Cloud SIEM dashboards and metrics for daily standups improves SOC efficiencyBlog: ChatGPT praise and trepidation - cyber defense in the age of AI About Sumo LogicSumo Logic, Inc. (NASDAQ: SUMO) empowers the people who power modern, digital business. Through its SaaS analytics platform, Sumo Logic enables customers to deliver reliable and secure cloud-native applications. The Sumo Logic Continuous Intelligence Platform™ helps practitioners and developers ensure application reliability, secure and protect against modern security threats, and gain insights into their cloud infrastructures. Customers around the world rely on Sumo Logic to get powerful real-time analytics and insights across observability and security solutions for their cloud-native applications. For more information, visit www.sumologic.com. Sumo Logic is a trademark or registered trademark of Sumo Logic in the United States and in foreign countries. All other company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners. Any information regarding offerings, updates, functionality, or other modifications, including release dates, is subject to change without notice. The development, release, and timing of any offering, update, functionality, or modification described herein remains at the sole discretion of Sumo Logic, and should not be relied upon in making a purchase decision, nor as a representation, warranty, or commitment to deliver specific offerings, updates, functionalities, or modifications in the future. Media ContactsCarmen Harris, Sumo Logiccharris@sumologic.com Jenna Shikoff, RH StrategicSumoLogicPR@RHStrategic.com Photos accompanying this announcement are available at:https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/92757e6f-0dbf-4dce-9ebc-5d3672886e1b https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/e1bde8b0-68b1-4513-8cf6-be680eee647d  Source(s) : Sumo Logic, Inc. La discussion est réservée aux membres GNT 
    Commencez par créer un compte
    ou vous	identifier
 Copyright ©
																				  2001-2024 GNT Media, tous droits réservés