In the midst of the recently released crime-investigative drama ‘Kohrra’, an enigmatic crime investigative series, the background music emerges as a star player. Popular on the Punjabi rap music scene, Wazir Patar, known to blend traditional tunes with electronic beats, has provided the background music score for the show that breathes life into the narrative. Speaking of his contribution in the show, Wazir expressed, “I have always seen myself as a storyteller conveying stories from my home Punjab in the form of musical notes and my songs. When the team of ‘Kohrra’ approached me and explained to me the storyline of the series, I knew exactly the songs from my library that would complement the story and amplify the emotions.” “I am glad that the entire team behind the series Kohrra stayed authentic in approaching the soundtrack just like they have been for all the elements while making this series,” he added. The show promises to take the viewers through the shadowed alleys of Punjab. Patar’s compositions in the show ‘Kohrra’ add a unique flavor to the atmospheric soundscape of the series, thereby enriching the storytelling experience. Whether it’s the discovery of the murder, the police chase or moments of familial drama, Patar’s music seamlessly blends with the visual storytelling, intensifying the impact of each scene. It draws viewers deeper into the layered narrative that sequentially unfolds with its set tones creating an immersive world of suspense and intrigue. ‘Kohrra’ is airing on Netflix. The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired John Abraham’s latest film, Vedaa, has been receiving positive feedback since its release on August The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) is proud to announce that renowned Indian actor Pankaj The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired Award winning composer and music maestro A.R. Rahman was felicitated with the prestigious ‘Excellence in Song Rote Rote Movie Ghudchadi Singer Jubin Nautiyal Featuring Sanjay Dutt, Raveena Tondon, Parth Samthaan Song Name – New Woman Featuring – LISA and Rosalia Check out New Woman Song Taylor Swift’s final series of shows for the European leg of her Eras tour at Ankita Lokhande recently shared a fun moment on her Instagram Stories, revealing that her husband, Devoleena Bhattacharjee, a beloved figure in Indian television, has thrilled her fans with the heartwarming Shaheer Sheikh recently returned from his vacation and made a heartfelt visit to his best Actress Disha Parmar recently shared an adorable moment with her daughter, Navya, on Instagram, capturing “Kota Factory,” once hailed for its relatable depiction of student life in Kota, has unfortunately “The Legend of Hanuman” Season 4 continues to impress with its blend of stunning animation, “Gullak” Season 4, much anticipated by fans of the charming Mishra family, unfortunately fails to “Blackout,” starring Vikrant Massey, is a thriller that strives to keep viewers on the edge glamsham.com® (since 1999) is an English language news / information platform with an aim to connect with people with information about the  entertainment industry.