
			By: Author Jeanne Sloan  Posted on Last updated: August 9, 2024 What makes a treat into an Easter Treat? Make it in the shape of a bunny, an egg, or a Spring flower, and you’re off to a good start. Using bright Spring or pastel colors helps, too. But the bottom line: they’ve got to be tasty! So no matter what color or shape they are, your kids will crave them – and so will you! We’ve rounded up some of the most delicious, most adorable-looking Easter Treats from the top food bloggers on the Internet and we’re sharing them here with you. Try to choose just one to make (we dare you!), or be like us and make a whole bunch of them. Enjoy! What a fun way to make festive cookies for this spring holiday! Bake these cookies, or another one of your favorites, add frosting and Easter candies to the top, and enjoy. Cake is another dessert that all ages of children and adults love to eat. This no-bake recipe is a great one if you don’t want to heat up the house or simply don’t have any more room in your oven!  In general, Rice Krispies are a favorite among kids of all ages. But what could be cuter for Easter than adding bright-colored peeps, sprinkles, and icing? What could be better than turning a classic chocolate chip cookie into an Easter egg cookie? These delicious cookies use Cadbury eggs instead of chocolate chips — but you could add both if you want to. We’ll never tell! Cutout cookies are fun to make in lots of different shapes and sizes. These bunny cookies that look like peeps are as adorable as they are delicious! Oreos covered in chocolate = yum! Not only will these cookies satisfy your chocolate craving, they’ll also be easy to make. They even make the perfect gift or Easter basket addition. This Easter snack recipe is a great one to let kids help make. It’s simple, doesn’t take too many ingredients, and the bunnies turn out adorable. These brownies are a terrific way to use lots of different icing colors, sprinkles, and other toppings. And who doesn’t love brownies? If you’re looking for a recipe that’s gluten-free and also allergy-free you’ve found it! These cupcakes are the perfect choice for those with special dietary needs while still being cute as can be. For a delicious switch from traditional cutout cookies, try these carrot cake-flavored ones instead. They’re cute, gluten-free, and won’t upset allergy sufferers. Most sweet lovers will find these Butterscotch haystacks appeal to their taste buds. But they’ll also make a great addition to the rest of the Easter dishes on the table – and they come together in a flash! With this recipe on hand, you won’t have to run to the store to buy Easter candy. Make your own and decorate them any way you like or to match your Easter decor. You can even get your children to join in the fun by decorating their own eggs. If you don’t like baking, this is a terrific recipe for Easter treats that’s fast, easy, and doesn’t involve using an oven. However, the cheesecake will need a few hours to chill in the refrigerator before it can be served to family members or guests. Although both kids and adults usually like fudge, you might want to make this recipe without the help of your kids because the mixture you heat up will be quite hot. However, depending on their skill level, they may be able to help you measure the ingredients at the beginning. They can also help you eat the fudge, of course! For those who like peeps, these instructions will help you make your own in whatever color you want, depending on the colors of sugar sprinkles you have on hand, of course! You could even match them to your decor. Use this recipe and the included hints to make cute little sugar cookies and chocolate bark that’s festive for Easter — or any other holiday! If your kids want a sweet yet salty snack, this one satisfies both! It has pretzels, cereal, chocolate, Easter M&M’s, and more. Charcuterie boards seem to be all the rage right now for parties, holiday events, and less formal get-togethers. This one is packed with sweet treats that should appeal to nearly any child or adult. How cute are these Cakesicles! To make them like the photo you will need a mold, some popsicle sticks, and a few other ingredients, but we think the results will be worth it. Do you need a tasty dessert that you don’t have to bake? Check out these Easter dirt cups. They’re adorable and so easy to make your kids can help. These sweet Bunny Paw cookies are soft with just the right amount of deliciousness! The recipe is simple and you most likely have most, if not all, of the ingredients on hand already. Chocolate candy is something nearly everyone from zero to the age of 90 loves and these chocolate nonpareils are no exception. You can make them and add them to the fare on your Easter table or use different colored sprinkles and make them for other holidays too! Happy little yellow chicks adorn the top of these yummy cupcakes and we think your kids will love them! Add a few chocolate Easter eggs and you’ve got dessert covered. For a fun Easter snack for the kids, whip up these pretzel bites. They’re quick to make and only take a few ingredients. Warm Easter days require ice cream to help everyone cool off and we think these sundaes with chocolate and cream Easter eggs are just the ticket. While we do have other sugar cookie recipes in this post, we thought these were too cute not to share! If you think your kids will be on sugar overload from all of the Easter candy, this snack might be a welcome addition to your table. You can even use cookie cutters to cut the fruit into cute Easter shapes like they did in the picture. An absolutely fun, delicious, and colorful way to brighten your table or meal with this egg shaped fruit pizza! Get creative and use any fruit/chocolate combination to design the perfect egg. Is it even a holiday without sugar cookies? Grab premade dough, boxed mix, or your favorite ingredients to make sugar cookies with your littles this year. Check out the link above for a fun idea on how to make Easter Egg Sugar Cookies! Looking for a delicious and festive snack for movie night on Easter? Check out this fun bunny bait trail mix! Add in pretzels, chocolate chips, sprinkles, salty popcorn, or whatever else you think would pair well with this sweet dish! Jeanne Sloan is a farm wife, mother of two, and grandmother of two who was born in Las Vegas, Nevada but was transformed into a country girl at the age of eight when her parents moved the family to Kansas. You can read more from Jeanne Sloan at mid-lifemusings.com where she writes about whatever strikes her fancy, including advice, recipes, and more. Acknowledgment: This round-up of recipes and photos from other bloggers was made with their full and express permission to share. We’re grateful to them for sharing their creativity and talent and we encourage you to visit each of their websites for many more recipes like these. Posted on Last updated: August 9, 2024 Categories Spring & Easter 33+ Mommy and Me Classes in Los Angeles 2024 31 Delicious Easter Dinner Recipes for Your Family 2024  Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. This website contains some affiliate links. If you purchase anything via any of these links, you will not be charged any additional fees, but we will be paid a commission by the advertiser. As an Amazon Associate, this site earns from qualifying purchases. Thank you for supporting MomsLA.com. Copyright © 2024 MomsLA, 3826 Grand View Blvd. Unit 66402, Los Angeles, California 90066  | MomsLA Child on Trellis Framework by Mediavine