'If Mike (Tindall) wants to invite him he absolutely can, but it’s not up to me to put the invitation out so we’ll see what happens.' Don't miss any TV and showbiz news - sign up to free alerts We have more newsletters Don't miss any TV and showbiz news - sign up to free alerts We have more newsletters Matt Hancock is not part of an exclusive I’m A Celebrity… WhatsApp group, used by the former campmates to stay in touch, contestant Scarlette Douglas has revealed. It comes after fans accused Mike Tindall of snubbing the former Health Secretary. The A Place In The Sun presenter said that it was up to the Royal - who is the WhatsApp group admin - to invite the MP to future meet-ups, and suggested the former health secretary might be “too busy”.  Hollyoaks star Owen Warner and Hancock placed second and third, respectively. Douglas made the remarks while speaking at the UK premiere of Will Smith’s upcoming film Emancipation on Friday. Speaking about which campmates she would invite round for dinner following the show’s conclusion, she told the PA news agency: “Pretty much everybody. “We’ve all said when we can, because we’re all over the country. We’ll get together and have a meal for Owen because he loves food.” She added that the group planned to go and see comedians Seann Walsh and Babatunde Aleshe perform in the coming weeks, when they returned to gigging.  “Ultimately we’re all going to try and stay in touch, which is important,” she told PA. “We’ve all got our little WhatsApp group and we’re all messaging all the time so hopefully that doesn’t die down. Asked if the former health secretary would be joining the activities, she replied: “I don’t know. I’m not the admin of that WhatsApp group so if Mike (Tindall) wants to invite him he absolutely can, but it’s not up to me to put the invitation out so we’ll see what happens." “He might be busy you never know, he’s doing a lot of stuff. He’s got a lot of press coming up so he might be too busy.” Douglas added that it had been “absolutely weird” when she first saw Hancock enter the jungle. It comes after fans accused Mike of snubbing Matt Hancock in a behind the scenes clip the Royal shared on Instagram Live. In it, Mike chats to winner Scott Jill and Coronation Street's Sue Cleaver. But when he pans the camera around. to the politician, the former rugby star muttered: "yeah erm..." before walking away in an awkward laugh. Commenting on Tindall's Instagram LIve, Pippo wrote: "Loved the 'bypassing' of Matt Hancock." And Joan commented: "Omg I loved how you skipped past Matt." Andrew added: "Best snub ever".  For more stories from where you live, visit InYourArea. Find recommendations for eating out, attractions and events near you here on our sister website 2Chill Find recommendations for dog owners and more doggy stories on our sister site Teamdogs 