 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 
We've been researching the best kids and teen bank accounts since 2021, starting with a pool of almost two dozen options. We've spent hours reviewing interest rates, fees, balance requirements, and special features designed for kids and parents, and our best overall pick is Capital One's Kids Savings Account.
 
Capital One wins for offering interest on all balance amounts, the ability for kids to upgrade to a checking account as they get older, and the option for young savers to set up specific savings goals in the app. We also give high marks to USAlliance Financial, Alliant Credit Union, and Spectrum Credit Union.
 
Also in the market for a great savings account for adults? Our daily ranking of the best high-yield savings accounts will take you to the Top 15 rates that are available nationwide.
 Capital One 
With interest paid on any balance amount, excellent mobile banking tools, the ability to establish multiple savings goals, and the option to grow into a youth checking account with a debit card, Capital One’s Kids Savings Account is our winner for the all-around best youth savings account.
 Interest is paid on any balance No minimum balance and no fees A top-rated mobile app that includes parental controls Availability of a Teen Checking Account with debit card Interest rate is lower than other options Multiple savings goals require opening multiple accounts No ATM fee refunds on the checking account 
Capital One has put more thought and effort into youth banking than a lot of its competitors, creating not only two account types for kids and teens but investing resources into developing kid- and parent-centric mobile app experiences specific to these accounts. Combined with no minimum balance to earn interest, no fees, and the ability to advance to a teen account with a debit card, these features make Capital One our overall pick for Best Kids Savings Account. 
 
No matter how much or how little your child has in their savings account, Capital One pays the same rate. Though it typically isn't the highest rate you can earn on a youth account, the absence of a minimum or maximum balance makes it versatile. In addition, if your child moves into or adds a Teen Checking Account at Capital One, they’ll earn a little bit of interest on that account balance, too.
 
Interacting with the account is enhanced for both kids and parents by the well-designed mobile banking app, which enables automatic transfers from parent accounts to the youth account (think automated allowance payments) and the establishment of savings goals that will motivate your child to keep saving. The app is even more robust for the Teen Checking Account, offering separate parent and teen interfaces and providing parental controls. 
 
Capital One’s Teen Checking Account is slightly misnamed, as it’s available to any child age eight or older. This provides earlier access to a debit card than accounts that reserve this feature for kids ages 13 and up.
 
See the full Capital One review.
 
Capital One is the 8th largest U.S. bank by assets, offering various banking products online to customers nationwide. FDIC-insured since 1934, Capital One is headquartered in McLean, Virginia.
 USAlliance 
For parents starting their child’s account at a very young age, it’s hard to do better than USAlliance’s MyLife Savings for Kids account. Its annual birthday bonus for pre-teen savers helps make it our top savings account choice for young children.
 $10 in “birthday bucks” paid every year through age 12 Competitive interest rate on the first $500 Ability to move into a checking account at age 13 Joining the credit union is easy and virtually free No ATM or debit card access until age 13 Credit union membership is required for both parent and child Some other accounts pay interest on the whole balance 
USAlliance understands how much children love birthday gifts, and parlays that into a reward for kids having their own savings account. By paying those under 13 a $10 birthday bonus every year, plus a generous interest rate on their first savings, USAlliance’s MyLife Savings for Kids wins our award for best youth account for young savers.
 
The earlier you open one of these for your child, the more “birthday bucks” they’ll score. They’ll also earn a highly competitive 2.00% APY on their balances up to $500. Very few youth accounts currently pay above 1%, so the earning potential here is significantly higher than most other options.
 
USAlliance also offers a MyLife Checking for Teens, allowing your child to add the more advanced account as they mature. They can open a MyLife Checking at age 13, and choose to receive an ATM or debit card at that time. Meanwhile, they can retain their MyLife Savings account to continue earning a high interest rate on up to $500 in savings.
 
Though USAlliance Financial is a credit union, it is open for anyone nationwide to join.
 
Originally established in 1966 to serve IBM employees, USAlliance is headquartered in Rye, New York. Today, anyone can join the credit union by agreeing to a free membership in the nonprofit American Consumer Council and keeping at least $1 in a savings account.
  Alliant Credit Union 
Alliant Credit Union starts your child’s saving journey outright with a competitive interest rate, no fees, and an excellent mobile banking app designed for kids and parents. Then as your child ages, Alliant’s Teen Checking provides even more useful features, making it our pick for the best savings account for teens.
 Competitive interest rate Mobile banking app that provides child- and parent-friendly features Teen checking account with debit card available at age 13 Teen checking pays interest and offers ATM fee refunds Interest is only paid when balance is $100 or more No ATM or debit card before age 13 Some youth accounts pay higher interest, although only on limited balances 
For younger children, learning how to bank is an evolving process, and Alliant provides an excellent Stage 1 option with its Kids Savings Account, followed by an even more impressive Stage 2 option with its Teen Checking Account. Both pay competitive interest and offer well-designed mobile app experiences geared specifically toward kids and parents.
 
An Alliant Kids Savings Account can be opened for children 12 and younger. Anytime the account balance exceeds $100, Alliant will pay a respectable 3.10% APY (as of May 2023) with no maximum balance for earning that rate. The account can be accessed with a mobile banking app that has parents and kids in mind; it lets parents set automated recurring deposits into their child’s account and allows the child to monitor their balance, deposit birthday checks, and track progress toward a savings goal.
 
Once your child turns 13, they can add an Alliant Teen Checking Account and ATM/debit card. This is one of the best youth checking accounts nationally available, paying more interest on checking balances than most other accounts. The account has a 0.25% APY. What’s more, Alliant offers free ATM transactions at more than 80,000 ATMs nationwide, as well as up to $20 per month in ATM fee reimbursements.
 
Though Alliant is a credit union, joining is open to everyone and is both easy and free. In fact, Alliant will even contribute the $5 initial deposit into your child’s savings account.
 
Originally founded in 1935 to serve employees of United Airlines, anyone can now join Alliant Credit Union by agreeing to a free membership in the nonprofit Foster Care to Success. Alliant is headquartered in Chicago.
 Spectrum Credit Union 
With the interest rate on Spectrum’s youth savings account so high it looks like a typo, the credit union earns our top marks for maximum interest earnings in a kid's account.
 Pays the highest nationally available APY on a savings account, on your first $1,000 Account can be held until age 21 Account holders age 13 and up can request an ATM card No accompanying teen checking account available Limited to one MySavings Youth Account per individual Joining the credit union is not free for most people 
With bank interest rates as low as they currently are, it’s hard to believe Spectrum’s youth savings account rate of 7% APY. However, this rate only applies to balances up to $1,000. This is the highest rate we found (by a mile) for any nationally available youth savings account (or adult account, for that matter), making it an easy choice for the best youth account to maximize interest.
 
Spectrum doesn’t offer a teen checking account, but it does allow kids to keep their MySavings Youth Account (and its stellar interest rate) longer than most other banks do, all the way through the age of 21. It also allows those ages 13 and up to opt for an ATM card. Account balances above $1,000 revert to the Primary Share Savings APY of 0.75%.
 
As a credit union, Spectrum does require joining in order to open an account, and though the process is easy, it is not free. Unless someone in your family is eligible through their employer or geographical residency, individuals must pay membership fees or donations to an affiliated nonprofit organization to gain Spectrum eligibility. In addition, a member must hold $25 in a savings account (though you will get this back should you ever end your credit union membership).
 
One side note is that Spectrum has a sister institution, Chevron Federal Credit Union. Though the eligibility rules are the same for those who don’t qualify another way, Chevron is open to a different set of employees and geographical residents, so it’s worth checking if you qualify for one or the other to avoid paying.
 
Founded as Bechtel Employees Federal Credit Union in 1973, Spectrum is among the largest credit unions in the U.S. Today, anyone can join the Concord, Calif., credit union by donating $15 to the Contra Costa County Historical Society and keeping $25 or more in a savings account.
 
When shopping for a bank account for kids that pays interest, offers a well-designed parent- and kid-focused mobile experience, and provides an easy on-ramp for your child to advance to teen checking, Capital One has all of your bases covered. It offers great options for growth with its youth savings accounts, especially with no minimum balance or fees. Plus, the mobile app has parental controls so you can help your kids make and achieve their savings goals.
 In the News: At the Fed's July 31 meeting, the committee decided to hold interest rates steady—the eighth meeting in a row it has done so. The current 5.25% to 5.50% range for the federal funds rate is the highest it has been since 2001. However, it's appearing likely the Fed will begin lowering its benchmark rate in September, now that that inflation is falling closer to the central bank's 2% target. Savings account yields closely follow the fed funds rate and climbed to a new high in April. But once the Fed does make a rate cut, savings rates will fall. 
Kids or youth savings accounts are bank or credit union deposit accounts that are available only to customers younger than 21—though they're sometimes capped at age 12 or 18. They provide a way for young savers to deposit funds and earn some interest, but also serve as a way for kids and teens to get familiar with how banking works. By establishing a relationship with a financial institution, learning how to handle things like online banking, and seeing the interest they've earned at the end of each month, a first bank account provides practical training for a child.
 
The best kid and teen savings accounts actually pay higher interest rates than adult accounts as a way to incentivize young savers. However, the balances on which those higher interest rates apply often are capped. What the savings account earns may also be changed based on your child's age. For instance, the account may pay a high rate to younger savers, but once they turn 18, their account may be converted to an adult account with a lower rate.
 User Insight: "I have two teenagers and both have already had more than one high-yield savings account. When they were young children, I set up USAlliance accounts for each of them, gaining them that special birthday check every year. But once they each became teens, I moved them into savings accounts that have a related teen checking account with a debit card. I consider it an important part of their education here at home to learn how to use a debit card, to build good habits on managing spending vs. saving, and to become familiar with online and mobile banking." - Sabrina Karl, Staff Writer for Investopedia 
For individuals younger than 18, banks and credit unions most commonly offer some kind of savings account. But the account types they offer can vary, such as:
 
If the child for whom you are opening the account is a minor, you or another adult will need to put your name on the account as well. That makes it a joint account, since those under 18 are prohibited from holding bank accounts on their own. Besides a parent, other common adults to use for a joint account with a child are a grandparent, an aunt or uncle, an adult sibling, or a guardian.
 Are My Child's Interest Earnings Taxed? Whether or not your child needs to pay taxes on their savings account earnings depends on how much unearned income they’ve received during the year. Unearned income includes earnings such as bank interest and investment income, and any amount less than $2,500 is exempt from the regular income tax in 2023 under the "Tax On A Child's Investment And Other Unearned Income” rule, more commonly known as the Kiddie Tax. 
Knowing how to manage one's money is an important life skill—and opening a savings account for a kid or a teen is a great way of teaching your child money skills by letting them dip their toe in the world of personal banking. It's also ideal for them to have this experience while they're still a minor and you're connected to the same account as a joint owner. That way you can help them manage the account and teach them money management and banking skills along the way.
 Although the Federal Reserve lifted its limit on savings account withdrawals, some banks still limit customers to six withdrawals per month. If your child makes more withdrawals than that, there may be excess withdrawal fees. 
Choosing the best account for your child or teen comes down to shopping around to familiarize yourself with the various options and then choosing the financial institution and account that best meets your most important needs. Here are some things to consider:
 
In the end, choosing a kids bank account is similar to choosing one for yourself. First you'll need to decide what features are most valuable to you, and then find the account that checks the most of those priority boxes.
 
Most banks and credit unions, including those recommended above, allow online account opening, making it easy to start the process at home and on your schedule. It will include the following stesp:
 
There may be times when your child needs access to bank accounts and services other than savings accounts. Depending on their needs, and perhaps any financial goals you have for them, one of the following alternatives may be a better fit.
 When choosing a bank account for your child, make sure the bank is backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) so that your child's deposits are protected in the unlikely scenario that the institution fails. 
Every day, Investopedia researches, rates, and reviews hundreds of financial products and services, covering the personal finance categories of bank accounts, savings vehicles, credit cards, insurance, brokerages, robo-advisors, loans, and retirement accounts. When reviewing bank accounts for kids and teens, we look at factors that will help readers choose the best account for their child and their family. Investopedia launched in 1999 and has been helping readers find the best kids bank accounts since 2021.
 The age that's best for a kids savings account is a personal decision. Some parents like setting up a savings account for their infant or toddler children so they can regularly make contributions to the account or deposit gift money received from others. Other parents will find that the tween years (e.g., 10-12 years old) are a great time to start, as the child is old enough to learn something about banking, and may have some income to deposit, or may be interested in starting to spend some money on their own. The third option is to open an account for your child when they are a teen, at which point they may be eligible to open a checking account with a debit card as a complement to their savings account. One recommendation is to open a teen bank account with your child by the time they are 16 or 17, so that you have at least a year to help them learn how to bank before they are free to open accounts on their own at age 18. The answer is in the semantics. Yes, you can open a savings account that pays a high yield. The key is that it needs to be an account that's open to minors as applicants. In contrast, most savings accounts—including all of the options in our daily ranking of the best high-yield savings accounts—are open only to applicants age 18 and older. Fortunately, you can find kid-friendly accounts that pay as much as—or possibly even more than—the best high-yield savings accounts. Certificates of deposit (CDs) could be a good option for money your child is holding in savings. CDs generally pay slightly higher interest than a savings account, in exchange for you agreeing to keep the funds in the CD until it matures. Typical CD terms range from 3 months to 5 years, and if you cash the CD in early, you'll face an early withdrawal penalty. While those under 18 are not legally able to open a CD on their own, you can open a CD for them if you do it through a custodial account. Not every financial institution will offer custodial accounts, but for those that do, the account would be in your child's name, and the money would belong to them. But you or another adult must be named as the custodian of the account. Deciding between putting your child's money in a savings account vs. a CD comes down to when they will want to access the money. If you know they will hold some portion of their savings for months or even years without touching it, moving that amount into a custodial CD account could boost their earnings. But for money you think the child will want to access in the near term, a savings account offers the ability to withdraw the funds anytime your child wants.  Each bank or credit union will have its own account opening process. But in general, you (or another adult serving as a co-account holder) will need to provide all the same kind of personal information and identification you would provide if opening an account for yourself. Even if the institution you're dealing with is not an online bank, you'll likely handle the application process online, so be prepared with a photo or scan of either your driver's license or passport. As for documentation for your child, some institutions will ask you to submit a photo or scan of their birth certificate. Or, if your child has a driver's license, a photo or scan of this may be requested. Capital One offers the best overall savings account for kids, paying interest on any balance amount. There are no monthly or account maintenance fees, and there's no minimum balance required to open a new account. And Capital One allows kids to set up multiple accounts, so they can create an account for each of their savings goals.  Once the child turns 18, the account is automatically converted to a Capital One 360 Savings account. Like the kids' account option, a 360 Savings account has no monthly fees or account minimums. To present our top picks of the best kid and teen savings accounts, we looked at options from the following banks and credit unions: Alliant Credit Union, BECU, Capital One, Chase, Chevron Federal Credit Union, Citizens Bank, First Internet Bank, First Tech Federal Credit Union, Northpointe Bank, Pen Air Federal Credit Union, Teachers Federal Credit Union, and USAlliance Financial. 
We began our research by first identifying almost two dozen youth savings accounts that are available to consumers nationwide and that pay at least 0.25% APY. From there, we dug into the details to find those that charge no fees, offer the highest interest rates, allow the highest balances, and offer a complimentary checking or spending account. We also considered the age limits of each account, the mobile app features, and any added perks offered by the account, enabling us to distill the list down to these top five contenders.
 
Investopedia was founded in 1999, and has been reviewing kids' savings accounts since 2019.
 MoMo Productions / Getty Images USAlliance Financial. "MyLife Savings for Kids." Alliant Credit Union. "Teach Kids About Money With a Kids Savings Account." Alliant Credit Union. "A Teen Checking Account to Guide Them on the Road to Success." Spectrum Credit Union. "See Dividends in Action With a MySavings Youth Account." Spectrum Credit Union. "Today's Rates." Federal Reserve Board. "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement, July 31, 2024." Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Consumer Price Index." Internal Revenue Service. "Topic No. 553 Tax on a Child's Investment and Other." USAlliance Financial. "MyLifeSavings for Kids."  Vanguard. "UGMA/UTMA Accounts."  Investor.gov. "Saving for Education: 529 Plans."  Capital One. "Kids Savings Account."  Capital One. "360 Performance Savings." 