WASHINGTON — Round one of the debt-ceiling standoff is going about as well as the White House hoped after President Joe Biden boxed Republicans into a corner on Social Security and Medicare, recasting the debate over spending cuts as a fight to protect two of the most popular government programs. It's not just a short-term play. Biden bolstered the economic message he's making to blue-collar voters and seniors ahead of an expected reelection campaign for 2024. First came the heckling during Biden's State of the Union address last week. After Republicans roundly booed the president when he accused them of wanting to cut Social Security, Biden seemed to get their verbal commitment – on the floor of the House, no less – not to touch either program.  More:Amid debt ceiling standoff, why Joe Biden is refusing to negotiate with Republicans But then top Republicans kept digging in. Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., defended his proposal to sunset all federal programs every five years and Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., derided Social Security as a "legal Ponzi scheme." The tit for tat created precisely the contrast the White House wants as Biden pushes for raising the debt ceiling without conditions and – looking further ahead – positions himself for 2024. Drawing a hard line against negotiations, Biden wants Republicans to cave on their demands for spending cuts so Congress can raise the debt limit and avert a government default. The White House is banking on spending cuts proposed by Republicans being so unpopular among Americans that enough Republican members of Congress will abandon demands for Congress to act.  Playing to fears about losing Social Security and Medicare is part of a broader White House strategy to paint potential cuts as unacceptable.  The Republican-led House Budget Committee last week floated potential cuts that include work requirements for food stamps, environmental reductions, rescinding unspent COVID-19 rescue funds, reducing Obamacare subsidies and halting Biden's plan to forgive student loan debt. Their framework said Republicans want to "save and strengthen" Social and Medicare but didn't say how. The White House lambasted the suggested cuts as an assault on the middle class.  After Biden and McCarthy held their first meeting Feb. 1 to discuss the debt limit, both men, surprisingly, expressed optimism but also made clear they're sticking to their positions. It's unclear when they will meet again. The Biden administration plans to propose a budget on March 9.  While Biden's focus on Social Security and Medicare plays into the short-term debt-ceiling fight, there's also a long-term strategy.  Biden is reinforcing his message to blue-collars voters ahead of a 2024 reelection campaign that he's expected to announce in the coming weeks. Seizing on past GOP proposals targeting Social Security and Medicare, Biden is casting Republicans as threats to social welfare programs borne out of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal and Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society. More:As Biden prepares 2024 reelection run, Democrats worry blue-collar voters are slipping away The White House is building an economic case to non-college-educated voters who have increasingly flocked the Democratic Party and supported Republicans amid the culture wars. In particular, Democrats are targeting women voters over 50 years old who didn't attend college – the type of voter most concerned about Social Security.  These voters, particularly in Midwest states such as Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan that Biden narrowly carried in 2020, will be crucial for Biden to win again in 2024. The White House has raised Social Security and Medicare at about every turn since Biden's State of the Union. And even though Republicans say Biden is lying about their intentions, don't expect Biden to stop talking about it anytime soon – especially with a reelection announcement around the corner. The longer Biden can keep Republicans on defense over Social Security and Medicare, the more it's a winning issue for the White House.  Reach Joey Garrison on Twitter @joeygarrison.