HR firm Checkr ranked the best US cities for job opportunities and earning potential. Nashville, Tennessee topped the list, alongside cities like Austin, San Jose, and Denver. A number of these cities have experienced growing tech sectors over the past decade. Despite mass layoffs, rising inflation, and the ongoing economic impact of COVID-19, the US added 815,000 jobs in January and February of this year, according to payroll job data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. An additional 145,000 jobs were added by private companies in March, according to data from payroll tech firm ADP. And workers are seemingly willing to relocate to take advantage of these opportunities. A new report from Checkr, a background check firm, looked at which cities job seekers should consider. "Economic uncertainty has highlighted the importance of earning more money and being adaptable in the face of changing economic conditions," the Checkr report says. "In short, this uncertainty is driving many people to seek out opportunities to increase their earning potential and build greater financial security for themselves and their families." Checkr analyzed BLS and other government labor data on the 100 largest US cities to determine which cities have the most job opportunities with the highest earning potential. Employment opportunities in each city were evaluated with metrics like the unemployment rate, size and growth of the workforce, and the percentage of jobs open. Earning potential was ranked looking at personal income, 10-year income growth, and the percentage of households making more than $200,000 a year. The 10 best US cities for job opportunities and earning potential according to Checkr, are:  1. Nashville, Tennessee 2. Austin, Texas 3. San Jose, California 4. Denver, Colorado 5. Raleigh, North Carolina 6. Salt Lake City, Utah 7. Seattle, Washington 8. San Francisco, California 9. Madison, Wisconsin 10. Provo-Orem, Utah Workers in these 10 cities make, on average, $67,358 a year, Sara Korolevich, the author of the study, told Insider. Higher wages and job growth in the top cities may be, in part, driven by the tech industry, Korolevich said. Nashville's job market, particularly in tech, has grown with the arrival of companies like Dell, Oracle, and Amazon over the last two decades. Austin's tech industry is also attracting thousands of new employees, with giants like Google, Apple, Oracle, and Tesla expanding their offices across the city over the past five years. Denver, meanwhile, was among the cities with the highest growth rate for tech salaries last year, per Axios. The shift to remote work may encourage workers to move to cheaper, mid-sized cities, Korolevich said. Cities like Madison and Raleigh, she said, are "attractive to remote workers in tech and business." They are also home to major universities like the University of Wisconsin-Madison and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, respectively, that "create thousands of high-paying jobs," Korolevich says. Lower taxes and a growing healthcare sector have also increased the number of jobs available in these 10 cities, she added. Read the original article on Business Insider But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. I'd never really thought about it before, but I wouldn't expect this to be the origins of 'o'clock'. A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend Rochelle Humes opened up about her three children while chatting to Channel 5 stars on ITV's This Morning