Monday, 19 August 16 Aug 2023 “Our learners are 21st century learners and for that reason we need to become a 21st century school.” These were the words of Patula La Reservee, principal at Malabar Primary School, as she opened the doors to the school’s computer, coding, and robotics lab on August 8, where over 900 learners will gain the necessary skills to choose careers that will enable them to become marketable and employable in the future. Speaking to the various sponsors and stakeholders during the launch of the new lab, she said that it was important for the school and parents to lay a solid foundation for the learners to develop a vast array of skills and talents. “The adults need to prepare the soil for the plants to grow. We need to be agents of change because their development is in our hands,” said La Reservee. She further said that their learners have various talents and abilities, and it is vital that they are given the opportunity to explore different learning avenues. La Reservee said that the new computer, coding, and robotics lab will provide the learners with an opportunity to develop various skills, such as problem solving and critical thinking. In addition, she said that the lab will serve as a place for the learners to improve their confidence and practise algorithmic theories, among other things. Computer Application Technology teacher, Brent Monaisa, said that when he joined the school three years ago it had a computer lab; however, many of the computers were obsolete, and older than 2004. In addition, he said that they lacked computer-related equipment, such as keyboards and monitors. As a result, Monaisa said that he was unable to update the software on the computers, and in the interim began offering theoretical coding and robotic lessons on the projector in the computer lab. Thankfully, he said that earlier this year, Tangible Africa, which was founded by Nelson Mandela University and the Leva Foundation as an offline solution for coding, sponsored physical coding games which the learners could play with when they were unable to use the computer. “Tangible Africa offers the learners coding games to play when they do not have access to a computer and the internet or during loadshedding when there is no electricity,” said Monaisa. He further said that Volkswagen South Africa had sponsored the school with 20 computer towers, which they paired with the monitors that were in use at the school. In addition, the school purchased 20 computers and 20 monitors. Monaisa said that the computers enabled the learners to learn the practical components of coding and robotics. He said that the learners were all very excited to attend computer lessons; however, since he offered lessons to learners from Grades 1 to 7, each class had one 30 to 45-minute computer lesson a week. “The learners are very eager to be in the computer lab to learn, and often ask to use the computers during their lunch time,” said Monaisa. Grade 7 learner, Leighton Sauls, said that learning about robotics and coding has been very interesting as she enjoys gaining new knowledge. She said that she often struggled understanding new coding concepts; however, with some practice she was able to grasp the theory and practical components of coding. Leighton said that when she and her fellow classmates competed at the Mandela Day Coding Tournament at Father’s House Church in North End, on July 18, she had to think differently and use her imagination. They were placed third in the tournament. Leighton said,   Since she hopes to become a paediatrician later in life, she said that coding and robotics would help her further her career. “I can use coding in my career to help many more people as a paediatrician,” said Leighton. Before being able to open the doors to the lab, La Reservee said that in addition to the parents and school embarking on various fundraising initiatives, they had also received sponsorships from Volkswagen South Africa, Standard Bank, Axxess, Tangible Africa, a local councillor, and various cash donations from individuals. 31 Jul Indulge in the finer things 
                    News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life. 
                 Free to listen for subscribers 
                    News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
                 Can you ace them all? 
                    Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz

                 SA Money Daily 
                    The biggest business, economic and market news of the day, by Fin24 deputy editor, Ahmed Areff.
                 16 Aug 07 Aug 01 Aug 19 Jul 15 Jul 30 Jun  
                    Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
                 13 Aug 16 Jul 30 Jun 19 Jun Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24. 10h ago 11h ago 12 Aug 12 Aug