Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 
You’re reading a free article with opinions that may differ from The Motley Fool’s Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources, and more.
Learn More
 Investors will not want to miss this update to my market-beating portfolio. Fool.com contributor Parkev Tatevosian updates his portfolio with several stocks that fell off the list after rising significantly in the first half of the year.  *Stock prices used were the afternoon prices of July 12, 2023. The video was published on July 14, 2023. Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Randi Zuckerberg, a former director of market development and spokeswoman for Facebook and sister to Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Parkev Tatevosian, CFA has positions in 3M, Alphabet, Chegg, Mastercard, PayPal, Starbucks, Visa, and Walt Disney and has the following options: long January 2024 $105 calls on Walt Disney. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Adobe, Airbnb, Alphabet, DocuSign, Domino's Pizza, Etsy, Fiverr International, Home Depot, Mastercard, MercadoLibre, Meta Platforms, Microsoft, Netflix, Nike, PayPal, Salesforce, Starbucks, StoneCo, Target, Visa, and Walt Disney. The Motley Fool recommends 3M, Chegg, Deere, and eBay and recommends the following options: long January 2024 $145 calls on Walt Disney, long January 2024 $420 calls on Adobe, long January 2024 $60 calls on DocuSign, long January 2025 $370 calls on Mastercard, long January 2025 $47.50 calls on Nike, short January 2024 $155 calls on Walt Disney, short January 2024 $430 calls on Adobe, short January 2025 $380 calls on Mastercard, short July 2023 $47.50 calls on eBay, and short September 2023 $67.50 puts on PayPal. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Parkev Tatevosian is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through his link, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.