California Attorney General Rob Bonta and four of his colleagues submitted an amicus letter late Monday night, citing shortfalls in the company 3M’s multi-billion-dollar proposed settlement with contaminated water utilities. The attorneys general said that while they are in favor of moving forward with the settlement, 3M should pay more than the $10 billion to $12 billion the firm has offered — in order to fund the massive remediation efforts public utilities will have to undertake to eliminate “forever chemicals” from their supplies. “3M has agreed to modify its original proposed settlement in critical ways that will benefit the American people. The states fought hard for those changes,” Bonta said in a statement, referring to revisions made to the proposal over the past few months. Joining Bonta in submitting amicus letter were the attorneys general of Arizona, the District of Columbia, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. 3M in a statement said it was pleased with the agreement. “We are pleased to have worked with the state attorneys general to clarify the public water suppliers (PWS) agreement and they have withdrawn their objections,” 3M spokesperson Carolyn LaViolette said in a statement. “This agreement will benefit U.S.-based public water systems nationwide that provide drinking water to a vast majority of Americans without the need for further litigation by or on behalf of public water systems.” The attorneys general had filed a similar letter last month relating to a separate, $1.18 billion settlement proposal between the company DuPont — and spinoffs Chemours and Corteva — and the water utilities. Both the 3M and DuPont settlements involve massive class action litigation with public water suppliers that have already detected the presence of cancer-linked compounds known as PFAS, as well as those that might do so in the future. Notorious for their ability to persist in both the human body and in the environment, these so-called forever chemicals — or per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances — are found in certain types of firefighting foam and in many household items. The companies involved in the proposed settlements, which specifically pertain to PFAS-laden firefighting foam, are among the major historic manufacturers of these toxic compounds. The product, known as aqueous film forming foam (AFFF), has long been used to fight fuel-based fires at military bases, civilian airports and industrial sites. In July, another Bonta-led group of 22 attorneys general took bipartisan legal action against 3M’s initial proposal — arguing that providers would be bound to the terms unless they actively opted out, all the while lacking information as to how much money they could receive. At the time, the officials filed a motion to intervene and a document of opposition, also slamming 3M’s phrasing that the proposal “is not an admission of liability.” In the amicus letter Monday night, the attorneys general credited the company for agreeing to eliminate the indemnification clause that they say “would have unfairly shifted future liability from 3M to water suppliers” that failed to proactively opt out. They also acknowledged that the revised terms both provide public water providers with a method for estimating the payouts they could receive and grant these agencies 90 days to make that decision, rather than 60. The attorneys general also agreed with moving forward because the revised proposal now makes clear in several places that claims filed by Bonta in a separate November 2022 lawsuit and other officials would not be impaired. The modified terms also indicate that any proposed anti-suit injunction would ensure that states are free to submit PFAS-related claims against 3M. At the same time, however, the amicus letter criticizes what the authors describe as “a very protracted payment schedule that makes water suppliers bear the risk of 3M’s insolvency for over a decade” — referring to 3M’s annual installment schedule from 2024 through 2036. The total sum, the attorney generals contended, represents only a small percentage of the damages 3M allegedly inflicted upon water suppliers for eight decades. Meanwhile, with water utilities unable to cover the full costs of drinking water monitoring and treatment, they will need to pass the additional costs on to ratepayers, according to the amicus letter. “3M declined to pay an amount that accurately reflects the extraordinary damage it has caused to public drinking water systems, and it declined to provide water suppliers the money to remediate that damage more quickly,” Bonta said. “Our coalition has filed an amicus letter to make sure the court knows about our outstanding concerns,” he added. This story was updated at 4:31 p.m.  For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to The Hill.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.