Logging you in. Logging you out. Updating your account. Database of selected U.S. and international exploration wells Information on assets, buyers and sellers, deal values, and more. A searchable database of oil and gas debt and equity offerings. A list of A&D professionals anywhere. Prices for top E&P stocks and commodities. Rextag database of energy infrastructure assets As part of its 50th anniversary celebration in 2023, Hart Energy is proud to announce the inaugural class of Hart’s Hall of Fame and Agents of Change in Energy (ACEs) leading the energy evolution. As part of its 50th anniversary celebration in 2023, Hart Energy is proud to announce the inaugural class of Hart’s Hall of Fame and Agents of Change in Energy (ACEs) leading the energy evolution. The honorees include leading oil and gas executives, legendary wildcatters, finance leaders, pioneering geologists and much more. The inaugural Hall of Fame recognizes everyone from famed oil well firefighter “Red” Adair to the father of fracking, George P. Mitchell. Hart Energy will host a Dec. 5 celebration in Houston to commemorate its 50th anniversary and to recognize the honorees. The event will feature a fireside chat program emceed by ACE honoree Dan Pickering, of Pickering Energy Partners, and include Hall of Famers, such as Continental Resources Executive Chairman Harold Hamm, and more. Hart Energy will also publish a special 13th edition of its flagship Oil and Gas Investor digital and print magazine at the beginning of December, profiling Hall of Fame inductees, documenting the energy sector’s major milestones over the past half century and highlighting key leaders and new technologies driving future growth. The Hall of Fame features also will be highlighted online at hartenergy.com. Hart Energy will add to its Hall of Fame class and ACEs each subsequent year, and nominations are invited. The inaugural Hall of Fame class features (in alphabetical order with the company they are best associated with): The inaugural Agents of Change in Energy (ACEs) are: 
2024-06-06
      - TotalEnergies signed an agreement with EIG, an institutional investor in the global energy sector, for the acquisition of all the shares of West Burton Energy for an enterprise value of £450 million (US$575 million).
     
2024-07-31
      - SLB, OneSubsea, Subsea 7 and the Subsea Integration Alliance will increase speed of tool delivery, optimize installation and reduce rig days at BP’s Murlach development in the North Sea.
     
2024-07-02
      - CEO Kyle Koontz takes the reins of BPX Energy’s rapid onshore growth amid big changes at BP.
     
2024-06-12
      - Swift Solar, with backing from Italy’s Eni and others, has raised a total of $44 million for work transforming the solar energy landscape with perovskite tandem solar projects.
     
2024-07-11
      - With the acquisition of distributed power provider Mobile Energy Rentals, oilfield services player Solaris sees opportunity to grow in industries outside of the oil patch—data centers, in particular.
     Energy news, analysis, interviews, and exclusive coverage you need to keep your industry edge. Already a subscriber? Sign in With oil and gas back in favor as higher commodity prices equate to stronger returns among oil and gas producers and the exponential growth seen…
                                 Dallas, TX
                                 Consolidation continues to drive the storyline in 2024 as oil and gas companies tilt toward scale and synergies through A&D. But, will deals…
                                 Dallas, TX
                                 Concerns about U.S. energy security, global geopolitical crisis, inflation and emissions control put the Appalachian Basin’s abundant natural gas…
                                 Pittsburgh, PA
                                 Gain insights from industry executives and expert analysts at Hart Energy’s DUG Executive Conference & Expo, held November 20-21, 2024 at the…
                                 Midland, TX
                                 Subscribe for free to our newsletters for the latest energy news © 2024 Hart Energy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part, in any form or medium without express written permission is prohibited.