There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the Utilities sector as 2 analysts just weighed in on Cheniere Energy (LNG – Research Report) and Range Resources (RRC – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. Cheniere Energy (LNG) Bank of America Securities analyst Julien Dumoulin Smith  reiterated a Buy rating on Cheniere Energy today and set a price target of $172.00. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $150.31. According to TipRanks.com, Smith is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 6.0% and a 57.3% success rate. Smith covers the Utilities sector, focusing on stocks such as Sunnova Energy International, Public Service Enterprise, and Maxeon Solar Technologies. Currently, the analyst consensus on Cheniere Energy is a Strong Buy with an average price target of $198.36, which is a 28.1% upside from current levels. In a report issued on March 2, Scotiabank also initiated coverage with a Buy rating on the stock with a $194.00 price target.
		  See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Range Resources (RRC) In a report released today, Scott Hanold  from RBC Capital reiterated a Buy rating on Range Resources, with a price target of $40.00. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $25.69. According to TipRanks.com, Hanold is a top 100 analyst with an average return of 19.0% and a 55.1% success rate. Hanold covers the Utilities sector, focusing on stocks such as California Resources Corp, Northern Oil And Gas, and Southwestern Energy. Range Resources has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $31.79, representing a 25.3% upside. In a report issued on March 1, Wolfe Research also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $32.00 price target.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Read More on LNG:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks