MARYLAND — Marylanders can learn about naval history, backpacking and colonial history at upcoming events. Kayaking, hiking and conservation opportunities are also on tap.  Patch recently partnered with several local organizations to bring you their latest news. This guest contribution comes from National Park Service Chesapeake Gateways and Chesapeake Conservancy. Here's what Jody Hedeman Couser submitted to help you explore the Chesapeake Bay:  Join Ship's Company Living History of Baltimore and Fort McHenry Guard sailors to learn about the U.S. Navy during the War of 1812. Explore the roles [that] naval contractors, Black Americans and women played in supplying the nation's early [Navy] with food, uniforms, rope, sails and more. The program schedule includes morning flag change, artillery and cutlass drill demos, naval weaponry and evening flag change. Fee for entrance into the historic Star Fort is $15 per adult ; no reservations required. June 3, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fort McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine, Baltimore, MD. More info and schedule of events" Celebrate Great Outdoors Month by joining a ranger to celebrate National Trails Day. Listen to the songs of frogs as you learn backpacking basics and the many ways you can minimize your impact on the great outdoors. Reservations required. Day-use fees apply. June 3, 7 p.m.; Sandy Point State Park, Annapolis, MD. More info" St. Clement’s Island Museum and St. Clements Island State Park are inviting one and all to visit and become acquainted with the island’s past as the site of Maryland's first colonial landing in 1634. The St. Clement’s Island Museum will be open, offering free admission and free water taxi rides to the island. Heritage Day is a fun-filled day that includes crafts, games, lighthouse tours, traditional music, wool carding, spinning, and weaving presentation, blacksmithing demonstrations, decoy carving demonstrations, free watermelon slices for visitors throughout the event, navigation techniques used by sailors before GPS and more! June 3, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; St. Clements Island State Park, St. Clements Island, MD. More information" The Patuxent Riverkeepers in Upper Marlboro, Maryland have just announced the reopening of their Riverfront Center for kayak rentals after a two-year hiatus. They have a rental fleet of canoes, plus both single and double kayaks available for rental. You can "surf" for public access points at www.patuxentwatertrail.org and make reservations online. Got questions? The Patuxent Riverfront Center is happy to answer your questions about paddling and the Patuxent." Take a ranger-led paddle (with some hiking) on Great Bohemia Creek for approximately one hour. Boats, paddles and life jackets will be provided. Available boats are 2-person canoes, 2-person tandem kayaks and 2-person single kayaks. These paddles are intended to be a leisurely, fun excursion on Great Bohemia Creek, viewing local wildlife and seeing the park from a new angle. Some experience with canoeing and kayaking is expected. Boats are available on a first-come first serve basis. $12 for in-state participants. June 9, 23, July 7, 21, Aug 4, 18, 5 p.m. check in; Chesapeake City, MD. More info and registration" If you’ve never heard of truly distinctive and globally rare serpentine ecosystems or have been curious to visit one, this is a great opportunity to experience the ecosystem of Soldiers Delight NEA with expert guides. Learn about the unusual circumstances which created this special habitat in which rare flora and fauna can be found. Two hikes will be offered, followed by a casual Q&A. $10-20/participant. June 17-18; Soldiers Delight Environmental Area, Owings Mills, MD. More information and registration" The Maryland Conservation [Corps] provides young adults ages 17-25 with opportunities for skill development and personal growth through a supportive, team-based environment, emphasizing projects that benefit Maryland’s natural resources. Corps Members gain experiences that enable them to be highly competitive when applying for Maryland Park Service and other natural resources management careers. [Corps] tasks include planting native trees and plants, improving park facilities, removing invasive species, improving park nature centers and facilities and more. Benefits include a bi-weekly living allowance. The 2023-2024 application deadline is mid-August, 2023. Learn more and apply online!" Related:  Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.