e-Pilot e-Pilot Evening Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Pilot e-Pilot Evening Edition 
			Top Picks:		 City of Chesapeake This image shows the underside of the bridge along the Chesapeake Expressway, and highlights the portion that was damaged after being hit by a dredge on Friday. City of Chesapeake A worker repairs the damaged girder under the bridge along Route 168 in Chesapeake. This image shows the underside of the bridge along the Chesapeake Expressway, and highlights the portion that was damaged after being hit by a dredge on Friday. Commuters in the city and travelers to the Outer Banks got some good news Wednesday.After a final inspection, the two southbound lanes of a bridge on the Chesapeake Expressway are open to all traffic — earlier than initially expected.The Route 168 Bypass Bridge was partially closed for nearly two weeks after it was struck by spud barge — a specialized type commonly used for marine construction operations.The barge hit a girder underneath the bridge May 12, causing local officials to alter traffic significantly to avoid making the damage worse from continued stress, city spokesperson Heath Covey previously said. The bridge remained safe to drive on.The city announced Tuesday evening that the lanes would reopen, and by 11:30 a.m. Wednesday, the city announced in a tweet that the final inspection had been completed.The city will seek full reimbursement from the company that caused the damage, Norfolk Dredging, according to a  news release.
This image shows the underside of the bridge along the Chesapeake Expressway, and highlights the portion that was damaged after being hit by a dredge on Friday.City officials had told The Virginian-Pilot last week the repairs, and the traffic disruption, would continue for “several weeks.”

“We are very grateful that we were able to get the contractor in town just days after we were informed of the incident, that they brought enough supplies and crew members to work 24/7, and that by the time they were able to put eyes on the damage it was determined that the fix could be accomplished quicker than originally anticipated,” the city said Tuesday evening.Staff write Eliza Noe contributed to this report.Gavin Stone, 757-712-4806, gavin.stone@virginiamedia.com After a final inspection, the two southbound lanes of a bridge on the Chesapeake Expressway are open to all traffic — earlier than initially expected. The Route 168 Bypass Bridge was partially closed for nearly two weeks after it was struck by spud barge — a specialized type commonly used for marine construction operations. The barge hit a girder underneath the bridge May 12, causing local officials to alter traffic significantly to avoid making the damage worse from continued stress, city spokesperson Heath Covey previously said. The bridge remained safe to drive on. The city announced Tuesday evening that the lanes would reopen, and by 11:30 a.m. Wednesday, the city announced in a tweet that the final inspection had been completed. The city will seek full reimbursement from the company that caused the damage, Norfolk Dredging, according to a  news release. City officials had told The Virginian-Pilot last week the repairs, and the traffic disruption, would continue for “several weeks.” “We are very grateful that we were able to get the contractor in town just days after we were informed of the incident, that they brought enough supplies and crew members to work 24/7, and that by the time they were able to put eyes on the damage it was determined that the fix could be accomplished quicker than originally anticipated,” the city said Tuesday evening. Staff write Eliza Noe contributed to this report. Gavin Stone, 757-712-4806, gavin.stone@virginiamedia.com Copyright © 2024 The Virginian-Pilot