Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin at his Baltimore home. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin holds a campaign button at his Baltimore home. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun Myrna Edelman Cardin and her husband, U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, at their Baltimore home. He will not be seeking reelection. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun Benjamin L. Cardin is on a ticket in the 5th when he was running for a seat in the House of Representatives. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin at his Baltimore home. He will not be seeking reelection. Amy Davis/Baltimore Sun From left, Toni Draper, AFRO News CEO and Publisher, Upton Planning Committee President Darroll Cribb (in back), Savannah Wood, AFRO Charities Executive Director, Congressman Kweis Mfume, Sen. Ben Cardin and Sen. Chris Van Hollen, celebrate the receipt of federal earmark grants of more than $2 million to renovate the Upton Mansion into the headquarters of AFRO Charities and AFRO News. Amy Davis/Amy Davis From left, Police Commissioner Michael Harrison, Mayor Brandon Scott, Senator Chris Van Hollen and Sen. Ben Cardin chat before an announcement at Pennsylvania Avenue Market will be rejuvenated, thanks to a $2 million federal investment. Dylan Slagle / Carroll County Times Standard Solar chief operating officer Rick Berube, center, shows off rows of solar panels to US Senators Ben Cardin, left, and Chris Van Hollen, during a visit to the Shepherd's Mill Community Solar Project site in Union Bridge. Amy Davis U.S. Senators Ben Cardin, speaking, and Chris Van Hollen, in front at right, held a news conference against the backdrop of the "Highway to Nowhere" that harmed West Baltimore, with members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation, Mayor Brandon Scott, and city officials. The Reconnecting Communities Act legislation they have introduced aims to revitalize areas harmed by construction of the Interstate Highway System and address the inherent inequities in infrastructure development. Kim Hairston/Baltimore Sun U.S. Senator Ben Cardin heads a roundtable discussion about the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, at the University of Maryland Medical Center. Kim Hairston/Baltimore Sun U.S. Senator Ben Cardin heads a roundtable discussion about the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, at the University of Maryland Medical Center. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Senator Chris Van Hollen and Senator Ben Cardin chat after talking to voters in the parking lot of Mount Pleasant Church in Northeast Baltimore. Ulysses Muñoz/The Baltimore Sun Sen. Ben Cardin gives remarks during a ceremony celebrating the life of Elijah Cummings. A public viewing and community celebration for Congressman Elijah E. Cummings was held at Morgan State University. Amy Davis Sen. Ben Cardin, speaking as the senior member of Baltimore's Congressional delegation with Baltimore City Mayor Bernard C. "Jack" Young, was joined by other officials at Baltimore Police headquarters for the announcement of more than $4.6 million in federal funding to fight gun violence in Baltimore City and County. Behind them, from left, are Rep. John P. Sarbanes, Baltimore County Executive John Olszewski Jr., Sen. Chris Van Hollen, Baltimore County Police Chief Melissa Hyatt, Baltimore Police Commissioner Michael Harrison and Rep. C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger. Ulysses Muñoz, Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin addresses the Maryland House of Delegates during the opening day of the General Assembly 2019 Session. Nate Pesce / For The Capital Maryland Senator Ben Cardin, right, congratulates Outgoing Garrison commander COL Thomas Rickard and his wife Lisa Rickard after a change of command ceremony at Club Meade. Joshua McKerrow, staff / Delaware Senator Tom Carper and Maryland Senator Ben Cardin chat before the start of their press conference pledging to defend programs protecting the Chesapeake Bay from federal cuts. Amy Davis / Baltimore Sun Maryland Congressman Chris Van Hollen, Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate, left, was accompanied by Sen. Ben Cardin to St. Leo's Church Hall, the polling site in Little Italy, during a midday campaign stop. by Joshua McKerrow / Capital Gazette Senator Ben Cardin listens to people raising concerns about the Chesapeake Bay and water quality  at a meeting at the Annapolis Maritime Museum. Amy Davis, Baltimore Sun Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, left, addressed a rally at Sagamore Ventures's City Garage after Maryland Senator Barbara Mikulski, Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman Elijah Cummings spoke in support of her candidacy. Amy Davis / Baltimore Sun Sen. Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, left, and ranking committee member Sen. Ben Cardin, right, during the hearing on "The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action" concerning Iran's nuclear weapon program, held in the Dirksen Senate office building. Kim HairstonThe Baltimore Sun, Baltimore Sun Sen. Ben Cardin answers questions during a NIH town hall hosted by Dr. Francis Collins, director of the NIH, in Masur Auditorium. Cardin speaks to employees about issues facing federal workers. Karl Merton Ferrron, Baltimore Sun Ben Cardin talks with media at the Brown/Ulman election night party at the University of Maryland. Algerina Perna, Baltimore Sun At St. Vincent de Paul, raising their arms in support of raising the minimum wage are from left: Rev. Dr. Harlie Walden Wilson, II, Israel Baptist Church; Gov. Martin O'Malley; Sen. Ben Cardin, and Rev. Dr. Carletta Allen, Asbury UMC (Annapolis). By Matthew Cole, Staff, Capital Gazette Muhammad Iqbal of Pakistan and U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin break the Ramadan fast with a small meal of fruit and water at the Makkah Learning Center in Gambrills. "It gives us time to reflect and be thankful for the friendship we have and the country that we live in that embraces diversity," Cardin said. Staff photo by Brian Krista Hugh Sisson, owner of Clipper City Brewing Company, discusses the process of aging beer in old whiskey barrels with Sen. Ben Cardin during a tour of the brewery in Halethorpe. Amy Davis / Baltimore Sun Sen. Ben Cardin held a town hall meeting with federal employees at the Social Security Administration in Woodlawn to discuss the looming sequester cuts. Jon Sham/Patuxent Homestead / Patuxent Publishing Sen. Ben Cardin, speaks at the inauguration of Towson University President Maravene Loeschke. Jen Rynda / Patuxent Homestead Sen. Ben Cardin, center, and superintendent Renee Foose, right, visit a class at Mount Hebron High School on the first day of school in Ellicott City. Doug Kapustin / BALTIMORE SUN David Machuga, president and CEO of ELTA North America cuts the ceremonial ribbon along with, from left, Israeli Ambassador to the U.S. Michael Oren,  Sen. Barbara Mikulski, Howard County Executive Ken Ulman, president and CEO of Elta Systems Ltd., Nissim Hadas, Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown, Maryland Sen. Ben Cardin, and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. Nate Pesce / Patuxent Publishing Sen. Ben Cardin, center facing away, holds a Q&A with the students of Manor View Elementary. He shared a Veterans Day message with 3rd-5th graders. Amy Davis / Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, left, and Baltimore City Comptroller Joan M. Pratt, in front at right,  at the Bethel AME morning service. Bishop John R. Bryant was being honored for his work growing the congregation from 600 to 6000, and for his 50 years of service in the ministry. Barbara Haddock Taylor / Baltimore Sun Sen. Ben Cardin, left, shakes hands with Delegate Hattie Harrison of Baltimore City in the house of delegates chamber at the State House on the first day of the Maryland legislative session.  Del. Melvin Stukes is on right. Brian Krista / Patuxent Publishing Garrison Commander Col. Ed Rothstein of Fort Meade talks with U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, left, on the sidelines during the University of Maryland football game in College Park. Gene Sweeney Jr. / Baltimore Sun U.S Rep. Ben Cardin stands with the flag bearers before they brought the U.S. flag onto the field for the National Anthem before the Baltimore Ravens played the Pittsburgh Steelers. Barbara Haddock Taylor / Baltimore Sun On the first day of the Maryland legislative session, Senators greet each other on the Senate floor. Here, left to right:  Sen. John Astle of Anne Arundel county; Sen. Ben Cardin, Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller. Baltimore Sun photo by Karl Merton Ferron U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin responds to an audience's questions and comments in Hagerstown. Perna,  Algerina / Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, center, toured KIPP Ujima Village Academy, a charter middle school in Baltimore that is one of the state's top performers. Pictured are eighth graders, Nancy Kyei, 13, left, and Jasmine Drummond, 14. BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR / Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, on right, announced a proposed tax credit plan to stimulate the housing market. He stood in front of a home for sale in the Ednor Gardens neighborhood and was joined by Johnette Richardson, left, who is Executive Director of Belair Edison Neighborhoods, Inc. Colby Ware / BALTIMORE SUN Sen. Ben Cardin speaks during the presentation of $75,000 in support of the upcoming "Oysters on the Half Shell" exhibit at the Annapolis Maritime Museum. Delegate Ron George, John Astle and Mayor Ellen O. Moyer look on. Andr F. Chung / Baltimore Sun Gov. Martin O'Malley greets Sens. Ben Cardin and Barbara Mikulski upon arrival. Gov. O'Malley and his cabinet address the Maryland congressional delegation on Capitol Hill. BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR / Baltimore Sun Senate candidate Ben Cardin, left, meets actor Michael J. Fox for the first time before they appeared together at the Bethesda Holiday Inn. Fox came to voice his support on Cardin's campaign stance regarding embryonic stem cell research. Perna,Algerina / Baltimore Sun Tim Russert, right, host of "Meet the Press," asked questions of Senate candidates, republican Michael Steele, center, and democrat Ben Cardin. Andr F. Chung / Baltimore Sun Ben and Myrna Cardin joke with supporters as they wait for their chance to vote. Ben Cardin and his wife, Myrna vote at Fort Garrison Elementary School. GLENN FAWCETT / Baltimore Sun Congressman Ben Cardin greets supporters at a reception held for him at the Ocean City Convention Center during the MACO (Maryland Association of Counties) convention. ALGERINA PERNA / Baltimore Sun Ben Cardin, the democratic candidate for the Senate, speaks at The "Fighting for Families" lunch, which kicked off the Democratic Victory 06 Tour. The event was held at The Forum on Primrose Avenue. BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR / Baltimore Sun Ben Cardin, democratic candidate for U.S. Senate, greets potential voters at Lexington Market along with Baltimore City Clerk of the Circuit Court Frank Conaway, left. Andr F. Chung / Baltimore Sun Congressman Ben Cardin, the ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, is running for Senate. LLOYD FOX / Baltimore Sun Rep. Ben Cardin, middle, announces that he is running for the U.S. Senate at a press conference held at the Museum of Industry in Baltimore.  Cardin's daughter, Deborah Cardin, left, and his wife, Myrna Cardin celebrate the announcement with him. NANINE HARTZENBUSCH / Baltimore Sun Congressman Ben Cardin shakes hands with Annapolis Mayor Ellen Moyer during inaugural ceremonies at Maryland Hall for the Creative Arts. BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR / Baltimore Sun Congressman Ben Cardin talks to a group of law students from the University of Maryland Law Schoo about Supreme Court nominees. BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR / XX Press conference at the Port of Baltimore after a tour for officials to learn about port security. John Makely / XX Congressman Ben Cardin and Maryland Lt. Governor Michael Steele arrive at The Living Classrooms Foundation groundbreaking ceremony for the Frederick Douglass - Isaac Myers Maritime Park. CHIAKI KAWAJIRI / XX Congressman Ben Cardin came to Columbia to talk to local seniors about a medicare bill. Lloyd Fox / XX While getting a tour of the 600 block of Robinson St. Sen. Barbara Mikulski and  Congressman Ben Cardin listen to Ken Strong, right, speak about property flipping. Steve Ruark / Patuxent Publishing Maryland Congressman Ben Cardin speaks to seniors at Joseph Senior Life Center about health care benefits. Nanine Hartzenbusch / XX First Lady Hillary Clinton, center, walks down the Baltimore-Annapolis trail near Severna Park. Mike Jones, boy scout, from left; Congressman Ben Cardin, Director of the National Park Service, Robert Stanton; David Burwell, President Rails to Trails Conservancy; (Hillary Clinton); Senator Paul Sarbanes, Governor Parris Glendening. At front: Tyneka Paca, 9, 4th grader at Oak Hill Elementary School, and Jennifer Jarman, girl scout. Doug Kapustin / XX Rep. Ben Cardin, left, with fellow democrats and candidate for comptroller William Donald Schaefer and Attorney General Joe Curran, right. Jed Kirschbaum / XX On the banks of the Chester River at Spaniard's Point Farm Vice President Al Gore signs the Maryland Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program, which establishes a federal-state partnership to provide payments to farmers who retire acres from production. Also shown are, seated,  Gov. Parris Glendening, left, and the Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman. Standing are, left to right,  Congressman Ben Cardin, Sen. Paul Sarbanes, farm owner Loring Hawes, Congressman Wayne Gilchrest(partially hidden) and Sen. Barbara Mikulski. Nanine Hartzenbusch / XX Rep. Ben Cardin poses for a portrait in his Baltimore office  after saying in an interview that he would not run for governor of Maryland in the next election. He will campaign for re-election of his Congressional seat. DENNIS DRENNER / XX Congressman Ben Cardin chats with Patricia H. Fisher, an audience member, at the end of the forum on financing higher education he held along with Congressman Elijah Cumming on the UMBC campus. Patrick Sandor / Baltimore Sun Rep. Ben Cardin eats lunch at Owings Mills Elementary School with, left, Patrick Peterkin and Julie Fitchet, right, both age 10. All were enjoying tacos. Jed Kirschbaum / XX Congressman Ben Cardin looks on as third graders India Powell, center, and Tamia Ruffin of Charles Carroll of Carrollton School bask in the applause for the mural that they made. Paul Hutchins / XX Congressman Ben Cardin tours Mead Village with Executive Director Larry Loyd, at left, followed by neighbors and media. PAUL HUTCHINS / XX Ben Cardin is pictured in 1993. Patrick Sandor/Baltimore Sun Ben Cardin with his wife, Myrna, celebrate at victory headquarters. Barbara Haddock/Baltimore Sun Ben Cardin and his wife, Myrna, are seen at the Convention Center. William Hotz/Baltimore Sun House Speaker Ben Cardin speaks to reporters after meeting with the Governor. Robert K. Hamilton/Baltimore Sun Speaker of the House Ben Cardin stops in the State House to talk to a friend located in the balcony above him. Cardin was on his way to the house floor. Weyman Swagger/Baltimore Sun Delegate Ben Cardin George H. Cook/Baltimore Sun Ben Cardin attends the Association of Counties meeting at Hunt Valley Inn. Clarence B. Garrett/Baltimore Sun Ben Cardin Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin at his Baltimore home. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin at his Baltimore home. He will not be seeking reelection. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun Myrna Edelman Cardin and her husband, U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, at their Baltimore home. U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin at his Baltimore home. U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin says he won’t seek reelection next year, ending a nearly six-decade run in Maryland politics and creating a scramble to fill a rare vacancy in the closely divided Senate.“It’s time,” the 79-year-old Democrat told The Baltimore Sun in an interview at his Pikesville home in advance of his announcement Monday. “I always knew this election cycle would be the one I would be thinking about not running again, so it’s not something that hit me by surprise. I enjoy life. There are other things I can do.”On Monday afternoon, Cardin issued a statement saying “I have run my last election” and stressing the importance of civility in American politics. “I am an optimist but also a realist. I was taught that it’s OK to compromise — don’t ever compromise your principles — but find a path to get things done,” his statement said.Gov. Wes Moore, the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, Chesapeake Conservancy, and Democratic members of Maryland’s congressional delegation issued statements praising Cardin’s service.“He is the epitome of what it means to be a public servant,” said Moore, a Democrat.Cardin, whose third six-year Senate term ends in January 2025, has emphasized international human rights and assisting Baltimore and the Chesapeake Bay. Last week, he made a push to revive the Equal Right Amendment for women that fell short in the Senate.He began his political career as a member of the House of Delegates in 1967 while still a law student. Democratic U.S. Rep. Steny Hoyer, 83, who represents Southern Maryland, started in the state Senate the same year, making them the state’s longest-serving elected officials.

U.S. Senate vacancies are rare, and the possibility of replacing Cardin after his retirement has drawn interest already from a number of potential successors. Possible contenders include Prince George’s County Executive Angela Alsobrooks; U.S. Rep. David Trone, who represents Frederick County and Western Maryland; and Montgomery County Council member Will Jawando.Each of the three Democrats is serious enough about running that they have begun preparing for the campaign. None would comment Monday out of deference to Cardin since his announcement was still fresh.Baltimore County Executive Johnny Olszewski Jr. and U.S. Rep. Jamie Raskin of Montgomery County also have acknowledged through aides that they are considering bids.Democrats, who hold a 51-49 majority in the Senate, will try to hang on to control of the chamber in the 2024 elections.Maryland, which has twice as many Democratic voters as Republicans, has not elected a Republican U.S. senator since Charles Mathias of Frederick in 1980.
Myrna Edelman Cardin and her husband, U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, at their Baltimore home.Cardin’s home, which he shares with his wife of nearly 59 years, Myrna Edelman Cardin, is in a quiet, tree-filled neighborhood. It’s filled with political memorabilia such as campaign buttons, an old Baltimore ballot box, and photos of the senator, who also previously served in the U.S. House, with a number of U.S. presidents.After next year, Cardin said he expects to remain involved in some capacity with issues such as human rights and the environment, which have occupied much of his time in Washington.“It’s just time to exhale,” his wife said. “I’d just like to not have a schedule, a calendar. As Ben says, he can do anything.”Cardin also released a video in which he and his wife review his political career.“You were my inspiration,” he said to her as the couple holds hands.Cardin declined in the interview to endorse a possible successor.“I know that people are interested. Let’s see who is prepared to do it. I am extremely confident we will hold the seat,” he said of Democrats.
U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin at his Baltimore home.In a sharply partisan congressional era, Cardin, who projects a calm demeanor, has become known for his ability to quietly work with Republicans on policy issues. He lists among his top achievements a 2016 law he championed with John McCain, the late Republican senator from Arizona, to allow the United States to sanction foreign officials who commit human rights violations and ban them from entering the country.Cardin has been committed not only to aiding Marylanders but “advancing social justice, protecting our environment, and promoting human rights at home and abroad,” said U.S. Sen. Chris Van Hollen, Cardin’s Democratic colleague from Maryland.Cardin, who chairs the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, said he was announcing his retirement now — with more than 20 months remaining in his term — to allow time for candidates to mount campaigns for the seat.His retirement could create a ripple effect across some Maryland ballots.Since he would not be permitted to seek two federal offices simultaneously, a Senate candidacy by Trone, the wealthy owner of the Total Wine & More beverage retailer, would create a vacancy in the 6th Congressional District, one of the most competitive in the state.Olszewski has expressed interest not only in a potential Senate vacancy but in the 2nd Congressional District seat of Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, 77, if the 11th-term Democratic incumbent does not seek reelection in 2024.Ruppersberger “has not made any decisions about the next term, nor does he have a timeline to do so,” campaign spokesperson Jaime Lennon said.Former two-term Republican Gov. Larry Hogan has said multiple times that he’s not interested in the Senate, but that was before Cardin’s retirement decision created an open seat. Hogan has been at odds with former President Donald Trump, who remains popular among many Maryland Republicans. Hogan could not be reached Monday through former aides.The candidate filing deadline is Feb. 9, 2024, and the primary is scheduled for the following May 14.Cardin will turn 80 in October, the age that President Joe Biden, also a Democrat, is now.While the senator is choosing not to run, he said Biden’s decision to seek reelection is the president’s to make.“There is no age limit on running for office at all,” Cardin said. “He has proven that he could get things done.”Cardin said he isn’t retiring so much as switching gears.“I actually think I’d be a good professor, a teacher. I might do some of that,” he said. “I think I’m at the top of my game physically, I really do. But I’m not skiing and I’m not climbing steep cliffs anymore and, as I go down steps, I’m holding on. So things are changing.” “It’s time,” the 79-year-old Democrat told The Baltimore Sun in an interview at his Pikesville home in advance of his announcement Monday. “I always knew this election cycle would be the one I would be thinking about not running again, so it’s not something that hit me by surprise. I enjoy life. There are other things I can do.” On Monday afternoon, Cardin issued a statement saying “I have run my last election” and stressing the importance of civility in American politics. “I am an optimist but also a realist. I was taught that it’s OK to compromise — don’t ever compromise your principles — but find a path to get things done,” his statement said. Gov. Wes Moore, the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, Chesapeake Conservancy, and Democratic members of Maryland’s congressional delegation issued statements praising Cardin’s service. “He is the epitome of what it means to be a public servant,” said Moore, a Democrat. Cardin, whose third six-year Senate term ends in January 2025, has emphasized international human rights and assisting Baltimore and the Chesapeake Bay. Last week, he made a push to revive the Equal Right Amendment for women that fell short in the Senate. He began his political career as a member of the House of Delegates in 1967 while still a law student. Democratic U.S. Rep. Steny Hoyer, 83, who represents Southern Maryland, started in the state Senate the same year, making them the state’s longest-serving elected officials. U.S. Senate vacancies are rare, and the possibility of replacing Cardin after his retirement has drawn interest already from a number of potential successors. Possible contenders include Prince George’s County Executive Angela Alsobrooks; U.S. Rep. David Trone, who represents Frederick County and Western Maryland; and Montgomery County Council member Will Jawando. Each of the three Democrats is serious enough about running that they have begun preparing for the campaign. None would comment Monday out of deference to Cardin since his announcement was still fresh. Baltimore County Executive Johnny Olszewski Jr. and U.S. Rep. Jamie Raskin of Montgomery County also have acknowledged through aides that they are considering bids. Democrats, who hold a 51-49 majority in the Senate, will try to hang on to control of the chamber in the 2024 elections. Maryland, which has twice as many Democratic voters as Republicans, has not elected a Republican U.S. senator since Charles Mathias of Frederick in 1980. Cardin’s home, which he shares with his wife of nearly 59 years, Myrna Edelman Cardin, is in a quiet, tree-filled neighborhood. It’s filled with political memorabilia such as campaign buttons, an old Baltimore ballot box, and photos of the senator, who also previously served in the U.S. House, with a number of U.S. presidents. After next year, Cardin said he expects to remain involved in some capacity with issues such as human rights and the environment, which have occupied much of his time in Washington. “It’s just time to exhale,” his wife said. “I’d just like to not have a schedule, a calendar. As Ben says, he can do anything.” Cardin also released a video in which he and his wife review his political career. “You were my inspiration,” he said to her as the couple holds hands. Cardin declined in the interview to endorse a possible successor. “I know that people are interested. Let’s see who is prepared to do it. I am extremely confident we will hold the seat,” he said of Democrats. In a sharply partisan congressional era, Cardin, who projects a calm demeanor, has become known for his ability to quietly work with Republicans on policy issues. He lists among his top achievements a 2016 law he championed with John McCain, the late Republican senator from Arizona, to allow the United States to sanction foreign officials who commit human rights violations and ban them from entering the country. Cardin has been committed not only to aiding Marylanders but “advancing social justice, protecting our environment, and promoting human rights at home and abroad,” said U.S. Sen. Chris Van Hollen, Cardin’s Democratic colleague from Maryland. Cardin, who chairs the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, said he was announcing his retirement now — with more than 20 months remaining in his term — to allow time for candidates to mount campaigns for the seat. His retirement could create a ripple effect across some Maryland ballots. Since he would not be permitted to seek two federal offices simultaneously, a Senate candidacy by Trone, the wealthy owner of the Total Wine & More beverage retailer, would create a vacancy in the 6th Congressional District, one of the most competitive in the state. Olszewski has expressed interest not only in a potential Senate vacancy but in the 2nd Congressional District seat of Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, 77, if the 11th-term Democratic incumbent does not seek reelection in 2024. Ruppersberger “has not made any decisions about the next term, nor does he have a timeline to do so,” campaign spokesperson Jaime Lennon said. Former two-term Republican Gov. Larry Hogan has said multiple times that he’s not interested in the Senate, but that was before Cardin’s retirement decision created an open seat. Hogan has been at odds with former President Donald Trump, who remains popular among many Maryland Republicans. Hogan could not be reached Monday through former aides. The candidate filing deadline is Feb. 9, 2024, and the primary is scheduled for the following May 14. Cardin will turn 80 in October, the age that President Joe Biden, also a Democrat, is now. While the senator is choosing not to run, he said Biden’s decision to seek reelection is the president’s to make. “There is no age limit on running for office at all,” Cardin said. “He has proven that he could get things done.” Cardin said he isn’t retiring so much as switching gears. “I actually think I’d be a good professor, a teacher. I might do some of that,” he said. “I think I’m at the top of my game physically, I really do. But I’m not skiing and I’m not climbing steep cliffs anymore and, as I go down steps, I’m holding on. So things are changing.” Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun