MARYLAND — With warmer weather finally here, it's time to enjoy Maryland's natural scenery. Residents can kayak at a wetlands sanctuary, go bird-watching or visit a historic ship. Other upcoming events include a Memorial Day ceremony and several ice cream train outings.  Patch recently partnered with several local organizations to bring you their latest news. This guest contribution comes from National Park Service Chesapeake Gateways and Chesapeake Conservancy. Here's what Jody Hedeman Couser submitted to help you explore the Chesapeake Bay: Enjoy a day of serenity spent with other women, in the peacefulness of nature. While enjoying your leisurely kayak paddle on the Patuxent River, look for wildlife and flowering wetland plants along the shoreline. Enjoy a gourmet catered lunch at the historic Riggleman House, located on Jug Bay’s newest property. $45 fee includes naturalist kayak guides, all kayak equipment, gourmet lunch and park admission. May 27, 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.; Jug Bay Wetlands Sanctuary, Lothian, MD. More information and registration" Celebrate #BlackBirdersWeek with BlackAFinSTEM, Birds of Urban Baltimore, and Masonville Cove. You’ll have the opportunity to see the bird banding process up-close and learn how urban greenspaces help migrating birds. May 31, 6:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.; Masonville Cove, Baltimore, MD. More information and registration" The Sultana Education Foundation’s namesake schooner Sultana is a reproduction of a Boston-built merchant vessel that served in the British Royal Navy. Today, Sultana is a floating classroom for learning about maritime history, as well as the rich ecosystems of the Chesapeake and Delaware Bays. Every summer the Foundation offers the public hands-on cruises aboard Sultana. Passengers can help raise the sails, steer using the seven-foot tiller and explore the historic crew's quarters below decks. You can make a day of it with a visit to historic Chestertown for shopping, dining and walking the town’s waterfront or landmark historic district. More information and sail reservations. For a preview of what to expect on your Sultana public sail, read The Schooner Sultana: A Marvelous Sail Back to Colonial America." The National Park Service will present a Memorial Day Program at Antietam National Cemetery on Monday, May 29. The Hagerstown Choral Arts will perform songs and Antietam National Battlefield's Battery B, 4th U.S. Artillery, will conduct a cannon salute, followed by Taps. The town of Sharpsburg will commemorate Memorial Day on May 27, with a ceremony on the town square at 11:00 a.m. and the annual Memorial Day Parade starting at 1:30 p.m. Sharpsburg Elementary School students will place 5,000 flags at the National Cemetery, one for every headstone in preparation for the holiday. More information" All aboard the Western Maryland Scenic Railroad ice cream train! If you’re looking for a fun family outing this summer, this could be just the ticket. Check in at the beautiful train station in downtown Cumberland, make your ice cream selection, then board the train for a fun 35-minute round trip through The Narrows and return. The Ice Cream Train schedule dates include June 9 and 23, July 7 and 21 and August 4 and 18. More information and tickets" Related:  Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.