MARYLAND — Upcoming Maryland events include an antique boat show, a Celtic festival and a historic ship tour. Residents can also enjoy the spring weather by taking a hike, going birding and visiting an award-winning garden. Patch recently partnered with several local organizations to bring you their latest news. This guest contribution comes from National Park Service Chesapeake Gateways and Chesapeake Conservancy. Here's what Jody Hedeman Couser submitted to help you explore the Chesapeake Bay:  You won’t want to miss this annual festival celebrating southern Maryland maritime traditions. The free event includes the Antique Boat and Marine Engine Show which features exhibits from collectors of antique and classic boats, and vintage marine outboard and inboard engines. Learn how to make traditional stuffed ham, watch demonstrations on how to shuck oysters like the pros, enjoy local music, see Chesapeake Bay retrievers in action, watch model boats skim the waters of the boat basin, and talk with traditional crafts people as they demonstrate their skills. Enjoy free 30-minute cruises on the museum’s Wm. B. Tennison and lots of activities for kids including toy boat building. May 6, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Calvert Marine Museum, Solomons, MD. More details" Listen to the sound of the bagpipes calling you home on the banks of the Patuxent River! Enjoy the sounds of Celtic Bands performing on multiple stages throughout the grounds, offering music, dance and jam sessions throughout the day. Watch Scottish/Irish dance performances, listen to harp and fiddling, enjoy craft demonstrations, and shop for Celtic foods and gifts. There will be all-day competitions including pipers, drummers, pipe bands, Highland dancers, Highland athletics and rugby games. April 29, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Jefferson Patterson Park and Museum, St. Leonard, MD. More info" You’re invited to celebrate spring and share May Day traditions at Historic St. Mary’s City. Play 17th century games, take part in hands-on nature activities, and explore the beautiful landscape. This will be a great opportunity to step aboard the new Maryland Dove and experience what life was like for a sailor during the 17th century. May 6, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Historic St. Mary’s City, St. Mary’s City, MD. More details and admission" When Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas got wind of the 1954 plan to pave the abandoned C&O Canal so that visitors could experience it from the comfort of their automobiles, he suggested that the natural beauty and history of the canal could not be appreciated traveling at high speeds. He challenged the pavement proponents to join him for what he thought was the only way to fully appreciate its value – on foot. The Douglas Hike is commemorated every year by the C&O Canal Association. This year the hike will feature three hiking options along the towpath, a social hour, dinner and evening speaker. April 29, Potomac, MD. More information and reservations" Soldiers Delight NEA is comprised of 1,900 acres of serpentine barrens, representing one of the few examples on the east coast of this rare environment. Over 185 species have been reported at the eBird hotspot for Soldiers Delight. Join the Baltimore Bird Club, who expect to see a wide variety of migrating songbirds. April 30, 8 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.; Soldiers Delight Natural Environment Area, Owings Mills, MD. More information" It’s as if the planners of Brookside Gardens, located in Wheaton, Maryland, set out to plumb the very depths of the word “garden,” in all its various forms and purposes. There’s the Aquatic Garden, Azalea Garden, Butterfly Garden, Children’s Garden, Rose Garden, Japanese Style Garden, Trial Garden, Rain Garden and the Woodland Walk. The formal gardens areas include a Perennial Garden, Yew Garden, the Maple Terrace, and Fragrance Garden. The beauty and sensory delights of Brookside are not its only reason for being. It also offers a variety of health and wellness programs, including forest bathing, the Heart Smart Trail program and Strolls for Well Being, a balm for anyone who is suffering from stress or trauma, or otherwise seeking greater peace and fulfillment in their life. Read The Magic of Brookside Gardens, one visitor’s account of a day spent exploring this award-winning garden." Related:  Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.