Register today to stay up-to-date with the latest news. 
 Thank you for registering! An account was already registered with this email. Please check your inbox for an authentication link. Every morning, thousands of energy professionals turn to our newsletters for the day’s most important news. Sign up for free to get the latest delivered straight to your inbox. The Energy News Network is powered by support from readers like you. Your contribution will help support vital reporting on regional energy issues that helps to both inform and watchdog important public policy discussions. Energy News Network 
					Covering the transition to a clean energy economy				 ELECTRIC VEHICLES: A new Tesla Model 3 now costs less than the average new combustion vehicle — even before factoring in rebates. (Canary Media) ALSO: Striking United Auto Workers target Ford and its partnerships with South Korean battery companies as negotiations continue. (Associated Press) CARBON CAPTURE: Applicants are angling for billions of dollars in federal funding to advance direct air capture technology, which some groups fear will prolong oil and gas production. (E&E News, Reuters) CLIMATE: POLITICS: PIPELINES: Activists and residents along the Mountain Valley Pipeline’s route through Virginia and West Virginia continue to oppose the long-delayed project as it finally begins to near completion. (Bloomberg) SOLAR:  OIL & GAS: WIND: GRID: Experts say the Southeast’s shift to renewable energy hinges on the buildout of more transmission lines, which has been off to a slow start and is causing a seven-year backlog of renewable projects to connect to the grid. (Chesapeake Bay Journal) More from the Energy News Network: Midwest | Southeast | Northeast | West  Kathryn brings her extensive editorial background to the Energy News Network team, where she oversees the early-morning production of ENN’s five email digest newsletters as well as distribution of ENN’s original journalism with other media outlets. From documenting chronic illness’ effect on college students to following the inner workings of Congress, Kathryn has built a broad experience in her more than five years working at major publications including The Week Magazine. Kathryn holds a Bachelor of Science in magazine journalism and information management and technology from Syracuse University. 
Email address: 
		

 

 U.S. Energy News


 Midwest Energy News


 Southeast Energy News


 Northeast Energy News


 Western Energy News


 Energy News Weekly

 

 The Energy News Network is an editorially independent project of  
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 Subscribe to our newsletters: 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
