Logging you in. Logging you out. Updating your account. Database of selected U.S. and international exploration wells Information on assets, buyers and sellers, deal values, and more. A searchable database of oil and gas debt and equity offerings. A list of A&D professionals anywhere. Prices for top E&P stocks and commodities. Rextag database of energy infrastructure assets Diving into LNG too quickly would be the wrong move for Devon Energy, CEO Rick Muncrief said during the CERAWeek by S&P Global conference. Diving into LNG too quickly would be the wrong move for Devon Energy, CEO Rick Muncrief said during the CERAWeek by S&P Global conference. (Source: Shutterstock) HOUSTON—Devon Energy Corp. sees a tremendous future for natural gas around the world, but the company isn’t rushing to become a huge supplier to the global LNG market. Speaking during the CERAWeek by S&P Global conference, Devon President and CEO Rick Muncrief said the Oklahoma City-based company anticipates moving about 10% of its gross gas volumes into the LNG market as a good first step. “For us, the wrong thing to do would be to go into LNG in a big way real quickly,” Muncrief said. “I don’t think that’s the right call for us.” Muncrief expects Devon’s production portfolio to have a gassier mix over the coming decades. But Devon still views itself as an oil company, with 80% to 90% of the company’s revenues stemming from oil, CFO Jeff Ritenour said in Devon’s fourth-quarter earnings call in February.  Devon is producing around 650,000 boe/d, about half of which is crude oil, Muncrief said. A quarter of the company’s production, or around 150,000 bbl/d, is NGL, while the remaining quarter is gas. Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. forecasts have Devon producing 323,700 bbl/d and 665,000 boe/d during 2023. Next year, oil production is expected to rise slightly to 329,000 bbl/d, while overall production should rise to 688,000 boe/d, per TPH data. “Our strategy is to stay as oily as we can for as long as we can, and we know we will transition over time,” Muncrief said. Devon entered into a non-binding LNG export agreement with Delfin Midstream Inc. last September. The heads of agreement set the framework to finalize a long-term plan for 1 million tons per annum (mtpa) of liquefaction capacity in Delfin’s first floating LNG vessel.  The agreement also gives Devon the ability to add another 1 mtpa of liquefaction capacity in Delfin’s first floating LNG vessel or future vessels.  Last year, federal regulators gave Delfin LNG more time to place the onshore portion of the proposed floating LNG project into service. Each vessel is expected to cost around $2 billion.  Devon sees gas prices dropping in 2023 compared to 2022 due to limited LNG export capacity coming online this year, rising U.S. gas production and sufficient storage levels, the company said in its latest annual report. The U.S. Energy Information Administration’s most recent forecasts have Henry Hub gas spot prices averaging about $3/MMBtu this year, down over 50% from $6.42/MMBtu in 2022.  Earlier this week, Chesapeake Energy Corp. announced an agreement with trading house Gunvor Group Ltd. to supply up to 2 million mtpa of LNG over a 15-year period. Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake plans to source the gas from its assets in the Haynesville Shale. With first delivery targeted for 2027, the heads of agreement moves Chesapeake closer to receiving premium overseas pricing for its Haynesville gas. EOG Resources Inc. also sees future demand for LNG as a major driver of its gas strategy. The Houston-based company plans to produce between 1.67 Bcf/d and 1.81 Bcf/d of natural gas this year, up approximately 245 MMcf/d at the midpoint compared to 2022 volumes. Around half of EOG’s gas production growth this year will come from its emerging Dorado gas play in South Texas, while the other half is expected to come from the company’s sizable position in the Delaware Basin.  EOG is exposed to 140 MMBtu/d of LNG linked to premium international pricing through a supply agreement with Cheniere’s Corpus Christi Liquefaction LLC. Under an amendment to the agreement last year, EOG’s exposure to LNG linked to international pricing will rise to 420 MMBtu/d with Cheniere’s Stage 3 expansion coming online in 2025. RELATED
Chesapeake LNG Agreement Moves Haynesville Gas Closer to Going Global Chris covers the North American upstream shale energy industry and the acquisition and divestiture deal markets. 
2024-07-09
      - Exxon Mobil, Hess and CNOOC are prepared to pump as much as $105 billion into the vast potential of the Stabroek Block.
     
2024-07-11
      - Here is a selection of upstream and midstream dividends declared in the week of July 8.

 
     
2024-07-11
      - With the acquisition of distributed power provider Mobile Energy Rentals, oilfield services player Solaris sees opportunity to grow in industries outside of the oil patch—data centers, in particular.
     
2024-05-28
      - Permian Resources said the liquidation of Lynden Energy, a subsidiary of Earthstone Energy, will simplify its corporate structure and reduce go-forward tax obligations at the time of the Earthstone acquisition.
     
2024-05-28
      - Hess Corp. stockholders voted in favor of the company’s merger with Chevron Corp. during Hess’ May 28 special meeting.
     Energy news, analysis, interviews, and exclusive coverage you need to keep your industry edge. Already a subscriber? Sign in With oil and gas back in favor as higher commodity prices equate to stronger returns among oil and gas producers and the exponential growth seen…
                                 Dallas, TX
                                 Consolidation continues to drive the storyline in 2024 as oil and gas companies tilt toward scale and synergies through A&D. But, will deals…
                                 Dallas, TX
                                 Concerns about U.S. energy security, global geopolitical crisis, inflation and emissions control put the Appalachian Basin’s abundant natural gas…
                                 Pittsburgh, PA
                                 Gain insights from industry executives and expert analysts at Hart Energy’s DUG Executive Conference & Expo, held November 20-21, 2024 at the…
                                 Midland, TX
                                 Subscribe for free to our newsletters for the latest energy news © 2024 Hart Energy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part, in any form or medium without express written permission is prohibited.