U.S. natural gas prices at the Henry Hub distribution hub surged 6% on Thursday, briefly hitting the $3/MMBtu milestone. This marks a remarkable six-month high and extends a five-day streak of upward movement. The recent surge can be partly attributed to the expectation of elevated electricity usage spurred by an uptick in air conditioning demand, in response to projections of enduring warm temperatures throughout the remainder of the month. The surge in natural gas is having an even more pronounced impact in Europe. Dutch TTF prices experienced an astonishing surge of 28% within a single day, marking the most robust daily performance seen since October 2022. The surge in natural gas prices is influenced by both local and global dynamics. On the home front, Texas is grappling with yet another week of record-breaking electricity demand. In its recent Short Term Energy Outlook, the EIA projects that U.S. natural gas production and demand will hit all-time highs in 2023. Production could peak at a staggering 103 billion cubic feet per day, while demand could soar to 89.34 billion cubic feet per day. Internationally, various developments have conspired to exert upward pressure on natural gas prices. Notably, Bloomberg reported that workers at facilities owned by Chevron Corp. CVX and Woodside Energy Group Ltd. WDS in Australia have voted in favor of a potential strike.  This came a day after Offshore Alliance also voted for a strike potentially impacting the Wheatstone and Gorgon LNG facilities in Australia.   A separate strike vote by Offshore Alliance could also affect the Wheatstone and Gorgon LNG facilities in Australia. Combined, these represent around 10% of global LNG supply.  Goldman Sachs analysts emphasize the critical nature of the situation, predicting that the TTF might rise to 50 EUR/MWh in order to incentivize a reduction in gas consumption. Traders are concerned about the risk of a protracted strike, with Citigroup analysts forecasting that European gas and Asian LNG futures for January may potentially double from here. Several American natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGLs) producers and exporters saw gains on Wednesday.  Here are a few notable U.S. companies involved in the production and export of natural gas:  The table below summarizes the size, recent performance and valuation metric of each company.  Read now: US Natural Gas Bounces Back On Summer Heatwave: 5 Undervalued Natural Gas Stocks To Keep On Your Radar Photo via Shutterstock. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.