Sports 
              R Praggnanandhaa emerged as a winner after Magnus Carlsen made a blunder in the 40th move and resigned immediately in the next move.
             Indian Grandmaster Praggnanandhaa Rameshbabu notched up his second win of the season over Magnus Carlsen in the fifth round of the Chessable Masters online rapid chess tournament, exactly three months after stunning the world champion for the first time. (More Sports News) The 16-year-old from Chennai capitalised on a late blunder from Carlsen on Friday to pocket three crucial points to keep himself in the hunt for aa knockout berth. "I did not want to win that way," said Praggnanandhaa when asked about his second triumph against the world champion. The match was headed for a draw before the Norwegian committed a blunder in the 40th move when he misplaced a black knight during the final seconds and resigned immediately in the next move as Praggnanandhaa emerged winner. The Indian drew with Harikrishna in the next round, defeated Gawain Jones before losing to David Anton Guijarro to finish the day.  The victory took Praggnanandhaa to 12 points, while Carlsen was at the second spot behind China's Wei Yi on the second day of the USD 150,000 tournament.  Praggnanandhaa is currently sharing the fifth place with Ding Liren. In February, Praggnanandhaa had stunned Carlsen in the eighth round of the Airthings Masters online rapid chess tournament, becoming only the third Indian to clinch a victory over the Norwegian superstar. 
Unsung Heroes Of India's Freedom Struggle
 
“An Artist has no Caste": Chinki Sinha in conversation with Madhubani artist Shanti Devi
 
Freedom Of Fantasy | Chinki Sinha In Conversation With Activist And Author Anand Teltumbde
 
Kohli’s T20 journey: Debut Se Domination Tak
 
In Photos: Raksha Bandhan Celebrated Across India
 
Day In Pics: August 19, 2024
 
Napoli 0-3 Hellas Verona, Serie A: Antonio Conte’s Men Falter As Dailon Livramento, Daniel Mosquera Shine On Debut - In Pics
 
Real Madrid 1-1 Mallorca, La Liga: Kylian Mbappe's Debut Ends In Draw,  Rodrygo Finds Net - In Pics
 
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd.
      
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd. All pages of the Website are subject to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You must not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, resell or exploit any material on the Website for any commercial purposes.
     