Annie is a freelance writer, content editor, and marketing whiz with a background in broadcasting and a passion for chicken nachos. More by this Author For centuries on end, humans have pondered the possibility of extraterrestrials and whether or not there is life on other planets. How is this studied and gauged? Aside from staring at the sky and looking for UFOs, no one really knows for sure. Still, nearly everyone has a theory, including what the folks at NORAD – AKA, our very own Colorado Area 51, near Cheyenne Mountain – really know about aliens and the like. To get an even better look into the super-secret NORAD, check out this rare footage from AirmanMagazineOnline:  Have you ever heard of this mysterious site near Cheyenne Mountain? Do you know of any other mysterious sites in Colorado? We’d love to read your comments below! For even more popular Colorado conspiracy theories, check out 8 Conspiracy Theories In Colorado That Will Make You Question Everything. If you’re interested in spending a weekend in nearby Colorado Springs, you might consider SpringHill Suites Colorado Springs Downtown. If you’re still in the mood for more Centennial State adventures, take a look at this video about beautiful Hanging Lake and Spouting Rock:    OnlyInYourState may earn compensation through affiliate links in this article. As an Amazon Associate, we earn from qualifying purchases. Get the latest on things to see, do, and eat around Colorado! Thank you! You'll receive your first newsletter soon! An error occured. Where can we find historic landmarks in Colorado? Read on to learn more about some of the many other wonderful historic landmarks in Colorado. Where can we find hiking trails in Colorado? Read on to learn more about some of the many other amazing hiking trails in Colorado. Where can we find small towns in Colorado? Read on to learn more about some of the many other charming small towns in Colorado. Sign up to receive news, updates and exclusive offers direct to your inbox. 
© 2024 World of Good Brands
 
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
