Jan. 19—CHEYENNE — Right now, the top four teams in the Mountain West are a clear cut above the rest of the field. This week's MW women's basketball power rankings feature a lot of moving parts. Only one team remains in the exact same spot as they were during the last set, and this version features a tie for second place. 1. UNLV (Previously: 1) To no one's surprise, UNLV (17-2 overall, 7-0 in conference) remains at the top of the power rankings. The reigning MW champs are currently riding an eight-game winning streak and have still yet to taste defeat in conference play. UNLV is averaging 77.1 points per game in its last seven games and has a plus-12-point differential over that span. The Lady Rebels have a tough road trip coming up, facing both Wyoming and Colorado State on Jan. 19 and Jan. 21. Even though they beat both teams before, Fort Collins and Laramie are notoriously difficult places to play. 2 (tie). Colorado State (Previously: 3) 2 (tie). Wyoming (Previously: 4) The Border War is going to be very interesting come Feb. 4, when these teams face off for the first time this year in Fort Collins. Both Colorado State (12-5, 5-1) and Wyoming (12-5, 5-1) have been very impressive in the first few weeks of conference play. Both have multi-game win streaks and nearly identical results over their first six games of conference play. Wyoming will have a tougher schedule this upcoming weekend, facing both UNLV and San Diego State, while Colorado State has a pair of home games against the two schools from Nevada. 4. San Diego State (Previously: 2) A pair of conference losses to UNLV and Colorado State has dropped the Aztecs (14-5, 4-2) down two spots. Losing by six to the reigning conference champions at home isn't a bad loss, but losing by 13 on the road to Colorado State wasn't an easy loss to stomach. San Diego State has a pretty light schedule after its Saturday matchup against Wyoming; the Aztecs will face Fresno State and San Jose State at home next week. 5. New Mexico (Previously: 5) The Lobos (10-8, 2-3) are the lone team that didn't move up or down in this week's power rankings. Since the last rankings, they have won the games they should have and have only lost games to the top teams in the conference. The Lobos have a up-and-down schedule coming up, with home games against Boise State, Colorado State and UNLV, and road games against Utah State and San Diego State. 6. Air Force (Previously: 8) Had Air Force (9-10, 4-3) been able to hold on and knock off UW last week, they likely would have vaulted into the top five. However, the late collapse, coupled with an easy conference schedule, keeps the Falcons one spot out of the top five. Still, they have won four out of seven conference games, and have looked like a significantly better team than the one that showed up during their nonconference slate. Air Force will play three of its next four games on the road, including a home tilt against Colorado State on Jan. 28. 7. Nevada (Previously: 9) Despite the third-worst overall win percentage, Nevada climbs (6-11, 3-3) two spots in this power rankings. The Wolf Pack are coming off a tight loss to UW, where they outscored the Cowgirls 40-33 in the second half. What keeps them back in this ranking is their 30-point road loss to New Mexico earlier in the month. Nevada plays three of its next four games on the road, including two games against Colorado State (Jan. 19) and UNLV (Jan. 28). 8. Boise State (Previously: 7) Boise State (7-11, 2-3) started conference play off with two straight wins but has lost its last three in a row to fall one spot in the rankings. While all three losses came against top-five teams, each one was by 11 or more points. The Broncos play tonight against Fresno State, but their schedule gets significantly tougher following. 9. Utah State (Previously: 11) The Aggies continue to have a rough go at their 2023 campaign. They currently sit with the third-lowest conference win percentage (.167) and second-lowest overall win percentage (.235). Yet, they move up in this week's rankings, primarily due to the teams below them falling off. Utah State started out conference play with five straight losses, before picking up its first win on the road against Fresno State. The Aggies play Air Force in Logan tonight before heading back to California to take on San Jose State. 10. Fresno State (Previously: 6) The Bulldogs (8-12, 1-6) have fallen the most of any team from the last set of power rankings. They are in the midst of a three-game skid and have the second-lowest conference win percentage in the Mountain West (.143). Despite a better overall record, Fresno State comes in behind the Aggies because of a 10-point head-to-head loss at home. The schedule does not get any easier for Fresno State, which will play its next three games on the road. 11. San Jose State (Previously: 10) San Jose State (2-17, 0-7) is the lone team yet to pick up a win in conference play. The Spartans currently sit with the second-lowest point margin (minus-13.2) and have lost their last eight games. They also have the worst offense in the conference, picking up just 54.5 points per game. The Spartans are off until Saturday, when they will face off against Utah State at home. Matt Atencio covers Laramie County prep sports for WyoSports. He can be reached at matencio@wyosports.net. Follow him on Twitter at @MattAtencio5. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.