May 12—BOYS VOLLEYBALL Discovery Canyon's volleyball team advanced to the state semifinals, beating Legend on Friday, 3-1. The No. 1 Thunder (25-1) won the first set 25-21 before dropping the second one 25-23. It marked only the seventh time an opponent won a set all season. It appeared DCC was in trouble in the third set, trailing by six points midway through it. But they rallied and eventually won the set 26-24. DCC then clinched its victory, winning 27-25 in the fourth set. The Thunder will battle No. 7 Eaglecrest in the semifinals at 11 a.m. on Saturday. Eaglecrest upset No. 2 Cherokee Trail and No. 3 Valor Christian in back-to-back matches to earn its spot. TENNIS 5A The Denver area dominated the first day of the 5A girls tennis state tournament. Schools like Valor Christian, Cherry Creek and Fossil Ridge sent the most athletes to the championships and third-place matches. Pine Creek had the Pikes Peak Region's only two 5A athletes to win a match on Friday. Ava Lewis and Keelin Sills — who play No. 1 and No. 2 singles, respectively — reached the quarterfinals after winning their first-round matches. Both Lewis and Sills fell in the quarterfinals. 4A Cheyenne Mountain had itself a day — until Mother Nature ended it. Inclement weather bumped the remainder of Friday's unfinished matches to Saturday morning. Before that, the Red-Tailed Hawks sent several racqueteers to their respective finals: Alyssa Sadri (No. 2 singles), Saffron Heroldt (No. 3 singles) and Jocelyn Kelly and Rose Katen (No. 1 doubles). Those are the only three Cheyenne Mountain athletes to clinch their spots, but a few others can when play resumes on Saturday in Pueblo. No. 1 singles player Sophie Zhou will play a semifinal match, as well as the teams of Brooke Ballenger and Hope Lewis (No. 2 doubles) and Daisy Hodsdon and Shea Devanny (No. 4 doubles). A couple of other area athletes remain in title contention. In No. 2 doubles, Discovery Canyon's Carly Creps and Audrey Wolff and Palmer Ridge's Amber Taylor and Brynlee Weir will resume their quarterfinal matches on Saturday. 3A Like 4A, the 3A tournament in Colorado Springs saw several matches get postponed until Saturday. Even with the shortened day, the Pikes Peak Region is eliminated from championship contention in every division. A handful of area competitors are still alive in playbacks, though. In 3A, Vanguard's Jordyn Van Manen will compete in the No. 1 singles playback semifinals, vying for a spot in the third-place match. And in No. 4 doubles, Vanguard's team of Sydney Buesser and Jaliyah Cantillo will compete in the first round of playbacks, needing two wins to reach the third-place match. Play begins at 8 a.m. Saturday at Memorial Park. SWIM AND DIVE As local swimmers and divers competed at the state swimming and diving meet in Thornton, Rampart's Bryce Porter had the Pikes Peak Region's lone podium finish in 5A. He placed second in the 1-meter diving competition, posting a final score of 523.45. Cherry Creek's Luke Ogren won the event with a score of 553.55. Pine Creek's James Schreiber finished just off the podium in the 100-yard butterfly, finishing the event in 50.34 seconds. GIRLS SOCCER 5A No. 9 Pine Creek 2, No. 8 Ralston Valley 0 At Pine Creek: Pine Creek (12-4) won its second game of the playoffs, handily beating Ralston Valley (11-5-1). The Eagles have won five matches in a row. No. 11 Rocky Mountain 2, No. 6 Rampart 1 At Rampart: Rampart (14-3) fell in overtime against Rocky Mountain (11-3-2). The Rams entered their second-round game on a 14-game winning streak after starting the season 0-2. 4A No. 4 Mead 2, No. 29 Discovery Canyon 1 At Mead: Discovery Canyon (7-9) lost an overtime heartbreaker to Mead (14-2). A Mead striker hit a long-range shot that brushed off DCC's keeper, off the crossbar and into the net. The Thunder had won three of four games before their first-round loss. 3A No. 3 Manitou Springs 10, No. 3 Elizabeth 0 At Manitou Springs: Manitou Springs (16-0) kept its perfect season alive in its first playoff game, mercy ruling Elizabeth (6-10). The Mustangs have outscored opponents 114-3 in their 16 games. No. 5 Colorado Academy 10, No. 28 Woodland Park 0 At Colorado Academy: Woodland Park (5-9-2) couldn't overcome an early deficit against Colorado Academy (10-5). The Panthers lost four of their last five games to end the season. 2A No. 5 Fountain Valley 2, No. 12 Front Range Christian 1 At Dawson School: Fountain Valley (12-2) won its first-round game over Front Range Christian (6-8-1). The Danes are on an eight-game winning streak, and the goal surrendered on Friday was their first in six games. Fountain Valley will play against Dawson School in the quarterfinals. No. 6 CSCS 8, No. 11 Ridgway 0 At Colorado Springs Christian: CSCS (11-5) had no trouble with a quality Ridgway (7-6-1) team in the first round. The Lions have outscored opponents 90-28 this year. BOYS' LACROSSE No. 1 Cheyenne Mountain 22, No. 16 Windsor 6 At Cheyenne Mountain: Cheyenne Mountain (13-3) clinched its spot in the 4A quarterfinals with a lopsided win over Windsor (7-9). The Red-Tailed Hawks have won 13 of their last 14 games after starting the season 0-2. No. 8 Air Academy 10, No. 9 Vail Mountain 9 At Air Academy: Air Academy (9-6) edged Vail Mountain (11-5) in the second round. The Kadets will battle area foe and 4A's No. 1 team Cheyenne Mountain in the quarterfinals. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the 2024 season quickly approaching, here's a look at the Big Ten. Ohio State has a lot of pressure entering the season and a few teams could be right on its heels. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL.