The Pueblo East Eagles start their football season off with a bang or rather a “bam” as Domnick “Bam-Bam” Sierra led the Eagles to a 35-13 win over Cheyenne Mountain. It’s the Eagle's second straight season-opening victory over the Red-Tailed Hawks as they won their previous matchup to open last season 47-17. The Eagles' defense stepped up huge in this one, getting sacks and forcing turnovers. Offensively it was the “Bam-Bam” show, with Sierra scoring a total of four touchdowns in the game. The first football game of the season in Dutch Clark Stadium proved to be a good one for the home team as the Eagles offense trotted out new quarterback Sierra for his first start with the Eagles. The game itself started off slow with both teams feeling each other out for the first game of the season. The Eagles opened the scoring up first with a beautiful pass from Sierra to Izaiah Trujillo to put East up 7-0 late in the first quarter. The Eagles scored again on a rushing touchdown by Sierra to go up 14-3. Another late touchdown in the second quarter on a connection from Sierra to Trujillo would net the Eagles a 21-3 lead at halftime.  The teams came out at half looking to make some adjustments. Cheyenne Mountain scored another field goal on their opening possession to pull the score to 21-6. Later in the third quarter, both teams traded turnovers — holding the scoreline. More: A look at the 2023 football schedules for Pueblo-area high schools The final quarter seemed to set up a close game, as the Hawks would score on a long touchdown pass, totaling 89 yards to make it a 21-13 game; however, the Eagles would answer right back. On the next play from scrimmage, Manuel ‘Pocky’ Amaro took a lateral on a swing for 80 yards and the score to make it 28-13. Another late-quarter touchdown by Sierra would seal the game and the first victory of the season for the Eagles at 35-13.  Head coach Tony Valdez was happy with his team’s performance after this matchup. “It’s always an honor to coach the East Eagles,” Valdez said. “We got a great group of guys, they are physical and fast, and great men off the field.” Valdez talked about Sierra’s performance after his first start for the Eagles. “It’s not easy to play the toughest position in sports without a lot of experience,” Valdez said. “He was thrown into the starting role, but he earned it, and we said he loves contact, he ran the ball, and took a couple of sacks, but we saw that deep ball a couple of times to Trujillo, and he’s learning the audible system, and I'm just really, really happy with him and we are going to go as Bam-Bam goes.” For the first time in his career, Sierra started at quarterback for the Eagles; he put up four total touchdowns, two rushing and two in the air. Sierra hasn’t played quarterback in a few years. Regardless, it's all about learning and growing in the position throughout his senior year. “The experience for me was a bit overwhelming, because it was a lot to take in, a few bad plays there, and I got down on myself, but I picked myself back up and we scored on the next drive,” Sierra said. “It's that mentality to think ahead and not to get down on yourself.” Sierra was one of several quarterbacks competing for the starting job this offseason where he put in the work in the summer to make sure he was the starter for his senior season. “It was great. This summer we were working with the team to help make that better connection with the team, Sierra said. “My performance out here tonight was decent. There are some improvements I can make but I felt pretty good.” This wasn’t the first time Sierra had played quarterback, but it was the first time he started for the Eagles. It was an opportunity, Sierra said, that was too good to pass up. “I've done this since I was little,” Sierra said. “I couldn’t do it my junior year, but as soon as I saw the spot open up, I had to go out in my senior year to try it out.” He is known as “Bam-Bam” because he was very “aggressive” when he was young. Being a big fan of “Bam-Bam” from the Flintstones, Sierra’s nickname was fitting for him at a young age. As he continued to grow and become a football player, his nickname served him well on the field.  More: A look at the 2023 football schedules for Pueblo-area high schools “It's just something my parents came up with when I was little, I used to hit stuff, and, 'Bam-Bam,'” Sierra said. “I just got to let people know what 'Bam-Bam' means on the field.” Sierra and the Eagles are now 1-0 on the season and face off next week against Pueblo Central.  Christopher Abdelmalek is a sports reporter for the Pueblo Chieftain and can be reached at cabdelmalek@gannett.com or on Twitter: @chowebacca. Support local news, subscribe to The Pueblo Chieftain at subscribe.chieftain.com This article originally appeared on The Pueblo Chieftain: Pueblo East soars over Cheyenne Mountain 35-13 to win home opener Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine recap Team USA’s win over Brazil, preview Thursday’s game against Serbia and go through all of the NBA news they can find. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Avoid these five common mistakes fantasy football managers make!