Embrace your Joyful Aging Journey with Wish of a Lifetime from AARP. AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities  AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities  AARP Livable Communities
 Nearly 100 million people live in a town, city, county, territory or state that has enrolled in the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities. Visit the interactive Livable Map for a list of the network's current membership » Learn about the States and Territory in the network » Read Community Profiles of select network members » Find Articles about age-friendly network members » Membership in the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities does not mean AARP is endorsing any of the following municipalities as a place to live. Nor does it mean the community or state listed is currently "age-friendly." What membership does means is that the community's elected leadership has made the commitment to actively work toward making their town, city, county or state a great place to live for people of all ages. (Thus far, California, Colorado, Florida, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Washington and the U.S. Virgin Islands have enrolled as state or territory members.) 
 Age-friendly communities are inclusive and considerate of the perspectives of all residents, of all ages, and all persuasions.  Age-friendly communities encourage and benefit from diverse citizen engagement by including residents in a process to identify the community’s needs, and develop and implement an action plan to address those needs. Participation in the network involves following a multi-step process of improvement. A link to a community's age-friendly action plan and progress reports appear in the lists below if those steps in the improvement process have been reached. In addition to enrolling in the AARP network, membership can be pursued for the World Health Organization Global Network for Age-Friendly Cities and Communities. Information about that program is available at AgeFriendlyWorld.org.  Page updated May 2024 The weekly, award-winning AARP Livable Communities e-Newsletter provides local leaders with information and inspiration for making their town, city or neighborhood more livable for older adults and people of all ages. Subscribe today!
 AARP is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that empowers people to choose how they live as they age. You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The provider’s terms, conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits. You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The provider’s terms, conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits. You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The provider’s terms, conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits. Your email address is now confirmed. You'll start receiving the latest news, benefits, events, and programs related to AARP's mission to empower people to choose how they live as they age. You can also manage your communication preferences by updating your account at anytime. You will be asked to register or log in.    


  In the next 24 hours, you will receive an email to confirm your subscription to receive emails
                                    related to AARP volunteering. Once you confirm that subscription, you will regularly
                                    receive communications related to AARP volunteering. In the meantime, please feel free
                                    to search for ways to make a difference in your community at
                                    www.aarp.org/volunteer
 Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try
                            again.