Blockchain and smart-contract platform Chia Network – founded by Bram Cohen, inventor of BitTorrent – has submitted a confidential draft registration to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a proposed initial public offering (IPO). The size and price range for the offering has yet to be determined, Chia said in a press release on Friday. Chia's aspirations for a public listing go back to bull run of 2021, when Bloomberg reported the blockchain raised $61 million in a Series D funding round, led by Andreessen Horowitz (a16z) and Richmond Global Ventures, at $500 million valuation. At the time, then Chief Operating Officer (now CEO) Gene Hoffman was reported to have said that it was on "an accelerated timeline" to an IPO. Chia's native token XCH at press time wasn't showing much reaction to the news, maintaining its 2.6% advance over the past 24 hours. XCH rose more than 10% shortly afterwards and at 16:45 UTC was higher by 12.3%. Read More: SEC Urges Investors to Be Cautious With Crypto Securities Edited by Aoyon Ashraf. CORRECTION (April 14, 13:20 UTC): Changes time that Chia made announcement from 13:30 UTC to 12:30 UTC UPDATED (April 14, 16:45 UTC): Adds share price movement subsequent to original story being published.    Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Jamie Crawley is a CoinDesk news reporter based in London. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk