CLARA Chia's family have hit out at Shakira over her diss track - and said their daughter won't react because she's a "lady".  Student Clara, 23, was seen with Gerard Pique for the first time since she seemingly went into hiding to avoid backlash over the Colombian singer's new song.  Shakira's explosive tune left little doubt that she is referring to her former partner and his younger lover. In the new track - BZRP Music Sessions #53 - she takes a swipe at Clara’s age with the lyrics: "I’m worth two 22s. You traded a Ferrari for a Twingo, you traded a Rolex for a Casio." Clara has reportedly taken the song as a "joke" - and said she won't react.  A source told Univision: "They don't find it funny, that's clear, but they don't care much." And one of Clara's pals added: "Clara has never said anything nor will she say it, of course, she is a lady." Clara's parents reportedly refer "disparagingly" to Shakira as "Pique's ex" - and they are said to be "delighted" with their daughter's new relationship.  The sources insisted Clara is "calm and happy" and "her day-to-day life is the same as always". After Shakira's song release last month, Clara is said to have moved to her mum and dad's house in Spain to work away from prying eyes. She broke cover as she was spotted with Pique leaving his penthouse in a car. Footage showed Clara wearing white sunglasses as they appeared to laugh together. Shakira, 46, and Pique, 35, split last year after the Spaniard left her for Clara. The exes have been engaged in a sour falling-out since they parted ways after a 12-year romance. Shakira put up a creepy life-size witch doll on her balcony in Barcelona that overlooks her ex-mother-in-law's home. Gerard's mum Montserrat Bernabéu is said to have stormed over to Shakira's and asked her employees to turn it around but the singer has refused to take it down. Shakira has also allegedly forbidden her sons Sasha, seven, and Milan, ten, to call her grandma due to her support of her son's new lover. Meanwhile, the football ace has gone Instagram official with his new girlfriend who gets on well with his pals - unlike Shakira who they branded "The Boss." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/