[Source] A Malaysian influencer was overjoyed and in "disbelief" after her followers helped her meet renowned Hong Kong filmmaker Stephen Chow in person. Jenn Chia, who has over 500,000 followers on Instagram, first commented on Chow's Feb. 9 Instagram post to ask if he would meet with her, as detailed in her recent Instagram video. “My dream is to meet you. You have been a huge part of my life and an inspiration to a lot of the videos that I create. I even learnt Cantonese from watching your movies," Chia commented on his post. Chia, known by her Instagram handle @SoImJenn, asked her hundreds of thousands of followers to like her comment so he would notice it. More from NextShark: EXCLUSIVE: 'Raya and the Last Dragon' Stars Kelly Marie Tran, Awkwafina Dish About Favorite Foods, Traditions The Malaysian influencer's followers did not let her down, as her comment received over 1,800 likes. Chow eventually noticed her comment and asked her, “Are you coming to Hong Kong?” Replying to the 60-year-old former actor, Chia wrote, “Can I meet you next Saturday in Hong Kong? Even if it’s just five minutes. I’ll be so happy." More from NextShark: ‘Collab of the century’: TikTok video of Indian and Scottish fusion wedding goes viral Chia's wish was finally granted on Friday when she and her fiancé Jon flew to Hong Kong to meet Chow. “My dream is about to happen, yo!” Chia exclaims in her Instagram video before bursting with excitement. The meeting happened at an undisclosed restaurant, where the “Kung Fu Hustle” star treated Chia to a Teochew meal and signed her DVD copy of “Shaolin Soccer.” More from NextShark: Henry Golding to Star in Netflix Adaptation of Jane Austen's 'Persuasion' Chia's video also shows her proudly showcasing the signature she received. “I’m still in disbelief. Thank you for making my dreams come true guys," she can be heard saying.   More from NextShark: Chinese parents win netizens' hearts after transforming truck cabin into ‘princess bedroom’ for their daughter View this post on Instagram   A post shared by Jenn Chia (So, I'm Jenn) (@soimjenn) Chia later noted in an Instagram Story that she did not post her video immediately because she wanted to respect Chow’s privacy. She was also waiting for the green light to share the video. In another Instagram video, she asked her followers to send her clips to recreate an iconic scene from “Shaolin Soccer” and thank Chow for his kindness. Chow then shared the tribute video in an Instagram Story, writing, “Happy to see you.” Chia’s meeting with Chow was reportedly part of the Hong Kong comedy star’s #CreateWithStephen, a campaign that involves him collaborating with other online personalities.   View this post on Instagram   A post shared by Jenn Chia (So, I'm Jenn) (@soimjenn)   New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.