By Lizzie May For Mailonline   Published:  07:27 EDT, 16 December 2022   |  Updated:  09:30 EDT, 16 December 2022      34 View  comments  Gerard Pique has been snapped cosying up to new girlfriend Clara Chia after enjoying a weekend in Prague together. The 35-year-old former Barcelona footballer, who split from singer Shakira after 12 years together, looked loved up with his new flame as they shared an intimate moment outside the Marriott Hotel in the city centre. It was a couple's retreat as Gerard's brother Marc and his wife Maria Valls also joined them on the festive trip away earlier this week. Weekend away: Gerard Pique has been snapped cosying up to new girlfriend Clara Chia after enjoying a weekend in Prague together Gerard and Clara, a PR student, both cut casual ensembles as they kept a low profile while leaving the luxury hotel in the Czech Republic capital. The top footballer wore a black jumper, black padded jacket and light stone coloured chinos, pairing the look with a black baseball cap. He held onto his Louis Vuitton Horizon suitcase, while Clara held her black suitcase with a leather jacket thrown on top. She wore an all-black get-up, donning an oversized black trench coat, a black winter scarf and straight-legged blue jeans. Getting cosy: The 35-year-old former Barcelona footballer, who split from singer Shakira after 12 years together, looked loved up with his new flame as they shared an intimate moment outside the Marriott Hotel in the city centre They matched in their choice of shoes - both slipping into a pair of black and white Nike 'Panda' Dunk trainers. Clara wore her brunette tresses in an up-do, and accessorised with a pair of gold hoop earrings. They both had serious looks on their faces as they focused on where to head after checking out of the Marriott. Gerard and Clara appeared to share a smooch as they took a seat next to each other, with the 35-year-old holding her head as he wrapped his other arm around her shoulder, taking her face in close to his. Couple's retreat: It was a couple's retreat as Gerard's brother Marc and his wife Maria Valls also joined them on the festive trip away earlier this week In mid November, the couple were spotted heading home from a romantic dinner date at a Japanese restaurant in his native Spain.  They held hands they stood and chatted outside the eatery following their meal. Meanwhile, Shakira seemed in high spirits as she enjoyed some quality time with sons Milan, nine, and Sasha, seven, on Thursday. The family have been on holiday in Rome and continued with their sightseeing together as they visited the Colosseum. Family fun: Meanwhile Shakira seemed in high spirits as she enjoyed some quality time with sons Milan, nine, and Sasha, seven, in Rome on Thursday Loving life: The family have been on holiday in Rome and continued with their sightseeing together as they visited the Colosseum Gerard's outing with his new love comes after he and ex Shakira reached a custody agreement over their sons following their split earlier this year. The pair's date night and holiday together comes shortly after it was revealed that Gerard and Shakira had reached a custody agreement for sons Milan, nine, and Sasha, seven, following their split earlier this year, with the singer planning to relocate to Miami in 2023. They released a statement on 15 November following a marathon 12-hour meeting with their lawyers which ended in the early hours.  Over: Gerard announced his split with ex Shakira in June after 11 years together amid unconfirmed reports the footballer had cheated on the Colombian (pictured together in 2019) While Gerard, who emotionally retired from football last month, is said to have given his blessing to his former partner's move to Miami in the New Year with their two sons to avoid a lengthy legal battle.  Shakira's wish to move to the city where she used to live and part of her family are based is understood to have been the principal sticking point in the couple's previous failure to strike an out-of-court settlement.  Spanish press have also reported that Gerard will be able to spend ten days a month with his children as part of his custody agreement with Shakira as well as holiday time.  Catalan daily El Periodico, laying bare what it described as the 'small print' of the couple's accord, said: 'Gerard Piqué will have his children 10 days a month and the entirety of the three holiday periods that govern the United States, apart from Christmas and the summer holidays, starting next year. Moving: The singer-songwriter is relocating to Florida with the couple’s two sons as part of the deal 'This Christmas they will alternate custody at 50% following the calendar of the regional Catalonian government and in the coming years they will do it according to the children's school calendar. The now former couple announced their split after a dozen years together back in June though it seemed like Shakira did not want the relationship to end at the time. Pique already is in a new relationship with 23-year-old PR student Clara Chia Marti many had wondered how it all ended. Since the break-up, Pique has been spotted passionately kissing his new love interest as they are far from hiding their new relationship. Speaking out on the split back in September, Shakira admitted that it had been an 'incredibly difficult' time for her and the family.  Meanwhile, Gerard and Shakira have reportedly agreed to sell the exclusive Barcelona mansion where they raised their two sons. Agreement: The pair's date night comes shortly after it was revealed that Gerard and Shakira had reached a custody agreement for sons Milan, nine, and Sasha, seven (pictured in 2011) Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group