NFL LAKE FOREST, Ill. — With three words, Chicago Bears general manager Ryan Poles changed the expectations for his once-rebuilding team Wednesday. “Win more games,” he said. There were questions about unfilled holes and unchecked boxes, but to use Poles’ own words, the Bears are in position to “elevate and really go to the next level.” Advertisement There is a very low bar for the 2023 Bears to clear. Four victories would technically count as winning more games than last season. But it’s apparent that Poles expects more than that from the group he’s assembled for this season. An answer about the Aaron Rodgers-less Green Bay Packers reflected that sentiment, too. The Bears expect to compete in the NFC North. “I would say whoever was playing quarterback there, that was going to be the mindset,” Poles said. “When it comes to the division, you want to win all those games. And I think I talked about it all the way from the beginning. Like you want to take the division over and really put your flag in it because that’s where it starts. And I feel like that’s where you can really, again, move the needle to being a championship-caliber team.”  Here are five more takeaways from Poles’ news conference, which also included assistant general manager Ian Cunningham, from Halas Hall on Wednesday: Poles was asked about it — and that surprised him. Poles said the “fast-forward button” was hit. Right now, Poles is looking for progress from the third-year quarterback. “I can’t tell you how many boxes need to be checked,” Poles said. But he did provide an outline earlier in his news conference. “Want those sack numbers to come down, interceptions to come down, make good reads, protect himself, just see him take that next step,” he said. OK, back to that next contract. The Bears must decide after this season whether to exercise Fields’ fifth-year option for 2025. Poles said that Fields’ anticipation and trust in his receivers improved in camp. But let’s get through this season first; let’s see it in real games. “Our gut instinct is always going to be a part of decision-making as well,” Poles said. “So (it’s) all of the above. You’re looking for progress to feel good about it and also (it’s) watch the tape and get a feel for a guy if he can take you to that next level.” GO DEEPER Bears 53-man roster reaction: Ryan Poles' overhaul continues and the waiver wire awaits Defensive ends Trevis Gipson and Terrell Lewis were two of the Bears’ most productive players in the preseason, but by Wednesday afternoon both were gone. The Bears waived Gipson on Tuesday. Lewis was on the initial roster the Bears distributed on Wednesday, but they waived him before the players took the field. Instead, defensive end Khalid Kareem was added off waivers from the Colts. Advertisement “I would just say that with what Terrell was able to do … he was a good pass rusher,” Cunningham said. “I feel like Kareem showed a little bit more of what we were looking for in terms of playing the run, playing the pass. He showed a little bit more of the scheme fit that our defensive staff was looking for.” The same story played out for Gipson. “He had his most production in a 3-4 scheme versus a 4-3,” Cunningham said. “He did a lot for us, just in terms of the leadership and who he was, showed up every day. We just wanted the best situation for him and ultimately that was the decision we came to.” Poles and Cunningham wanted co-director of player personnel Jeff King and Northeast area scout Tom Bradway to receive credit for the arrival of Bagent, the undrafted rookie. The Bears’ pre-draft evaluation included King — one of the Bears’ top decision-makers — traveling to Division II Shepherd University to scout Bagent. “I remember when Jeff got done seeing him at Shepherd, he came into my office raving about this guy whose dad was a pro arm wrestler,” Cunningham said. “And it was like, ‘Who is this guy?’ And he was fired up about him.’’ Everyone already knows about the next step. Offensive coordinator Luke Getsy coached Bagent at the Senior Bowl and came away impressed. The Bears aren’t ready to name Bagent QB2 for Week 1 against the Packers. Nathan Peterman is expected to return to the active roster or the practice squad. But Bagent also exceeded the Bears’ scouting report of him. As Poles said, he created the competition with P.J. Walker, who is now on the Cleveland Browns’ practice squad. “He just continued to show us every single step of the way he’s growing,” Cunningham said. “And we’re just excited to have him.” Advertisement Poles will scroll through what’s being reported or discussed about the Bears on his phone. And he’s not afraid to address it all head-on, which he did late in his opening remarks on Wednesday. “Trade rumors kind of cracked me up, the stuff that I hear,” Poles said. “You know, we turned every stone. We investigate everything. Nothing really got serious. Never thought about or had any conversations about trading (Darnell) Mooney, which is interesting, and Trevis Gipson never came in my office and said that he wanted to be traded.” GO DEEPER 'I love it': How Bears DE Dominique Robinson, LT Braxton Jones are developing together The Bears’ signing of returner Trent Taylor, who was cut by the Bengals, didn’t spell the end for Velus Jones Jr. on the roster. Poles wants to see more of him. “We’re going to continue to work on those guys and get them experience and try to get that confidence back that (Jones) had in college and before,” Poles said. “So having some of the issues that he’s had, that’s a tough thing, you got to work back through it. And he’s had some weird looks, too. So we still believe in him and we want to continue to develop Tyler as well.” That could change next year if similar discussions are being had about Jones. But only one of Poles’ 21 draft picks over two years isn’t on the 53-man roster or practice squad: offensive lineman Zachary Thomas, who was signed off the practice squad last November by the Rams. Running back Trestan Ebner cleared waivers after being waived/injured and returned to IR for the Bears. (Top photo of  Justin Fields:  Quinn Harris / Getty Images) “The Football 100,” the definitive ranking of the NFL’s best 100 players of all time, goes on sale this fall. Preorder it here. Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Adam L. Jahns covers the Chicago Bears as a senior writer for The Athletic. He previously worked at the Chicago Sun-Times, where he started in 2005 and covered the Blackhawks (2009-12) and Bears (2012-19). He co-hosts the "Hoge & Jahns" podcast. Follow Adam on Twitter @adamjahns