eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Commercial Content. 21+. Action Network is the official betting partner of the Chicago Tribune. The bet365 bonus code CTNEWS unlocks a generous new customer offer for bettors — one of the best in the industry right now. When players in Colorado, Ohio, New Jersey and Virginia sign up with the bonus code above, they’ll get $200 in bonus bets after a $10 deposit and a $1 wager. That first bet must be at odds of -500 odds or longer, meaning betting something at -400 is OK but -600 is not. Additionally, new players with bet365 in Iowa will get $365 in bonus bets as part of an exclusive promotion there to coincide with the sportsbook’s launch in the Hawkeye State. Both promotions use the same bonus code and are structured the same so the bonus bet value is entirely based on what state a user is in when they sign up. Notably, bettors do not need to be a resident of a specific state to claim a promotion but rather must be within state limits, which the book will verify using geolocation data. Even if you’re just visiting Iowa for the weekend, you can claim the bet365 Iowa promotion by ensuring that your geolocation data is turned on. We’ll go into detail about the nature of this offer and highlight the critical sign-up conditions in the paragraphs below. bet365 welcome offer, explained The bet365 promotional structure is different from other sportsbooks. With many other books, a user’s first bet is required to settle as a loss for them to get any bonus bets. However, the bet365 offer doles out all the bonus bets as soon as a user’s wager settles — regardless of a win or a loss. So, players could potentially win their bet and still get some bonus bets. The advantage here is that, as opposed to most other sportsbooks, this promotion is very low risk. Users simply need to make a $10 deposit and place a cash wager of at least $1 to trigger this offer. New bettors can sign up with the bet365 bonus code CTNEWS and unlock $200 in bonus bets in four select states — Colorado, Ohio, New Jersey and Virginia. Additionally, as part of an exclusive promotion in Iowa, users in the Hawkeye State can get $365 in bonus bets with the same code. After that, players will need to make a deposit of $10 and place a cash wager of at least $1 to trigger this offer. Critically, only real-money wagers will trigger this offer and any bonus bets earned from this promotion will only be valid for one wager. So, users will not get their stake back in the event of a successful wager. After that first wager settles — as a loss or a win — players will get their bonus bets. As mentioned above, users in Iowa will get $365 and players in the other four bet365 states will get $200 in bonus bets. So, if a new bettor in Colorado placed a real-money wager of $100 on the Pirates at +165 against the Padres and Pittsburgh won, they’d collect $165 in profit, keep their initial stake and get $200 in bonus bets. Conversely, if that same bettor placed a wager with bonus bets on the Pirates and they won, they’d collect $165 in profit but would not get their stake back or collect any bonus bets. bet365 sign-up information Prior to signing up with bet365, users should review the conditions outlined below to get the most out of this promotion. First, this offer is restricted to new users who are at least 21 years old and present in a legal bet365 state. As noted above, players do not need to be a resident of a bet365 state to claim these offers but they must be within state limits, which bet365 will verify using geolocation data. If a user meets all those criteria, they can sign up for a bet365 account using the bonus code CTNEWS. After that, the player needs to make a deposit of $10 and place a real-money wager of at least $1 to initiate this promotion. Once that wager settles — regardless of how it settles — users will get their bonus bets. As mentioned above, bettors in Iowa will get $365 in bonus bets while players in the four other bet365 states will get $200 in bonus bets. Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune