e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 UC San Diego Health leaders are pushing back against a recent article in an influential oncology publication that makes dire statements about the viability and safety of Moores Cancer Center.Published in The Cancer Letter, a weekly digital publication that details industry news nationwide, the piece says that patient safety and clinical trials at Moores are “at risk” due to ongoing difficulties in the organization’s clinical trials office.One of 54 designated comprehensive cancer centers in the nation, Moores earned its designation in 1978, meeting rigorous requirements to prove that it is capable of broad and deep research in addition to quality patient care.Citing the recent decision by Dr. Joseph Califano III to leave his job as the center’s director as soon as a replacement can be found after just six months on the job, and the recent departure of other key leaders, the piece makes the case — quoting unnamed sources and leaked documents — that Moores’ entire portfolio of more than 200 clinical trials should be suspended and that “they are risking patient safety by not doing so.”The university objected most strongly to any suggestion of possible patient harm and the notion, expressed in the piece’s headline, that Moore’s designation as a comprehensive cancer center “is in trouble.”“I take exception to the innuendo that there has been any patient harm from clinical trials or that our comprehensive cancer center status is in jeopardy,” said Dr. John M. Carethers, vice chancellor for health services at UCSD.All human research programs in the United States are required to have institutional review boards (IRB) to make sure that patient rights are protected and to collect reports of  “adverse events” for investigation if something goes wrong while trials are underway.Carethers, who has been on the job for about five months, said he examined two years of adverse event reports made to UCSD’s IRB by cancer trials and found no spike in overall numbers.

“The number of events you can essentially count on one hand, and most of these things are not serious, someone didn’t document something on time, that sort of thing,” Carethers said. “And, has there been corrective action from the (institutional review board) when these events are reported? “Absolutely, there has.”Audits of the clinical trials office by the university’s compliance office and by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, he said, have identified no problems with adverse event reporting in the program.Moores, as the Cancer Letter report notes, has recently enjoyed a positive reputation in the industry, receiving “its best-ever score of 20, which placed it in the ‘outstanding’ range” in its most recent government support grant renewal review. Scores in U.S. News and World Report cancer care assessments have also climbed “from No. 45 to the top 20 over the past two years.”Comprehensive Cancer Centers such as Moores are also required to maintain external advisory boards made up of cancer experts not affiliated with the university.The Cancer Letter report indicates that Moores’ advisory board has weighed in, stating that the program’s clinical trials organization, “In addition to having no permanent leader, is starved for resources and is in such profound disarray that, according to an outside consultant and the (external advisory board), it poses a danger to patients.”Dr. Eric Small, a cancer researcher at UC San Francisco and a member of the Moores advisory board, said in an email that the full panel responded to the writeup with a letter, signed by all members, indicating that “we are not aware of any incident at (Moores Cancer Center) in which patient safety was affected and that UCSD and MCC leadership have our full vote of confidence.”Paul Goldberg, editor and publisher of The Cancer Letter and the author of the piece, said in an email Thursday that he stands by his work. He said readers are going further on the patient harm angle than he did in the text.“At no point do I — or anyone I quote — state that harm to patients has occurred,” Goldberg said. “Discussion is focused on the risk of harm and the safeguards against it.”A significant part of the Cancer Letter writeup focuses on a report from a consultant which reportedly found problems with the functioning of clinical trials at Moores, recommending a revamp of the office. Provided to Goldberg by an unnamed source, the university is not releasing the document, calling it an unfinished draft.Carethers did not refute the assertion that the clinical trials infrastructure at Moores needs some attention.“We’ve had high turnover of individuals that help run the clinical trials, and we have had some changes in leadership, there’s no doubt about that,” he said. Another factor reportedly listed in the consultant’s report is an overall decrease in the number and type of cancer clinical trials offered to patients. Here, too, Carethers said that work is underway to increase the number of trials and also the percentage that involve novel locally generated research. According to the National Cancer Institute, Moores received $5.2 million in cancer center support grant funding during the 2021 fiscal year. But that level of annual support, on top of funding for specific research projects, comes with expectations. Centers are expected to engage not just in drug trials on behalf of the pharmaceutical industry, but also in “investigator initiated trials” that test novel new ideas dreamed up by a center’s resident researchers.A criticism mentioned in the Cancer Letter report, and one that was reportedly highlighted in the consultant report, is that the ratio of novel trials to industry trials has skewed too far away from new investigation. Carethers said he agrees with that assessment.“In my view, we have to help support the investigator-initiated side, because that’s where the NCI designation and renewal of grants come in,” Carethers said. “We’ve already been doing a lot of things to try to reverse those ratios, putting money more into the clinical trials office.”One key change that is already under way, he added, is installing a new clinical trials management system that directly interfaces with the university’s electronic health records system.As to why Dr. Joseph Califano decided to leave Moores so shortly after taking the job as its director, the head and neck cancer researcher said in an email Thursday that he is stepping down “so I can devote my time and efforts to care of patients with head and neck cancer, directing a laboratory focused on head and neck cancer research.”He said he intends to continue doing that work at Moores.Dr. Ezra Cohen is among those Moores researchers who have recently moved on.A well-known cancer researcher, Cohen had a prominent leadership role in Moores’ clinical trials hierarchy and recently announced that he has accepted a job at Tempus, a Chicago-based company using artificial intelligence to personalize clinical care.Echoing others’ statements that he is unaware of any instance of patient harm at Moores, Cohen said that he believes the organization can fix the issues that have surfaced.“There are certainly issues, but they are all things that can be fixed, and I’m fully confident that UCSD will succeed,” Cohen said. Published in The Cancer Letter, a weekly digital publication that details industry news nationwide, the piece says that patient safety and clinical trials at Moores are “at risk” due to ongoing difficulties in the organization’s clinical trials office. One of 54 designated comprehensive cancer centers in the nation, Moores earned its designation in 1978, meeting rigorous requirements to prove that it is capable of broad and deep research in addition to quality patient care. Citing the recent decision by Dr. Joseph Califano III to leave his job as the center’s director as soon as a replacement can be found after just six months on the job, and the recent departure of other key leaders, the piece makes the case — quoting unnamed sources and leaked documents — that Moores’ entire portfolio of more than 200 clinical trials should be suspended and that “they are risking patient safety by not doing so.” The university objected most strongly to any suggestion of possible patient harm and the notion, expressed in the piece’s headline, that Moore’s designation as a comprehensive cancer center “is in trouble.” “I take exception to the innuendo that there has been any patient harm from clinical trials or that our comprehensive cancer center status is in jeopardy,” said Dr. John M. Carethers, vice chancellor for health services at UCSD. All human research programs in the United States are required to have institutional review boards (IRB) to make sure that patient rights are protected and to collect reports of  “adverse events” for investigation if something goes wrong while trials are underway. Carethers, who has been on the job for about five months, said he examined two years of adverse event reports made to UCSD’s IRB by cancer trials and found no spike in overall numbers. “The number of events you can essentially count on one hand, and most of these things are not serious, someone didn’t document something on time, that sort of thing,” Carethers said. “And, has there been corrective action from the (institutional review board) when these events are reported?  “Absolutely, there has.” Audits of the clinical trials office by the university’s compliance office and by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, he said, have identified no problems with adverse event reporting in the program. Moores, as the Cancer Letter report notes, has recently enjoyed a positive reputation in the industry, receiving “its best-ever score of 20, which placed it in the ‘outstanding’ range” in its most recent government support grant renewal review. Scores in U.S. News and World Report cancer care assessments have also climbed “from No. 45 to the top 20 over the past two years.” Comprehensive Cancer Centers such as Moores are also required to maintain external advisory boards made up of cancer experts not affiliated with the university. The Cancer Letter report indicates that Moores’ advisory board has weighed in, stating that the program’s clinical trials organization, “In addition to having no permanent leader, is starved for resources and is in such profound disarray that, according to an outside consultant and the (external advisory board), it poses a danger to patients.” Dr. Eric Small, a cancer researcher at UC San Francisco and a member of the Moores advisory board, said in an email that the full panel responded to the writeup with a letter, signed by all members, indicating that “we are not aware of any incident at (Moores Cancer Center) in which patient safety was affected and that UCSD and MCC leadership have our full vote of confidence.” Paul Goldberg, editor and publisher of The Cancer Letter and the author of the piece, said in an email Thursday that he stands by his work. He said readers are going further on the patient harm angle than he did in the text. “At no point do I — or anyone I quote — state that harm to patients has occurred,” Goldberg said. “Discussion is focused on the risk of harm and the safeguards against it.” A significant part of the Cancer Letter writeup focuses on a report from a consultant which reportedly found problems with the functioning of clinical trials at Moores, recommending a revamp of the office. Provided to Goldberg by an unnamed source, the university is not releasing the document, calling it an unfinished draft. Carethers did not refute the assertion that the clinical trials infrastructure at Moores needs some attention. “We’ve had high turnover of individuals that help run the clinical trials, and we have had some changes in leadership, there’s no doubt about that,” he said.  Another factor reportedly listed in the consultant’s report is an overall decrease in the number and type of cancer clinical trials offered to patients. Here, too, Carethers said that work is underway to increase the number of trials and also the percentage that involve novel locally generated research.  According to the National Cancer Institute, Moores received $5.2 million in cancer center support grant funding during the 2021 fiscal year. But that level of annual support, on top of funding for specific research projects, comes with expectations. Centers are expected to engage not just in drug trials on behalf of the pharmaceutical industry, but also in “investigator initiated trials” that test novel new ideas dreamed up by a center’s resident researchers. A criticism mentioned in the Cancer Letter report, and one that was reportedly highlighted in the consultant report, is that the ratio of novel trials to industry trials has skewed too far away from new investigation. Carethers said he agrees with that assessment. “In my view, we have to help support the investigator-initiated side, because that’s where the NCI designation and renewal of grants come in,” Carethers said. “We’ve already been doing a lot of things to try to reverse those ratios, putting money more into the clinical trials office.” One key change that is already under way, he added, is installing a new clinical trials management system that directly interfaces with the university’s electronic health records system. As to why Dr. Joseph Califano decided to leave Moores so shortly after taking the job as its director, the head and neck cancer researcher said in an email Thursday that he is stepping down “so I can devote my time and efforts to care of patients with head and neck cancer, directing a laboratory focused on head and neck cancer research.” He said he intends to continue doing that work at Moores. Dr. Ezra Cohen is among those Moores researchers who have recently moved on. A well-known cancer researcher, Cohen had a prominent leadership role in Moores’ clinical trials hierarchy and recently announced that he has accepted a job at Tempus, a Chicago-based company using artificial intelligence to personalize clinical care. Echoing others’ statements that he is unaware of any instance of patient harm at Moores, Cohen said that he believes the organization can fix the issues that have surfaced. “There are certainly issues, but they are all things that can be fixed, and I’m fully confident that UCSD will succeed,” Cohen said. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group