Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters 
			Trending:		 The following items were taken from police and court reports and news releases. An arrest does not constitute a finding of guilt.CreteILLEGAL GUN: A Dolton man was apprehended by Crete police after he crashed while fleeing Steger police has been charged with aggravated unlawful use of a weapon and aggravated fleeing, according to police and Will County circuit court records online. Marlon K. Jenkins, 23, 14500 block of Dobson Avenue, Dolton, crashed into another vehicle at Illinois Route 394 and Steger Road Aug. 22 and then attempted to run from responding Crete officers who used a stun gun to pacify him, police said. Jenkins had a loaded 9 mm handgun with no serial number and an extended magazine containing seven more bullets when apprehended, police said, noting he also lacked the state-required Firearm Owner’s Identification card and concealed carry license.FlossmoorSHOOTING: Police say two individuals in a car were apparently targeted by a shooter in the intersection of Western Avenue and Vollmer Road at 4:05 p.m. Oct. 23. The suspect vehicle, described as a black Mercedes SUV, was driven away immediately.HarveyTWO ARRESTED: Charges are pending against Xavier Starr of Lansing and Malik Washington of Gary, Indiana, who are accused of robbing a letter carrier at gunpoint on Oct. 23 in Harvey. The carrier was on duty at 4:37 p.m. in a residential neighborhood near 148th Street and Loomis Avenue, according to postal authorities. Starr and Washington were taken into custody Friday, following a joint investigation by Harvey detectives and U.S. postal inspectors, police said. A traffic-light license plate reading system helped identify a vehicle involved in the holdup, police said.Homewood

HEARSE CRASH: An 18-year-old Hazel Crest resident has been charged with possessing a stolen vehicle, resisting a peace officer and driving without a valid license after driving a stolen car into a hearse, causing it to eject a casket containing a dead body, police said. Davion Marlow was driving a car reported stolen from Chicago Heights southbound on Kedzie Avenue at 183rd Street Friday when he struck the eastbound hearse, police said. Marlow is also charged with disregarding a traffic-control device and driving without insurance, police said.AGGRAVATED ASSAULT: A Chicago man who brandished a liquor bottle at an officer during an Oct. 7 retail-theft investigation has been charged with aggravated assault to a police officer, police said. Wardell Bobo, 52, Chicago, was also accused of retail theft, resisting arrest and trespassing at Jewel-Osco, 17705 Halsted St., after officers recovered stolen items selling for $72.97, police said.StegerRESIDENTIAL BURGLARY: Two men are charged with residential burglary and criminal damage to property after police said they broke into a home in the 3600 block of Peoria Avenue, according to police and Will County court records online. The homeowner reported returning home about 10:45 a.m. Oct. 24 to find a sport utility vehicle backed into the driveway and Jason A. Monchunski, 46, 200 block of Barry Avenue, Lockport, and Michael C. Smith, 28, 7600 block of 163rd Street, Tinley Park, emerging from the residence empty-handed, police said. The duo entered the home through the attached garage and pried open the interior door, but fled after failing to persuade the resident they’d been sent by a property management company, police said. They were arrested Oct. 25 in Chicago, police said.SHOTS FIRED: At least 20 shots were fired about 10:40 a.m. Oct. 26 in the 300 block of West Steger Road, police said, noting no one was injured, but a nearby apartment building and parked cars were damaged. The action followed an unrelated shooting at about 11 p.m. Oct. 21 in a bar parking lot in the 3300 block of Chicago Road that also injured no one, police said. Crete ILLEGAL GUN: A Dolton man was apprehended by Crete police after he crashed while fleeing Steger police has been charged with aggravated unlawful use of a weapon and aggravated fleeing, according to police and Will County circuit court records online. Marlon K. Jenkins, 23, 14500 block of Dobson Avenue, Dolton, crashed into another vehicle at Illinois Route 394 and Steger Road Aug. 22 and then attempted to run from responding Crete officers who used a stun gun to pacify him, police said. Jenkins had a loaded 9 mm handgun with no serial number and an extended magazine containing seven more bullets when apprehended, police said, noting he also lacked the state-required Firearm Owner’s Identification card and concealed carry license. Flossmoor SHOOTING: Police say two individuals in a car were apparently targeted by a shooter in the intersection of Western Avenue and Vollmer Road at 4:05 p.m. Oct. 23. The suspect vehicle, described as a black Mercedes SUV, was driven away immediately. Harvey TWO ARRESTED: Charges are pending against Xavier Starr of Lansing and Malik Washington of Gary, Indiana, who are accused of robbing a letter carrier at gunpoint on Oct. 23 in Harvey. The carrier was on duty at 4:37 p.m. in a residential neighborhood near 148th Street and Loomis Avenue, according to postal authorities. Starr and Washington were taken into custody Friday, following a joint investigation by Harvey detectives and U.S. postal inspectors, police said. A traffic-light license plate reading system helped identify a vehicle involved in the holdup, police said. Homewood HEARSE CRASH: An 18-year-old Hazel Crest resident has been charged with possessing a stolen vehicle, resisting a peace officer and driving without a valid license after driving a stolen car into a hearse, causing it to eject a casket containing a dead body, police said. Davion Marlow was driving a car reported stolen from Chicago Heights southbound on Kedzie Avenue at 183rd Street Friday when he struck the eastbound hearse, police said. Marlow is also charged with disregarding a traffic-control device and driving without insurance, police said. AGGRAVATED ASSAULT: A Chicago man who brandished a liquor bottle at an officer during an Oct. 7 retail-theft investigation has been charged with aggravated assault to a police officer, police said. Wardell Bobo, 52, Chicago, was also accused of retail theft, resisting arrest and trespassing at Jewel-Osco, 17705 Halsted St., after officers recovered stolen items selling for $72.97, police said. Steger RESIDENTIAL BURGLARY: Two men are charged with residential burglary and criminal damage to property after police said they broke into a home in the 3600 block of Peoria Avenue, according to police and Will County court records online. The homeowner reported returning home about 10:45 a.m. Oct. 24 to find a sport utility vehicle backed into the driveway and Jason A. Monchunski, 46, 200 block of Barry Avenue, Lockport, and Michael C. Smith, 28, 7600 block of 163rd Street, Tinley Park, emerging from the residence empty-handed, police said. The duo entered the home through the attached garage and pried open the interior door, but fled after failing to persuade the resident they’d been sent by a property management company, police said. They were arrested Oct. 25 in Chicago, police said. SHOTS FIRED: At least 20 shots were fired about 10:40 a.m. Oct. 26 in the 300 block of West Steger Road, police said, noting no one was injured, but a nearby apartment building and parked cars were damaged. The action followed an unrelated shooting at about 11 p.m. Oct. 21 in a bar parking lot in the 3300 block of Chicago Road that also injured no one, police said. Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune