eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Though his bread and butter came from securities law, longtime Chicago attorney Lowell Sachnoff frequently used his legal skills to advocate for the poor and disenfranchised.Among the clients Sachnoff advocated for were women who had been illegally strip-searched by the Chicago police, and prisoners at Guantanamo Bay.“He’s the kind of person you love to work with, because he was always very helpful to people. You’d go to see him with a problem, and his first remark was always, ‘What can I do to help?'” recalled retired lawyer Leonard Schrager, who practiced alongside Sachnoff for 20 years.
Attorney Lowell E. Sachnoff on Dec. 13, 1991, in his Sachnoff & Weaver 29th-floor office at 30 S. Wacker Drive in Chicago. Walter Kale/Chicago Tribune scanned from print published Dec. 22, 1991Sachnoff, 92, died of natural causes on March 21 at his home in Evanston, said his daughter, Kate. He had been a longtime Evanston resident.Born in Chicago to Ukrainian immigrant parents who had immigrated to the U.S. to escape pogroms, Sachnoff grew up in Chicago’s Maxwell Street neighborhood. He later moved north with his family to the West Rogers Park neighborhood and then to Rogers Park.Sachnoff graduated in 1948 from Senn High School, where he swam competitively. He also worked during high school as a beach lifeguard.Sachnoff earned a bachelor’s degree in 1952 from Harvard University, where he was captain of the swim team. Sachnoff served in the Navy during the Korean War, working in the Office of Naval Intelligence and rising to the level of lieutenant commander. After the war, Sachnoff earned a law degree from Harvard Law School in 1957.Sachnoff began his career practicing securities law, and he worked first for the Chicago law firm then known as Ross, McGowan & O’Keefe. He left that firm in 1961 to become the executive assistant to the state welfare department head, Francis Gerty. For a time in 1961, Sachnoff ran that state department entirely while Gerty was recovering from an operation and after the assistant director had resigned under fire.

Then-Gov. Otto Kerner next appointed Sachnoff to be the general counsel for the State Department of Mental Health, and in that role, he drafted the state’s new mental health code, including expanding the rights of those with mental health diagnoses and developmental disabilities.In 1963, Sachnoff left state government to cofound a law firm known at that time as Sachnoff, Schrager, Jones and Weaver and later as Sachnoff & Weaver. Sachnoff’s early clients were an eclectic mix of enterprises, including the Lake in the Hills Water Company. A top securities specialist, Sachnoff was skilled in representing plaintiffs in class action lawsuits — particularly in securities cases — such as a class action suit he led that netted a $3.5 million settlement from the accounting firm auditing the books of a company that had committed a $25 million inventory fraud in the early 1970s.Sachnoff represented a variety of corporate clients as well, including Marshall Field & Co., Marmon Group, American National Bank & Trust Co. and Dunlop Tire and Rubber Co., and he also represented the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. One of Sachnoff’s early mentors was business owner and lawyer A.N. Pritzker, the grandfather of Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker, and later in his career, Sachnoff represented Marmon Group founder Robert Pritzker, who was the governor’s uncle.Apart from securities cases, Sachnoff’s law firm often represented marginalized groups. In 1981, his firm took on the case of Karen Ulane, a transgender pilot fired by Eastern Airlines despite a stellar work record and a record of conviviality with her colleagues. Sachnoff’s future wife, Fay Clayton, and litigator Dean Dickie represented Ulane and alleged that her firing was unlawful employment discrimination.Ulane prevailed in federal trial court, but her case was overturned on appeal by the Chicago-based 7th Circuit in 1984. More than three decades later, in 2017, the 7th Circuit ruled that federal sex discrimination laws also protect transgender employees against discrimination.Sachnoff argued other controversial cases involving women’s rights. With Clayton, he won a $25,000 settlement in federal court in 1982 from the City of Chicago for an Evanston woman who was subjected to a strip search by Chicago police after being stopped for driving through a red light. Sachnoff then was the lead attorney for other women who had been stopped and strip searched by Chicago police, and in 1984, Sachnoff’s firm donated the $56,000 in legal fees that it had collected from those cases to the American Civil Liberties Union.In 1985, Illinois’ two U.S. senators briefly floated Sachnoff’s name as a pick for a federal judgeship in Chicago, despite the fact that Sachnoff was a Democrat and a Republican, Ronald Reagan, was in the White House.Beginning in 1986, Sachnoff and Clayton led a federal class-action lawsuit on behalf of the National Organization for Women charging anti-abortion activists who were blockading abortion clinics with a conspiracy of extortion and violence to close abortion clinics. The suit finally went to trial in 1998, and NOW prevailed, with a federal trial court judge issuing a 12-year injunction blocking protesters from impeding access to abortion clinics.Outraged by the number of prisoners from Muslim countries who were housed in the U.S.’ prison at Guantanamo Bay, Sachnoff began representing the first of four detainees at the prison in 2006 that they would represent, and eventually, he and his firm’s colleagues successfully negotiated the release of all four prisoners held there who had never been charged with a crime. Sachnoff & Weaver became one of the first law firms in the nation to represent prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay.Jack Block, a former colleague at Sachnoff & Weaver, was one of a group of litigators who worked closely with Sachnoff.“He was our leader, our mentor and our friend, and he was someone who the people who worked with him had great affection and admiration for him in terms of not only his legal practice and his brilliance, but he also always asked us to pursue the cause of justice and was very supportive of doing public interest work and pro bono work,” Block said. “And he was always there for us. To have somebody as brilliant and thoughtful as Lowell available to us to run ideas by or to edit our briefs just made us feel so much more capable as lawyers, and I think that he really appreciated the growth that we had that he was in many respects responsible for.”In 2007, Sachnoff merged his law firm — which by that time numbered 130 lawyers — with the international law firm Reed Smith.Sachnoff argued his final pro bono case when he was 90 years old. He represented a transgender woman who was a patient in an Illinois state psychiatric hospital, and he successfully contended that the Illinois Department of Human Services had a legal obligation to provide the woman with transition medical services.Sachnoff helped to found the Chicago Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights in 1969 after riots, violence and mass arrests that had ensued in response to the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He later served on the group’s board for many years, including as its board chair, and he was awarded the group’s lifetime achievement award. Sachnoff litigated cases for that committee and also litigated cases for the American Civil Liberties Union.Sachnoff retired from practicing law at age 90. After retiring, he continued lobbying elected representatives to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay. He also served on the board of the Chicago-based Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists from 2005 until 2014 and again from 2015 until 2020.Last fall, the Chicago Bar Association honored Sachnoff with its Justice John Paul Stevens Award.Outside of work, Sachnoff enjoyed studying Russian, taking adult education classes at Northwestern University, playing poker, working on political campaigns, attending theater, reading and writing poetry, baking challah, growing vegetables and cooking, his daughter said. He also played tennis into his late 80s, she said.Two previous marriages ended in divorce. In addition to his daughter, Sachnoff is survived by his wife of 36 years, Fay Clayton; two sons, Scott and Marc; five grandchildren; one great-granddaughter; and two stepdaughters, Kim Clayton Giese and Suzanne Clayton.A memorial service will take place at 2:30 p.m. on Sunday, April 23 at The Jewish Reconstructionist Congregation, 303 Dodge Avenue, Evanston.Bob Goldsborough is a freelance reporter for the Chicago Tribune. Among the clients Sachnoff advocated for were women who had been illegally strip-searched by the Chicago police, and prisoners at Guantanamo Bay. “He’s the kind of person you love to work with, because he was always very helpful to people. You’d go to see him with a problem, and his first remark was always, ‘What can I do to help?'” recalled retired lawyer Leonard Schrager, who practiced alongside Sachnoff for 20 years. Sachnoff, 92, died of natural causes on March 21 at his home in Evanston, said his daughter, Kate. He had been a longtime Evanston resident. Born in Chicago to Ukrainian immigrant parents who had immigrated to the U.S. to escape pogroms, Sachnoff grew up in Chicago’s Maxwell Street neighborhood. He later moved north with his family to the West Rogers Park neighborhood and then to Rogers Park. Sachnoff graduated in 1948 from Senn High School, where he swam competitively. He also worked during high school as a beach lifeguard. Sachnoff earned a bachelor’s degree in 1952 from Harvard University, where he was captain of the swim team. Sachnoff served in the Navy during the Korean War, working in the Office of Naval Intelligence and rising to the level of lieutenant commander. After the war, Sachnoff earned a law degree from Harvard Law School in 1957. Sachnoff began his career practicing securities law, and he worked first for the Chicago law firm then known as Ross, McGowan & O’Keefe. He left that firm in 1961 to become the executive assistant to the state welfare department head, Francis Gerty. For a time in 1961, Sachnoff ran that state department entirely while Gerty was recovering from an operation and after the assistant director had resigned under fire. Then-Gov. Otto Kerner next appointed Sachnoff to be the general counsel for the State Department of Mental Health, and in that role, he drafted the state’s new mental health code, including expanding the rights of those with mental health diagnoses and developmental disabilities. In 1963, Sachnoff left state government to cofound a law firm known at that time as Sachnoff, Schrager, Jones and Weaver and later as Sachnoff & Weaver. Sachnoff’s early clients were an eclectic mix of enterprises, including the Lake in the Hills Water Company. A top securities specialist, Sachnoff was skilled in representing plaintiffs in class action lawsuits — particularly in securities cases — such as a class action suit he led that netted a $3.5 million settlement from the accounting firm auditing the books of a company that had committed a $25 million inventory fraud in the early 1970s. Sachnoff represented a variety of corporate clients as well, including Marshall Field & Co., Marmon Group, American National Bank & Trust Co. and Dunlop Tire and Rubber Co., and he also represented the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. One of Sachnoff’s early mentors was business owner and lawyer A.N. Pritzker, the grandfather of Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker, and later in his career, Sachnoff represented Marmon Group founder Robert Pritzker, who was the governor’s uncle. Apart from securities cases, Sachnoff’s law firm often represented marginalized groups. In 1981, his firm took on the case of Karen Ulane, a transgender pilot fired by Eastern Airlines despite a stellar work record and a record of conviviality with her colleagues. Sachnoff’s future wife, Fay Clayton, and litigator Dean Dickie represented Ulane and alleged that her firing was unlawful employment discrimination. Ulane prevailed in federal trial court, but her case was overturned on appeal by the Chicago-based 7th Circuit in 1984. More than three decades later, in 2017, the 7th Circuit ruled that federal sex discrimination laws also protect transgender employees against discrimination. Sachnoff argued other controversial cases involving women’s rights. With Clayton, he won a $25,000 settlement in federal court in 1982 from the City of Chicago for an Evanston woman who was subjected to a strip search by Chicago police after being stopped for driving through a red light. Sachnoff then was the lead attorney for other women who had been stopped and strip searched by Chicago police, and in 1984, Sachnoff’s firm donated the $56,000 in legal fees that it had collected from those cases to the American Civil Liberties Union. In 1985, Illinois’ two U.S. senators briefly floated Sachnoff’s name as a pick for a federal judgeship in Chicago, despite the fact that Sachnoff was a Democrat and a Republican, Ronald Reagan, was in the White House. Beginning in 1986, Sachnoff and Clayton led a federal class-action lawsuit on behalf of the National Organization for Women charging anti-abortion activists who were blockading abortion clinics with a conspiracy of extortion and violence to close abortion clinics. The suit finally went to trial in 1998, and NOW prevailed, with a federal trial court judge issuing a 12-year injunction blocking protesters from impeding access to abortion clinics. Outraged by the number of prisoners from Muslim countries who were housed in the U.S.’ prison at Guantanamo Bay, Sachnoff began representing the first of four detainees at the prison in 2006 that they would represent, and eventually, he and his firm’s colleagues successfully negotiated the release of all four prisoners held there who had never been charged with a crime. Sachnoff & Weaver became one of the first law firms in the nation to represent prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay. Jack Block, a former colleague at Sachnoff & Weaver, was one of a group of litigators who worked closely with Sachnoff. “He was our leader, our mentor and our friend, and he was someone who the people who worked with him had great affection and admiration for him in terms of not only his legal practice and his brilliance, but he also always asked us to pursue the cause of justice and was very supportive of doing public interest work and pro bono work,” Block said. “And he was always there for us. To have somebody as brilliant and thoughtful as Lowell available to us to run ideas by or to edit our briefs just made us feel so much more capable as lawyers, and I think that he really appreciated the growth that we had that he was in many respects responsible for.” In 2007, Sachnoff merged his law firm — which by that time numbered 130 lawyers — with the international law firm Reed Smith. Sachnoff argued his final pro bono case when he was 90 years old. He represented a transgender woman who was a patient in an Illinois state psychiatric hospital, and he successfully contended that the Illinois Department of Human Services had a legal obligation to provide the woman with transition medical services. Sachnoff helped to found the Chicago Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights in 1969 after riots, violence and mass arrests that had ensued in response to the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He later served on the group’s board for many years, including as its board chair, and he was awarded the group’s lifetime achievement award. Sachnoff litigated cases for that committee and also litigated cases for the American Civil Liberties Union. Sachnoff retired from practicing law at age 90. After retiring, he continued lobbying elected representatives to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay. He also served on the board of the Chicago-based Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists from 2005 until 2014 and again from 2015 until 2020. Last fall, the Chicago Bar Association honored Sachnoff with its Justice John Paul Stevens Award. Outside of work, Sachnoff enjoyed studying Russian, taking adult education classes at Northwestern University, playing poker, working on political campaigns, attending theater, reading and writing poetry, baking challah, growing vegetables and cooking, his daughter said. He also played tennis into his late 80s, she said. Two previous marriages ended in divorce. In addition to his daughter, Sachnoff is survived by his wife of 36 years, Fay Clayton; two sons, Scott and Marc; five grandchildren; one great-granddaughter; and two stepdaughters, Kim Clayton Giese and Suzanne Clayton. A memorial service will take place at 2:30 p.m. on Sunday, April 23 at The Jewish Reconstructionist Congregation, 303 Dodge Avenue, Evanston. Bob Goldsborough is a freelance reporter for the Chicago Tribune. Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune