Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters 
			Trending:		 Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Hollywood Casino in 2022 announced plans to move from its longtime site in downtown Aurora to a new location near Interstate 88 in the city. H. Rick Bamman / Pioneer Press St. Charles firefighters work in May to douse smoldering debris at what was once the main entrance to the former Pheasant Run resort in St. Charles. The site was seriously damaged by a fire which broke out May 21. Mike Mantucca / The Beacon-News A participant carries a large Pride flag during the Pride Parade in Aurora on June 12. Steve Lord / The Beacon-News Workers this fall fought strong winds to install the onion dome back atop the historic Hobbs Building in downtown Aurora, where it was for more than 100 years. Mark Black / Chicago Tribune Aurora Mayor Richard Irvin, a candidate in the Republican primary for governor, speaks to the media before voting at Wesley United Methodist Church in Aurora in the primary election June 28. Irvin ended up finishing third in the race. Hollywood Casino in 2022 announced plans to move from its longtime site in downtown Aurora to a new location near Interstate 88 in the city. It was a busy year in Aurora in 2022, with Mayor Richard Irvin making a run for governor, a number of big development projects in the city, Hollywood Casino announcing a move from downtown to near Interstate 88 and many more stories making headlines.Here is a list of the top 10 stories of 2022 in the Aurora area, as compiled by members of The Beacon-News staff.Development projects around AuroraThe year 2022 might be remembered as the year many projects came to fruition.The city saw several long-term projects, such as the historic Hobbs and Terminal buildings, and one of the residential units of the former Copley Hospital campus, open, as well as the Craft Urban restaurant building downtown.It also saw the opening of the first brand new apartment buildings at Fox Valley Mall, with two other residential complexes on its heels, due to open in the next two years.The Terminal Building, at Galena Boulevard and Broadway, is now known as The Lofts on Broadway. The 117-year-old building was redeveloped into 20 apartments and a first-floor retail space by Rockford-based Urban Equity Properties, LLC, with all 20 apartments at the cornerstone intersection in downtown Aurora leased within 60 days of marketing them. In 2023, the building likely will have its first-floor restaurant space leased and open.The Hobbs Building, built in 1892 for the Hobbs Manufacturing Co., reopened officially in November, although owners JH Real Estate Partners had been leasing apartments there for months.


Workers this fall fought strong winds to install the onion dome back atop the historic Hobbs Building in downtown Aurora, where it was for more than 100 years.The redevelopment included rebuilding the onion dome that distinguished the building for more than 100 years.The building has 33 residential apartments, and in 2023 is looking to have three restaurants open in its first floor.Another redeveloped, historic building that held a grand opening during 2022 was the Weston Bridges facility with five floors of independent living for as many as 53 adults with intellectual or cognitive disabilities.It was the latest opening of a facility at the former Copley Hospital campus on Lincoln Avenue on the near East Side. In 2023, the opening of Bardwell Residences, a senior residential complex right next door, should take place.Just before openings for the Terminal and Hobbs buildings, Lumen of Fox Valley opened, a 319-unit apartment complex built into the east entrance to Fox Valley Mall.The second phase of the redevelopment of Fox Valley Mall – a senior living center of more than 200 units directly next door to Lumen of Fox Valley – is likely to open in 2023. And already underway to the west of that is another apartment complex, this with 323 units.Also late in the year, Bernard Laskowski opened Craft Urban, a restaurant remodeled into a 100-year-old building at Stolp Avenue and Downer Place. It is the second Craft Urban, with the other in downtown Geneva.Mayor Irvin runs for governorIn January, Aurora Mayor Richard Irvin brought truth to some longtime rumors by announcing he would seek the Republican nomination for Illinois governor.At the time, he joined a slate of statewide GOP candidates supported by billionaire Ken Griffin, who eventually endorsed Irvin and gave $50 million to his campaign.
Aurora Mayor Richard Irvin, a candidate in the Republican primary for governor, speaks to the media before voting at Wesley United Methodist Church in Aurora in the primary election June 28. Irvin ended up finishing third in the race.He started strongly as a front-runner, if the polls are to be believed, and had a spectacular downturn during the primary race, going from the lead position to garnering only about 15% of the vote statewide and actually finishing third in the race.He did a little better in his home area, getting 21% of the vote in DuPage County, 20% in Kendall and 19% in Kane, three of the four counties Aurora sits in. But that still was not close to enough to get near winning the primary.Eventually, Democrat J.B. Pritzker easily won re-election over Darren Bailey, who had beaten Irvin in the primary.Pride Parade in the spotlightFor seven days in June, a fight for the Aurora Pride Parade ensued in the halls of government and in the courts.The parade was scheduled for Sunday, June 12, but on the Wednesday before, the city revoked the special event permit for the Aurora Pride group to hold the parade.City officials said they were unable to get enough Aurora police officers to work overtime or extra-duty shifts to provide adequate security for the event. Aurora Pride had been able to get a few officers from other places themselves, but were unable to get enough to cover the event, city officials said.
A participant carries a large Pride flag during the Pride Parade in Aurora on June 12.Earlier in the month, Aurora Pride had requested that if police officers wanted to march in the Pride Parade, they do so not in full uniform, particularly not with weapons. They said police could wear a “soft uniform” identifying them as police officers, but not a full uniform with weaponry and handcuffs.This was enough to cause some city officials, including Irvin, to announce they would not participate in the parade, and to pull the city’s float from the parade lineup.Attorneys for Aurora Pride took the city to court to appeal the revocation of the parade license, but by Thursday afternoon, a judge ruled against Aurora Pride’s appeal.In response, the ACLU of Illinois planned to file a federal lawsuit against the city, in an attempt to keep the parade as scheduled. But about 5:30 p.m. that Thursday, the city announced it had reinstated Aurora Pride’s permit for the parade.The change came after the city offered a triple-time financial incentive to its police officers to take overtime to provide security for the parade.Aurora police get body camerasAurora police officers began wearing body cameras in 2022 as a means of providing more transparency during interactions with the public.City officials began discussing body cameras for police officers in 2019, but were not set to start the process of obtaining the cameras until 2022 or 2023. After the death of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer in Minneapolis in 2020, the department decided to speed up the process.
Aurora police began wearing body cameras in 2022.The department purchased 315 body cameras, which were officially launched for all officers on Feb. 1.Under state law, the cameras must be turned on whenever an on-duty, uniformed officer is responding to a call for service or is engaging in any law enforcement-related activity.Hollywood Casino to move to site near I-88In October, Aurora and Hollywood Casino came to an agreement by which the casino would build a resort near the Farnsworth Avenue interchange with Interstate 88.Penn Entertainment, the casino’s parent company, will build a new, $360 million casino resort at the site that will include 950 gaming positions, a Barstool Sportsbook, a 200-room hotel, six restaurants, meeting rooms, an outside event area and a 10,000-square-foot event center.The city entered into an agreement to transfer three parcels of land it owns along Farnsworth Avenue just north of I-88 to the casino.
This rendering shows a view of the planned Hollywood Casino development on the northeast side of Aurora.The city also would allow Penn Entertainment to exercise two options it has to buy the land on which Gaslight Manor and the C-Club sit on. The city would pass a general obligation bond of $58 million to put into the overall budget for the project, to be paid by a 23-year tax increment financing district the city would put on the casino project.Penn Entertainment also agreed to demolish the existing casino building downtown and transfer the pad it was built on to the city. It also would relinquish any leases it has on the two casino parking lots downtown and the office space in them to make those buildings controlled by the city.LGBTQ Advisory Board createdAurora made history in August by establishing the LGBTQ Advisory Board, and by November appointing its first members.The advisory body will organize, support and promote events recognizing June as Pride Month in Aurora; encourage the education, advocacy and community involvement of the city’s LGBTQ youth; and help promote greater awareness and cross-cultural understanding, according to officials.The group will also serve as an advisory body to the City Council regarding issues potentially affecting the LGBTQ community, according to officials, and recommend to the City Council measures designed to enhance the health, safety and economic opportunities of the LGBTQ community.The first appointees to the board were Adam Pauley, Zachary Bishop, Paulene Spika, Frederick Yanos, Michael Vargas, Briana Moss, Ivan Quinones, Sean Li and Brittney Borowicz-Keller.Phillips Park Family Aquatic Center doesn’t openA lifeguard shortage that impacted pools around the country in 2022 canceled the summer season at the Phillips Park Family Aquatic Center in Aurora.Fox Valley Park District officials said they failed to get enough applications for lifeguard positions by the deadline they imposed of June 5.“They just didn’t have enough qualified people to allow it to open, even on a three-day (a week) basis,” said Ald. Sherman Jenkins, at large, in June. He is one of the city of Aurora’s representatives on the Aquatics Board that oversees pool facilities in the city.The Fox Valley Park District kept Splash Country on the West Side open because it has room for 500 more people, and does not have a deep water section like Phillips Park, which needs additional lifeguard certification, officials said.Renovated Copley Theatre opens downtownThe newly-remodeled Copley Theatre in North Island Center in downtown Aurora opened to audiences in March.After a two-year, $2 million renovation, officials said the theater provides an intimate venue with 165 seats and a new lobby bar.
Elizabeth Stenholt, left, and Stephen Schellhardt perform in “Fun Home” earlier this year at the newly-remodeled Copley Theatre in downtown Aurora.The theater is home to the Paramount’s Bold Series, which officials said features productions that are designed to be unexpected and thought-provoking.SciTech closes building, later partners with APSIn May, the SciTech Board of Directors announced that the hands-on science museum that had been in downtown Aurora for 34 years was closing.The closure followed more than two years of the museum being closed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Several factors conspired to keep the museum from reopening at its 18 W. Benton St. location, the former Aurora Post Office.The city of Aurora owns the building, and has gotten interest for redevelopment of the property. Museum officials had been looking for another location, including at Fox Valley Mall, but officials said after much consideration the museum would not move into a physical space.Board members said they would continue operating, and keep SciTech as a STEM education resource.Board members also said they would look to partner with area schools, park districts and libraries, places with space for the exhibits and learning possibilities.In November, it was announced that SciTech had found such a partnership, with APS Training Academy in downtown Aurora.The museum will present hands-on science and mobile programs as part of APS Training Academy’s offerings on the second floor of the APS Tower, 105 E. Galena Blvd., in downtown Aurora.Huge fire at former Pheasant Run resortA massive fire hit the former Pheasant Run resort in St. Charles May 21, causing significant damage at the site.
St. Charles firefighters work in May to douse smoldering debris at what was once the main entrance to the former Pheasant Run resort in St. Charles. The site was seriously damaged by a fire which broke out May 21.The resort’s main lobby, its Bourbon Street area and A, B and E wings of the hotel rooms were destroyed by the fire, but crews were able to save the 16-story tower on the property.Four teenagers are accused of illegally entering the property, and once inside, two of the teens allegedly set papers on fire in two locations.Pheasant Run closed its doors in March 2020 after attempts to auction the resort were unsuccessful. Here is a list of the top 10 stories of 2022 in the Aurora area, as compiled by members of The Beacon-News staff. Development projects around Aurora The year 2022 might be remembered as the year many projects came to fruition. The city saw several long-term projects, such as the historic Hobbs and Terminal buildings, and one of the residential units of the former Copley Hospital campus, open, as well as the Craft Urban restaurant building downtown. It also saw the opening of the first brand new apartment buildings at Fox Valley Mall, with two other residential complexes on its heels, due to open in the next two years. The Terminal Building, at Galena Boulevard and Broadway, is now known as The Lofts on Broadway. The 117-year-old building was redeveloped into 20 apartments and a first-floor retail space by Rockford-based Urban Equity Properties, LLC, with all 20 apartments at the cornerstone intersection in downtown Aurora leased within 60 days of marketing them. In 2023, the building likely will have its first-floor restaurant space leased and open. The Hobbs Building, built in 1892 for the Hobbs Manufacturing Co., reopened officially in November, although owners JH Real Estate Partners had been leasing apartments there for months. The redevelopment included rebuilding the onion dome that distinguished the building for more than 100 years. The building has 33 residential apartments, and in 2023 is looking to have three restaurants open in its first floor. Another redeveloped, historic building that held a grand opening during 2022 was the Weston Bridges facility with five floors of independent living for as many as 53 adults with intellectual or cognitive disabilities. It was the latest opening of a facility at the former Copley Hospital campus on Lincoln Avenue on the near East Side. In 2023, the opening of Bardwell Residences, a senior residential complex right next door, should take place. Just before openings for the Terminal and Hobbs buildings, Lumen of Fox Valley opened, a 319-unit apartment complex built into the east entrance to Fox Valley Mall. The second phase of the redevelopment of Fox Valley Mall – a senior living center of more than 200 units directly next door to Lumen of Fox Valley – is likely to open in 2023. And already underway to the west of that is another apartment complex, this with 323 units. Also late in the year, Bernard Laskowski opened Craft Urban, a restaurant remodeled into a 100-year-old building at Stolp Avenue and Downer Place. It is the second Craft Urban, with the other in downtown Geneva. Mayor Irvin runs for governor In January, Aurora Mayor Richard Irvin brought truth to some longtime rumors by announcing he would seek the Republican nomination for Illinois governor. At the time, he joined a slate of statewide GOP candidates supported by billionaire Ken Griffin, who eventually endorsed Irvin and gave $50 million to his campaign. He started strongly as a front-runner, if the polls are to be believed, and had a spectacular downturn during the primary race, going from the lead position to garnering only about 15% of the vote statewide and actually finishing third in the race. He did a little better in his home area, getting 21% of the vote in DuPage County, 20% in Kendall and 19% in Kane, three of the four counties Aurora sits in. But that still was not close to enough to get near winning the primary. Eventually, Democrat J.B. Pritzker easily won re-election over Darren Bailey, who had beaten Irvin in the primary. Pride Parade in the spotlight For seven days in June, a fight for the Aurora Pride Parade ensued in the halls of government and in the courts. The parade was scheduled for Sunday, June 12, but on the Wednesday before, the city revoked the special event permit for the Aurora Pride group to hold the parade. City officials said they were unable to get enough Aurora police officers to work overtime or extra-duty shifts to provide adequate security for the event. Aurora Pride had been able to get a few officers from other places themselves, but were unable to get enough to cover the event, city officials said. Earlier in the month, Aurora Pride had requested that if police officers wanted to march in the Pride Parade, they do so not in full uniform, particularly not with weapons. They said police could wear a “soft uniform” identifying them as police officers, but not a full uniform with weaponry and handcuffs. This was enough to cause some city officials, including Irvin, to announce they would not participate in the parade, and to pull the city’s float from the parade lineup. Attorneys for Aurora Pride took the city to court to appeal the revocation of the parade license, but by Thursday afternoon, a judge ruled against Aurora Pride’s appeal. In response, the ACLU of Illinois planned to file a federal lawsuit against the city, in an attempt to keep the parade as scheduled. But about 5:30 p.m. that Thursday, the city announced it had reinstated Aurora Pride’s permit for the parade. The change came after the city offered a triple-time financial incentive to its police officers to take overtime to provide security for the parade. Aurora police get body cameras Aurora police officers began wearing body cameras in 2022 as a means of providing more transparency during interactions with the public. City officials began discussing body cameras for police officers in 2019, but were not set to start the process of obtaining the cameras until 2022 or 2023. After the death of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer in Minneapolis in 2020, the department decided to speed up the process. The department purchased 315 body cameras, which were officially launched for all officers on Feb. 1. Under state law, the cameras must be turned on whenever an on-duty, uniformed officer is responding to a call for service or is engaging in any law enforcement-related activity. Hollywood Casino to move to site near I-88 In October, Aurora and Hollywood Casino came to an agreement by which the casino would build a resort near the Farnsworth Avenue interchange with Interstate 88. Penn Entertainment, the casino’s parent company, will build a new, $360 million casino resort at the site that will include 950 gaming positions, a Barstool Sportsbook, a 200-room hotel, six restaurants, meeting rooms, an outside event area and a 10,000-square-foot event center. The city entered into an agreement to transfer three parcels of land it owns along Farnsworth Avenue just north of I-88 to the casino. The city also would allow Penn Entertainment to exercise two options it has to buy the land on which Gaslight Manor and the C-Club sit on. The city would pass a general obligation bond of $58 million to put into the overall budget for the project, to be paid by a 23-year tax increment financing district the city would put on the casino project. Penn Entertainment also agreed to demolish the existing casino building downtown and transfer the pad it was built on to the city. It also would relinquish any leases it has on the two casino parking lots downtown and the office space in them to make those buildings controlled by the city. LGBTQ Advisory Board created Aurora made history in August by establishing the LGBTQ Advisory Board, and by November appointing its first members. The advisory body will organize, support and promote events recognizing June as Pride Month in Aurora; encourage the education, advocacy and community involvement of the city’s LGBTQ youth; and help promote greater awareness and cross-cultural understanding, according to officials. The group will also serve as an advisory body to the City Council regarding issues potentially affecting the LGBTQ community, according to officials, and recommend to the City Council measures designed to enhance the health, safety and economic opportunities of the LGBTQ community. The first appointees to the board were Adam Pauley, Zachary Bishop, Paulene Spika, Frederick Yanos, Michael Vargas, Briana Moss, Ivan Quinones, Sean Li and Brittney Borowicz-Keller. Phillips Park Family Aquatic Center doesn’t open A lifeguard shortage that impacted pools around the country in 2022 canceled the summer season at the Phillips Park Family Aquatic Center in Aurora. Fox Valley Park District officials said they failed to get enough applications for lifeguard positions by the deadline they imposed of June 5. “They just didn’t have enough qualified people to allow it to open, even on a three-day (a week) basis,” said Ald. Sherman Jenkins, at large, in June. He is one of the city of Aurora’s representatives on the Aquatics Board that oversees pool facilities in the city. The Fox Valley Park District kept Splash Country on the West Side open because it has room for 500 more people, and does not have a deep water section like Phillips Park, which needs additional lifeguard certification, officials said. Renovated Copley Theatre opens downtown The newly-remodeled Copley Theatre in North Island Center in downtown Aurora opened to audiences in March. After a two-year, $2 million renovation, officials said the theater provides an intimate venue with 165 seats and a new lobby bar. The theater is home to the Paramount’s Bold Series, which officials said features productions that are designed to be unexpected and thought-provoking. SciTech closes building, later partners with APS In May, the SciTech Board of Directors announced that the hands-on science museum that had been in downtown Aurora for 34 years was closing. The closure followed more than two years of the museum being closed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Several factors conspired to keep the museum from reopening at its 18 W. Benton St. location, the former Aurora Post Office. The city of Aurora owns the building, and has gotten interest for redevelopment of the property. Museum officials had been looking for another location, including at Fox Valley Mall, but officials said after much consideration the museum would not move into a physical space. Board members said they would continue operating, and keep SciTech as a STEM education resource. Board members also said they would look to partner with area schools, park districts and libraries, places with space for the exhibits and learning possibilities. In November, it was announced that SciTech had found such a partnership, with APS Training Academy in downtown Aurora. The museum will present hands-on science and mobile programs as part of APS Training Academy’s offerings on the second floor of the APS Tower, 105 E. Galena Blvd., in downtown Aurora. Huge fire at former Pheasant Run resort A massive fire hit the former Pheasant Run resort in St. Charles May 21, causing significant damage at the site. The resort’s main lobby, its Bourbon Street area and A, B and E wings of the hotel rooms were destroyed by the fire, but crews were able to save the 16-story tower on the property. Four teenagers are accused of illegally entering the property, and once inside, two of the teens allegedly set papers on fire in two locations. Pheasant Run closed its doors in March 2020 after attempts to auction the resort were unsuccessful. Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune