eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Todd Rosenberg / HANDOUT J'Nai Bridges (as Carmen) and Charles Castronovo (as Don José) perform with company members in "Carmen" by Lyric Opera of Chicago. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune The setting sun appears over West Monroe Street on the first evening of autumn, Sept. 22, 2022, in Chicago. The term "Chicagohenge" is used to describe the setting sun between buildings during the vernal and autumnal equinox. Terrence Antonio James / Chicago Tribune Artamese Prewitt is seen at Leak & Sons Funeral Home on the South Side of Chicago with a photo of Deshawnay Yoakum on March 14, 2023. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune The new Cook County flag was hung outside the Chicago City Hall and County Building following a flag-raising ceremony on Sept. 24, 2022, in Daley Plaza. Uncredited/AP Russian President Vladimir Putin chairs a meeting on the social and economic development of Crimea and Sevastopol via a videoconference at the Moscow's Kremlin in Moscow, Russia, March 17, 2023. Matt York / AP Chicago White Sox starting pitcher Michael Kopech works out during a spring training baseball practice on Feb. 15, 2023, in Phoenix. J'Nai Bridges (as Carmen) and Charles Castronovo (as Don José) perform with company members in "Carmen" by Lyric Opera of Chicago. Good afternoon, Chicago.More endorsements are rolling in in the Chicago mayor’s race from former candidates. U.S. Rep. Jesus “Chuy” García endorsed Brandon Johnson for mayor today, giving the Cook County commissioner a potential boost in the April 4 election.Early voting in the runoff election starts Monday. Read our early voting guide for mayor and City Council elections.Here’s what else is happening today. And remember, for the latest breaking news in Chicago, visit chicagotribune.com/breaking and sign up to get our alerts on all your devices.Subscribe to more newsletters | COVID-19 tracker | Compare home values by ZIP code | Puzzles & Games | Daily horoscope | Ask Amy
Artamese Prewitt is seen at Leak & Sons Funeral Home on the South Side of Chicago with a photo of Deshawnay Yoakum on March 14, 2023.Family speaks on fatal shooting of teen, a Bud Billiken dancer; father says slaying was his ‘worst nightmare’Deshawnay Yoakum spent her 18th birthday fighting for her life following a gunshot wound to the head but succumbed to her injuries four days later. Read more here.More top news stories:

Chicago starts testing wastewater for polio virusEscalating number of Naperville gun seizures part of ‘disturbing trend,’ DuPage County state’s attorney says
The new Cook County flag was hung outside the Chicago City Hall and County Building following a flag-raising ceremony on Sept. 24, 2022, in Daley Plaza.Sued by white business owner, Cook County halts grant program that aimed to ‘close racial wealth’ gapCook County has pulled the plug on one of its federally funded small business grant programs after being sued over its constitutionality. Read more here.More top business stories:University of Chicago grad students vote overwhelmingly to unionizeWill Americans end up footing the bill for bank failures?
Chicago White Sox starting pitcher Michael Kopech works out during a spring training baseball practice on Feb. 15, 2023, in Phoenix.Projecting the White Sox opening-day roster: Who will claim the remaining spots?With opening day two weeks away, the Chicago White Sox still have decisions to address. Read more here.More top sports stories:Cactus League report: Cubs catchers’ big-picture approach to competitions — and Oscar Colás tries out center field for SoxWith addition of Negro Leagues greats, ‘MLB: The Show ’23’ hopes to ‘educate, enlighten, and inspire.’ Here’s how the partnership happened.
J’Nai Bridges (as Carmen) and Charles Castronovo (as Don José) perform with company members in “Carmen” by Lyric Opera of Chicago.Review: With a cast like this, ‘Carmen’ at Lyric Opera is a sure thingJ’Nai Bridges and Charles Castronovo are the central lovers, telling a rich and densely layered story. Read more here.More top Eat. Watch. Do. stories:Readers’ Choice Food Awards 2023: Vote for your favorite restaurants, bars and more7 things to do around Chicago: ‘Carmen,’ Psych Fest and a double dose of Questlove
Russian President Vladimir Putin chairs a meeting on the social and economic development of Crimea and Sevastopol via a videoconference at the Moscow’s Kremlin in Moscow, Russia, March 17, 2023.International Criminal Court issues arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin over Ukraine war crimesThe International Criminal Court said it has issued an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin for war crimes. Read more here.More top stories from around the world:Rep. George Santos refuses to quit, brazenly says ‘truth still matters’Why TikTok’s security risks keep raising fears More endorsements are rolling in in the Chicago mayor’s race from former candidates. U.S. Rep. Jesus “Chuy” García endorsed Brandon Johnson for mayor today, giving the Cook County commissioner a potential boost in the April 4 election. Early voting in the runoff election starts Monday. Read our early voting guide for mayor and City Council elections. Here’s what else is happening today. And remember, for the latest breaking news in Chicago, visit chicagotribune.com/breaking and sign up to get our alerts on all your devices. Subscribe to more newsletters | COVID-19 tracker | Compare home values by ZIP code | Puzzles & Games | Daily horoscope | Ask Amy Family speaks on fatal shooting of teen, a Bud Billiken dancer; father says slaying was his ‘worst nightmare’ Deshawnay Yoakum spent her 18th birthday fighting for her life following a gunshot wound to the head but succumbed to her injuries four days later. Read more here. More top news stories: Chicago starts testing wastewater for polio virus Escalating number of Naperville gun seizures part of ‘disturbing trend,’ DuPage County state’s attorney says Sued by white business owner, Cook County halts grant program that aimed to ‘close racial wealth’ gap Cook County has pulled the plug on one of its federally funded small business grant programs after being sued over its constitutionality. Read more here. More top business stories: University of Chicago grad students vote overwhelmingly to unionize Will Americans end up footing the bill for bank failures? Projecting the White Sox opening-day roster: Who will claim the remaining spots? With opening day two weeks away, the Chicago White Sox still have decisions to address. Read more here. More top sports stories: Cactus League report: Cubs catchers’ big-picture approach to competitions — and Oscar Colás tries out center field for Sox With addition of Negro Leagues greats, ‘MLB: The Show ’23’ hopes to ‘educate, enlighten, and inspire.’ Here’s how the partnership happened. Review: With a cast like this, ‘Carmen’ at Lyric Opera is a sure thing J’Nai Bridges and Charles Castronovo are the central lovers, telling a rich and densely layered story. Read more here. More top Eat. Watch. Do. stories: Readers’ Choice Food Awards 2023: Vote for your favorite restaurants, bars and more 7 things to do around Chicago: ‘Carmen,’ Psych Fest and a double dose of Questlove International Criminal Court issues arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin over Ukraine war crimes The International Criminal Court said it has issued an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin for war crimes. Read more here. More top stories from around the world: Rep. George Santos refuses to quit, brazenly says ‘truth still matters’ Why TikTok’s security risks keep raising fears  Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune