Which restaurant or bar makes the best chili in greater Cleveland?: Poll CLEVELAND, Ohio – “And down the stretch they come! It’s Bold Beefy Brewer, followed by Neighborhood Bloozin’, A Fiery Escape and Blockin’ Butcher... with Goode-ness Grubness and Da Tommyknocker making a push along the inside rail...” It’s been a horserace so far! We are halfway through our poll to determine where you can find the best chili in Greater Cleveland. And we’ve got a field of thoroughbreds thundering down our track. At the moment, lead horse Bold Beefy Brewer (a.k.a. Forest City Brewery) is out front by several furlongs with their secret-recipe Tomahawk Chili. But as you can see, it’s still anybody’s race. When we began with a call out for nominations from you, dear readers, you named plenty of go-to spots for the comfort food classic. Now that y’all have a horse in the race to determine Who serves the best chili in Greater Cleveland?, it’s time to cheer ‘em on to victory... with your votes! Our mailbox filled up with nominations, and our Best Of Cleveland team sorted through all of them to create this list of 15 local establishments. Now it’s time to pick a winner. You may vote once each hour in the poll below between now through 5 p.m. on Monday, September 25. Not a moment too soon, either. October is National Chili Month, after all. As of 6 a.m. Friday, Sept. 22, Forest City Brewery was leading the standings with 52.17 percent of the vote; while Whitey’s Booze N’ Burgers was in the runner-up position with 19.47 percent of the votes cast. Firehouse Grille & Pub, TJ’s Butcher Block & Deli and Hatfield’s Goode Grub round out the top five. Anything can happen from here until the photo finish! So, don’t hedge your bets. There’s no parlay. Vote for and support your favorite establishment and help your favorite local chili trot into the Winner’s Circle. Remember: No horsin’ around. Your vote must originate from within the United States in order to be counted. Also, once you vote, be sure to scroll back up and complete the captcha for your vote to go through. NOTE: If you are viewing this on a handheld device, you may cast your vote here. We’ll announce the results on Monday, October 2, then we’ll visit the trifecta (a.k.a. Top 3) to learn what it is about their chili that had folks trumpeting their praises louder than the Call to Post starting this little derby. Are we done with the puns? Neigh... erm, nay. But for the purposes of this column, yep. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices