These beef chili recipes are classic and comforting. Patricia was the assistant food editor at Southern Living and worked with the Southern Living food team from 2006-2022. She contributed to articles about food, gardening, and pets. Caitlin Bensel; Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Classic beef chili is an irreplaceably hearty dinner that isn't too hard to make, We've compiled our best chili recipes so it's easy to make the comfort food classic any night of the week. With flavorful ingredients like fire-roasted tomatoes, chunks of tender steak, filling beans, unexpected black-eyed peas, and spicy jalapeño peppers, these mouthwatering beef chilis are some of our best yet.
  Whip up a quick and easy ground beef chili for a weeknight dinner in a flash, let a pot simmer all day in your slow cooker, or make a huge batch ahead for a crowd-pleasing supper. Loaded with savory, simmering ground beef, these vegetable and beef chili recipes are the perfect dinnertime staple.
 Caitlin Bensel; Food Styling: Torie Cox  Look no further for the ultimate classic, easy chili recipe. Made in a slow cooker for simple a weekday meal. Top with shredded Cheddar cheese and corn chips.
 Greg Dupree; Food Stylist: Kat Steele; Prop Styist: Claire Spollen  This traditional chili recipe will become your go-to for easy weeknight dinners and weekend entertaining.
  If you love chili but are ready to branch out from a traditional beef chili recipe, we think you'll love the flavor profile of this chili Verde.
  This meaty favorite is perfect for a football party. It freezes beautifully for a super quick meal another day.
  This five-ingredient casserole features convenient frozen hash brown potatoes, a can of Sloppy Joe sauce, and a can of chili.
 Caitlin Bensel; Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Unlike traditional chili, this Texas-style chili recipe omits beans and tomatoes but is still packed with flavors from spices.
 Victor Protasio, Food Stylist: Chelsea Zimmer, Prop Stylist: Lydia Pursell  For the last hour, uncover the chili and let it continue to cook on low to allow it to slightly thicken.
  Whip up a quick and easy supper all in the Instant Pot with this chili mac. Start by sautéing the ingredients before adding the noodles and letting the pressure cooker do the rest. Dinner in 30? We say yes.
 Will Dickey; Food Stylist: Ruth Blackburn  This top-rated slow-cooker chili is a tasty crowd-pleaser, perfect for tailgating, parties, and other cool-weather gatherings. This recipe yields a whopping 18 cups and guarantees to satisfy a crowd. Plus, the slow cooker does most of the work, and we can't say no to that.
 Greg DuPree, Food Stylist: Chelsea Zimmer, Prop Stylist: Christine Keely   In under an hour, you can be sitting down with a delicious bowl of chili in hand. Plus, with less meat and more beans, this recipe has fewer calories without sacrificing flavor or heartiness. Everyone will be lining up for seconds and if they aren't, we'll eat our hat. (And their chili.)
 Emily Dorio  Singing isn't the only thing Miranda Lambert is famous for. As soon as you take a bite of her renowned chili recipe, you'll understand. While not a quick recipe, it sure is delicious. You'll allow the pot to simmer for four hours, which allows all the flavors to really meld together. Serve with your favorite toppings and freshly baked jalapeño cornbread.
