BEAVER FALLS – February and chili just seem to go together. The cold weather and a hot, spicy stick-to-your-ribs comfort food like chili make a perfect pair. It's no coincidence the third annual Beaver Falls Pro Bowl Chili Walk-off takes place Feb. 4. Happening from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., 27 participating businesses and organizations will compete to see who makes the best chili. "We are besting last year's 21 participants," spokeswoman Denise Molchen-Donnelly of the Beaver Falls Business District Authority said. "This is a highly anticipated yearly event and well-attended by the general public, and great effort is put forth by our great merchants." Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Participants include McMahons Harley-Davidson, Wolfe's Shoes & Clothing, Enelow Shoes, This & That Downtown Antique Emporium, BF BBQ, Hutch & Home, Retro Gaming Asylum, Clear Choice Enterprises, Carnegie Free Library of Beaver Falls, Denise Molchen-Donnelly Realtor, Chelsea Party Center, Vintage Reborn Retail, City of Beaver Falls, Fire Department, Michael's Bar, Sinful Sweets Chocolate Company, Lil Joe's, Chilly Willy Cheesesteaks, Stray Cat Studio, WBVP-WMBA Radio, Taste the Caribbean, Metro T-Mobile, Apothechemy, Lacey’s Beauty Bar, Studio 42 Tattoos & Piercings and Jus1 More Sports Bar. Chili fans take part by picking up their vote card for $5 from any participant. That vote card is good for all stops. Voters can sample any of the chilis from the contestants. They then vote for their favorite in a variety of categories.They turn in their card at their last stop for a chance to win prizes.Votes will determine the 2023 Pro Bowl Chili Walk Off winners. "We developed this event to bring new faces to our Beaver Falls Business District," Donnelly said. "It has been wildly successful and highly anticipated by both the public and our merchants." Last year, the reigning 2020 champ, McMahons tied with newcomer Carnegie Free Library. "We heard that the competition will be stiff this year as we have two eateries entering claiming they make pretty good chili! 2023 will prove to be an exciting event," Donnelly said. Dirk Goodwald, local attorney and district judge, thoroughly enjoyed himself last year and looks forward to the event every year, remarking" It's a great event to allow anyone who participates to sample some really great chili." More:What's Cooking: Thai restaurant opens in Beaver; Hopewell wings spot moves to Aliquippa Scott Tady is food & drinks/entertainment editor for The Times and easy to reach at stady@gannett.com.