The Dubliner was quick to check on the man after striking him with his drive on the 16th hole and gifted him a signed glove as well as a sum of cash Want the day's sports headlines straight to your inbox? Our FREE newsletter will keep you ahead of the game We have more newsletters Want the day's sports headlines straight to your inbox? Our FREE newsletter will keep you ahead of the game We have more newsletters Padraig Harrington handed a bundle of cash over to a spectator after striking him on the head with his drive during the Kitchen Aid Senior PGA Championship on Sunday.  The Dubliner was quick to check on the man after striking him with his drive on the 16th hole and gifted him a signed glove as well as the sum of cash.  Harrington went on to lose a play-off to Steve Stricker after leading the way for the first three rounds at Frisco.  READ MORE:Brooks Koepka believes PGA Championship win "sparked energy" into LIV Golf The three-time major winner birdied the 18th hole to force a play-off after Striker missed a long putt for birdie.  However, Harrington drove into a hazard as they played the 18th again as the first play-off hole, with Stricker getting a birdie as the Irishman missed his putt to do the same.  Speaking afterwards, Harrington said: "Steve is probably the toughest guy you could ever play on a Sunday. He has to have the best wedge game in the world. Like he's a fabulous putter, he's a fabulous chipper, but his wedge play like at the first 14 holes was just spectacular." READ NEXT: Munster claim Stormers scalp to win URC Grand Final - and first silverware since 2011 Pierce O'Leary records impressive first round victory on Michael Conlan v Luis Alberto Lopez undercard Cork fans slam 'idiots' over 'disgusting' chants about Stephen Bradley's son  Lee Johnston releases first public statement since suffering serious injuries in North West 200 crash Worrying scenes as Luton captain Tom Lockyer collapses during play-off final as parents rush from stands Get the latest sports headlines straight to your inbox by signing up for free email alerts 