Verto, a London-based B2B cross-border foreign exchange (FX) and payments enabler for startups and small businesses, said it has acquired a quarter of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) customers from Africa and the MENA region. According to the startup's own data, SVB had nearly 250 clients operating in both regions before its collapse — the American bank provided startups with venture debt, credit cards, and term loans. Thus, it is onboarding over 60 companies and venture firms (some with headquarters in the U.S. and Europe), including Jumia, Chipper Cash and TapTap Send. After the bank’s collapse, African startups have been forced to review their banking options to cushion them from future eventualities. Founders and investors who spoke to TechCrunch last month said they would hold funds in multiple bank accounts across big financial institutions, which are generally perceived to be safer. They said they would also leverage smaller fintechs such as Brex and Mercury that have more extensive FDIC protection (both platforms recently increased their provision to protect deposited funds up to $2.25 million and $3 million, respectively). Though local and homegrown options for African startups and investors were few and far between, it’s unlikely to remain the case in coming months as fintechs such as Verto are getting in on the action, attempting to position themselves as alternatives. SVB collapse forces African startups to rethink their banking options Verto’s primarily provides a cross-border platform that helps startups, SMEs and large corporates send, receive and exchange money in more than 190 countries. Clients can hold funds in their Verto accounts in up to 51 currencies. The company, which has over 3,000 clients, including MTN, Yoco and Interswitch, says its transaction volume grew 70% last year to over $3 billion. It expects to triple this volume within the next 12 months after carrying out some expansion plans as well as product launches. Among other things, the startup launched “safeguarded” USD accounts last month following SVB’s fallout. “Depositing money with U.S. banks is the most popular option for African startups but most of them rarely meet the conditions of doing so. Meanwhile, companies like us have simple banking solutions built and catered for startups based in Africa and other emerging markets. While we had been building this product, we recently launched in beta in light of these events where we’ve got an influx of demand from some startups and VCs,” co-founder and CTO Anthony Oduu told TechCrunch over a call, adding that customers can access up to 25 safeguarded accounts (holding different currencies) on Verto. Safeguarded accounts are commonly used by U.K. financial institutions and bodies to protect U.K.-based customers by ring-fencing their funds from financial shocks. It doesn't work like FDIC insurance or U.K. deposit schemes where deposits are capped at £85,000 and $250,000, respectively. Safeguarded accounts cover the total amount of relevant funds irrespective of how much a client holds in the bank. For instance, if a customer has £500,000 in such an account, they receive that amount should the bank dissolve. Verto, as an E-Money institution, says it has extended these accounts to other international currencies regardless of the customer’s country of incorporation. The fintech company says it holds “designated safeguarding accounts” with accredited banks in the U.K.; neither the startup nor the banks can claim the funds in these accounts, Verto says. Should it go insolvent for any reason, customers’ funds remain protected. Meanwhile, funds protected under safeguarding obligations do not attract interest payments, unlike funds in typical insured accounts. “From the moment we receive your funds for the execution of a payment service or for loading your wallets, we treat those funds immediately as funds to be safeguarded and will ensure they are not commingled with other funds,” the company said in response to questions on why founders and investors should use safeguarded accounts. “These funds are marked as ‘relevant funds’ to be safeguarded at all times and we move all relevant funds to the designated safeguarding accounts. We keep records of our client’s balances held with us and reconcile these daily so that we are never short on funds being safeguarded.” Verto says it’s received more than $30 million in monthly deposit requests per company; however, Oduu notes that this money won’t sit idle in their accounts as most of its newfound clients plan to use Verto for operational purposes, such as payroll and payouts. The fintech, founded in 2018 by Oduu and Ola Oyetayo and backed by Y Combinator, has raised over $12 million from investors, including emerging markets-focused VC firm Quona Capital, Treasury (founded by Betterment’s Eli Broverman and Acorns’ Jeff Cruttenden) and Middle East Venture Partners (MEVP). Verto picks up $10M for cross-border payments play in emerging markets New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.