Sending money in and out of Africa is a stressful task. For starters, it’s costly: Each transaction incurs fees of up to 8.46% on average, according to the World Bank, making it the most expensive region to send money. Internet scams and regulatory bottlenecks present further challenges, leading global fintech companies, including Wise, WorldRemit, and Mercury, to often cut African users off from their services. But cross-border payments are becoming increasingly critical. Think of the talented African workers in remote jobs, working for overseas companies while remaining on the continent. Or the African companies increasing their sales presence on the global stage. Or, most importantly, remittances: The African Development Bank’s president says the continent’s biggest financier is the African diaspora. Here are six companies dedicated to tackling this problem and improving the flow of cross-border transactions. LemFi, formerly known as Lemonade Finance, was founded in 2020 as a digital bank for the African diaspora. Founders Olalere and Cochran are two seasoned tech workers, who had previously worked with top fintech companies including OPay, Flutterwave, and Uber. The company issues multi-currency accounts to a user: One is for the currency of the country of origin, and the second is for the country of residence. This way, users can receive payments from abroad, convert them to the local currency, and either leave the funds in the app or transfer them to their bank accounts. In February, the company announced that LemFi users in the U.K. and Canada can now send money to 10 African countries including Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, and the Republic of Benin. On its website, the company claims to have over 100,000 users. Leatherback was founded in 2019, but launched in the market in January 2022. The African neobank provides global banking for businesses and individual customers. It also offers a direct alternative to American fintech company Mercury — which once restricted hundreds of African startups on its platform — and is currently operational in the U.K., Europe, Canada, the U.S., and India. Leatherback provides multi-currency bank accounts for individuals and businesses to hold funds and make global transactions. The company has not only made it easy to send money to and from African countries, it has also facilitated payments between all its markets. Nala was founded in 2019 as a local money transfer startup, but pivoted to facilitating cross-border transactions in 2021. The company now facilitates payments from the U.K., U.S., and recently the EU to five African countries: Nigeria, Kenya, Tanzania, Senegal, and Uganda. More countries are in the pipeline, including Côte d’Ivoire and Cameroon. Nala is integrated with Apple Pay and Google Pay in the U.K. and the U.S. It has raised over $10 million in funding. Eversend, founded in 2017 but launched in 2019, is a payments platform offering cross-border payments, virtual cards, currency exchange, and crypto buying and selling.  In 2019, Eversend processed $800,000, followed by $5 million in 2020, according to CEO Stone Atwine. The total value of its transactions grew to $230 million in 2022, he said, when the company had slightly more than 300,000 registered users. The six-year-old company has only raised $1.7 million through grants, equity and debt funding, and crowdfunding. According to its website, Eversend now supports nine currencies, operates across seven countries including Nigeria and Uganda, has over 400,000 users, and 22 employees across the world. Ugandan Ham Serunjogi and Ghanaian Maijid Moujaled founded Chipper Cash in 2018, aiming to make cross-border payments as simple as sending a text. Five years on, the company has raised $337.2 million across seven rounds of funding, become a unicorn worth $2 billion, and seen its valuation cut by almost half. Chipper Cash has experimented with several features, such as crypto trading. According to its website, it has over 5 million users, who can send money to 21 African countries including Malawi and Ethiopia. Launched in December 2022, Flutterwave’s Send is the company’s cross-border remittance product. Users can use it to send money from the U.S., U.K., and 19 European countries including Belgium, Germany, and Malta to seven African countries including Côte d’Ivoire and South Africa. Correction: This story was updated with the correct location of LemFi’s headquarters.