Portland, OR, March  02, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- According to the report published by Allied Market Research, the global third-party logistics (3PL) market garnered $1,250.50 billion in 2021 and is estimated to generate $2,828.60 billion by 2031, manifesting a CAGR of 8.8% from 2022 to 2031. The report provides an extensive analysis of changing market dynamics, major segments, value chains, competitive scenarios, and regional landscapes. This research offers valuable guidance to leading players, investors, shareholders, and startups in devising strategies for sustainable growth and gaining a competitive edge in the market.  Download Free Sample of Research Report - https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/request-sample/1512 3PL Market Report Coverage & Details: Covid-19 Scenario:  The research provides detailed segmentation of the global third-party logistics (3PL) market based on the mode of transport, service type, industry, and region. The report discusses segments and their sub-segments in detail with the help of tables and figures. Market players and investors can strategize according to the highest revenue-generating and fastest-growing segments mentioned in the report.  Based on the mode of transport, the roadways segment held the highest share in 2021, accounting for more than two-thirds of the global third-party logistics (3PL) market, and is expected to continue its leadership status during the forecast period. However, the airways segment is expected to register the highest CAGR of 9.9% from 2022 to 2031.  Procure Complete Research Report - https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/3PL-market/purchase-options Based on service type, the domestic transportation management segment held the highest share in 2021, accounting for more than two-thirds of the global third-party logistics (3PL) market, and is expected to continue its leadership status during the forecast period. However, the dedicated contract carriage (DCC) segment is expected to register the highest CAGR of 12.2% from 2022 to 2031.  Based on industry, the technological segment accounted for the highest share in 2021, holding more than two-thirds of the global third-party logistics (3PL) market, and is expected to continue its leadership status during the forecast period. However, the healthcare segment is estimated to grow at the highest CAGR of 11.3% during the forecast period.  Based on region, Asia-Pacific held the largest share in 2021, contributing to nearly half of the global third-party logistics (3PL) market share, and is projected to maintain its dominant share in terms of revenue in 2031. However, Europe is estimated to manifest the fastest CAGR of 10.7% during the forecast period.  Leading market players of the global third-party logistics (3PL) market analyzed in the research include A.P. Moller – Maersk, C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc., DB Schenker, DHL International GmbH, DSV, FedEx Corporation, GEODIS, Kuehne+Nagel Inc., UPS, and XPO Logistics Inc.  The report provides a detailed analysis of these key players in the global third-party logistics (3PL) market. These players have adopted different strategies such as new product launches, collaborations, expansion, joint ventures, agreements, and others to increase their market share and maintain dominant shares in different regions. The report is valuable in highlighting business performance, operating segments, product portfolio, and strategic moves of market players to showcase the competitive scenario.  Interested to Procure the Research Report? Inquire Before Buying - https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/purchase-enquiry/1512 Similar Reports We Have on Logistics Industry: 3PL Market in Canada Research Report 2023-2035 4PL Market Research Report 2023-2035 5PL Market Research Report 2023-2035 Digital Freight Forwarding Market Research Report 2023-2035 Freight forwarding Market Research Report 2023-2035 About Us Allied Market Research (AMR) is a full-service market research and business-consulting wing of Allied Analytics LLP based in Portland, Oregon. Allied Market Research provides global enterprises as well as medium and small businesses with unmatched quality of "Market Research Reports" and "Business Intelligence Solutions." AMR has a targeted view to provide business insights and consulting to assist its clients to make strategic business decisions and achieve sustainable growth in their respective market domain.   We are in professional corporate relations with various companies and this helps us in digging out market data that helps us generate accurate research data tables and confirms utmost accuracy in our market forecasting. Allied Market Research CEO Pawan Kumar is instrumental in inspiring and encouraging everyone associated with the company to maintain high quality of data and help clients in every way possible to achieve success. Each and every data presented in the reports published by us is extracted through primary interviews with top officials from leading companies of domain concerned. Our secondary data procurement methodology includes deep online and offline research and discussion with knowledgeable professionals and analysts in the industry.     © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.