Comment Of the many issues highlighted by the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, one big one was the liability of having too much cash sitting in too few bank accounts. Today a London startup called TreasurySpring — which has built a platform for businesses to put some of their cash reserves to work, in investments — is announcing $29 million in funding to expand its products on the back of a surge of interest in its services. The funding, a Series B, is being led by Balderton Capital, with new backer Mubadala Capital and previous backers ETFS Capital, MMC Ventures and Anthemis Group also participating. Previously the company had raised some $13 million, including a $10 million Series A in 2021, and partial details of this latest round (£15 million to be exact) leaked out last week. We now understand that the full round of $29 million includes both primary and secondary funding and values the startup at close to $100 million. Prior to founding TreasurySpring, the three co-founders, Kevin Cook (CEO), James Skillen (CTO) and Matthew Longhurst (COO), cut their teeth working in hedge funds, asset management and investment consulting, and it was that experience, Cook said, that gave them the idea of building a platform to help businesses manage their cash reserves better. The challenge is a familiar one in the world of business: Big entities typically have better access to services than smaller organizations. In this case, what the three saw was that treasury departments at huge enterprises might typically work with large investment banks to invest their cash reserves in diverse ways, but for companies that are not the largest in the world, there were no routes to do the same, so the answer was to build a platform that could help them manage their money in similar ways. To be clear, TreasurySpring’s customers are not exactly small. On average, they might have between $5 million and $10 million to billions of dollars in cash reserves, and they include FTSE 100 corporations and other multinationals, as well as startups that are scaling, and also charities. Some of them are retail behemoth Sainsbury’s, Schroders, dairy giant Muller, Hg, Bunq, Lendable and Tide. In all there are already some 250 using its platform, with another 100 being onboarded right now, the company says (part of the surge of interest that spurred this round). The platform, meanwhile, has been built to include some 600 standardised cash investment products, tapping seven currencies across three chief categories: governments, corporates and banks such as Goldman Sachs, Barclays and Societe Generale. Just as consumers have been served a range of ETFs to allow them to access portfolios of investments they might not have been able to access previously, in this case TreasurySpring offers FTFs: Fixed-Term-Funds that it describes as “standardised and regulated” and aimed at packaging and making different investment options more accessible to the treasury teams. Cook said that business has been growing steadily for years — it was founded in 2017 — but the recent meltdown at SVB, and subsequently issues at Credit Suisse, really put TreasurySpring “on the radar.” “When it comes to the cash you have in your business, you need to know where it is, and that you’re not too exposed,” Cook said, “and secondly you want to maximize any return you can on that cash.” With interest rates now at only around 5-6%, deposit accounts are still not a great return, and “if you’re not making the most of your money, you’re being delinquent.” That being said, there is still a lot of work to do to build out what is effectively a new market being sold to a clientele that is risk-averse by nature, it seems. (Indeed there are few competitors here: Flagstone is another player in a similar area, although it focuses on high interest savings accounts.) “First they had to build the product and it took them years to do that, and I liked the resilience of the team,” said Rob Moffat, the partner at Balderton who led the investment. “But now it’s about getting to market. How do you get treasurers to buy something new? Does one really want to be the first treasurer to buy a new capital product?” Cook however is bullish on what he sees as an obvious opportunity. “Largest institutions [collectively] have multiple billions in cash,” he said, “and the common thread among all of them is that while they may be long on excess cash, they are short on time and expertise.” Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Powered by WordPress VIP