
                
                    
                        Let Retail Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Dennis Mullahy, who joined the department store from crafting retailer Michaels, stepped down in July after four years in the role. Under Mullahy’s leadership, Macy’s has worked to build out its supply chain network to support its omnichannel operations. “I am so proud of my team and what we accomplished,” Mullahy wrote. “Together we created tremendous value and at the same time created a culture within the supply chain to value each other and our teams, to be transparent, to be self-reflective, to be authentic and to drive results.” Macy’s joined other department stores in investing in new supply chain initiatives, including changing their fulfillment center strategy to better manage omnichannel and in-store sales. Macy's in 2022 began using some in-store space for fulfillment center functions to move its distribution network closer to customers. Using stores as fulfillment centers can enable retailers to better leverage inventory and increase speed and efficiency. “We impacted every function from how we source and develop private label goods, to how we manage inventory productivity to drive margin, to how we run our network and finally to how we do our part to protect the environment and the teams that work for us,” Mullahy said. Mullahy has 35 years of retail industry experience. Before joining Macy's, he worked at craft retailer Michaels for five and a half years, where he most recently served as executive vice president of supply chain and IT. Mullahy’s past retail leadership experiences also include stints at Ulta Beauty, Meijer and as a partner at global consulting and IT firm Accenture, where he specialized in merchandising, supply chain and inventory control for clients that included the Saks Department Store Group and Walmart. Looking ahead, “I am not sure what the next chapter will bring but I am excited to begin the journey to find out,” Mullahy said. The leadership shakeup comes after Macy’s reported $5 billion in Q1 net sales, a 7% decline from last year. In its latest guidance, the company forecast that its net sales will reach $22.8 billion to $23.2 billion for the full year. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The disease outbreak is no longer an emergency, but some of the adaptations retailers made during its height endure — for better or worse. It depends, and it doesn't help that many retailers don’t have a good handle on lost inventory, experts say. Subscribe to Retail Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The disease outbreak is no longer an emergency, but some of the adaptations retailers made during its height endure — for better or worse. It depends, and it doesn't help that many retailers don’t have a good handle on lost inventory, experts say. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines