Why not use an ab wheel to work muscles harder during planks? It's a good way to change things up and the variation challenges balance and stability, activating muscle groups all over the body. Switching up the traditional plank can benefit the mind and body, keeping your muscles guessing and mind stimulated while learning a new move. And some are harder to nail down than others. Trust us — this one is killer on the abs. Before we dive into how to do ab wheel planks and the benefits, here’s a round-up of the best plank variations for you to try — tested, and reviewed by us. But enough about that. Build core strength and stability and develop muscle using the ab wheel rollout. Here’s how to do it and why you should. Planks build core strength, but they also strengthen muscles in your shoulders, arms, chest, lower back, glutes, hamstrings, hip flexors and quads. A strong core supports good posture and muscle coordination and improves your potential for lifting heavier in the gym, translating to other areas of exercise and sport. That’s because this complex network of muscles (superficial and deeper) helps your torso rotate, flex, extend, mobilize and stabilize. Regardless of your workout style, you may notice planks creeping into all sorts of workouts, from metabolic conditioning to Pilates, using isometric contraction (that means without movement) to activate and strengthen muscle groups. You can learn all about planks here. Now, take that plank and remove the stability of the ground beneath you. Hello, ab wheel plank! This variation is far harder because your muscles are battling against the instability of a thin wheel with two handles stuck on either side. It takes more balance, skill and strength to prevent the wheel from moving, and it torches shoulder muscles. Traditionally, ab wheels cater for ab wheel rollouts, but not this time.  How: Place your ab wheel in front of you on your mat and grip the handles with both hands Extend your arms and stack shoulders over your wrists Engage your stomach, then step one foot back at a time into a high plank position Keep your hips in line with your shoulders and squeeze as many muscles as possible as you gently suck your belly button toward your spine. Hold the position without the ab wheel moving Once comfortable with the exercise, progress by gently wheeling the ab wheel forward and back with control (see above). Here are some common mistakes we notice. Shoulder placement Shoulders should be stacked over your wrists, forming a straight line. Doing so will help you balance and protect your joints. Placing weight too far behind the shoulder or further forward will create strain and increase your chances of injury. Hip too high or low Another common mistake is positioning hips too high or low in the plank position. You should be able to draw a straight line from head to toe without your bum creeping toward the ceiling or your hips dropping toward the floor, which creates pressure on the lower back. Engage your core by bracing your stomach and squeezing your glutes while you hold your plank. Forgetting to breathe Diaphragmatic breathing is an expansive breathing technique often taught in yoga or Pilates but less so in broader fitness. We know that you should exhale as you meet the most resistance during the concentric phase of an exercise (like pushing up during a push-up), but what about the plank? Direct your breath toward your stomach rather than the restrictive part of your chest; this will control your breath and prevent dizziness. If you’re not quite there yet, fear not. These two variations still offer up plenty of fire. We discuss how beneficial balance boards are for elevating your plank gains here in our Plankpad review. The wider surface area is easier for people learning how to plank on a balance board while still challenging stability to prevent the board from wobbling in all directions. Once you feel comfortable with your form using one, practice with an ab wheel instead. The knee plank is just a regular plank with your knees down on an exercise mat. It helps build foundational strength and increase endurance without putting as much pressure on your joints. We use this alternative for people returning from injury or beginners using planks for the first time. Try placing your knees down during an ab wheel plank as a bridging exercise between traditional versions and a full ab wheel plank. Farmer's walk: How to do it, and the benefits of walking with weights Forget sit-ups, these bodyweight ab exercises will define your abs. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.