It won't just strengthen your core, but improve your posture and stability too 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Don’t quite like doing plank? Are crunches your worst enemy? You're in luck! This workout doesn’t require you to do any floor ab exercises, so you can safely erase sit-ups out of your mind too. In fact, this entire core workout is done completely standing and all you’re going to need for it is one dumbbell and we've got some great options in our best dumbbell guide. Standing ab workouts are just as effective as floor workouts, if not more. When you're standing, your stability and balance is challenged even further, as opposed to when you're lying down. A lot of standing ab exercises also recruit additional muscles in the body, such as your glutes and arms, to help complete the movements and maintain your posture. Overall, they're pretty fantastic and a good way to stop your usual ab workout getting boring. A post shared by Andrea -Mom Fitness: Diastasis, Postpartum & More (@deliciouslyfitnhealthy) A photo posted by on  What's great about this workout is that the exercises are simple, but really effective. They're beginner-friendly, but will challenge your core as you try to stay upright. There's only four exercises, so this workout is ideal for adding onto the end of a longer one as a finisher. You'll do eight reps of each exercise (on both sides of single side movements) and you're going to do three rounds of the workout in total. Here's your workout: We hope that fired your core up, but in a different kind of way, if you enjoyed it then give this other 6-move standing ab workout a go. For other ways to build your six-pack and core strength, an elite fitness expert shares the two ab exercises you'll need or you could always invest in a piece of gym equipment, like an ab roller. Get the latest news, reviews, deals and buying guides on gorgeous tech, home and active products straight to your inbox. Bryony’s T3’s official ‘gym-bunny’ and Active Staff Writer, covering all things fitness. In her spare time, you will find her in her natural habitat - the gym - where her style of training is a hybrid of bodybuilding and powerlifting. Bryony loves writing about accessible workouts, nutrition and testing innovative fitness products that help you reach your fitness goals and take your training to the next level. 
The Metafuji Trail is a lightweight yet protective trail running shoe designed to offer speed, comfort, and stability on even the most challenging terrains
 
By Matt Kollat

Published 19 August 24

 
The Korean brand's new tablet is expected shortly
 
By Sam Cross

Published 19 August 24

 T3 is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street New York, NY 10036