We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. Beat lower back pain while also smoking your core Want more tried and tested product recommendations from the editors of Men’s Health? Sign up to our new weekly shopping newsletter, The Edit. Click here to subscribe. If you want a harder, stronger six-pack, you need an ab roller. If you want a functional, stronger core — which will support you in almost every single lift — you need an ab roller (or ab wheel). Do you see where we're going with this?  No, it’s not a dinky foam roller for your abs (can you imagine the pain?), but a wheel (or sometimes two) with a handle on each side. 'An ab roller, or ab wheel, is a small and simple piece of exercise equipment designed to work and strengthen the core muscles, such as the abdominals,' says Men's Health fitness editor Andrew Tracey. 'Usually consisting of a small wheel and simple handles, users hold onto the handles and, with either feet or knees planted on the ground, slowly roll backwards and forwards, stretching and contracting the muscles of the core.' And yeah, in case you were wondering, it's pretty intense. Get ready to shake. Ab wheels are compact and relatively cheap, but they pack a real punch, making them a smart, cost-effective piece of kit. Keep reading for everything you need to know about ab rollers, plus the best ones to shop now. We get it, you’re busy. So here are the best ab wheels available to shop now at a glance. Scroll down for the full list.  The beauty of an ab roller goes one further than just giving your six-pack a half-decent pump — it'll train your entire core, including your obliques, glutes, lower back and abs in one swoop.  'The ab roller can work the core through a huge range of motion, under massive amounts of resistance, without the necessity for any additional weights, making it a portable and affordable tool that's also effective,' explains Tracey.  'The rectus abdominis, obliques, and erector spinae are all recruited to a high degree in a standard rollout, as well as the muscles of lats, in the back. Due to the unstable nature of the movement, ab roller exercises can build a tremendous amount of core stability, which in turn can lead to strength gains in other lifts, as well as helping you to avoid injury.' Helping you flex and brace your spine and build strength against rotation, ab rollers also fend off the dreaded rounded back issue that many men face from a sedentary lifestyle. As well as boosting your posture, the concentration required to manoeuvre one gives your brain a decent workout too. Win, win, win.  Ready to ditch sit-ups once and for all? From balance-testing single wheel rollers to spring-loaded ab wheels, we've rounded up the best ab rollers available to buy in 2024.  Plus if you keep scrolling, there's some expert advice on how to use ab rollers and what to look out for when shopping for one. Roll up... This barrel-shaped ab roller from Perfect Fitness has thousands of five-star reviews for a reason. It uses a carbon steel spring mechanism to add resistance rolling forward and provide assistance rolling back, plus it can pivot to the right and left, helping you target your obliques.  It also has a wider surface area than the other ab rollers and wheels on this list – and not only do all these features add up to a great workout, they're also cleverly designed to keep you safe while performing an ab rollout.  The ergonomic handles are padded, while a kneepad, ab wheel exercise guide and workout plan are all included in the price.  Kick things up a notch with this ab wheel kit, complete with two resistance bands, two push-up bars and two thick knee pads — plus the all-important ab roller.  Speaking of, this one is extra wide (10.7cm) so is suitable for beginners, but you can get the resistance band involved to make things extra challenging.  The handles are anti-slip, the stainless steel bar through the middle means the roller can take up to a 272kg load, and it comes in black or red. Trust us, this will absolutely torch your core. Good luck with that.  Ready to kick things up a notch? Be warned, this set of ab rollers is not for the faint-hearted. Because why should only your abs have all the fun? Give your shoulders, hips and torso a look in too with these core wheels.  They're lightweight, with foam ergonomic handles and low tread (so great for use indoors), but they're anything but easy on your muscles.  A twist on the traditional ab roller, they force you to work your arms independently, making for a great mental as well as physical challenge. Plus you can move in a range of directions, targeting a ton of muscle groups.  Trust us, your upper body (and brain) will thank you.   At just over 8cm across, the wheel on this ab roller is sturdy and stable, allowing novices and rolling pros alike a great workout on any surface. It's super sturdy, with a stainless steel shaft and load bearing allowance of 226kg.  The handles are comfortable, the wheel rolls smoothly (but with excellent grip) and it feels like a premium product that will last. This ab wheel is a sturdy, quality piece of kit that you'd expect from adidas. The wheel is made from durable rubber with a deep tread to stop you from sliding (particularly useful if you have hard floors), and the handles are pretty comfortable too thanks to padded foam.  While narrower than some of the ab rollers on this list, it's still a great option for beginners as you can keep using it as you progress – just start out on your knees if it's a bit too intense. Stocking up on protein? Chuck one of these ab rollers in your cart while you're at it and put that whey to good use. This ab wheel from Myprotein is sturdy, super simple to put together and comes with a thick knee pad so you can keep rolling for longer.  The handles are comfortably moulded for a secure grip and there's a reassuringly thick tread on the wheel to prevent slippage. As it uses just one central wheel it's on the more unstable side, so get ready to feel that core shake.  And if you can't bear the thought of jetting off without regularly sculpting your abs, it's easy to disassemble and light enough to chuck in a suitcase. Sayonara, saggy gut.  Want to mix things up? With this ab wheel you can easily switch up the stability thanks to the two wheels — even have them next to each other, performing as one central wheel, or split them apart for some extra support.  A large knee mat and padded foam handles keep things comfortable, while the metal bar gives it a sturdy feel. We think you'll agree that for just over a tenner, it's an absolute bargain.  This ab wheel is one smooth operator. This is thanks to the dual-wheel design that glides easily across any indoor surface, giving you that extra hit of stability – so it's a solid option for beginners.  It's built to last too, with a steel rod and durable tread on the tyres, plus it comes with a comfy, non-slip mat for your knees.     This ab roller has a rubberised wheel surface for superior grip on any surface – even carpet. The ergonomic handles are comfortable even when you're really gripping hard (and trust us, you will), while the wheel itself is slightly rounded, allowing a bit of obliques action. Even better? it comes with knee pads. With a 14cm curved wheel this is similar to the Ab Carver Pro above, but at a more wallet-friendly price point. Non-slip rubber tread keeps you steady, while the barrel shape encourages obliques work (we're not just here for the vanity muscles, people). The handles aren't as comfortable or ergonomically shaped as it's pricier competitor, and it doesn't have spring-loaded resistance for that extra oomph. But this is a well-built, versatile ab roller that will see you through many a core burn.  This ab wheel was dubbed 'The Best Core Trainer in the World"'by the University of Berkeley, so no biggie.  Grippy tread adds stability, and thanks to the included foot straps, this ab roller can be used with your hands (abs, obliques) or your feet (hamstrings, glutes), making it a super versatile piece of fitness kit.  Going wide is generally considered a faux pas in sports, but not with this bad boy. The three-inch, non-slip rubber wheel provides a more stable base for training while still switching on those abdominals – plus a bonus knee pad means you roll out for longer.  Sweaty hands won't slip on the ergonomic grippy handles and it feels sturdy, thanks to the stainless steel bar.  Not just purveyors of fine fitness kit, Gymshark also offers up a decent range of gym gear, and this ab roller is no exception. For the price you might not expect much, but the two inch-wide wheel is pretty unstable and really forces your abs to engage, fast.  As a result it's probably better suited to those who're already au fait with a bit of core training and up for a challenge. It's really easy to disassemble and put back together, plus it's compact and light, so a great option if you want to chuck it in your gym bag.  Don’t let the simplicity of ab rollers fool you – when it comes to using one, there's more than meets the eye. An ab wheel is a relatively safe piece of kit, but you still want to make sure you’re using one correctly to avoid injury. A good place to start is the standard ab rollout — use Tracey's guide below to master it:  First timer? Tracey has some tips: 'Methods to regress the exercise include starting from your knees; rolling up an incline bench to decrease the resistance; adding a band, attached to your feet, for assistance; rolling towards a wall to create a hard stop; and using a smaller range of motion by not rolling out as far. All of these regressions can be gradually built upon, working towards the full roll out.'  Ideally, the further you go, the harder the move gets. Roll to a distance that's challenging, but don't force your hips to sag — the focus of the movement should be coming from your core. As with any exercise, only do as many reps per set as you manage while still maintaining good form and control. Nailed the ab rollout? Try these variations and alternative movements, recommended by Tracey: When shopping for an ab wheel you’ll want to consider comfort, stability and resistance, as well as your own fitness level.  'The most important thing to consider when buying an ab roller is high build quality and durability,' says Tracey. 'You're going to be resting your full bodyweight onto this piece of kit in an unbalanced position, so it's important that it isn't going to give way.' Think also about the following: Hattie Parish is the Health and Fitness Ecommerce Editor for Women’s Health, Men’s Health and Runner’s World, covering the best gym wear, latest fitness tech and wellness launches worth investing in, plus the best deals during Black Friday and Amazon Prime Day. As well as clocking up the miles in myriad running socks, pummelling her muscles with massage guns, testing out fitness mirrors and donning dry robes every other weekend, Hattie consults leading experts in the health and fitness industry to help readers make informed decisions when shopping online. Brought up by two medics, Hattie worked in health clinics before completing a BA in English at King’s College London. She qualified as a journalist in 2015 and has since written for titles such as Healthy magazine, Cosmopolitan, Harper’s Bazaar and Red, as well as worked commercially with health and wellness clients such as Holland & Barrett, Lloyds Pharmacy and Superdrug. Hattie is passionate about arming readers with honest, unbiased product reviews and has a particular interest in the role of technology in our wellbeing, as well as gender-based inequalities in healthcare. When she’s not putting gym wear through its paces on the Pilates reformer or kitting out her home gym (garage) with the latest equipment, she’s attempting to make progress on her teetering pile of bedside books, cycling round South East London or sampling wellness retreats for the Women’s Health travel pages.  The Best Gym Shorts for Men to Buy Now The Best Equipment for the Ultimate Home Gym The Gym Gear Jackman Used to Be Wolverine Again What Is Pre-Workout and Should You Be Using It? The Best Whey Protein Powders To Buy in 2024 Tried & Tested: The Eight Sleep Pod 4 What Makes the Perfect Weightlifting Shoe? The 13 Best Protein Bars of 2024 Why Olympic Swimmers Wear Jammers The 9 Best Weighted Vests for Resistance Training Get a Chrome Dome with The Best Head Shavers The 7 Best Electric Shavers for Men Men's Health, Part of the Hearst UK Wellbeing Network We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England 112955. All rights reserved.