Search CSP Daily News Petro Serve USA has completed its acquisition of three convenience stores in southeastern North Dakota from CHS Inc. The Dakota Plains convenience, hardware and farm supply stores in Litchville and Valley City, North Dakota, will remain branded Cenex at the fuel islands. The stores are retaining all staff. “The three new stores are strategic locations, and Petro Serve’s general merchandise distribution center, having its own transportation system and a larger combined purchasing power, will bring efficiencies that will better serve these new stores’ customers,” Petro Serve USA CEO Kent Satrang said. CHS, Inver Grove Heights, Minnesota, is a leading global agribusiness and the largest farmer-owned cooperative in the United States. Its diversified agronomy, grains, foods and energy businesses recorded revenues of $47.8 billion in fiscal year 2022. Cenex, the energy brand of CHS, provides Top Tier gasoline and premium diesel fuels through a network of 1,500 retail locations in 19 states. CHS operates approximately 40 Cenex Zip Trip stores in Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wyoming. Founded in 1934, energy cooperative Petro Serve USA owns and operates a regional chain of 34 c-stores in North Dakota and Minnesota. Specializing in offering renewable fuel choices with its “helping America fuel better” marketing campaign, the customer-owned cooperative is based in West Fargo, North Dakota. The company is the largest supplier of residential, commercial and agricultural fuels and propane in the Red River Valley. Its proprietary Café USA includes 24 Hot Stuff Pizza franchise locations. Members help make our journalism possible. Become a CSP member today and unlock exclusive benefits, including unlimited access to all of our content. Sign up here. Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. The Latest Related More on this Topic In latest store plan, convenience retailer condensing combustible cigarette section ‘more and more’ Protein, portion control and fresh fruit are increasingly at home alongside chips and candy Convenience retailers are increasingly making shelf space for local favorites Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. CSP’s Top 202 details the largest chains in the convenience-store industry and the biggest M&A stories of the past year. Welcome to a deep dive into the c-store landscape. Category sales performance in Beverages, Candy, General Merchandise, Packaged Food/Foodservice and Snacks. The industry’s largest distributors by sales volume Corporate retail news affecting the convenience-store industry The latest information on products and trends in the convenience-store and foodservice industries. Peek inside new convenience stores to uncover the best in retail store design across North America. Do not sell my personal infoPrivacy PolicyCode of ConductContact UsRSS Copyright © Informa Connect 2024