MANSFIELD — When the Tygers needed him the most, senior Nathaniel Haney put on his cape and lived up to his nickname yet again. It was Super Chunk to the rescue. With Mansfield Senior deadlocked with Lexington 44-44 heading into overtime, "Chunky" Haney showed no fear and drilled a deep 3-pointer from the left wing just 13 seconds into the extra period. The shot put the Tygers ahead and they never looked back as they knocked off Ohio Cardinal Conference rival Lexington 54-53 in Friday night's season finale. "I wanted the ball bad," Haney said. "I saw I had a little bit of space and it was enough to get the shot off. No matter what, I was going to shoot that ball." The shot was just the latest heroics for Haney in the dramatic OT win. He hit a shot with 5.8 seconds left in regulation to put the Tygers up 44-42 before Lexington Joe Caudill tied it up off an offensive rebound score as time expired to send it into overtime. Without Haney's shot, that buzzer-beater would have ended it. Haney scored seven of his 12 points in the overtime period, including the huge 3 to start it off. He iced the game with two clutch free throws with 3.5 seconds left to make it 54-50 before Lex's Alex Depperschmidt's half-court shot beat the buzzer to make it a one-point game. Again, if Haney doesn't make those free throws, the game is a different story. "He was huge," Mansfield Senior coach Marquis Sykes said. "He has had the nickname Super Chunk for years as a little fella at the Friendly House is where he picked it up, and tonight he became Super Chunk again, especially in overtime, making some huge plays for us and knocking down the big free throws. We are going to need that from him moving forward." Haney earned the nickname, "Chunky" as a baby but morphed into Super Chunk as a youngster playing youth basketball because of the things he could do on the court at a young age. Friday night, Super Chunk made a triumphant return. His 3 at the beginning of overtime gave the Tygers all they needed to close the game out. "It takes a lot of pressure off and puts a lot of pressure on the other team," Haney said. "Especially when it is a 3. That is the most points you can score with one shot so it forces them to rush and maybe put up a bad shot and help us get the ball back so we can control the pace from there." Kyevi Roane led the Tygers with 16 points while Karion Lindsay added nine. Roane had 11 rebounds for a solid double-double. As much as the overtime period affected the outcome of the game, Sykes looked at the Tygers' defensive first half as what truly helped the Tygers to victory. They held Lexington to just 12 first-half points. "That was huge for us," Sykes said. "We mixed up our defenses with some man and some zone, and in the second half we wanted to press and run and jump just to keep them off balance. But that first half was the difference in the game. Defensively, we got the stops and rebounds we needed." The Tygers forced 10 turnovers and scored 11 points off them in the first half en route to a 21-12 halftime lead. "That is what we do," Sykes said. "We have to cause havoc out on the floor in order to create our offense off of turnovers. That is Tyger basketball and it is no secret. Everyone knows that. When we play that way, we are difficult to beat." Still, the Minutemen battled back overcoming a tough first half and losing senior captain Hudson Moore to a hip injury early in the second quarter. Already short-handed, Lex overcame all of that adversity to force overtime when Caudill gathered an errant shot and flipped it up and in for the game-tying bucket as the buzzer sounded. "I told the guys how proud I was that we had a couple of guys who weren't very experienced step up," Lexington coach Scott Hamilton said. "I put them in some very tough situations, and I told those younger guys I wasn't asking them to go win the game but I wanted them to go play smart and hard and give me what they got. And they did. "For us to take these guys into overtime, especially after the first half that we played, was big. You have one of these games every now and again, but tonight we picked the wrong one to have it in. But, we also don't want to have this from now on because now it is win or go home." Freshman Brayden Fogle led all scorers with 19 points on 50% shooting while adding eight rebounds. Baden Forup added 15 points and 12 boards while Elijah Hudson had 11 points but shot 3 of 16 from the floor. Yet, the Minutemen are still co-Ohio Cardinal Conference champions despite the loss, sharing the league crown with New Philadelphia with matching 12-2 records in the conference. It is something Hamilton will remind his team about, but will likely wait a day or two. "I will remind them tomorrow morning," Hamilton said. "It didn't feel like a conference championship locker room tonight, but I will remind them of what they accomplished when we get together tomorrow. I will also remind them that our first season is over. We finished it 18-4, and now we have to get ready for the second one. There is a lot of promise and possibilities out there but it is all going to be based on hard work." The Tygers (15-7, 11-3) took second in the OCC but knew coming into Friday night's matchup they had a chance to play spoiler against their crosstown rival, and they succeeded in keeping Lex from an outright league championship. Sykes admitted it was nice to play spoiler a little bit. "Sure it is, but it isn't something we talked about this week," Sykes said. "We talked about how we wanted to continue playing well going into the tournament and getting some revenge for them beating us at their place. But when you get the opportunity to play spoiler, it is a competitive sport and you want to do that. Hopefully, Coach (Zach) Ross will owe me dinner or something." More than anything, Sykes was just happy his team continued playing well with a fourth consecutive win to close out the regular season. "Our guys wanted this game," Sykes said. "It is senior night, we are at home and just going into the tournament we thought this could give us some momentum. We wanted some validation that we could play with anyone in our district, and I think the energy and effort we played with showed that." Haney agreed. "It made everybody happy," he said. "But it also showed everyone what we are capable of doing. If we stick to the script, I think we can thrive through the postseason." That will now be the new focus moving forward as both teams ended their regular seasons on Friday. Saturday morning's practice will be all about tournament prep, and Hamilton knows just how prepared the Minutemen are just by playing in the OCC. "I have said it before, I love our conference because it prepares us so well for the postseason," Hamilton said. "We are one of the smallest schools in the league, but I don't care about that. If you look at the schools we play, it prepares us for a tournament run just because of the different styles each team plays." Lex awaits the winner of Willard and Galion. The Minutemen will play that winner at 7:30 p.m. Feb. 24 at Madison High School in the sectional championship. The Tygers opened for a sectional semifinal game and will play Norwalk at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday at Bucyrus High School. A win there sends the Tygers to a sectional title matchup with Bellevue at 7:30 p.m. Feb. 24 at Bucyrus. "I am excited and can't wait to see how we respond tomorrow and Monday at practice," Sykes said. "In this moment, sure it is a good win for us against our rival at home, senior night and all that. It is great stuff, but it is tournament time next week. We have to flip the page and be ready for Norwalk." jfurr@gannett.com 740-244-9934 Twitter: @JakeFurr11