MARATHON, FLORIDA: A ferocious shark attack severely damaged diving instructor Zachary Winegardner's arm. Winegardner, 26, was spearfishing underwater near Marathon, Florida when a massive 6 feet bull shark "came out of nowhere" and started tearing into his right arm.  Winegardner claimed that he was just relishing the success of his recent fish-shooting when the gigantic beast sprinted from behind him and "latched on." He was diving with three colleagues 75 feet below the surface. he stated, "The shark, about 6ft, most likely mistook me for food. It was probably going for my stringer and got my arm instead. It bit me, realized it didn't want me, and then bolted away," according to The Sun. Winegardner signaled to his friends that he had been attacked by the shark while still bloodied and underwater and the crew ascended. All of his friends assisted him in returning to the boat, and they all made a hasty return to land. READ MORE Stella Berry: Bull shark killed teen, 16, reveals DNA test as shark tagging program moves forward Brett Connellan: Surfer shares his incredible recovery after shark ate 'three-quarters of his thigh' Winegardner believed he had lost an arm when he was airlifted to Jackson South Medical Center in Miami in stable condition. "It was like a sharp, quick pain and then pretty much everything went numb after that," he said in reference to the pain from the attack.  Winegardner had a significant hole in his lower arm in addition to the obvious tooth markings. He said, "I ripped my tendons in my wrist and it took a big chunk out closer to my elbow and left a lot of teeth marks I guess. It was pretty nuts."  Wingardner stated, "I wasn't worried about dying but figured I was going to lose the arm. I'm very grateful that I still have it." He remained in the hospital for ten days, receiving several stitches and about 90 staples. Medical specialists also had to apply a skin graft from his thigh to his right arm.  Fortunately, he made a full recovery, and although he can't fully move all of his fingers, he claims that everything is going wonderfully. He said, "I don't have permanent nerve damage but I have bruising that makes some of my fingers not work. I did four months of physical therapy to get my hand functioning." The courageous diver claimed that although his thumb is numb and he can no longer fully open his hand, he can still create a fist. The survivor speculates that those who intentionally feed sharks for entertainment may be to fault for inciting them to approach people so closely. He said, "The more people feed sharks at our docks, and they get comfortable around people, they're going to come up to us."  A GoFundMe has been established to raise funds to cover his medical expenses as he recovers. The campaign has received over 80 donations, which have helped it raise $8,268 out of the $25,000 aim. Winegardner didn't stop diving into the sea after the shark attacked him viciously. "It hasn't made me fearful of the ocean or water. I'm a little eerie when I can't see, but it's not stopping me," he stated. 