Radiation mapping has evolved over the past decade, but there are still areas researchers would like to improve. Rizwan Choudhury 0 Team test the physical coupling of a radiation imaging system with a Boston Dynamics Spot Robot. Thor Swift/Berkeley Lab  Thor Swift/Berkeley Lab  Scientists at the Berkeley Lab in the US are training a four-legged robot to detect and map radiation in any environment. This could revolutionize nuclear safety, security, and emergency response. Spot, the robotic dog from Boston Dynamics, is equipped with sensors on its back that can measure gamma rays, video feeds, LIDAR, and other data. The scientists use a technique called “scene data fusion” to combine the information from different sources into one image that shows the radiation levels in three dimensions and in real-time. “This is a breakthrough in radiological technology. We are not just using nuclear physics, but also robotics, computer vision, software, and other elements that enable societal benefits,” said Ren Cooper, deputy head of the Applied Nuclear Physics (ANP) program at the Berkeley Lab. The applications of this technology are manifold. It can help monitor radioactive sources used at power plants, particle accelerators, or hospitals; prevent nuclear proliferation and terrorism; clean up and remediate contaminated sites; and respond to disasters like the Fukushima nuclear accident, where the Berkeley Lab researchers collaborated with the Japan Atomic Energy Agency to map houses. The robotic dog can also perform autonomous tasks, such as finding hotspots or boundaries of radiation areas, by learning what objects are and how to react to them. This is done through a process in computer vision known as “semantic segmentation.” Thor Swift/Berkeley Lab  Brian Quiter, a scientist at the Berkeley Lab who can attach the sensor system to Spot in two minutes, explained that, for example, if there was a radioactive source behind a wall, a semantically ignorant dog would say that the wall was radioactive. A semantically intelligent dog would say that it wanted to see what was behind the wall. He added that there needed to be a mechanism to do that right now. He said that if they could incorporate this knowledge into their algorithms, it would improve the efficacy of automated radioactivity mapping. Radiation mapping has evolved over the past decade, but there are still areas researchers would like to improve. Current systems are good at making maps of relative amounts of radiation in an area and picking out hotspots. However, forming an actual map of expected radiation doses from a more limited measurement is an area of active improvement. Radiation mapping could also help teams find some of the millions of landmines buried around the world. While landmines are not radioactive, researchers are investigating how a technique called “active probing” using neutrons might cause the landmines to emit gamma rays they could then detect. Kai Vetter, a professor at UC Berkeley and the founder and head of ANP at the Berkeley Lab, can also imagine using the technology to monitor the health of spacecraft and astronauts on longer journeys exposed to cosmic radiation. Spot is one of the many examples of how the Berkeley Lab researchers are pushing the boundaries of radiation mapping with innovative sensor systems that can be carried by hand, flown by drones, or mounted on robots. “We are now able to map the world in three dimensions and in real time. It’s an extremely powerful way to look at the environment and make decisions, because we have this tool that can visualize radiation anywhere,” said Vetter. Stay up-to-date on engineering, tech, space, and science news with The Blueprint. By clicking sign up, you confirm that you accept this site's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Rizwan Choudhury Rizwan is a writer and journalist with a background in Mass Communication Journalism, Public Administration, and Political Science. He has covered subjects, spanning from technology and culture to business and automotive industries. He has written for publication platforms such as Mashable, Pinkvilla, Economic Times Auto, and PTI. In his free time, he enjoys sketching, reading, and exploring music, movies, and comics. a day ago a day ago a day ago a day ago