Whenever Harper takes over at first it will be on-the-job training at the major league level. “You’ve just got to go out there and do it,” Thomson says. Phillies manager Rob Thomson has been hesitant to commit to a firm timeline for Bryce Harper’s return to playing in the field, and it’s hard to blame him. Harper has surpassed Thomson’s projected timelines before (his 160-day comeback from Tommy John elbow surgery is the best and most recent example of that). But even if Thomson won’t provide a set date, there are reasons to be optimistic that Harper could be at first base sooner rather than later. He took full infield practice for the first time in Chicago this week. Thomson made a point of saying that it looked “really good,” adding that it’s “coming pretty quick.” But, again, the manager reiterated that he did not want to put a timeline on his star player. » READ MORE: The tall tale of Carlos De La Cruz: How the Phillies’ 6-9 slugger has become an unlikely top prospect Part of the reason the Phillies are taking their time with Harper at first base is because he is not on the injured list, and therefore cannot go on a rehab assignment. He has played only one-third of a big-league inning at first base. He did not play the position in the minors. The Phillies expect him to make mistakes — but when he makes them, they’ll be in big league games. “You’ve just got to go out there and do it,” Thomson said. “I think everybody has to understand, too, that the speed of the game is different than just taking ground balls. There’s situations that come up that he’s got to work through and he’s got to learn from some mistakes because they’re going to happen. Trust me. And that’s just natural.” Harper will not have to be cleared by the doctor who performed his surgery, Dr. Neal ElAttrache, to begin throwing to bases. Right now, Thomson said he is “pretty close” to doing everything necessary to play in a game. But when Harper does return to the field, it’s unlikely that he’ll play first base every day. The Phillies plan to build his innings up. Harper’s ability to play first base will have ripple effects throughout the roster. Freeing up that designated hitter spot would allow the Phillies to move Kyle Schwarber, who is statistically the worst defensive outfielder in baseball, out of left field. It would also impact their needs at the Aug. 1 trade deadline. When asked if he was optimistic that Harper could be playing first base by then, Thomson smiled. “We’ll see,” he said. Friday marks Seranthony Domínguez’s 15th day on the injured list because of an oblique strain in his left side. If he were healthy, he could be activated as soon as Saturday, but the Phillies don’t plan to rush him. Domínguez threw out to 120 feet on Friday, and will do a flat ground bullpen session on Saturday. He will likely return after the All-Star break. Thomson isn’t sure if he’ll need a rehab outing yet. » READ MORE: Phillies questions at midseason: Bryce Harper’s power outage, trade deadline outlook, and more “I would think so,” he said. “I haven’t talked to the trainers about that because he hasn’t gotten up on the mound yet, but I would think he’ll need to see some hitters before he gets into a game.” Top prospect Andrew Painter (ulnar collateral ligament sprain) threw a bullpen session on Friday that went “really well,” Thomson said. Painter will throw one more before he progresses to the next step in his rehab, according to Thomson. He is still a ways away from a rehab assignment. … Thomson said pitcher Noah Song (lower back strain) was “very good” in his first rehab outing for single-A Clearwater. Song threw a scoreless inning with one strikeout on Wednesday. His velocity sat in the 91-93 mph range. He will throw another outing for Clearwater on Saturday, and will stay there at least until the All-Star break.