Ciena Corp is a network and technology company. It provides network hardware, software, and services that support the transport, switching, aggregation, service delivery, and management of video, data, and voice traffic on communications networks. It serves various industries such as communication services providers, web-scale providers, cable operators, government, and large enterprises world-wide. The business activities function through Networking Platforms; Platform Software and Services; Blue Planet Automation Software, and Global Services segments. Geographically, its presence is seen in the markets of the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Asia Pacific, Japan, and India. The maximum revenue is generated from Americas. 7035 Ridge Road    Hanover MD 21076 USA 
					T: +1 410 694-5700
				 E: ir@ciena.com https://www.ciena.com Technology Sensitive Communication Equipment 31 October 2024 8,483 Information on this site is intended for Australian users only.The content provided does not constitute investment advice, is provided solely for information purposes, is not an offer to buy or sell a security, and is not warranted to be correct, complete or accurate. Neither Morningstar, its affiliates, nor the content providers are responsible for any investment decisions, damages or losses resulting from, or related to, the content, data and analyses or their use. Certain content provided may constitute a summary or extract of a full research report. Full research reports are available from Morningstar. Additionally, important disclosures regarding these research reports, methodologies and Morningstar can be found under the legal section on this site. To the extent any content is general advice, it has been prepared by Morningstar Australasia Pty Ltd (ABN 95 090 665 544, AFSL: 240892). Any general advice has been provided without reference to your investment objectives, financial situations or needs. For more information refer to our Financial Services Guide. To obtain advice tailored to your situation, contact a financial advisor. You should consider the advice in light of these matters and if applicable the relevant Product Disclosure Statement before making any decision to invest. Past performance does not necessarily indicate a financial product’s future performance. Some material is copyright and published under licence from ASX Operations Pty Ltd ACN 004 523 782. The content is current as at date of publication. © Copyright 2024 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.