
Home
 Don't miss out Subscribe to STAT+ today, for the best life sciences journalism in the industry By Bob Herman May 8, 2023 You’re reading the web version of Health Care Inc., STAT’s weekly newsletter following the flow of money in medicine. Sign up to get it in your inbox every Monday.  No deal is bigger in health care right now than Kaiser Permanente’s takeover of Geisinger. It came out of nowhere and will lead to the formation of a new national mega-system of integrated health systems. Naturally, people want to know which dominoes are next to fall into this organization, called Risant Health. But an even more basic question keeps coming to the fore: Why? advertisement Well, a major impetus that pushed Geisinger was the relentless consolidation of its competitors, particularly UPMC and Highmark, Geisinger board member Gail Wilensky said in an interview with me. It’s an answer that could foreshadow which systems are eager to join. STAT+ Exclusive Story Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Monthly $39 Totals $468 per year Totals $468 per year Starter $30 for 3 months, then $39/month Then $39/month Annual $399 Save 15% Save 15% 11+ Users Custom Savings start at 25%! Savings start at 25%! 2-10 Users $300 Annually per user $300 Annually per user 
						Get unlimited access to award-winning journalism and exclusive events.					 Business of Health Care Reporter Bob Herman covers health insurance, government programs, hospitals, physicians, and other providers — reporting on how money influences those businesses and shapes what we all pay for care. He is also the author of the Health Care Inc. newsletter. finance hospitals insurance Medicare Physicians 
					STAT encourages you to share your voice. We welcome your commentary, criticism, and expertise on our subscriber-only platform, STAT+ Connect
 To submit a correction request, please visit our Contact Us page. advertisement Reporting from the frontiers of health and medicine Company Account More