By Neirin Gray Desai Consumer Reporter For Dailymail.Com   Published:  17:01 EDT, 11 September 2023   |  Updated:  17:39 EDT, 11 September 2023      47 View  comments  Health insurance companies that own pharmacies are charging themselves more than 20 times the market value for certain drugs, leaving patients with considerable out-of-pocket costs and premiums. Insurance companies CVS Health and Cigna can pay pharmacies - which they often own - more than $6,600 a month for a cancer drug that is available for as little as $55 a month, according to a new report in The Wall Street Journal. All of the insurers mentioned said the analysis provided a limited view of the overall market. 'It's a win-win,' Dr. Simon F. Haeder, an associate professor at the Department of Health Policy & Management at the Texas A&M University School of Public Health, told DailyMail.com. 'The insurance company has an interest to get as much out of the patient as possible, that's money they can extract in out-of-pocket payments in addition to the premiums they collect,' said Haeder. CVS Health charges $7,000 a month for cancer drug Gleevec. The same dose can be purchased for around $50 elsewhere CVS, Cigna and UnitedHealth can charge considerably more than market value for medication, meaning patients pay considerable out-of-pocket costs and increasing premiums. Gleevec (pictured) is a cancer drug has a market value of around $50 a month The drugs that are most affected by this phenomenon are known as generics. When the patent for a particular drug expires, it can be replicated by other manufacturers - usually for a very low cost. Generics are meant to be a useful way to drive down the high cost of drugs. But across a selection of generic drugs, The Journal found that CVS and Cigna's  prices were at least 24 times higher on average than what the manufacturers of those drugs sell them for. Cancer drug Gleevec has a market value of around $50 a month. CVS Health buys it for $7,000 and Cigna pays around $6,600. A third insurer, UnitedHealth, charges around $200 a month, according to The Journal. Generics of the lung cancer drug Tarceva can be bought for around $70 a month. CVS, Cigna and UnitedHealth pay around $2,050, $4,400 and $550 respectively. 'Generics in Europe tend to be relatively cheap, in the U.S. something being generic doesn't necessarily mean it's much cheaper that the original version,' said Haeder. He says the scheme serves to extract as much money as possible from the patient in a variety of different ways. Most obviously, by buying the medication for higher prices, the insurer is able to charge more to the patient in out-of-pocket payments when they go to collect the drugs. That can either be because the terms of their plan dictate that they pay some copayment - a fixed proportion of the cost of their medication - or because they pay for drugs up to a certain excess above which the insurer will pay. Secondly, not only does the setup make insurers more money in the moment, it also enables them to increase profits later. When premiums come to be renegotiated they can point to the patient's previous expenditure on medication and justify more expensive subsequent coverage, Haedar said.  The Affordable Care Act dictates insurance companies must spend at least 85 percent for the revenue they collect from premiums on medical care. If they fail to do so, they then have to pay out rebates to customers on those premiums.   Generics of the lung cancer drug Tarceva (pictured) can be bought for around $70 a month. CVS, Cigna and UnitedHealth pay around $2,050, $4,400 and $550 respectively The supply chain for prescription drugs is notoriously complex and consists of a variety of parties who are often not only aligned, but often own one another. In addition to the insurer and the pharmacy is what is known as a PBM, or pharmacy benefit manager. They negotiate with the pharmacy over reimbursement for the drugs and for rebates from the drug manufacturer. Drug manufacturers are incentivized to pay those rebates because in turn the PBM will recommend the drug to consumers. The three largest PBMs in the country - Caremark, Evernorth/Express Scripts, and OptumRx - are owned by CVS Health, Cigna and UnitedHealth respectively and control 85 percent of the market.  So everyone in the supply chain - except the consumer - makes money as a result of a higher list price of the drug. 'The incentive is there for the PBMs and the specialty pharmacies to keep prices as high as possible,' Shannon Ambrose, the co-founder of Archimedes, a company that competes with PBMs, told The Journal. A spokesman for CVS Health told DailyMail.com: 'Comparing prices for a limited basket of generic drugs provides an incomplete view, because Medicare plans price their network offerings across all prescription drug products - brand, generic and biosimilar – in order to lower costs for the most expensive branded products.  'This market basket approach lowers the branded cost, which lowers the overall cost for plan sponsors and members.' He added the prices it submits to Medicare represent the highest contracted rate it has with pharmacies and doesn't include lower prices some of its pharmacies may accept. Commenting on The Journal report, Cigna told DailyMail.com: 'This misleading analysis does not accurately represent typical medication costs for our customers. This article cherry picks isolated medications among the thousands we cover and does not provide meaningful insights about the medication affordability and safety that we ensure for millions of people'. DailyMail.com also wrote to UnitedHealth for comment on the prices it pays per month for cancer medication but did not receive a response by time of publishing. It told The Journal that none of the drugs cited are used frequently by its patient population and most would pay less out-of-pocket using its insurance plan.  
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group