Aug 30, 2023 CADIZ — The Harrison County Board of Commissioners signed an agreement with Great Lakes Computer Corp. for IT services on Wednesday.  Commissioner Paul Coffland said the services would cost the county $6,825 per month.  “It outlines remote Windows server administration, server support, network management, help desk services, vendor management, existing customer footprint and monthly on-site support,” Coffland said.  The services will help improve communication and security in the county by providing e-mail support and a firewall. Virus protection is not covered by the agreement. Harrison County must have anti-virus software already installed or pay extra for Great Lakes Computer Corp. to supply the services.  Commissioner Dustin Corder said that Great Lakes Computer Corp. will have 30 days to evaluate the current system before the one-year contract goes into effect.  During the 30-day period, Great Lakes Computer Corp. will investigate and gather information about the county’s current IT infrastructure and configurations. At the end of this period, the company can revise its monthly cost for the services provided based on the information obtained. Harrison County will have the right to terminate the contract, without penalty, after reviewing the final monthly costs if the county deems the costs are too excessive.  Along with setting up and maintaining the computer services, Great Lakes Computer Corp. will also be available on-call to provide emergency and non-critical support services if the county has any issues or questions about the computer system.  All commissioners voted in favor of the motion.  Great Lakes  is based in Avon and has strived to manage, secure and maintain computer services for its customers since 1981.  The company provides IT support to small and mid-sized businesses, including managed services IT support, computer maintenance and repair, anti-virus and anti-malware computer security, managed print services and computer network consulting services.  In other news, the commissioners also unanimously voted to pay the monthly expenses for the Department of Job and Family Services, Children Services and the County Home. They paid two sums to DJFS: $20,442.33 and $8,565.98. They paid $6,738.76 to Children Services and $169,331.06 to the County Home.  Commissioners also unanimously voted to create a separate line item for the County Home renovation project to distinguish the renovation funds from the money used to run the home. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox WASHINGTON (AP) — Once more, with feeling!

It’s been nearly two weeks since Vice President Kamala Harris ... DILLONVALE — Students and staff at Buckeye Local Schools will see some updates to their facilities when they ... STEUBENVILLE — Flotsam River Circus’s on-again, off-again performance Wednesday is back on, and Harmonium ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © The Herald Star | https://www.heraldstaronline.com | 401 Herald Square , Steubenville, OH 43952 | 740-283-4711 