MENU Business News Daily provides resources, advice and product reviews to drive business growth. Our mission is to equip business owners with the knowledge and confidence to make informed decisions. As part of that, we recommend products and services for their success. We collaborate with business-to-business vendors, connecting them with potential buyers. In some cases, we earn commissions when sales are made through our referrals. These financial relationships support our content but do not dictate our recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates products based on thousands of hours of research. We are committed to providing trustworthy advice for businesses. Learn more about our full process and see who our partners are here. Want to get paid faster for the healthcare you provide? High-quality billing services like CareCloud and AdvancedMD can help. At Business News Daily, we’ve spent years researching and testing the technology that enables entrepreneurs to accomplish their goals and scale their businesses more efficiently. Our team of small business tech specialists conducts independent evaluations of the best technology platforms to determine which best meet the needs of small business owners. We also regularly consult with technology experts. including IT professionals, developers, implementation specialists and cybersecurity professionals, to stay on top of the latest tech trends impacting small businesses. And every review we publish is evaluated by our editorial staff to ensure objectivity, accuracy and fairness are at the core of our decision-making. Learn more about our editorial guidelines. To determine the best medical billing services, we independently investigated different solutions on the market. We looked at how each one handled charge entry and coding, claim scrubbing and rejected claim management. We studied each vendor’s first-pass acceptance rate and considered how well the billing system integrated with leading medical software. We also examined... To determine the best medical billing services, we independently investigated different solutions on the market. We looked at how each one handled charge entry and coding, claim scrubbing and rejected claim management. We studied each vendor’s first-pass acceptance rate and considered how well the billing system integrated with leading medical software. We also examined costs, clearinghouse fees, setup charges and contract terms. considered reviewed selected To determine the best medical billing services, we independently investigated different solutions on the market. We looked at how each one handled charge entry and coding, claim scrubbing and rejected claim management. We studied each vendor’s first-pass acceptance rate and considered how well the billing system integrated with leading medical software. We also examined costs, clearinghouse fees, setup charges and contract terms. considered reviewed selected Medical practices contend with a convoluted billing process involving payers, clearinghouses, rejections and denials. This system can often mean practices have to wait weeks or months to see payment for services rendered to patients. It’s also a highly bureaucratic process, requiring dedicated medical billers and coders creating and tracking claims until payment is received. All these factors could add up to immense costs and serious cash flow challenges. That’s why there are revenue cycle management (RCM) services, also known as medical billing services. These outsourced services will handle some or all of the aspects of a practice’s medical billing needs. “A medical biller will create, scrub and submit daily charges, as well as work Clearinghouse rejections, post payments and work denials  and send any applicable balances to patient responsibility,” said Stormy Sturz, CPC, CPMA, vice president of operations for Complete Practice Solutions. “A medical biller will also often aid the front office in ensuring the proper entry of patient insurance information.” We did the work for you to identify some of the best RCM services on the market. From charge entry to medical coding, claims submission and denial management, each of the billing services below offer an efficient and reliable way to outsource your medical billing. RCM Software Flexibility New Practices Reporting Large Practices Ease of Use Starts at $193 per month, per provider (RCM software only) 3% to 7% of monthly collections 4% to 8% of monthly collections 4% to 7% of monthly collections 3% to 8% of monthly collections 4% to 9% of monthly collections N/A** End-to-end End-to-end No medical coding; no denial management No medical coding Third-party RCM services N/A ~97% 96% 93% 96% (contractually guaranteed) 95% 1 to 2 months Varies 1 to 2 months 11 weeks 8 to 11 weeks One month N/A Three-year minimum One-year minimum Two-year minimum One-year minimum 30-day cancellation notice iOS/Android iOS/Android iOS iOS/Android iOS/Android iOS *Some billing companies rely on a composite first-pass claims acceptance rate, which may slightly inflate the percentage of claims truly accepted and paid on the first pass. **RXNT does not offer medical billing services; instead, it provides software used by medical billers in practices and at RCM companies. RXNT is our choice as the best medical billing software because it offers an effective platform that supports in-house medical billing and coding teams, as well as RCM services managing their clients’ billing. It’s important to note that RXNT does not offer medical billing services like the other vendors on this list. Instead, it provides thorough medical billing tools in a cost-effective platform, making the revenue cycle management process smooth and efficient. To use RXNT’s medical billing tools, you’ll need to subscribe to the practice management software plan or higher. We recommend RXNT to healthcare organizations looking to keep their revenue cycle management in-house, but with the meticulous detail of an outsourced service.  RXNT excels at helping medical billing teams to collect payments from both payers and patients. Above is an example of its patient payment screen, where staff can facilitate patient co-payments and view a breakdown of what the insurance company covered. (Source: RXNT) RXNT customers often praised the company for the effectiveness of its e-prescribing features and the ease with which it facilitated data migration from other platforms. However, some complained that customer service was often slow to reply when they needed assistance. RXNT earned an 8.0/10 on TrustRadius. CareCloud is our pick for best medical billing service for flexibility. We found it helpful how the company will outsource all or part of a medical practice’s revenue cycle, letting you pick and choose which aspects to keep in-house if you’d like. Additionally, CareCloud doesn’t require its RCM clients to use its practice management software, something that most other medical billing services require. We also liked CareCloud’s CollectiveIQ rules engine, which is regularly updated to flag the latest errors that lead to rejections and denials by payers.  CareCloud provides a user-friendly platform and effective medical billing tools. In the example above, a user navigates an encounter, which billers can easily leverage for charge entry and claims submission. (Source: CareCloud) Customers frequently cited CareCloud’s effective training and personalized attention to each practice’s needs as a major benefit of working with the company. Many also said customer service was helpful and quick to respond to requests for assistance. However, others complained about limitations when it came to the mobile browser or application, as well as slow loading times. CareCloud earned a 9.1/10 on TrustRadius. Read our full CareCloud review. DrChrono is our best pick for new practices because it includes user-friendly medical software, as well as training and implementation support that can be invaluable for setting new practices up for success. DrChrono requires a one-year contract, which is typical of medical billing services we reviewed; we recommend new practices partner with a medical billing service for at least a year, anyway, to ensure their revenue stream is stable and predictable before making changes. DrChrono also features customizable workflows, which we found useful, so you can set your processes up however you like from day one and create SOPs around them.  DrChrono provides useful data analysis, such as the reports shown above. Keeping tabs on charges, collections and adjustments can help you stay apprised of how well the medical billing team is performing on your behalf. (Source: DrChrono) Clients of DrChrono often cite its usability as a top feature, including its clinical tools such as its templates. However, some users expressed a desire for more flexibility and customization throughout the software suits. DrChrono earned a 9.0/10 on TrustRadius. Read our full DrChrono review. athenahealth is our pick as the best medical billing service for reporting thanks to its in-depth database athenaNet. The company gathers data from more than 100,000 providers to establish performance benchmarks for practices of similar sizes and specialties. This isn’t something all of the providers we reviewed offered. Access to this data can be extremely useful for gauging how its RCM service is performing on your behalf. Moreover, it learns from rejected and denied claims across its entire network to frequently update its claims scrubber and billing rules engine, helping to keep first pass claims acceptance rates high. athenahealth’s standout tool is its consulting and reporting suite. Its billing team will reach out to you first if it notices a drop in performance or metrics below the standard for practices similar to yours. You’ll also receive custom reports and learn how to manage your practice for higher profits. This extent of consultation is rare among RCM services and, for some practices, may make up for athenahealth’s flaws.  athenahealth’s practice management software includes useful medical billing tools for in-house teams, as well as a high degree of visibility for practices outsourcing their medical billing. Above, a user engages in charge entry to develop a claim prior to submission. (Source: athenahealth) Customers of athenahealth often applauded the platform’s reporting suite as extensive, detailed and helpful. Others cited its practice management software as effective for supporting appointment scheduling and other front-office tasks. Some users expressed concern about how challenging it was to create custom reports, though, as well as the lack of customization options for the dashboard. athenahealth earned an 8.0/10 on TrustRadius. Read our full athenahealth review. Large healthcare systems that want to outsource much of their medical billing department can leverage AdvancedMD’s RCM services and its powerful medical software. While AdvancedMD does not offer medical coding – you’ll need to keep that aspect of the billing process in-house – it does guarantee in writing a 96% first pass claims acceptance rate (FPAR) at minimum, which is especially high among the companies we reviewed. AdvancedMD’s high FPAR stems from the fact that all its billing team members must have at least one year of experience, and many are certified medical coders. These experts are more than qualified to scrub your claims in ways that minimize errors. In the rare event that your claims are denied, AdvancedMD will handle all the work involved in pursuing them, keeping the burden off your staff so you can focus on delivering care. We also like how AdvancedMD will follow up with payers or patients who haven’t yet paid their bills. Another positive to us was how AdvancedMD offered discounts on custom plans, so you can develop precisely the level of service your practice needs.  Much like the rest of AdvancedMD’s medical software, medical billing reports are extensive and detailed. The reporting tools give you full visibility into how AdvancedMD’s medical billing staff is performing. (Source: AdvancedMD)  Customers frequently praised AdvancedMD’s thorough implementation process and comprehensive slate of features. Others, though, said customer support was often slow and dissatisfying. AdvancedMD earned a 7.3/10 on TrustRadius. Read our full AdvancedMD review. Tebra is our choice as the best medical billing service for tracking claims. The platform’s medical billing tools are highly user-friendly, making it easy to track the process from charge entry through to denial management. Tebra doesn’t provide medical billing services directly, however; instead, it acts as a broker that connects practices with third-party providers. That makes the transparency Tebra’s practice management software provides all the more important, giving clients a window into how the medical billing teams are performing on their behalf. We like how with Tebra, you’ll get the standard features for medical billing services, including charge entry and coding, claim scrubbing, denied-claim management and follow-up on unpaid claims. You’ll also get full access to Tebra’s EMR system at no additional cost. Also included are Tebra’s clearinghouse fees, for which some other billing services charge extra.  Tebra’s encounter form includes useful features like an ICD-10 coding library, a breakdown of charges, and automated workflows for approvals. You can also attach documents and files that are relevant to the encounter for later review. (Source: Tebra) Tebra customers often describe the software’s usability and detailed billing reports as the platform’s top benefits. However, some noted that they experienced crashes and bugs on occasion, disrupting operations. Tebra earned a 6.9/10 on TrustRadius. Read our full Tebra review. Medical billing services can handle part or all of your medical billing, including charge entry and coding, claims scrubbing, submitting claims through a clearinghouse, and following up with payers on unpaid, denied or rejected claims. Medical billing is a complex and time-consuming process; outsourcing your billing to a revenue cycle management service can save you time and money while allowing your team to focus on other tasks needed to run your medical practice.  Medical practices can expect to pay 3% to 9% of their monthly collections for medical billing services. Your exact rate will depend on several factors, including your claim volume, average claim value, billing cycle complexity and practice size. “In addition to a percentage of collections, a revenue cycle management company will likely charge for additional services such as credentialing, contract negotiations, coding services, authorization services, and custom reporting,” Sturz said. Depending on your rate, outsourcing your medical billing may prove more expensive than hiring an in-house team. However, outsourced medical billing often includes detailed financial reporting and specialty expertise that an in-house team might not offer. “A medical practice may decide to have in-house billers if they are a smaller practice with knowledgeable and trained staff to handle all areas of the revenue cycle,” Sturz said. “When determining the cost difference between an in-house or outsourced billing scenario, you would want to keep in mind the extra costs having an in-house biller comes with.” According to Sturz, in addition to an in-house biller’s salary, employers typically offer PTO, healthcare benefits and workers comp insurance. “When you outsource your billing, you don’t have to worry about those extra costs, as well as the HR maintenance of those employees,” Sturz added. To make the proper choice between in-house and outsourced, you should ask your RCM candidates for full details of the services you get with your plan. You should also clarify whether clearinghouse fees, if applicable, are part of the monthly cost or added on later. Lastly, you should check whether copays count as part of your collections. The answer will affect how much you pay monthly. Medical billing services may handle the entire billing process or just part of it. The key features to look for in a medical billing service, especially if you want to completely outsource your billing, include the following.   Medical software includes clinical tools like patient medical charts and demographics. This example comes from CareCloud, our best pick for flexibility. (Source: CareCloud) Choosing the right medical billing service offers some significant benefits for your medical practice. When you work with an RCM partner that does a good job, you can expect the following.     Using your billing service’s EMR system and PMS is a great way to find medical software for less than it costs to hire in-house medical staff and obtain separate EMR and PMS solutions.  Claim scrubbing and follow-up are par for the course. You’ll also commonly find that RCM companies include reporting, consultation, and EMR and PMS access with your services. Check for these features as you speak with company representatives. You should also determine whether the features that accompany your medical billing leave the company or your own team responsible for entering and coding charges. It’s worth asking if your billing service candidates are following the most recent ICD-10 coding system updates. You should also get a sense of the billing company’s experience with other practices in your specialty. Lastly, ask about the depth and extent of reporting and analytics solutions. “You’ll want to ensure that your medical billing service has implemented & maintains timely billing processes, from claim creation to submission, and in every other area of the claim cycle,” Sturz said. “Your medical billing service should provide you with monthly reporting that includes a financial summary (charges, payments, contractual adjustments) as well as both patient and insurance aging reports.  RCM companies will generally take a monthly percentage of your collections instead of charging a flat fee. The percentage will vary based on the factors described above, and different billing services may quote you different percentages. Think about whether a company that charges you more would provide better services than your other candidates before making a decision. As you compare prices, you should also check whether the RCM company includes EMR system and PMS access with its billing services. These inclusions may justify the company charging higher prices. That said, most medical billing services require you to use their PMS (and a few have the same rule about their EMR system). In some cases, migrating your data from your old platform to your new one may incur additional charges. Since you’ll be installing software (unless you are opting to work through your existing software provider for your billing), you’ll need to account for the implementation process in the timeline. Fully setting up the software side of your billing services often takes several weeks to three months. Sometimes, the setup process results in additional fees, though we found that many companies include implementation and training for free. Medical billing setup and implementation can take anywhere from several weeks to three months.  Check whether your medical billing provider includes free training with your implementation. If it does, chances are you’ll be paired with a dedicated account manager who will help you set it up. You may also get access to setup resources you can browse on your own time. With medical billing services, support isn’t just about phone calls and emails; it’s about having a full, transparent window into your billers’ work at all times. Look for providers whose PMS platforms include a portal where you can see your claims’ real-time status and look over your third-party billers’ work. On the traditional support side, you should check whether you can reach your provider by phone, email or live chat at all times or just during weekday business hours. The company’s representatives should be happy to assist you and easy to reach. Your billing service should also provide you with your payers’ electronic remittance advice and explanations of benefits. These documents are important for obtaining a transparent view into your payers’ operations. When dealing with something as sensitive as your practice’s finances, you should thoroughly vet any potential service partner to guarantee trust and transparency.  Medical billing is primarily a payer-facing need, but not entirely. Since most medical billing services require you to use their PMS, they may also manage the patient portal that most PMS platforms include. This means that your billing service can directly send patients their statements and follow up on unpaid charges. Should statements go unpaid long enough, your billing service could even oversee the process of sending patients to collections. It’s important to find out whether the patient portal will cost your company extra or is included with your billing services. You should also find out how exactly your company of choice pursues unpaid bills and how long it waits to send these bills to collections. Not sure if our best picks are the right fit for your medical practice? Consider these alternatives we reviewed, which also offer reliable, effective revenue cycle management services. At Business News Daily, our team of small business billing experts have been researching and testing medical billing services for years, comparing some of the leading solutions across more than 20 key metrics. We considered 14 medical billing platforms and closely reviewed and tested 10 of them before selecting our six best picks above. Below are the factors we considered when determining our best picks. Each is weighted according to how much the criteria typically influences business owners’ buying decisions. In addition to scoring each medical billing service we reviewed based on this criteria, we also determined the best use case scenarios for each. No two businesses are exactly alike, so we put ourselves in the shoes of different types of small business owners and identify the best medical billing service for a variety of needs. To learn more about how we review and test billing products and services for small businesses, read about our editorial process here. The steps of the medical billing process, which medical billing companies handle for your practice, are: FPAR stands for first pass acceptance rate, and it refers to the rate at which claims are accepted by payers without denials or rejections. FPAR is important because the higher the percentage of clean claims, the quicker a medical practice gets paid for services rendered. Lower FPAR means more claims need to be reworked and resubmitted, resulting in delays in payment and more days in accounts receivable before payment is received.   A good FPAR is one that exceeds 95%. Some of the best medical billing services we reviewed have FPARs of 96% to 99%. “A 95% rate is ideal and pretty attainable,” Sturz said. “But clean claims rate as it relates to actual payer determinations is more difficult to put a number on.” A good medical billing service improves efficiency and drives faster payments for a medical practice. They do so through an in-depth knowledge of payers’ rules and tendencies, as well as building expertise in particular specialties. They also offer transparency through medical billing software, so their clients can keep tabs on their financial performance and check the status of outstanding claims. A good medical billing service will be able to increase collections for a medical practice, improving the bottom line.  Most medical billing services require you to use medical billing software. Commonly, medical billing services provide their own medical billing software included in the percentage of collections a practice pays for their services. Some medical billing services allow practices to use their existing medical billing software when applicable, although this is less common. Always check to see which medical billing software an RCM service uses and determine whether adopting it for your practice would be beneficial or not before signing up. Most leading medical software on the market today is cloud-based, and companies regularly update the software on their end. When signing up for medical billing software, investigate system uptime and whether software updates interrupt system use. If so, find out when companies tend to push their software updates — making sure these interruptions don’t disrupt your operations is critical. Insights on business strategy and culture, right to your inbox.Part of the business.com network.