The Hamilton Southeastern School Board is seeking to hire a financial consulting firm to perform some duties alongside the district’s chief financial officer, although in-house finance staff are expressing concerns about the move. Carmel-based Bondry Management Consultants is on the short list to take on that role but Hamilton Southeastern CFO Katy Dowling said she wants a better explanation for why they, or any consultant group, would be brought on when Dowling already does financial work for the district. At a meeting of the board's finance committee earlier this week, Dowling shared additional concerns about Bondry’s work with the district, noting one of the company’s employees did paid election work for board member Suzanne Thomas. Thomas said she was unaware that a current Bondry employee had helped with marketing for her campaign two years ago before he worked for the financial company. “There is a piece of this where their employees have done work politically for people on the board,” Dowling said at the board’s finance committee meeting on Sept. 19. “That makes me really uncomfortable.” More on HSE: Indiana public access expert: HSE's use of Google Doc has 'no place' in public work HSE school board members say they need outside financial advice to further explain the inside operations of the district’s financials. Board member Ben Orr said the move to hire a consultant is to help the board understand more complex financial topics, not to replace the current CFO. “I am an insurance agent by the day,” Orr said. “I don't know public finances at all. I wanted somebody to help educate me.” At that same finance meeting, Orr double-downed on his support for Dowling although she’s among a few top administrators whose contracts were not extended by the board in June. She could still be extended as her contract expires next June. According to the proposed contract, Bondry would receive $4,000 monthly for up to six months on retainer. Dowling is paid about $153,000 annually. Bondry's fee would be in addition to Dowling's salary. Bondry, who has done some financial work for traditional public schools, seeks out all opportunities to share their services because they are a business, said Bondry’s founder and principal Oscar Gutierrez. Bondry would be brought in to provide financial consulting services, including advice on financial goals and recommendations on the district’s financial management strategy among other things, according to Bondry's proposal. According to Thomas’ campaign finance reports, Bondry Consulting’s Cris Dorman, director of communications, created some of Thomas' marketing materials during her 2020 school board election campaign. Brandrenew, Dorman’s public relations agency, helped with Thomas’ website and other marketing materials. The company, an Indianapolis-based PR and marketing team, is declared as “Brand New” on the campaign finance form. Thomas said she had no prior knowledge of this and learned of it from questions IndyStar asked about the relationship. “Two and a half years ago, someone in my campaign recommended for him to do advertising work,” Thomas said. “I personally did not work with him.” Lang, who said she was unaware of the connection between Thomas and Dorman, called it “irrelevant”. Last month, Thomas and Gutierrez sat next to each other at an HSE finance committee meeting. It happened by chance, Thomas said, although she went on to recommend Bondry as the board’s financial advisors. She did so because of their reputation, she added. It was also a coincidence that Dorman performed this work before joining Bondry, Gutierrez wrote in a statement to IndyStar. “The implications that Bondry was chosen as a finalist due to political contributions instead of professional expertise is factually incorrect,” Gutierrez said. Gutierrez called it disappointing that Dowling would "discredit our qualifications" by implying that a staff member's "non-relevant work" before joining the firm posed a conflict. Dowling also raised Bondry’s experience, or lack thereof, with traditional public schools beyond advising on bonds. Manchester Community Schools hired Bondry to issue bonds but they did some work beyond that, Gutierrez said. No other traditional public school financing work was listed in Bondry’s recent transactions, according to their proposal. Gutierrez previously served as the city of Fishers first controller and senior director of facility strategy and financing for The Mind Trust, an Indianapolis-based education group that has developed a number of charter schools. The school board did not seek out proposals from various financial groups through a formal process. Rather, they are pursuing possible consultants, like Bondry, directly. Indiana law allows them to contract services how they choose. With the monetary expense being so small, Lang said an RFP was not needed because they could move to a month-to-month scenario at any point. Orr said although he does not see $4,000 as a small amount of money, there’s a timeline to keep. “If somebody is going to help us with this project before November 1,” Orr said, “They needed to start yesterday.” The board has fast-approaching deadlines for HSE’s budget in addition to a referendum renewal on the Nov. 7 ballot that is needed to sustain more than $26 million of annual funding. Board members have yet to vote on this matter. In fact, the finance committee has yet to send the question of hiring a consultant to the full board. Bondry is still interested in the district’s business and won’t walk away from the chance to assist people who asked for their expertise, Gutierrez told IndyStar. The board members' handling of the process, Dowling said, caught her by surprise. She first learned of the contract proposal when she saw it on a agenda and then Gutierrez attended a finance meeting. “Whether it’s happenstance or not, the optics are not great,” Dowling said at the finance meeting. “(S)o I think the reaction would be normal to say, ‘Hold on a second.’” Rachel Fradette is a suburban education reporter at IndyStar. Contact her at rfradette@gannett.com or follow her on Twitter at @Rachel_Fradette. This article originally appeared on Indianapolis Star: HSE is seeking outside financial consulting; their CFO has questions New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.