Top-Female-Entrepreneurs-Collage 2022- ... [+] https://globalwomanmagazine.com/top-10-female-entrepreneurs-guiding-us-into-a-better-2022/ Women founders only got 1.9% of venture capital in 2022, according to TechCrunch and PitchBook. Let that sink in a moment. That means, 98.2% of all venture capital investments went to men. Women are over 50% of the U.S. population yet, the majority of the companies they founded are essentially blocked from getting venture capital funding. This is despite the fact that women-owned businesses earn a whopping 63% higher return on investment than male-only founded firms, according to First Round Capital and Shelly Porges, Co-Founder and Managing Partner of the Billion Dollar Fund for Women, and Beyond The Billion. Bias in “directing traffic” Meredith Shields, Citi Meredith Shields, Managing Director and Head of Citi Impact Fund blames this on bias in the investment decision-making process. She said bias is due to not enough women “directing traffic and asset allocation” in venture capital and private equity. “The private capital markets in general, they're very, very relationship-based. They're very network-based. They're taking an exorbitant amount of risk usually…. (so) you're dealing in trust, and trust is something that has a high potential for bias,” she explained in an exclusive interview. Screenshot - All Raise on women investors at VC firms - 2020 Dealmaker reported in April 2023 that impact investing has grown, that is the sector that seeks to have a societal impact with its investments, which includes criteria for diverse founders. Referring to research from Fidelity, Dealmaker said, “This sector has shown steady growth in recent years; globally, the impact investing market grew from $420.91 billion in 2022 to $495.82 billion in 2023 (a 17.8% compound annual growth rate).” Yet, 65% of venture capital firms have no women partners, according to All Raise. How does Citi Impact Fund reduce bias in its investments? Citi Impact Fund is taking intentional steps to reduce bias in their own investing, Shields said. It includes steps during the investment decision-making process and collecting and tracking the metrics closely. Here are the steps she said they are taking: 1. Examining every step of the investment process: “The way that the Impact Fund is doing that is…We have looked at every step of our investment process and identified where can the bias come in,” Shields explained. Unsplash, by Brooke Lark 2. Changing how founders are introduced: She said the process can even start with bias that can show up in seemingly little things, such as how a founder is introduced in the first place. “It’s very normal in the financial investment industry to introduce a founder by talking about where they went to school and how you know them,” she explained. “And that might seem on the surface, like a very normal interaction. What it does though, it introduces bias from the onset. We haven't even talked about what the company does. So, things like that we are removing from our investment process and being thoughtful about, we're also tracking metrics really closely.” Screenshot - Citi Impact Fund allocations 3. Measuring metrics: Specifics they measure include: “How are we doing when this many women come in? How many? Is it proportionate? The types of women-led investments that we're investing in.” 4. Feeding the pipeline: “Importantly, we're also trying to enhance the pipeline….I've heard investors say, well, I can't invest in women and people of color because there isn't enough pipeline. And I think many would say, it's not that there isn't enough pipeline, it's that it's not in your pipeline. And so you need to go out with some intentionality and look for diversity outside of your network… 5. Partnering with diverse networks: To address the pipeline problem, Shields said they find organizations and accelerators that are hooked into the populations they seek to access. “We've built networks with different accelerator type organizations” to access diverse founders. Cautioning that these are not the magic solution, Shields added, “there's no silver bullet to a solution here. It's an evolution. And, it's a willingness to continue to evaluate and try new things. And that's where we are.” They clearly perceive these strategies as successful, because she said, “today over 70% of our companies are led by women and people of color, which are very proud of. Those numbers are quite a bit higher than the traditional investing sector.” This bias towards white men in venture capital investments, she emphasized, “It's something we've got to fix.” Listen to the full interview with Citi’s Meredith Shields here.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.