Cisco Systems is now ranked among the top 25 undervalued stocks included in the Dow Jones Composite Index. A stock is considered undervalued if it trades at a discount to its valuation – a calculation used to determine the intrinsic (true) worth of a company. Valuation methodology provided by Stockcalc (see below).  Stocks in this market cap category are held primarily for capital appreciation and/or dividends. Inclusion in a major index means a company ranks among the largest in their market. This also implies stability by-way of institutional support for the stock by index funds.      All data provided as-at market close July 19, 2023. The list is sorted by stocks with the greatest percentage difference between valuation and price. Cisco Systems Cisco Systems is the largest provider of networking equipment in the world and one of the largest software companies in the world. Its largest businesses are selling networking hardware and software (where it has leading market shares) and cybersecurity software like firewalls. It also has collaboration products, like its Webex suite, and observability tools. It primarily outsources its manufacturing to third parties and has a large sales and marketing staff—25,000 strong across 90 countries. Cisco Systems is listed under CSCO on the NASDAQ. StockCalc is a Canadian fintech company specializing in fundamental valuations for North American stocks and ETFs. StockCalc valuations (https://www.stockcalc.com/Resources) can help determine if a stock is undervalued. StockCalc's Weighted Average Valuation (WAV) is based on a proprietary calculation using model and analyst inputs, including: Discounted Cash Flow (DCF), Price & Other Comparables, Multiples, Adjusted Book Value (ABV) and Analyst Consensus AI at The Globe and Mail This report is produced using automated technology that summarizes market data into articles for our readers. Ongoing project experiments that leverage artificial intelligence include valuation screens across 14 categories and end-of-day Closing Summary reports for all North American securities. All market data (will open in new tab) is provided by Barchart Solutions. Copyright © 2024. Information is provided 'as is' and solely for informational purposes, not for trading purposes or advice. For exchange delays and terms of use, please read disclaimer (will open in new tab). © Copyright 2024 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. Andrew Saunders, President and CEO