PROVIDENCE, R.I.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Citizens today announced a partnership with Trek Bicycle, a global leader in the design and manufacturing of bicycles and related products, to make consumer financing simple and easy for Trek customers. Through Citizens Pay, a market-leading financing solution from Citizens, consumers looking for reliable and innovative cycling products to match their lifestyle now have access to flexible payment options at more than 1,400 Trek retailers globally.

  
“We are committed to fueling consumers’ passions through innovative financial solutions, giving them more purchasing power and freedom to explore the outdoors through high-quality products,” said Christine Roberts, Executive Vice President and President of Citizens Pay. “By partnering with Trek to offer new installment financing, customers have more options so they don’t have to compromise on the quality of their equipment and can instead focus on where their next ride will take them.”

 
Trek Financing powered by Citizens Pay is now available for in-store Trek purchases and will be available for online purchases through TrekBikes.com later this year. Cycling enthusiasts can purchase a range of Trek products, including mountain, road, electric, hybrid and kids bikes, as well as accessories, apparel, parts, and services, through predictable monthly installments. Customers who qualify will benefit from Citizens’ ability to offer low interest rates and predictable monthly payments.

 
“We are excited to partner with Citizens Pay to offer our customers flexible payment solutions,” says Chad Brown, Trek Bicycle CFO. “At Trek, we are committed to providing incredible hospitality. With Trek Financing, customers are guaranteed a frictionless buying experience with the ability to get out on their bike in the same day."

 
Citizens Pay is a market leader in point-of-sale installment financing, offering a responsible way for consumers to pay for large purchases in fixed, monthly payments, while providing retailers and merchants with tailored, embedded financing options that drive customer loyalty. For additional details, visit www.citizenspay.com.

 
About Citizens Financial Group, Inc.
Citizens Financial Group, Inc. is one of the nation’s oldest and largest financial institutions, with $223.1 billion in assets as of June 30, 2023. Headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island, Citizens offers a broad range of retail and commercial banking products and services to individuals, small businesses, middle-market companies, large corporations and institutions. Citizens helps its customers reach their potential by listening to them and by understanding their needs in order to offer tailored advice, ideas and solutions. In Consumer Banking, Citizens provides an integrated experience that includes mobile and online banking, a full-service customer contact center and the convenience of approximately 3,400 ATMs and approximately 1,100 branches in 14 states and the District of Columbia. Consumer Banking products and services include a full range of banking, lending, savings, wealth management and small business offerings. In Commercial Banking, Citizens offers a broad complement of financial products and solutions, including lending and leasing, deposit and treasury management services, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity risk management solutions, as well as loan syndication, corporate finance, merger and acquisition, and debt and equity capital markets capabilities. More information is available at www.citizensbank.com or visit us on Twitter, LinkedIn or Facebook.

 
About Trek Bicycle
Trek Bicycle is a global leader in the design and manufacturing of bicycles and related products. Trek believes the bicycle can be a simple solution to many of the world's most complex problems and is committed to breaking down the barriers that prevent people from using bicycles more often for transportation, recreation, and inspiration.

 
Eleni Garbis
eleni.garbis@citizensbank.com 
781-471-2233

 
Eleni Garbis
eleni.garbis@citizensbank.com 
781-471-2233

