Robert W. Baird analyst David George maintained a Buy rating on Citizens Financial (CFG – Research Report) today and set a price target of $44.00. The company’s shares opened today at $27.28. George covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Comerica, PNC Financial, and Regions Financial. According to TipRanks, George has an average return of 4.6% and a 52.94% success rate on recommended stocks.  The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for Citizens Financial with a $39.19 average price target, implying a 43.66% upside from current levels. In a report released on May 19, Goldman Sachs also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $34.00 price target. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  CFG market cap is currently $12.67B and has a P/E ratio of 6.54.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 108 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is positive on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders buying their shares of CFG in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Citizens Financial Group, Inc. engages in the provision of commercial banking services. It operates through the following segments: Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The Consumer Banking segment includes deposit products, mortgage and home equity lending, student loans, auto financing, credit cards, business loans, and wealth management and investment services. The Commercial Banking segment offers lending and leasing, trade financing, deposit and treasury management, foreign exchange and interest rate risk management, corporate finance and debt, and equity capital markets. The company was founded in 1828 and is headquartered in Providence, RI.  Read More on CFG: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks