CEO and cofounder at Rootstack. I lead digital accelerations for companies across all industries.   A new year begins, and a new page opens for software development. Companies worldwide have seen how a technological tool—be it a mobile application or a website—became their best ally when it comes to increasing company productivity and profits. All this is possible thanks to the use of programming languages. Programming languages ​​have been around for more than 30 years in the computer industry. They're what help developers and engineers create all the applications and websites we interact with daily. Over the years, hundreds of programming languages ​​have emerged, each with specific characteristics that make them ideal for any project that a company has in mind. As 2023 begins, here are five that I expect to remain or emerge as the most in-demand based on my experience as a leader in a company that develops and designs software solutions. Before tackling the list of the most in-demand programming languages ​​for 2023, let's see which ones ranked first in popularity in 2022. In a list of the top programming languages used by developers in 2022, released by Statista analysts, JavaScript came in first. It was closely followed by HTML, then SQL, Python and TypeScript, in that order. With this in mind, let's look at the programming languages ​​you should require from your software partner in 2023. Coming in a respectable fourth place in 2022, Python is expected to be the most popular programming language in the year ahead. It's one of the most versatile programming languages ​​on the market, used not only to create applications and websites but also to automate daily tasks and processes within a company's work teams. In addition, it's used for data analysis and visualization. Because it's relatively easy to learn, it's also used by nonprogrammers. For example, accountants, scientists and people in other professions use it in their daily activities. It will drop one place, but the most popular programming language will still dominate in 2023 due to its functionality and adaptability to any type of project. It's a language that can be defined as dynamic, interpreted and of a high level, used mainly for web applications and PDF files. It's one of the most widely used languages ​​due to its low weight and its ability to adapt to any browser, so websites and applications created with JavaScript will have no problem being viewed from any device. This is one of the oldest languages and one that will regain its place at the top of the popularity charts in 2023. Since its creation in 1995, Java has evolved to become a force in today's digital world, being the language used as the core of many of the web pages we visit regularly. Java is a programming language used to develop Android apps, business software, mobile apps, scientific-type apps, data analysis, hardware device programming and more. This is one of the most popular programming languages ​​when it comes to creating animations, games and mobile apps. In addition to these, C++ is a friendly programming language for the business environment, standing out in the creation of e-commerce platforms and pages, desktop applications and websites in general. In terms of its benefits for developers, C++ provides excellent tools for managing large and complex projects, as well as having an extensive community that provides regular support and updates. PHP is a programming language that hasn't been among the most popular in recent years, but it's expected that it will make a comeback in 2023. It's used most often in the creation of personalized web content, especially for companies that need a scalable webpage with specific functionalities. In addition to this, PHP can send and receive cookies. It can be integrated with popular databases, such as PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL and MySQL. It has a large community, which is why there are several tools and frameworks available, and it also offers help in case of errors in writing code. There's a programming language for every project, application, website and tool that your business requires today, thanks to the large range of programming languages available on the market. When it's time to collaborate on a new project with your software partner, do your research, use this list as a guide for which programming language to use and make sure you have the one that best meets the project's requirements and enables you to produce a result that the users will be happy with. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 