The Manufacturing Enterprise SolutionsAssociation (MESA.org) and LNSResearch recently released their biannual“Analytics That Matter” survey results,titled “Driving Real Results with IndustrialAnalytics.” It is full of insights into the valueand advantages gained by industry leadersfrom investing in analytics technologies andimplementation recommended approaches. Thereport from MESA and LNS shows that leadersin applying analytics are significantly outpacingfollowers with their ability to make better decisionsfaster and with greater agility. If your organization is hesitating to makeinvestments in improving manufacturinganalytics, the results of the MESA and LNSresearch highlight the value to be gained fromthese technologies. Survey respondents noted that the top threedrivers of their investment in analytics werereducing costs, improving profitability, and riskmanagement. These are issues in which financeshould be providing advice and guidance. Companies identified in the survey as analyticsleaders focused on pushing the benefitsof the analytics “down the organization” toempower production workers and supervisorsto become more efficient and effective on thefactory floor and make data empowered decisionsthat improve quality and reduce costs.“Leaders” in the use of analytics were almost300% more likely than followers to build fullyintegrated teams of data scientists and manufacturingpersonnel to identify problems andarrive at solutions. Analytics “followers,” on theother hand, typically maintained separate organizationsfor data scientists and manufacturingpersonnel. Leaders also provide data analyticstraining widely across the organization to “buildan army of citizen data scientists” capable ofimproving operations and using decision supportinformation more effectively. Interestingly, leading companies did not havemanufacturing teams leading their analytics initiatives.Instead, they want their manufacturing personnelfocused on getting product out the door. Manufacturing team members were activelyengaged in these analytics initiatives, but supportfunctions such as quality, safety, andmaintenance were the ones leading the projects.Followers tended to have plant managers,manufacturing/operations, or operations technologyteams responsible for leading analyticsinitiatives, which tends to slow the progress ofanalytics initiatives. While data quality and technology issueswere the most frequently listed as causingproblems for analytics initiatives, the biggerissue was “gathering buy-in from operations,business, and plant level personnel” closest toa root cause. The study showed that analyticsleaders looked at their initiatives as people,process, and technology challenges and appliedequal resources and effort to support each ofthe three dimensions. What finance can doManufacturing finance staffs can facilitate andhelp create the organizational will and capabilityneeded to make the investments in analyticsand modernization. Finance needs to serveas a business partner with manufacturing, IT,and value support functions to rapidly identifyand quantify the business benefits that canbe gained. Analytics benefits can range fromimproving the ability to track small changeson the factory floor to providing insights toreconfigure customer, production, or logisticsprocesses for greater efficiency and customersatisfaction. All of which can result in significantfinancial gains for the business. Finance can also help make new improvementprojects more understandable to seniororganizational leadership, allowing project leadershipto focus on innovation, implementation,and achieving results rather than continuouslyjustifying and re-justifying their expenses,funding needs, and proving the benefits theyare creating. Leaders relevant to this article: