
	Racial bias built into a common medical test for lung function is likely leading to fewer Black patients getting care for breathing problems, a study published Thursday suggests. 
	As many as 40% more Black male patients in the study might have been diagnosed with breathing problems if current diagnosis-assisting computer software was changed, the study said. 
	Doctors have long discussed the potential problems caused by race-based assumptions that are built into diagnostic software. This study, published in JAMA Network Open, offers one of the first real-world examples of how the the issue may affect diagnosis and care for lung patients, said Dr. Darshali Vyas, a pulmonary care doctor at Massachusetts General Hospital. 
	The results are "exciting" to see published but it's also "what we'd expect" from setting aside race-based calculations, said Vyas, who was an author of an influential 2020 New England Journal of Medicine article that catalogued examples of how race-based assumptions are used in making doctors' decisions about patient care. 
	For centuries, some doctors and others have held beliefs that there are natural racial differences in health, including one that Black people's lungs were innately worse than those of white people. That assumption ended up in modern guidelines and algorithms for assessing risk and deciding on further care. Test results were adjusted to account for -- or "correct" for -- a patient's race or ethnicity. 
	One example beyond lung function is a heart failure risk-scoring system that categorizes Black patients as being at lower risk and less likely to need referral for special cardiac care. Another is an equation used in determining kidney function that creates estimates of higher kidney function in Black patients. 
	The new study focused on a test to determine how much and how quickly a person can inhale and exhale. It's often done using a spirometer -- a device with a mouthpiece connected to a small machine. 
	After the test, doctors get a report that has been run through computer software and scores the patient's ability breathe. It helps indicate whether a patient has restrictions and needs further testing or care for things like asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder or lung scarring due to air pollutant exposure. 
	Algorithms that adjust for race raise the threshold for diagnosing a problem in Black patients and may make them less likely to get started on certain medications or to be referred for medical procedures or even lung transplants, Vyas said. 
	While physicians also look at symptoms, lab work, X-rays and family histories of breathing problems, the pulmonary function testing can be an important part of diagnoses, "especially when patients are borderline," said Dr. Albert Rizzo, the chief medical officer at the American Lung Association. 
	The new study looked at more than 2,700 Black men and 5,700 white men tested by University of Pennsylvania Health System doctors between 2010 and 2020. The researchers looked at spirometry and lung volume measurements and assessed how many were deemed to have breathing impairments under the race-based algorithm as compared to under a new algorithm. 
	Researchers concluded there would be nearly 400 additional cases of lung obstruction or impairment in Black men with the new algorithm. 
	Earlier this year, the American Thoracic Society, which represents lung-care doctors, issued a statement recommending replacement of race-focused adjustments. But the organization also put a call out for more research, including into the best way to modify software and whether making a change might inadvertently lead to overdiagnosis of lung problems in some patients. 
	Vyas noted some other algorithms have already been changed to drop race-based assumptions, including one for pregnant women that predicts risks of vaginal delivery if the mom previously had a cesarean section. 
	Changing the lung-testing algorithm may take longer, Vyas said, especially if different hospitals use different versions of race-adjusting procedures and software. 
	------ 
	The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Science and Educational Media Group. The AP is solely responsible for all content. Protesters broke through a fence set up by police near the site of the Democratic National Convention on its opening day Monday as thousands took to the streets to voice their opposition to the war in Gaza.  The Conservative Party of Canada has deleted a video that promoted Canadian values but featured what the Defence Minister's office says are Russian fighter jets.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  Speaking from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on Monday, the Canadian ambassador to the United States says Canada is 'starting from a very good position' with the Democrats’ presidential ticket of Kamala Harris and Tim Walz.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  A Cambridge woman is calling for action after her dog was attacked by two off-leash dogs late last month.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month. The federal political party's decision comes as some embassies, civil servants, and local organizations pulled out of the event amid the controversy.  The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  A new movie starring Hollywood heavyweights Robert Pattinson, Jennifer Lawrence and LaKeith Stanfield began filming in Calgary Monday.  Several people were injured during a rollover crash at a busy intersection in Surrey, B.C., on Monday afternoon, including an infant.  A Cambridge woman is calling for action after her dog was attacked by two off-leash dogs late last month.  Residents of a Manitoba community are in shock following an apparent triple homicide and suicide last week, as RCMP continues to investigate.  The Transportation Safety Board of Canada says it found a number of safety deficiencies in its investigation into a Toronto ferry crash that injured 12 people two years ago.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  U.S. intelligence officials said Monday they were confident that Iran was responsible for the hack of Donald Trump's presidential campaign, casting the cyber intrusion as part of a brazen and broader effort by Tehran to interfere in American politics and potentially shape the outcome of the election.  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Monday that Israel has accepted a proposal to bridge differences holding up a ceasefire and hostage release in Gaza, and he called on Hamas to do the same, without saying whether concerns cited by the militant group had been addressed.  The parents of a former student accused of killing 10 people in a 2018 school shooting near Houston cannot be held responsible for what happened, a jury decided Monday.  Protesters broke through a fence set up by police near the site of the Democratic National Convention on its opening day Monday as thousands took to the streets to voice their opposition to the war in Gaza.  A former Saudi official on Monday alleged that Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman forged his father's signature on the royal decree that launched the kingdom's yearslong, stalemated war against Yemen's Houthi rebels.  Former U.S. Rep. George Santos pleaded guilty Monday to committing wire fraud and aggravated identity theft in connection with the federal fraud case that led to his expulsion from U.S. Congress.  Speaking from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on Monday, the Canadian ambassador to the United States says Canada is 'starting from a very good position' with the Democrats’ presidential ticket of Kamala Harris and Tim Walz.  The appointment of longtime broadcaster Charles Adler to the Senate is being criticized in some quarters, including by a member of the federal cabinet.  The Conservative Party of Canada has deleted a video that promoted Canadian values but featured what the Defence Minister's office says are Russian fighter jets.  A man who says he suffers from chronic and worsening mental health issues is among those launching a court challenge of the federal government assisted dying law, which excludes people suffering solely from a mental disorder.  Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island are the only provinces that offer post-secondary students free vaccination against meningitis B, a rare but deadly bacterial infection.  Foreign Affairs Minister Mélanie Joly says Canada will provide $1 million to help stem mpox in Africa as her government assembles a long-delayed plan on how to engage with the continent.  An archeology student unearthed seven 'spectacular' Viking-era curled silver arm rings earlier this year north of Denmark's second-largest city, a Danish museum said on Monday, adding the finding has ties to Russia, Ukraine and the British Isles.  Social media platforms TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat spent last school year embroiled in a lawsuit accusing them of disrupting learning, contributing to a mental health crisis among youth and leaving teachers to manage the fallout.  A four-person crew for SpaceX's Polaris Dawn mission arrived in Florida on Monday ahead of its Aug. 26 launch to space for a mission that includes the first privately managed spacewalk, a risky endeavour only government astronauts have done in the past.  Harvey Weinstein will remain in custody in New York while awaiting retrial on rape and sexual assault charges in Manhattan, prosecutors confirmed Monday.  Two 18-year-old men have been charged with murder in the killing of former 'General Hospital' actor Johnny Wactor.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  The Canadian Federation of Independent Business says a potential work stoppage at Canada's major railways this week could be devastating for small businesses.  U.S. stocks climbed Monday as Wall Street pulls closer to its record heights following its roller coaster of a summer.  Young people on social media are showing off their 12-year-old water bottles, sweaters from high school with patched holes and dish rags made from cut up old T-shirts.  A witty pun about a sailing trip has been crowned the funniest joke told at this year's Edinburgh Festival Fringe.  One artist has developed a cult following and acclaim that eclipsed his 'traditional' paint and sculpture works.  The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris.  A former NFL player accused of drunkenly hitting one man and urinating on another during a flight from Boston to Dublin has been arrested and charged with disorderly conduct, the Massachusetts State Police said Monday.  The Edmonton Oilers traded defenseman Cody Ceci and a third-round draft pick in 2025 to the San Jose Sharks on Sunday for defenseman Ty Emberson.  General Motors said Monday it is laying off more than 1,000 salaried employees at its software and service units worldwide.  A man from the Greater Toronto Area said he was refused a car rental because he wanted to pay with a prepaid credit card.  Newer vehicles come with a slew of standard safety features that make driving feel safer for teenagers getting behind the wheel.  The Twilite Drive-in Theatre has been serving movie lovers for decades.  More than a dozen children who have been diagnosed with chronic illnesses were given an unforgettable experience on the way to Sunday’s BC Lions game.  Decades of durability have been added to one of Canada’s most photographed lighthouses, the Swallowtail Lighthouse on New Brunswick’s Grand Manan Island.  After four open heart surgeries, 10-year-old Samih Angelo Alame is thriving and ready to hit Grade Six running.  The owners of a thrift store on Vancouver's Granville strip are fed up after spending $300,000 to fight off what they describe as escalating crime over the past three years.  In light of World Honey Bee Day on Saturday, local beekeepers recognized the crucial role that honey bees play in the ecosystem.  A video of a rooster in the back of a Regina police cruiser has been making its rounds on social media.  At least one runner at the Edmonton marathon on Sunday will be strapping on a pair of stilettos at the starting line.  London, Ont.'s Tessa Virtue has welcomed her first child with husband and Toronto Maple Leafs defenceman, Morgan Rielly.  When the Bush Creek East fire went from a slow burn to a full conflagration on Aug. 18 of 2023, members of the Skwlax te Secwepemculecw First Nation fled for their lives, some jumping into canoes and boats to escape the raging flames. One year later, they spoke about their experiences and celebrated everyone’s safe escape.  The union representing Air Canada pilots says job action could happen next month if a new collective agreement isn’t reached.  Several people were injured during a rollover crash at a busy intersection in Surrey, B.C., on Monday afternoon, including an infant.  Toronto has shattered records for the wettest summer season after a weekend of intense rain and windy weather.  Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  Zanne Fernwood was running some errands on her motorbike in Toronto's Greektown area late Monday afternoon when she unexpectedly became a witness to a spectacular crash involving a black hot rod.  A suspicious death Friday evening in the northwest Calgary community of Carrington has community members concerned.  British Columbia’s health minister took time during a recent city council meeting to emphasize the province’s success in retaining and recruiting nurses compared to Alberta.  A new movie starring Hollywood heavyweights Robert Pattinson, Jennifer Lawrence and LaKeith Stanfield began filming in Calgary Monday.  The number of organizations and leaders in Ottawa pulling out of Capital Pride events continues to grow in response to a statement the group made expressing solidarity with Palestinians last week.  Ottawa Mayor Mark Sutcliffe met with Ontario Premier Doug Ford on Monday, but there is still no commitment from the province on funding for transit services as the mayor warns of looming cuts without help from upper levels of government.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  t's been 10 days since the big rainstorm caused flooding across Montreal, and one street in Dorval was especially hit hard.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  Jason Michael Olivo lives in the Jardins Victoria condo complex in Lachine. His unit flooded in July of last year. Now it has happened again.  Workers at Canada's two main railways could go on strike as early as Thursday, stranding $55 million worth of Alberta cargo per day.  It's "early days" on the plan to rebuild Jasper following wildfires that destroyed a third of the picturesque town in the majestic Alberta Rockies, says the province's minister of municipal affairs.  One year ago, an esteemed arctic climate researcher died while conducting field work in a remote part of the Canadian arctic, prompting the University of Alberta to review and enhance its safety protocols for field researchers.  The sentencing hearing for the youth charged with stabbing two staff members at Charles P. Allen High School in Bedford, N.S., resumed on Monday morning.  A search for a kayaker who went missing in Halifax on Sunday is underway.  Two lifeguards who helped rescue four swimmers at Black Brook Beach along the Cabot Trail in Cape Breton said high waves created a dangerous situation on Sunday.  Residents of a Manitoba community are in shock following an apparent triple homicide and suicide last week, as RCMP continues to investigate.  A Winnipeg business owner wants something to be done after his office was broken into at least four times in the past two months.  The first group of dogs – who were part of a seizure of over 130 pups from a home north of Winnipeg – are ready for adoption.  Day one of an inquest into the death of Nicole Lafontaine, a 31-year-old woman who fell from a fifth story window of Regina's YWCA building, has officially wrapped.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  No injuries were reported after the smell of smoke and haze forced the evacuation of Regina's Cornwall Centre Monday morning.  The community of Ayr, Ont. is starting to rebuild after a destructive EF1 tornado tore its way through the village over the weekend.  A Cambridge woman is calling for action after her dog was attacked by two off-leash dogs late last month.  The Dutchie’s Fresh Food Market on Gateway Park Drive in Kitchener appears to be closed.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  The mayor of Sandy Bay, a remote northern village, said the community has declared a state of emergency, as an intense wildfire threatens the area.  A Saskatoon man faces a second-degree murder charge after the remains of Jordan Lee Morin were found at a home in Riversdale on Friday.  In hopes that it will help their investigation, Greater Sudbury Police have released the name of a man who was found dead at Bell on July 31  Sometimes, despite couples' best efforts to stay together, marriages come to an end far earlier than either party hoped or predicted. Here is some advice from Barry Nussbaum, a family lawyer who has counselled countless couples, about the details you don't want to neglect when getting divorced.  A sentencing hearing began Monday in a Sudbury for Liam Stinson, who was found guilty in May of three counts of first-degree murder and arson causing bodily harm.  An arrest was made after a two-hour standoff in West Lorne Monday afternoon.  Critics of leadership at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) are calling the departure of two high paid executives a step in the right direction.  Member of Parliament for London North Centre, Peter Fragiskatos, was in Sarnia Monday on behalf of the agriculture minister to announce a sizable donation to Bioindustrial Innovation Canada (BIC).  Thick smoke has blanketed much of Barrie after a fire broke out at a scrapyard in central Barrie on Monday morning.  Shawn Ladoceur is one of several individuals with intellectual disabilities who lived at one of two group homes that were recently closed by the not-for-profit organization due to a lack of provincial funding.  A Woodbridge, Ont. man accused of murder in the 2010 death of his friend will stand trial in March.  An Essex County family is hoping for help after a recent turn of events left them searching for solutions to find proper long term care for a loved one.  As water leaks into both his child's bedroom and the family room of his west-end apartment unit, Daniel Banner says his family is stuck in a precarious housing situation they can’t escape.  Dozens of people gathered on Windsor’s riverfront to commemorate the 82th anniversary of the Dieppe Raid.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  The Sooke School District has acquired a 7.2-acre plot of land in North Langford to build a middle school, as enrollment within the district continues to grow.  The union representing Air Canada pilots says job action could happen next month if a new collective agreement isn’t reached.  Mounties in West Kelowna are looking for a suspect they say broke into a local home while a mother and her child were inside.  When the McDougall Creek fire sparked on Aug. 15, 2023, no one could’ve imagined it would mushroom in size, consuming homes, infrastructure and livelihoods in the West Kelowna area with damage that will take years to address.  Thieves in B.C.'s Okanagan recently made off with an enclosed trailer containing a classic muscle car, local police say.  Trucks have started rolling into what will become Lethbridge’s Whoop-Up Days midway.  More than 1,500 backpacks have been filled with back-to-school essentials for those in need ahead of the school year.  Lethbridge post-secondary schools are trying to help out students feeling the financial pinch, as a new survey reveals a quarter of Canadian students have thought about dropping out due to increasing costs.  A bacon-flavoured vodka designed specifically for a popular Canadian cocktail and made in Sudbury, Ont., is now being carried by the LCBO.  An Ontario Provincial Police officer noticed a strong smell of cannabis during a traffic stop Sunday in Espanola. Further investigation uncovered drugs and weapons.  After a crow tested positive for West Nile virus, Algoma Public Health says a human case has also been confirmed.  Newfoundland has caught a lucky break with Hurricane Ernesto expected to pass south of the island, but the fast-moving storm will still bring a lot of rain in a short time overnight on Monday, Environment Canada says.  The project of the university's Folklore and Language Archive aims to find the first names of women who contributed remedies, recipes and local beliefs, but were only credited as a 'missus,' with their husband's last name and often his first name or initials.  Hurricane Ernesto is expected to pass Bermuda and make its way south of the Maritimes on Monday, then approach Newfoundland and Labrador later that day, a Canadian meteorological expert advised on Friday.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. © 2024 

 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy