Mighty Mukuru Wanderers on Sunday made a winning start to the campaign to top the 2023 TNM Super League table on goal aggregate. The Nomads beat Civil Service (Civo) United of Lilongwe 2-0 at Kamuzu Stadium in Blantyre on Sunday. They are tied on three points with second-placed Mafco of Salima, who beat Chitipa United 2-1 and third-placed Mighty Tigers, another Blantyre side who registered a 1-0 win over rookies Extreme FC from Mchinji. It was a perfect tonic for the Lali Lubani Road outfit who three days earlier unveiled a K760 million sponsorship from Mukuru, Ekhaya Farm Foods Limited and Thomson & Barbara Mpinganjira Foundation. The Nomads took the lead after 27 minutes through Christopher Kumwembe who punished his former team from a Misheck Botomani pass. Six minutes later, the Nomads were two up. This time Botomani turned from an architect to a scorer. In the second half, the Civil Servants tried to come back into the game, but Wanderers held on firmly. Civo coach Oscar Kaunda conceded that his charges did not play well. He said: “We lacked confidence and appeared to give Wanderers respect. We lacked confidence going upfront, but we’ll work on that.” On his part, Nomads coach Mark Harrison hailed his charges for the win. He said: “I would say our performance was hot-and-cold. We started slowly, but we picked up leading to the two goals and Civo never hurt us. “I am happy with the clean sheet and the performance.” In other matches, Blue Eagles, who finished as runners-up last season, were held to a one-all draw by Zomba-based Red Red Lions at Nankhaka Ground in Lilongwe. Dedza Dynamos Salima Sugar were also held by at home by rookies Bangwe All Stars of Blantyre one-one. Moyale Barracks also played out a goalless draw against Lilongwe-based Kamuzu Barracks at Mzuzu Stadium. Out of the eight opening matches, five ended in draws Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ