The latest trends and issues around the use of open source software in the enterprise. A British cloud computing company you say? With a specialism in Kubernetes platform development and the drive to create what the company like to call a wider Kubernetes ecosystem, really? Well yes, they don’t come around too often, but the Computer Weekly Developer Network team has been charting (Ed: Kubernetes, mariners and helmsmen, chart – yeah, we see what you did there, very amusing) the work Civo carries out since the US leg of its developer, user, customer, partner event and speaking to the company about its PaaS strategy intently.  What is Civo then? The company positions itself as the ‘only’ pure-play cloud-native service provider with a specific dedication to Kubernetes. Civo Navigate is a tech conference composed of with talks and workshops focused on bringing together the cloud-native community and creating an environment where everyone can share ideas and collaborate with a view to professional education and skills. According to Mark Boost, CEO at Civo, “We were blown away by the positive response to our first Civo Navigate event earlier this year. For Civo Navigate Europe, I truly believe we have put together another talented speaker line-up that showcases the incredible work being doing in tech in 2023. Our audience in London can expect to be engaged and inspired by two days of dynamic, expert-led sessions. With topics ranging from open source innovation to making the most of Kubernetes, cutting-edge green technology to the future of cloud-native, there will be a session for everyone. I can’t wait to welcome people to Civo Navigate Europe in September.” Boost has further preview the show itself by eluding to several ‘major’ announcements, which we can reasonably assume to be Civo-platform-related and/or news that runs in line with key partners. Speakers at this year’s event include the fabulously named Winna Bridgewater, principal engineer at Syntasso. She will present with her colleague Abby Bangser with a session entitled Bringing Product Thinking to Your Platform. Winna works at Syntasso delivering Kratix, an open source framework for building internal platforms on Kubernetes. She’s using what she learned about how teams work from her years of teaching extreme programming and pairing with customer application development teams at various customers. Dave Stokes, technology evangelist at Percona will present: Why Databases Don’t “cloud” Well and What To Do About It! Ralph Meijer, VP of technology at Netdata, Inc. will present: Opinionated Observability Meijer himself is a lead software engineer with a special interest in distributed systems in general and messaging and observability in particular. He participates in Open Source communities and standards organisations and is currently serving as Chair of the XMPP Standards Foundation and VP of Technology for Netdata. Mark Allen, DevOps evangelist at DevCycle will present: How Not to Run Everything Locally: Using Civo and CodeZero to replace docker-compose. A special open source panel will feature Amanda Brock, CEO of OpenUK – Peter Zaitsev, founder of Percona – Matt Barker, president and co-founder of Jetstack – and Liz Rice, chief open source officer at Isovalent. Civo CEO Mark Boost will once again host the keynote and the special guest ‘inspirational’ speaker will be the man that almost attends as many technology conferences as skateboarder Tony Hawks – it’s developer advocate (and he is actually a really good speaker) Kelsey Hightower.  Civo Navigate Europe 2023 is being held on Tuesday 5th and Wednesday 6th September at London’s ‘The Brewery’ venue, located near Liverpool Street, Moorgate and Barbican stations.  Civo Tweets at @CivoCloud and the company favours hashtags including #k8s #k3s and #Kubernetes.   The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Product updates announced at Black Hat USA 2024 can help security teams better manage constantly changing attack surfaces and ... The global IT outage caused by an errant CrowdStrike channel file update dominated security news last month. But there were still... Reports suggest billions of personal records could have been compromised in the attack against data aggregator National Public ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Nutanix and Dell are expanding their partnership with a new appliance out now and a new HCI model that melds Dell PowerFlex with ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
