The Football Association of Malawi (FAM) has banned Mzuzu and Civo stadiums from hosting top-flight matches due to, among other things, poor condition of the pitches and sanitation. This follows complaints raised by some TNM Super League clubs, in particular Silver Strikers coach Pieter de Jongh and more recently Mighty Mukuru Wanderers gaffer Mark Harrison. A statement issued by FAM last evening says the matches that cannot be played at the facilities include TNM Super League and national phases of knockout competitions. It says the move follows an inspection the association conducted on July 27 at Mzuzu Stadium and Civo Stadium the following day, “which highlighted a number of shortfalls on the two facilities”. Reads the statement in part: “As for Mzuzu Stadium, the report highlights the following: Poor state of the pitch, unknown official authorized capacity, poor players’ tunnel, missing technical benches, poor condition of perimeter fence, poor dressing rooms, no public address system and dilapidated scoreboard. “For Civo Stadium, the main highlights are non-functional public toilets, unknown official authorised capacity, non-functional public address system, poor condition of perimeter fence and lack of scoreboard, among others.” It further says authorities for both stadiums have been notified of FAM’s position “and the urgent nature of the situation at hand”. Civil Service Sports Club manager Christopher Longwe confirmed receiving communication from FAM on the matter. He said: “I have just received the communication now. We had an inspection about two weeks ago. “What I can say is that the facility has been undergoing rehabilitation and Civo [Stadium] has improved and it is in perfect condition. “However, FAM’s major concerns are that a few toilets at our open stands are not working and they have been in such condition for some time. Actually, the toilets were among the projects that were being worked on ahead of the Region 5 Games and were not completed due to lack of funds. “FAM and I want the toilets to be functional. So, what I can say is that the contractor has assured me that the project will be finalised. Government is also keen that the works should be finalised.” Longwe said he is optimistic the works will be completed in the next two weeks. “Civo Stadium is home ground to three Super League teams and it cannot stay idle. So, we’ll ensure that the works are completed the soonest,” he said. On his part, Harrison said: “It’s right, the [Mzuzu Stadium] playing surface is a disgrace and to be fair, the dressing rooms and the facilities are awful and let’s be honest, the security is a shocker, like today after the game [against Ekwendeni Hammers] it was dangerous, , it was complete chaos. “I have not been to Civo Stadium, so I don’t know in what state it is. If the game is to get better then the facilities have to improve.” De Jongh is on record as having said Mzuzu Stadium pitch is even not fit to be the playing ground for his dogs while Harrison said the FAM officials who approved the stadium “must have been blind.” Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ