Aug. 7—DICKINSON — Amidst the muddy arena at the Stark County Fairgrounds on Saturday, bulls put on an impressive show, tossing riders while also slinging snot. Despite the day's early rain and cloudy backdrop, it was the bulls' time to shine at the Stark County Bull Team Challenge and Futurity. The first futurity contest began at 1 pm in the afternoon, and by the evening, the bull riding competition was in full swing. It proved to be an exciting event for both the beasts and the riders, with substantial winnings for young bulls showcasing their youthful tenacity in the futurity competition. The first two events, claimer and two-year-old futurity, required bulls to be connected to bucking dummies and have four-second hold times. Both events featured only two-year-old bulls. The derby featured three-year-old bulls, with their bucking dummies set for six-second holds. Allen Teller's bulls dominated the futurity events, claiming first place in claimer and derby, and second place in claimer as well. The total payout for Allen Teller's three bulls amounted to $3,600. Later in the evening, mature bulls were in the pen for the night's main bull riding event. Bull riders from 10 teams competed in two rounds to qualify for the six-team short-go finals. The riders competed both as individuals and as teams, with the bulls also receiving a payout based on their bucking performances. Bullfighter Justin Ward added an entertaining and comedic touch to the arena, not only with his daring dodges but also with his short "half-time" performance as an amusing pony farrier between the rounds. The crowd remained entertained, even with a short barrier racing competition before the short-go. At the end of the day, Billy Stepenson secured first prize with a payout of $2,440, followed by Colt Welsh with $1,830, and Tell Jacobs earned the bronze with $1,220. Upcoming events at the Stark County Fairgrounds include the Wrangler Roping on Saturday and Sunday, August 26-27, followed by the two-day Dakota Community Bank & Trust PBR Bull Riding on Sept. 1 and 2. Short-Go: Individuals: Billy Stepenson — $2,440 Colt Welsh — $1,830 Tell Jacobs — $1,220 Treven Coonradt — $610 Teams: Beni Paulson — $3,600 Lee Bucking Bulls — $2,700 Cross 7 Bulls / Branded Ranch — $1,800 Ehlers / Ekren Elhers / Willow — $900 Bulls: The Gambler — $2,160 Blacklist — $1,440 Futurity Events: Claimer: Allen Teller — $768 Allen Teller — $528 Beni Paulson — $304 Two-year-old Futurity: Lee Bucking Bulls (Crucified) — $1,920 Ehlers / Kapelle (Black Eyed Jack) — $1,320 Star E / Just Have Faith (Chucky) — $760 Derby: Allen Teller / O4 — $2,304 H-H Bucking Bulls / Pops JR — $1,584 H-H Bucking Bulls / Nickleback — $912 Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine recap Team USA’s win over Brazil, preview Thursday’s game against Serbia and go through all of the NBA news they can find. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results.