Jockey Thomas Willmott is set for a spell on the sidelines after marking his birthday by riding a winner and then suffering a broken arm and a broken foot. The 3lb claimer turned 23 on Friday and celebrated by landing the conditional jockeys' handicap hurdle at Catterick on Prairie Wolf for his boss Sue Smith. It was the fourth winner of 2023 for the rider and 48th overall of a career that began in 2017-18. But Willmott ended the day in hospital after being injured in his very next ride in the novice handicap chase. He was unseated from North Parade three out and the horse trampled on him. "He has broken his right arm and his left foot," said his agent Richard Hall. “They will both need to be operated on.” Smith said: "It's such a shame as he was going really well and he was in great form. He gave the first horse a lovely ride and we were absolutely delighted. But as the saying goes, 'That's racing.'" Willmott, who has previously broken his back in two places and suffered shoulder, ankle and rib injuries, won a BHA development award at the Richard Davis Jockeys Education and Training Scheme awards last year, recognising his efforts to improve as a jockey and his work towards a second career as a funeral director after riding. Fellow claimer William Shanahan was taken to hospital for x-rays after being unseated from Just Dottie at Wetherby on Saturday. But they showed he had suffered no broken bones, just bruising, and the jockey expects to return to action in a few days. Read these next: Catterick: 'It's taken me all this time!' - owner celebrates first double after more than 40 years  'He had plenty left' - City Chief slashed for National Hunt Chase after comfortable Towton win  Members' Club special offer: get exclusive tips and insight FREE for one month  Sign up to receive On The Nose, our essential daily newsletter, from the Racing Post. Your unmissable morning feed, direct to your email inbox every morning.  Published on 5 February 2023inBritain Last updated 15:12, 5 February 2023 Copyright © 2024 Spotlight Sports Group Limited or its licensors, all rights reserved