Matt Brocklebank's Monday Nap won at 15/2 - now he has the best bets for Tuesday's meetings.  Sky Bet odds | Paddy Power | Betfair Sportsbook GREATEST TIME looks to have been found an ideal opening to finally open his account at Windsor. Rated 82 at one point for Richard Hannon, he's come crashing down the handicap and gets in here off just 54, 10 days on from an encouraging third back up to this six-furlong trip at Brighton. He was well backed on that occasion (7/2) and compensation awaits here if able to build on it.   Sky Bet odds | Paddy Power | Betfair Sportsbook Charyn's connections can register another victory at Nottingham on Tuesday courtesy of the lightly-raced SANAT. Roger Varian's colt had shown distinct potential on his third and final qualifying run when fourth (of 18) at Doncaster in May and almost delivered on that promise when beaten just half a length on handicap debut at Southwell earlier this month. The breathing operation undergone prior to that return to action looks to have done some good and, raised only 1lb on the back of the improved performance, he looks poised to open his account at the fifth time of asking. The expected good, even gallop in Kempton's fillies' handicap at 3.45 should play to the strengths of BELLA VENETA, who will probably stay a bit further than this mile trip but looks capable of a bold show regardless on the back of a much better effort when beaten just over a length here last month. She's obviously slid to a good mark - down to 65 having been rated 78 when tried at Listed level last spring - and could be in for a decent back-end of the year having been so lightly raced this season. Few of these have much/anything in hand from the assessor and WAKE UP HARRY doesn't get much respite in truth, but he's seemingly in reasonable nick and looks to have been found a good opportunity following last month's second at Newmarket. His previous two efforts are best ignored as he didn't get much of a run on either occasion and today looks a good time to have him on side, with Billy Loughnane booked to the do the steering and the blinkers going back on (has won in first-time blinkers and cheekpieces in the past). The experiment with a visor on his second start may have back-fired but CHESNEYS CHARM turned things around quickly with a ready maiden win at Chelmsford back up to seven furlongs last month and he's a two-year-old to follow for the time being. His debut fourth at Leicester in June showed he had ability and the son of Mohaather is entitled to continue his progress now sent handicapping off what looks a perfectly manageable opening mark (73). We are committed in our support of safer gambling. Recommended bets are advised to over-18s and we strongly encourage readers to wager only what they can afford to lose. If you are concerned about your gambling, please call the National Gambling Helpline / GamCare on 0808 8020 133. Further support and information can be found at begambleaware.org and gamblingtherapy.org.