Wednesday: Taunton Promising conditional jockey Freddie Gingell rode his first winner at the Somerset track when Lallygag put in a polished performance to make it three wins out of four this season in the 2m3f novice hurdle. The 7lb claimer went one better than last time at Exeter on the Paul Nicholls-trained 4-6 shot, who was too strong in the straight for St Patricks Bridge and main rival American Sniper. Gingell, who is attached to Nicholls, said: “Things are going great and thanks to Mr Nicholls for giving me chances. I ran into a good one of Dan Skelton’s at Exeter on this horse last time and it was great to keep the ride.” Nicholls completed a double in the following 2m½f maiden hurdle when Holetown Hero also completed a brace in style for Harry Cobden, who had earlier scored on Some Detail for Nigel Hawke in the 3m2½f handicap chase. Gata gets on with it Neil Mulholland kept his good run going when Gata Ban sprang a 28-1 surprise in the 2m3f mares’ novice handicap hurdle under Richie McLernon. The former point winner clearly enjoyed the conditions when staying on best to master topweight Leading Theatre, who was bidding to give Fergal O’Brien his 100th win of the season. It was a first winner at the course for McLernon since 2019. Gata Ban was scoring on her fourth outing under rules and could have more to give. Mulholland told Racing TV: “We were scratching our heads when she ran badly last time but evidently she can do that and we're still getting to know her really. The all-weather kept us going during the freeze but it’s nice to get a winner over jumps as well.” Lenihan taken to hospital Conditional jockey Kai Lenihan was taken to hospital after his mount Samatian had a coming together with a rail before the start of the 3m handicap hurdle. Kim Bailey’s claimer was taken to be checked over after his heavy tumble, which delayed the start of the race. Results, replays and analysis WIN two Club Enclosure tickets for the Tuesday at the Cheltenham Festival 2023! It's simple and free to enter, all you need to do is log in to your bookmaker account on our new app and wait for the pop-up to make your entry. Download the app here. Published on 21 December 2022inReports Last updated 17:22, 21 December 2022 Copyright © 2024 Spotlight Sports Group Limited or its licensors, all rights reserved