Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     The Halo franchise is a longstanding and prestigious one, arguably being one of the most defining and revolutionary first-person shooter experiences of all time. Over the years and its many installments, the series has prided itself on larger-than-life protagonists, high-octane gameplay, and explosive and memorable linear set pieces.
                         With that being said, it is clear that the contemporary state of Halo is one of uncertainty, with recent installments to the IP going against the grain of the tried and true gameplay formula of its more historic releases. As many of these newer changes are considered somewhat controversial by many Halo fans, the future of the franchise would do well to curate a new spin-off experience that pays homage to previous titles of a similar nature. Providing a more intimate and narratively driven experience away from the buffed-up combat dominance of Spartan super-soldiers, a spin-off of this nature would clearly appeal to many fans.
      RELATED: Halo Infinite March 28 Update Patch Notes Reveal Multiplayer and Stability Fixes
                     The most recent installment to the Halo franchise is 2021's Halo Infinite, which many fans felt did not live up to the huge amounts of hype and expectation surrounding the release. Infinite appealed to many fans primarily in its commitment to returning Master Chief to the forefront of Halo as the game's protagonist, although the release made sure to make serious changes to how its experience was delivered in order to curate its own standalone identity.
                         Crucially, Halo Infinite takes place within an open world, allowing the player to tackle certain mainline missions and side content at their own pace and in a somewhat loose chronological order. This is a huge departure from the usual linear experience of the wider IP, but significant changes had already occurred to the franchise's identity prior to this. For example, Halo 5 featured Jameson Locke as a core protagonist alongside Master Chief and focused massively on cooperative squad-based gameplay that almost juxtaposed the gameplay of original Halo titles.
                         While the changes that came with Halo 5 and Halo Infinite were somewhat controversial, many are of the opinion that the franchise does need to shake its reliance on its earlier identity in order to move on to its next state of existence. Although the aforementioned recent changes to the IP did not quite settle well, there are already some great pre-existing examples of what kind of changes would be better received by fans.
                         It could be time for the Halo franchise to release another spin-off title, and there are some fantastic past examples to take inspiration from. For example, 2010's Halo Reach told a fantastic story that resonated well with many fans, but 343 Industries would perhaps be better off curating a new spin-off experience more akin to 2009's Halo: ODST.
      Halo: ODST provides the most unique narrative of all the Halo games, crucially telling a tale completely devoid of the usual Spartan super-soldiers that the franchise focuses on. The eponymous Orbital Drop Shock Troopers that feature in the story of ODST are regular humans engaging in tense and highly dangerous operations, despite being less equipped and less effective than their genetically modified Spartan teammates.
                         Consequently, many felt that Halo: ODST told an unprecedentedly intimate, human, and relatable story within the rich world of the IP, with the actions and feelings of its involved characters thriving outside of the almost robotic confines of Spartan soldiers. ODST is very fondly looked back upon by fans, and a future installment to the Halo franchise would do well to present a similar Spartan-less experience.
      MORE: 5 Video Game Franchises That Started As Single-Player But Now Prioritize Multiplayer
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. A perceptive Baldur's Gate 3 player online discovers a hidden new camp location after exploring Larian's expansive RPG for 700 hours. GameSir has a new controller, and Marvel fans will not want to miss out on this competitive, limited edition wired controller. Sony adds 15 new games to its PlayStation Plus Premium and Extra monthly subscription services today, including a Game of the Year winner. Secretlab's new MAGNUS Pro Pure White sit-to-stand metal desk is one of the most convenient, durable, and best-looking desks currently available. As Witcher 4 sets out to step away from Geralt in the lead role, Cyberpunk 2077's sequel Project Orion may want to take note. Finding buried treasure in 7 Days to Die can be challenging. For those struggling, this guide will provide some useful tips. 2025 is shaping up to be one of the biggest years in video game history --here's everything we know so far about gaming release dates next year.