The expanded collaboration with Microsoft and Zebra Technologies will transform the frontline employee experience HCLTech, a leading global technology company, announced an expanded collaboration with Microsoft and Zebra Technologies to bring modern and connected workplace solutions to frontline worker populations across different industries. Trends in remote and hybrid work have mostly benefited information workers, while many frontline workers continue to use manual and paper-based processes. HCLTech, Microsoft and Zebra aim to improve processes to enable frontline workers to provide robust customer support. “Frontline workers, who rely on manual and paper-based processes to get work done today, will now have access to cloud-powered workplace solutions and services,” said Marianne Roling, Vice President, Global System Integrators, Microsoft. “We’re excited that as a result of our collaboration with HCLTech and Zebra, frontline workers will be able to take advantage of innovative and secure Microsoft 365 for Frontline Worker solutions that enable them to be more engaged, efficient and productive.” “Together, HCLTech, Microsoft and Zebra are modernizing the worker experience to ensure every frontline worker is connected and optimally utilized. Our partnership will ensure continuous innovation to jointly deliver mobile, integrated, and secure solutions to enhance the frontline worker experience and achieve targeted outcomes around productivity, retention, engagement, and customer service by enabling workers to be their very best in any environment,” said Drew Ehlers, Head of Global Partners, Zebra Technologies. HCLTech’s CloudSMART services harness the vast portfolio spanning every aspect of our global business to build end-to-end solutions across towers and technologies providing reassurance in supporting frontline employees across collaborative and productivity software, network security, backend systems and third-party applications. As a result, Microsoft and Zebra’s vital resources ranging from rugged, purpose-built devices to support services, will continue to be amplified with global implementation and integration from HCLTech. As workplace technology continuously evolves, providing frontline workers with the latest advancements remains a critical pillar in developing holistic solutions and is a key strategic priority for HCLTech, Microsoft and Zebra. “Frontline workers are critical to the success of every organization, and it is imperative to empower them with the right tools and solutions. HCLTech, Microsoft, and Zebra have partnered to develop a comprehensive offering that helps enhance productivity and efficiency of the frontline workforce and enhance collaboration with the wider organization,” said Rakshit Ghura, Senior Vice President and Global Head of Digital Workplace Services, HCLTech. The vision of collaboration is centered on productivity platform development with customers that will help identify use cases through the various frontline workers’ experiences across public and customer-facing operations. HCLTech’s complete set of managed services, including logistics, support, proactive maintenance, field services, consulting, training and adoption services, will allow workers to excel and elevate their workplace. For more information, visit Empower Frontline Workers in Retail Organizations: 1-day Workshop – Microsoft AppSource About HCLTech:
HCLTech is a global technology company, home to 222,000 people across 60 countries, delivering industry-leading capabilities centered around digital, engineering and cloud, powered by a broad portfolio of technology services and products. We work with clients across all major verticals, providing industry solutions for Financial Services, Manufacturing, Life Sciences and Healthcare, Technology and Services, Telecom and Media, Retail and CPG, and Public Services. Consolidated revenues as of 12 months ending December 2022 totaled $12.3B. For more information about how we can supercharge progress for you, visit hcltech.com. 

Source: HCLTech
    
  