When they saw the lights flick on, Lily Brueckman and her fellow Michigan State University classmates went silent. The motion-sensor bulbs outside their Bessey Hall classroom, dark for the past hour, had been activated. It meant someone was outside the door. The 40 students and teacher huddled in the room feared it might be the shooter who terrorized the East Lansing campus that evening, Feb. 13.  Brueckman and her classmates could not lock their classroom doors. So students removed their belts, wrapping them around the handles and pulling on them in an effort to prevent someone from wrenching the doors open. Others stood near the doors with backpacks on their chests, carrying a couple cans of pepper spray and one pocketknife.  If the tug-of-war on the door didn't stop a shooter, they hoped their de facto bulletproof vests and weapons might give them a chance. "I don't want to put any blame on the university; obviously, no one expects something like this is going to happen,” Brueckman told the Free Press in a recent phone interview, fighting back sobs. "But there should have been locks on those doors.”  More:Professor who faced Michigan State gunman speaks out More:Mourners gather to remember students killed in Michigan State University shooting spree It was law enforcement officers, not a shooter, who burst through the doors. Although grateful for the response from police and the bravery of her classmates, Brueckman said she hopes MSU will step up its campus security in response to her newly launched online petition urging the university to install locks on all classroom doors.  Such a plea wouldn’t be necessary if Brueckman and her classmates attended any number of other schools in Michigan and across the country, according to the findings of a Free Press investigation.  MSU authorities had the ability to remotely lock many campus buildings the night a shooter killed three students and injured five others, preventing access to those facilities with the push of a button.  That includes the MSU Union, a building the shooter entered after fatally wounding two students in the nearby Berkey Hall, attacks that prompted a litany of calls to police for help.  But the Free Press investigation found the university decided not to remotely lock these buildings during the shooting. School officials said their system would prevent anyone, including law enforcement and other first responders, from entering a building if they had locked the doors.  The investigation also found other schools have the ability to remotely lock exterior doors on all or most campus buildings with the push of a button. MSU has the infrastructure in place to do that, but it can’t enact a mass, simultaneous locking of doors. That would require a software upgrade, one not in place the night of the shooting, university officials said.   Wayne State University, Western Michigan University, Grand Valley State University and other Michigan schools have the capacity to lock the exterior doors of most or all buildings on campus with the push of a button. Others have push-button, electronic or other locks on individual classroom doors that can be quickly engaged from the inside and electronic key cards are required to access many campus buildings, at least intermittently.  All of these precautions were implemented by schools seeking to prevent or minimize the kind of violence that rocked the MSU community a little more than a week ago.  “Every campus needs some work,” MSU Board Chairwoman Rema Vassar told the Free Press. “Everyone’s timeline has been shortened because of what happened here. We all have things we have to do.” Officials at MSU — Michigan’s largest public university — acknowledged the need for security upgrades on campus, and noted that existing plans to enhance campus security will likely be fast-tracked in the months ahead.  The university has the ability to remotely lock the MSU Union and other buildings on campus, said MSU spokesman Mark Bullion. "However, this becomes problematic because if the building’s doors are locked, this prevents ANYONE access to the building, including law enforcement, ultimately slowing potential response times," he said in an emailed statement. Fellow MSU spokesman Dan Olsen did acknowledge that university police do not yet have the ability to lock those buildings simultaneously. "The department’s software currently does not have the capability to lock all buildings simultaneously. (The MSU police department) is in touch with its external vendor to put this function into place as part of the centralized security operations center," Olsen said in a statement. MSU officials previously said the school does not have the capacity to monitor security cameras in real time, which is key in determining which buildings to lock and when.  As is the case at most schools, MSU’s dorms and other residence halls require keycard access to enter. But across its sprawling campus, more than 80 academic buildings are open to the general public whenever class is in session, Olsen said. That means that during a normal school day before the shooting, Berkey Hall was open to anyone from 8 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. The Union was typically open from 7 a.m. to midnight. Both buildings are now closed for the rest of the semester. Olsen said many classroom doors do have locks, but they require a key. Classrooms without door locks are typically larger lecture halls or in older buildings, he said. He did not say how many classroom doors can lock electronically, from the inside or otherwise. "Building access is one of many considerations being discussed in ongoing leadership conversations about ways we can improve the safety and security of our campus," he said. MSU is trying to shrink a five-year security upgrade plan into five or six months, which means the school will need a significant boost in state funding, perhaps as much as $30 million, Vassar said. School leaders plan to ask state leaders for more money to help expedite that process, she said. Vassar said that another option under consideration is installing door locks that can be secured so people can’t get in but can easily let those inside classrooms out with a simple press of a lever. “We want (students) feeling secure, but not feeling that their freedoms are eroding," Vassar said. “MSU is such a big, open campus. ...Trying to keep that big of a space secure is a challenge. … How do you make sure the public has some element of access, while still being secure? I don’t have a good answer.” More:MSU shooting suspect had 2 handguns, extra ammo on him, police say More:After Michigan State mass shooting, more questions than answers Daniel Hurley — CEO of the Michigan Association of State Universities, an advocacy and policy organization that represents all 15 public universities in the state — said that keeping a public university campus safe is not an all-or-nothing proposition, but rather one that requires a more balanced approach to ensure public access is preserved. "There is a very broad array of security measures in place. They’re certainly more heightened in certain areas, like residence halls or research facilities," Hurley said. "But on the flip side, these are public universities. They are public spaces open to the public. And that should never change. "They are remarkable assets for our state. We want them to be fully utilized by all who seek to come and visit the campus. … I don’t think it should be a debate: There is a balance to be struck." Every campus environment is different and presents its own set of security challenges, said John Ojeisekhoba, president of the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators who also serves as associate vice president and chief of campus security at Biola University, a small private university in California. He said he's proud of the MSU law enforcement's response to the horrific attack. "It’s easy to Monday-morning quarterback. We all want to get things better. But in our assessment, they did a good job," he said, noting MSU is a member of his organization. "The best defense on campus is law enforcement." He also noted that no system is foolproof. At the same time, he said there are always measures that universities can take to improve security. Ojeisekhoba acknowledged his school has a central security system that allows each exterior door on the campus' 50 to 60 buildings to lock at the push of a button. Every classroom on campus also has a push-button door lock. MSU has a much larger campus; a 2019 report indicates the school has 563 buildings comprising more than 24.5 million square feet. However, Ojeisekhoba said other universities of comparable size with MSU do have a central locking system and locks on classroom doors. The central locking technology isn't new, either. In the wake of the April 16, 2007, mass shooting at Virginia Tech, where a student killed 32 others before fatally shooting himself, the university conducted a thorough assessment of its campus security. Among the findings: Some schools already had central locking technology in place. "A few universities (e.g., Hofstra University in Nassau County, New York) now have the ability to lock the exterior doors of some or all buildings at the push of a button in a central security office," reads the report, issued in August 2007. "April 16 has become the 9/11 for colleges and universities. Most have reviewed their security plans since then. The installation of security systems already planned or in progress has accelerated, including those at Virginia Tech." MSU Police Chief Marlon Lynch said during a Feb. 16 news conference the university was in the process of implementing upgrades to its security camera monitoring system at the time of the shooting. The inability to track the shooter in real time on security cameras, combined with the onslaught of calls and reports flooding the emergency management system, contributed to the delay in finding the shooter. Police say Anthony McRae, 43, walked miles away from campus after carrying out the shooting. He fatally shot himself when approached by law enforcement, officials say. Additional security options can clearly help colleges, but Ojeisekhoba notes there are obstacles. For some universities, it's a question of cost: His school spent about $50,000 to install the push-button locks on doors. It would likely cost in the millions to do something similar at MSU, he estimated. The central locking system typically requires electronic locks on all exterior doors. It also isn't foolproof and works best in conjunction with real-time video surveillance monitoring, he explained. "At what point do you push that button? Because a lot of the systems, some of the student ID cards may not override. So, say for some reason there's a threatening situation, you send a (emergency) message out. You're gonna have to really, really time it best when you lock everybody out. Otherwise, the very students that you want to go indoors, you lock them out too. "Is it one minute after you send the (emergency) message? Or is it a minute and a half? Is it after looking at cameras? It has to be a combination of methods." Many colleges are working to ensure classroom doors have locks that can be activated from the inside, Ojeisekhoba said. It's supposed to be part of a broader emergency plan — once students, staff and faculty receive an emergency notification to secure-in-place, they have the capacity to quickly do so by locking themselves inside their own classroom. MSU issued an alert at 8:31 p.m. on the night of the shooting, according to a news release. It stated shots were fired on the East Lansing campus and advised the campus community to "secure-in-place immediately. Run, Hide, Fight. Run means evacuate away from danger if you can do so safely, Hide means to secure-in-place, and Fight means protect yourself if no other option." The university's own guidance for an active shooter situation tells students to effectively hide, they should "locate an interior room, lock door, block with furniture, turn off lights, silence devices, avoid windows & doors." But for Brueckman and many others, they had no locked doors. And while they could pile desks in front of the doorway, the doors swing out from the classroom; fire code generally requires doors open toward building exits. So, furniture may slow down an intruder but would have no effect on preventing the door from opening. Marco Díaz-Muñoz, a professor in Berkey Hall, told the Free Press the shooter entered his classroom, fired his weapon and left. As two students lay fatally wounded, Díaz-Muñoz said he had to press his foot against a class door, hoping it would be enough to deter a return attack from the gunman. “If those senators that sit … comfortable in their seat, making decisions on statistics, had seen what I saw, they would be shamed or their humanity be touched,” he said. The Free Press asked every public, four-year university or college in Michigan about their campus security options. Most responded, and many described having advanced security capacity already in place. At least Western Michigan, Wayne State, University of Michigan-Flint, Northern Michigan University and Grand Valley State University have the ability to remotely lock down most buildings on campus at the touch of a button. Residence halls at each of these schools always require keycards to enter, as do dorms at Central Michigan University and Eastern Michigan University. The University of Michigan in Ann Arbor began installing door locking mechanisms in classrooms and class labs in August 2019, said Melissa Overton, deputy chief of police and public information officer for the university's police department. "As the project continues, several interconnected locking systems have been installed in large classrooms with multiple entrances. In addition, we continue to assess and identify opportunities to enhance the safety and security of our community. We do not disclose which doors have been completed yet," she said. A Michigan Tech spokesperson provided general answers affirming their campuses are safe without providing details on whether they have a central locking system or locks on individual classroom doors. Representatives from the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Saginaw Valley State University, Lake Superior State University and Ferris State University did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Western can also centrally lock all classrooms that have a keycard access system. Every classroom at Grand Valley has door locks that can be operated from the inside. But Central, Eastern and Oakland University cannot remotely lock all buildings through a central locking system. Central, located in Mount Pleasant, can lock residence halls with this kind of technology, but a spokesman noted it is a large, public institution. "Central Michigan University strives to be an open and welcoming campus, and also embraces its obligation to provide a safe environment for teaching, learning and research. We are always exploring options to add new layers of security to our campus," said spokesperson Aaron Mills. "We are exploring opportunities to remotely place academic and administrative buildings into secure mode, a control currently in place in our residential buildings. However, as a public-serving institution and an open campus, it would not be feasible to lock down every building on campus 24 hours a day." Eastern, based in Ypsilanti, is actively reviewing how it can install a central locking system in light of the MSU shooting, said spokesperson Walter Kraft. "The MSU incident has certainly led to additional discussions about safety protocols and how we can further keep our students and employees safe. We are continually evaluating and improving campus safety efforts," Kraft said, noting Eastern also has its own police department and a large security camera network. Oakland University Police Chief Mark Gordon said most classroom doors on the campus straddling both Auburn Hills and Rochester Hills have interior locks that were installed over the past five years with the help of university and private funding. But the university is exploring possible changes after the MSU shooting, he said. So shaken by her own experience, Brueckman started an online petition calling on MSU to install locks on classroom doors and a scanning system at the entrance of every building. As of Saturday morning, the petition had almost 2,000 signatures. She sent it to a university official but said she hadn't yet received any response. "From my experience sheltering-in-place, I know we wouldn't have had to worry about some of our students basically risking their lives for us, having to be right up front against the door," Brueckman said, explaining how locks on classroom doors would have helped during the MSU shooting. "I think it would make a lot of students feel safer in general to know that after class has begun you can press a little button and lock the door and not have to worry that someone's going to try and break in." Contact Dave Boucher: dboucher@freepress.com, and follow him on Twitter @Dave_Boucher1. Contact David Jesse: 313-222-8851 or djesse@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter:@reporterdavidj