Charles Davis Sr., like many older generations, felt intimidated by the digital world and fearful of putting his trust in technology. So, when he started working at the Urban League of Greater Kansas City, Davis, 64, enrolled in their senior digital literacy class. What he didn’t expect was to be asked to take on teaching the class after just a few sessions. He described his initial reaction as complete shock. “I was like, oh my God, no,” he said. Later, he decided to instead look at it as an opportunity to help other seniors embrace technology. “I really started to embrace what my challenges were as an older adult about the experience and how to learn computers, and so what that entailed was, fear; second was asking questions so in that process I went through the journey of learning just the basic fundamentals,” Davis said. But it was his first-hand experience of overcoming those obstacles that led to his effectiveness in teaching seniors how to conquer the digital divide. “That right there was really the pushing point for me to start to have the empathy for others, because I first hand had experience on how that felt as a senior not really knowing this computer age — and experience how it felt to ask the questions to the younger generation,” Davis said. It’s been two years since Davis was given that opportunity, and he credits the Urban League for taking that chance on him. The Urban League is the nation’s oldest civil rights organization, according to the National Park Service, and the Kansas City affiliate has been established in the area for over 100 years, serving underrepresented communities in the metro. Marchel Alverson, Vice President of Marketing and Communications at the Urban League, said the senior digital literacy program has been in operation for six years, and has been very successful for seniors in the Kansas City area. One of the center’s goals is to make computer access available to everyone, in part because sometimes libraries aren’t feasible options due to transportation problems or other access issues, Alverson said. “We wanted to give everyone access to computers. There’s this rumor that everyone has a computer, and that’s not the case — what we actually are having is like a digital desert, and digital equity is important to us,” Alverson said. Davis prides himself in creating a comfortable learning environment for his students. He said this allows them to gain confidence when it comes to working with computers and other smart devices. The key, he said, is to get them to engage. “It is the skill to have – this class is designed for them to engage and also designed for them to read and the importance of paying attention to detail, so it’s a work at your own pace kind of opportunity,” Davis said. For seniors like Phyllis Banton, 74, having access to this class has become an important part of her weekly schedule. She’s able to come in and work on her digital skills, but also be surrounded by friends who all share the same goal of learning to use the computer. “The instructor is very nice and compassionate, takes his time with you. In college, that wouldn’t be there — it’s very inspiring because he keeps us encouraged. He said you can’t break the computer. The computer is waiting on you to give it the orders that you need. So this is why I like to keep coming,” Banton said. Online safety is a big concern for many seniors in the class, and the first step when addressing this concern is tackling their fears. Davis said it’s a process, and that you have to take the time to walk them through that, which requires patience. But, he said, once they reach a point of comfortability, he said it’s like a light bulb turns on and they just go. It’s a skill these seniors recognize is vital in today’s world. “Now, if you don’t know how to get on a computer, you are going to be lost in the world,” student Rebbecca Walcott, 79, said. Walcott said before coming to class said she was in the dark about how computers worked, and practiced caution when it came to trying to send or receive information online. Since coming to the classes, she’s been able to gain the skills to safely research, stay updated with news, and communicate with her children through email. Davis said this class gives seniors the opportunity to not only to grow their knowledge about computers and technology, but also helps them get out of their comfort zones and build their social groups again. “I think this is the jewel in the sand, bringing them out because of the opportunity to engage with others – now they see a need to also educate each other. That was the highlight when I seen another senior helping another senior walk through the process,” Davis said. Another positive — the class is free, Alverson said. She also noted the program not only helps seniors tackle the digital divide, but also helps job seekers and students from middle and high school who come in through Project READY and Act Now. In ‘The State of Black Kansas City,’ an equality index put out by the Urban League that compares the Black and brown Kansas City population to the white population on digital equity and other statistics, it said 32% of areas east of Troost lack internet access and 26% are without computers. Davis said that underlies the importance of this program and this space for groups to come together to share knowledge. He pointed out that even as the teacher of the course, his students also teach him with the wisdom they share. “It’s been a very impactful opportunity — you just see the genuine character and how it is very important that we never forget wisdom. They are the foundation, and so being able to have that opportunity to reach back into their world and receive some of that wisdom and knowledge is priceless,” Davis said. A running joke Davis tells his students is, “Now, next week, you will teach the class.” While it may be a joke, he said he does look forward to seeing one of his students take over the course one day. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.