Actor Danny Trejo has lived on film and TV sets for 40 years. After a day of filming, a group would go out for a bite to eat. He says there was usually a vegetarian or vegan or someone who ate gluten free or pescatarian. That inspired him to start his restaurant, Trejo’s Tacos, “where there would be something for everyone.” He has brought that same philosophy, he said, to Trejo’s Spirits - nonalcoholic spirits “so that everyone could participate in the cocktail ritual.” Today he launched a zero-proof version of tequila as the first in his line of “100% natural, vegan, alcohol-free spirits ...” “With Trejo’s Spirits Zero Proof Tequila, I wanted to create a completely 0.0% ABV spirit,” Trejo said. “If you’re sober like me, or just avoiding alcohol, you too can make a kickass drink that tastes like a full-on celebration! If I’m throwing a party, everyone gets a seat at the table.” Trejo’s Spirits said the tequila “presents a bouquet of earthy agave notes, with hints of citrus and subtle floral undertones. The finish is crisp and clean, leaving a gentle warmth that fades gracefully, while the agave essence remains present throughout.” Trejo plans to also launch zero-proof versions of mezcal, American whiskey, rum and gin. Recipes for mocktails can be found in Trejo’s newest cookbook, “Trejo’s Cantina: Cocktails, Snacks & Amazing Non-Alcoholic Drinks from the Heart of Hollywood.” The book is $18.20 on Amazon. READ MORE: ‘The Long Goodbye’: Eagles announce final tour, joined by Steely Dan. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.