
The Elevated Spirits Company is pleased to announce that Cierto Tequila was awarded eight (8) medals, including Gold, at the 2023 International Spirits Challenge (ISC). This marks the fourth consecutive year in which Cierto has taken home a Gold medal at the ISC. With these new honors, Cierto has won seven hundred thirty-one (731) international medals and awards.

 This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230727134164/en/ Cierto Tequila Awarded Eight Medals at the 2023 International Spirits Challenge (Graphic: Business Wire) 
About Cierto Tequila and Elevated Spirits Company
 
The Elevated Spirits Company is the producer of Cierto Tequila – authentic, 100% natural, additive-free, luxury tequila made in Jalisco, Mexico. Cierto means "True," the perfect word to describe this remarkable award-winning family of tequilas – patiently crafted expressions of pure Highlands agave, harvested by fourth and fifth generation agaveros at peak maturity. The Elevated Spirits portfolio includes the Cierto Private Collection Blanco, Reposado, Añejo and Extra Añejo, as well as the Cierto Reserve Collection Blanco, Reposado, Añejo and Extra Añejo. Due to their character, complexity and luxuriously smooth taste, these eight agave expressions are widely acknowledged by tequila connoisseurs as "The World's Finest Tequila" and some of the best tequilas ever made. Cierto recently became the first tequila brand to surpass 700 international medals and awards, making it The Most Awarded Tequila in History.

 
For press or other inquiries, please contact press@ciertotequila.com.

 
About International Spirits Challenge
 
The International Spirits Challenge (ISC) is one of the most authoritative, respected and influential spirits competitions in the world. Now in its 28th year, the ISC is a premier event for evaluating outstanding quality spirits from across the globe. The competition is founded on a rigorous and independent judging process, which serves to encourage the high caliber of spirits entered into the competition each year. Receiving thousands of entries from nearly 70 countries worldwide, the ISC is a truly global competition. It is supported by many of the world's leading spirits producers as an international standard for quality and excellence.

  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230727134164/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.