 If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, Rolling Stone may receive an affiliate commission.  Justin Timberlake may be mum on new music, but the singer is stepping back in front of the cameras for a new campaign with Louis Vuitton. More from Rolling Stone The 'Barbie' Trailer Brings Rollerblades Back (And We're Here For It) Our Festival Season Must-Have: This Deodorant Designed for Your Pits (and Private Parts) This TikTok-Famous Jacuzzi Bath Mat Might Be The Secret Weapon to Your Workout Recovery Timberlake is one of six celebrities tapped by the fashion house for Drop 2 of its “Creating Infinity” campaign, which celebrates the brand’s exclusive collaboration with avant-garde Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama. The collection plays up Kusama’s iconic infinity dots and spirited motifs on men’s and women’s bags, leather goods, clothing and fragrances. Sported freshly-cropped hair and looking decidedly more clean-cut than his Man of the Woods era, Timberlake is seen wearing a Louis Vuitton x Yayoi Kusama denim jacket with black pants and sneakers. The photos also show the star holding a leather tote with Kusama’s colorful pumpkins set against a classic LV print. In an accompanying campaign video, Timberlake shows off some fancy footwork while interacting with a digitized version of the pumpkins, which have become one of Kusama’s signature emblems.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Louis Vuitton (@louisvuitton) The campaign was shot by the legendary photographer Steven Meisel, and Timberlake is joined by other Louis Vuitton ambassadors, including Lea Seydoux, Cate Blanchett, Justin Timberlake, Naomi Osaka, Hoyeon, and Zhou Dongyu. Timberlake is no stranger to Louis Vuitton, most recently attending the Maison’s Paris Fashion Week show last summer. In a press release, Louis Vuitton calls the portraits in the campaign “colorful, expressionistic statements inspired by some of Yayoi Kusama’s most distinctive motifs.” The Louis Vuitton x Yayoi Kusama collection is available to shop now at Louis Vuitton boutiques and online at LouisVuitton.com. Price: $85.00 Buy Now Fans of both the fashion house and Kusama will also soon be able to see all the portraits in one place, with the release of a Creating Infinity coffee table book set for release this September. In addition to featuring many of the images from the Louis Vuitton x Kusama collaboration, the 240-page tome will include interviews with art and fashion experts to discuss the legacy of Kusama’s work, the “seminal artistic themes” that inspired the collaboration, and the convergence of contemporary art with celebrity and luxury fashion. According to the publisher’s notes, “In the spirit of this iconic partnership and with a nod to the popular fascination with Kusama, the book includes statements and extended musings from the most important contemporary artists, celebrities, and world-famous creative figures from a range of industries talking about Kusama’s impact—her extraordinary ability to build fantastical worlds through her signature polka dots and mirror balls, which are joyful representations of her deeply thoughtful philosophy about art and the universe.” Find out more about the book and pre-order it online here. Best of Rolling Stone RS Recommends: 5 Devices You Need to Set Up Your Smart Home The Best Audiophile Turntables for Your Home Audio System Click here to see more up-to-date holiday deals! Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.