A cost-effective item might be just what you need if your clothes smell stale and sour after a wash. Putting on a wash just for your clothes to turn out 'sour smelling' will no-doubt feel like a waste of time. It's also costing you a you might have to use your washing machine once again to get rid of any unwelcome odours. Stale and sour smells can be an issue particularly in the winter, as clothes take longer than usual to dry. As reported by the Express, someone with this very problem took to a Facebook group dedicated to cleaning influencer Mrs Hinch with this very issue. The poster wrote: "Why are my sheets, when dried and aired, giving off a sour smell? Any suggestions on how to get rid of it?" A member of the Facebook group replied: “I never have issues when I tumble dry them. But if it's on the airer and it's not warm enough to dry them quickly, the damp stays too long, and that's what makes them smell. I hate that, so I use only tumble dryers.” Another said there was "too much fabric conditioner" with another agreeing, commenting: "It's a build up of detergent and fabric condition in the machine causing bacteria." To combat the odour, Mrs Hinch fans suggested that the poster uses white vinegar when washing her sheets, which costs as little as 29p at Tesco or 40p at Sainsbury's. A group member explained: "White vinegar is a great antibacterial agent and works miracles for many things, so try it in your washing machine with your washing. It’s the best cure for sour smells." The cleaning pros at Persil also recommended adding white vinegar to washes when clothes gather a nasty odour. They said: "The trick to removing this smell is to pop a cupful of white vinegar into the washing machine drum along with your laundry. Vinegar is a great deodoriser, and don’t worry – your clothes won’t smell like pickled onions." White vinegar is a staple in most households, but if you don't own some already, it can be purchased for only 29p at Tesco, 40p at Sainsbury's, or £2 at B&Q. And its uses aren't limited to clothes, white vinegar can also help you get a smooth and streak-free finish when cleaning your windows. Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - sign up to our daily newsletter   here  . 