Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Outpost Kitchen Bar  Provisions / Courtesy photo Outpost''s famous shrimp & grits have always been a hit at events, says co-owner Julie Casey. Venue on Lake Lily / Courtesy photo Superior sips in the form of beer, wine and spirits will be available. Venue on Lake Lily / Courtesy photo Corks & Forks returns to the historic Venue at Lake Lily on April 20. Venue on Lake Lily / Courtesy photo Beautiful bites abound. Venue on Lake Lily / Courtesy photo The team from The Tap Room at Dubsdread will be back to celebrate this year. Outpost''s famous shrimp & grits have always been a hit at events, says co-owner Julie Casey. Maitland is gearing up for al fresco wining and dining as the third annual Corks & Forks event benefiting the historic Venue on Lake Lily approaches.The soiree sizzles on  April 20, when 16 restaurants, including returning favorites, will be serving up the savory and the sweet alongside wine, beer and spirits from local and national brands, with smooth live jazz serving as the beat-driven backdrop.
Superior sips in the form of beer, wine and spirits will be available.The Venue — founded in the 1960s as the Maitland Civic Center — has been  a cultural hub for the community for decades. Corks & Forks is helping to ensure its legacy and future role. The independently-funded venue has hosted everything from weddings to conferences and dance classes over the years.“Our mission is to identify trends that can be used to activate and market Venue on Lake Lily while reframing its time-tested place as an invaluable community asset for generations to come,” said Lily Renee Charlan, president of Venue on Lake, in a  news release. “We seek to celebrate its history, charm, and future while aiming to ensure that the promise of the Venue touches all generations and maximizes its reach to inspire new members, supporters, and patrons.”The team from Outpost Kitchen Bar + Provisions is among those who have been corking and forking since the inaugural event in 2021 — and co-owner Julie Casey is beyond delighted to be back.“[Corks & Forks was] one of the first organizations in Maitland that came to us within days of our opening and said, ‘How can we work together?'” Casey told the Orlando Sentinel. The timing was great, as Casey and her team wanted to introduce themselves to the Maitland community. Coming back was a no-brainer.“The event is very organized and well run, and they ask for the input of those of us who contribute to its success. So many other events just want us to show up with the free food and give it out. Corks & Forks has been consistently supportive and collaborative in how they can help us be successful on the night of, and after. That’s huge for me. Plus, it’s such a fun event. We get to see familiar faces and thank those in the community who have supported us since moving to Maitland.”
Outpost’s famous shrimp & grits have always been a hit at events, says co-owner Julie Casey.With high hopes to win the event’s new “People’s Choice” award this year, Casey says they’re pulling out all the stops with two tasty choices.

First up: the shrimp & grits dish  on the Outpost menu since the beginning. They take it to almost every event, she notes. Long lines follow, “with some people getting back in line and requesting just a serving of the Cajun gravy to drink. Our shrimp and grits start with cheesy Carolina white corn grits shipped weekly from South Carolina, Cajun butter gravy, shrimp, crumbled chorizo, blistered tomatoes and microgreens.”For Outpost fans looking for a new taste, there’s an off-menu bite to sample, one  Casey says was developed with Corks & Forks foodies in mind.“We’re presenting a smoked bison meatball, served over red curry risotto, and topped with Alabama white sauce and bourbon pearls. We’re looking forward to their faces when those little bourbon bubbles pop in their mouth. Hopefully, those smiles turn into votes.”Other well-known purveyors, from Francesco’s to Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar to the Tap Room at Dubsdread, will also be serving sumptuous bites (full list below). Live entertainment presented by Mercedes-Benz of Orlando — including saxophonist Dayve Stewart, as well as Christopher Baptiste, Lavon Rushing, Tim Timmons and Yoshi — will be providing a jazzy backdrop. Stewart has toured with various Grammy-winning notables, including Al Green and Paul Brown.
The team from The Tap Room at Dubsdread will be back to celebrate this year.Corks & Forks will take place from 6-9 p.m. April 20, rain or shine. General admission runs $65; $125 gets you a VIP lounge ticket which includes 5 p.m. early entry and VIP lounge access with hors d’oeuvres and a premium open bar with full pours. Corporate/family tables and sponsorships available. All proceeds benefit Venue on Lake Lily. More info: corksandforksmaitland.comParticipating restaurants: An Tobar Irish Pub, Anejo Cocina Winter Park, Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar, Francesco’s, George’s Cafe — Cookies & Catering, Jazz Tastings, Luke’s Kitchen + Bar, Maitland Chocolate Factory, Nothing Bundt Cakes, Outpost Kitchen Bar + Provisions, Puff ‘n Stuff Events, Sakari Sushi Bar, Sanford Brewing Company, Sonny’s BBQ, Strive Senior Living Catering, The Tap Room at DubsdreadFind me on Facebook, TikTok, Twitter or Instagram @amydroo or on the OSFoodie Instagram account @orlando.foodie. Email: amthompson@orlandosentinel.com. For more foodie fun, join the Let’s Eat, Orlando Facebook group. The soiree sizzles on  April 20, when 16 restaurants, including returning favorites, will be serving up the savory and the sweet alongside wine, beer and spirits from local and national brands, with smooth live jazz serving as the beat-driven backdrop. The Venue — founded in the 1960s as the Maitland Civic Center — has been  a cultural hub for the community for decades. Corks & Forks is helping to ensure its legacy and future role. The independently-funded venue has hosted everything from weddings to conferences and dance classes over the years. “Our mission is to identify trends that can be used to activate and market Venue on Lake Lily while reframing its time-tested place as an invaluable community asset for generations to come,” said Lily Renee Charlan, president of Venue on Lake, in a  news release. “We seek to celebrate its history, charm, and future while aiming to ensure that the promise of the Venue touches all generations and maximizes its reach to inspire new members, supporters, and patrons.” The team from Outpost Kitchen Bar + Provisions is among those who have been corking and forking since the inaugural event in 2021 — and co-owner Julie Casey is beyond delighted to be back. “[Corks & Forks was] one of the first organizations in Maitland that came to us within days of our opening and said, ‘How can we work together?'” Casey told the Orlando Sentinel. The timing was great, as Casey and her team wanted to introduce themselves to the Maitland community. Coming back was a no-brainer. “The event is very organized and well run, and they ask for the input of those of us who contribute to its success. So many other events just want us to show up with the free food and give it out. Corks & Forks has been consistently supportive and collaborative in how they can help us be successful on the night of, and after. That’s huge for me. Plus, it’s such a fun event. We get to see familiar faces and thank those in the community who have supported us since moving to Maitland.” With high hopes to win the event’s new “People’s Choice” award this year, Casey says they’re pulling out all the stops with two tasty choices. First up: the shrimp & grits dish  on the Outpost menu since the beginning. They take it to almost every event, she notes. Long lines follow, “with some people getting back in line and requesting just a serving of the Cajun gravy to drink. Our shrimp and grits start with cheesy Carolina white corn grits shipped weekly from South Carolina, Cajun butter gravy, shrimp, crumbled chorizo, blistered tomatoes and microgreens.” For Outpost fans looking for a new taste, there’s an off-menu bite to sample, one  Casey says was developed with Corks & Forks foodies in mind. “We’re presenting a smoked bison meatball, served over red curry risotto, and topped with Alabama white sauce and bourbon pearls. We’re looking forward to their faces when those little bourbon bubbles pop in their mouth. Hopefully, those smiles turn into votes.” Other well-known purveyors, from Francesco’s to Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar to the Tap Room at Dubsdread, will also be serving sumptuous bites (full list below). Live entertainment presented by Mercedes-Benz of Orlando — including saxophonist Dayve Stewart, as well as Christopher Baptiste, Lavon Rushing, Tim Timmons and Yoshi — will be providing a jazzy backdrop. Stewart has toured with various Grammy-winning notables, including Al Green and Paul Brown. Corks & Forks will take place from 6-9 p.m. April 20, rain or shine. General admission runs $65; $125 gets you a VIP lounge ticket which includes 5 p.m. early entry and VIP lounge access with hors d’oeuvres and a premium open bar with full pours. Corporate/family tables and sponsorships available. All proceeds benefit Venue on Lake Lily. More info: corksandforksmaitland.com Participating restaurants: An Tobar Irish Pub, Anejo Cocina Winter Park, Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar, Francesco’s, George’s Cafe — Cookies & Catering, Jazz Tastings, Luke’s Kitchen + Bar, Maitland Chocolate Factory, Nothing Bundt Cakes, Outpost Kitchen Bar + Provisions, Puff ‘n Stuff Events, Sakari Sushi Bar, Sanford Brewing Company, Sonny’s BBQ, Strive Senior Living Catering, The Tap Room at Dubsdread Find me on Facebook, TikTok, Twitter or Instagram @amydroo or on the OSFoodie Instagram account @orlando.foodie. Email: amthompson@orlandosentinel.com. For more foodie fun, join the Let’s Eat, Orlando Facebook group. Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel