Chelsea transfer news: The Blues have shown their wastefulness in the market and financial results paint a grim picture for Todd Boehly and Clearlake Capital. Sign up to the free Chelsea newsletter for the latest Blues news straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up to the free Chelsea newsletter for the latest Blues news straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Chelsea have spent more money on transfer than any other side in the world since May 2022. They have the record for the largest summer and winter spends ever recorded. The table shows a 12th place finish to account for such hideously grandiose spending.  Their wastefulness is a black comedy horror story of how not to be efficient or perceived as competent over a 12 month spell. It is a case study of widespread failure, ineptitude and poor decision making. The results speak for themselves on the pitch and the backtracking off it only adds to the mountain of evidence. Chelsea made decisions last summer to keep Mason Mount, Cesar Azpilicueta, Jorginho, Kai Havertz, Christian Pulisic, Hakim Ziyech and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Whether they signed them or couldn't shift them, the Blues bloated their squad and spent near enough £100million ($130m) on Marc Cucurella and Kalidou Koulibaly.  Come the end of August both players might have been sold for a fraction of the price. The rest are either gone or on their way. In 12 months their stance shifted immeasurably. If unsustainability was decided on a set of transfers and the following decisions it would be this.  Now, with exits coming thick and fast with more to follow and a few more on top of that, the club are being made to pay for years of careless action. Never has it been more apparent than now.  Despite having a net spend of -£351.83million (-$460.5m) over the past two windows their overall squad value now rests at just £745.5million ($975m). With the additional embarrassment that £158.8million ($207m) of that is made up of academy graduates, the spending power has not equated to relative success or anywhere near. READ MORE:Chelsea news and transfers LIVE: Deal confirmed, Moises Caicedo bid made, Ousmane Dembele move It is not just a Todd Boehly-Clearlake Capital thing either. Eight of the remaining group were signed by the previous regime which proved itself to be just as wide of the mark with transfers in the past seven years, if not worse. The current owners have largely focused their attentions on young players with high promise and the chance of a reasonable sell-on even if the players do not reach the required levels at Stamford Bridge. Too many of the Roman Abramovich signings were focused on immediate improvements that didn't live up to expectations with league results plummeting after 2017. Between January and the start of the summer Chelsea were faced with a group of 37 players, nine academy borne, 15 Abramovich signed and 12 from Boehly-Clearlake, the tide has now turned significantly. Boehly-Clearlake wished to make Chelsea theirs and not just an image of Old Chelsea under new ownership, that plan is now close to complettion for better or worse. New Chelsea is upon us.  There are only a few remaining embers of Marina Granovskaia and Michael Emenalo's transfer work with a focus now on hungry young players. There is no surprise that Chelsea currently have the youngest average age of any Premier League team heading into the 2023/24 season and that still includes 38-year-old Thiago Silva and the trio of Romelu Lukaku (30), Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (34) and Hakim Ziyech (30) that are all set to leave.  There is still work to be done to flesh out this group into a top-four ready shape but the changes taken to bend such a squad in rapid time represents a new side to Chelsea. The incomings and overall business has been far from businessman-like but the approach to selling those that face no future - recouping sizeable fees in the process - has been impressive.  It doesn't make up for the financially abusive plans of the past two windows but it also wouldn't be a surprise to see such a squad value rise up quickly as players start to prove themselves. Only Arsenal and Manchester City have a higher total market value but both have spent considerably less in the past few years. The City squad is also smaller, demonstrating their quality. Arsenal are now leading the way though and it is an example Chelsea themselves are on the path to following, at least the start of it. They will now be hoping to see the benefits of backing players in their early 20s without the need for wholesale changes again. Their business has been once in a generation stuff and the results prove exactly why. It is unforgivable to be as poor with money as Chelsea have been in the short-term but they are likewise lucky enough to be able to ride the wave when others wouldn't.  The challenge is now to cash in on such an opportunity but the lingering issues of abhorrent spending remain and until on-field results can speak for themselves once more, it will remain an ugly sight.   Which of the following prospects would you like to see in the first team, or loaned out for experience? Swipe to have your say...  