Chelsea news: Todd Boehly and the Clearlake Capital consortium completed their £4.25bn takeover in May last year and have spent over £600m across two transfer windows Sign up to the free Chelsea newsletter for the latest Blues news straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up to the free Chelsea newsletter for the latest Blues news straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Clearlake Capital's £4.25bn investment to purchase Chelsea football club has been named Deal of the Year in the Private Equity International 2022 Awards. The deal, led by U.S billionaire Todd Boehly and the private equity firm, was completed at the end of May after two months of uncertainty. Roman Abramovich had put the club up for sale after being sanctioned over alleged links to Russian president Vladimir Putin after his country's attack on Ukraine. It is said that the consortium fended off competition from 11 serious rivals to acquire the club. Since the deal was completed, Chelsea have spent £600million in the past two transfer windows, replaced Thomas Tuchel with Graham Potter and reinstated plans to develop Stamford Bridge. Read more: Chelsea make four major goalkeeping decisions as Todd Boehly receives fresh transfer plan "We are honoured to become the new custodians of Chelsea Football Club. We're all in - 100% - every minute of every match. Our vision as owners is clear: we want to make the fans proud," a statement read. "Our vision as owners is clear: We want to make the fans proud. Along with our commitment to developing the youth squad and acquiring the best talent, our plan of action is to invest in the club for the long-term and build on Chelsea's remarkable history of success." Nearly ten months since arriving at the club, the deal has been awarded Deal of the Year in the PEI 2022 Awards. The award, which is focused on consortiums in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, was given this week, confirmed by the Clearlake Capital Group on Twitter. They wrote: "Clearlake is proud to announce that our investments in Chelsea was awarded Deal of the Year in EMEA in the PEI 2022 Awards." READ NEXT: Chelsea press conference LIVE: Graham Potter on his future, Leeds, Kante, Pulisic, more Two Chelsea undroppables given new roles as Graham Potter makes tactical decision to beat Leeds Jose Mourinho to Chelsea latest: Dream return, Todd Boehly contact and Roma drama Zinedine Zidane to Chelsea latest: Luis Enrique battle, France job decision, Boehly desire Chelsea owners Clearlake Capital make announcement about takeover 