Getty Images Analyst Gartner’s latest market data for PC shipments shows a significant 35.9% decline in EMEA compared with a year ago. Mikako Kitagawa, a director analyst at Gartner, said: “The continued impact of political unrest, inflationary pressures, interest rate increases and a pending recession has culminated in another massive decline in the EMEA PC market. None of the top six vendors were immune from the collapse, all losing more than a third of their shipment volumes year-over-year.” Worldwide PC shipments totalled 55.2 million units in the first quarter of 2023, a 30% decrease from the first quarter of 2022, according to Gartner. The analyst attributed this decline to “an unfavourable combination of oversupply and continued low PC demand due to economic uncertainties and a lack of purchase motivation”. “PC pricing pressures intensified during the quarter as vendors offered considerable discounts to clear inventory,” Kitagawa added. “To drive demand, vendors temporarily reduced average selling prices (ASPs) of PCs already in the channels, but ASPs of new PCs shipping into the channels remained elevated due to inflation-driven supply chain cost increases.” Significantly, Gartner reported that PC manufacturers sought to protect margins rather than pursue market share by lowering prices. This has resulted in a moderate increase in the ASP of new PCs in the channels in 2023 as manufacturers passed the cost increases for new PCs to users. Gartner’s figures show that the top PC manufacturers in the worldwide market remained unchanged in the first quarter of 2023, with Lenovo maintaining number one spot in shipments with a 23.3% market share. However, Gartner said Lenovo recorded the steepest annual shipment decline in its corporate history over two quarters. While the US was a particularly challenging market for Lenovo, the company had modest growth in Japan, driven by end of fiscal year PC purchases. Data for HP shows it experienced a double-digit drop in shipments for a seventh consecutive quarter. Gartner reported that HP shipments in EMEA dropped by 37% compared with a year ago, but declined less steeply in the US market. Similarly, Dell saw its fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year decline. According to Gartner, Dell’s decline was largely driven by the weak business PC market. “Business PC demand was slow overall this quarter, but the small and mid-size business (SMB) market was especially weak due to economic uncertainties,” said Kitagawa. “IT has remained a top area for SMB spending as organisations recognise the importance of leveraging technology for growth, but PCs are often the first area to face budget cuts as the product life can be extended. In contrast, spending in other technology segments, such as software and IT services, is expected to grow in 2023.”  The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... In light of the recent CrowdStrike outage, security teams should ask their vendors 10 key questions to ensure they're prepared ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
