


March 27 (UPI) -- Twitter is investigating after portions of the company's proprietary computer codes were apparently leaked and discovered last week posted to a public online platform used by software developers.
On Friday, the social media giant run by billionaire CEO Elon Musk sent a copyright infringement notice to GitHub to immediately take down the source code, which serves as the operating core of the company's major digital functions, according to a federal legal filing in the Northern District of California that was first reported by The New York Times.
Advertisement
The source code was removed from GitHub the same day but might have been on the site for at least several months after a user with the handle "FreeSpeechEnthusiast" shared excerpts from the protocol.
For now, the person responsible has not been identified.
Related
Elon Musk values Twitter at $20 billion after purchasing for $44 billion
Elon Musk announces change in Twitter policy for responding to journalists
Elon Musk looking to find a replacement Twitter CEO by end of the year
Twitter has asked the court to order GitHub to reveal the identity of the person who shared the source code and anyone else who might have downloaded it, but there was no immediate indication of whether the company planned to pursue criminal charges.
Prior to the debacle, Musk announced on March 17 that Twitter would open source the code related to its recommended tweets algorithm at the end of the month.
Advertisement
"Our 'algorithm' is overly complex & not fully understood internally," Musk wrote on Twitter. "People will discover many silly things, but we'll patch issues as soon as they're found! We're developing a simplified approach to serve more compelling tweets, but it's still a work in progress."
Meanwhile, Musk sent an internal memo to employees over the weekend that said Twitter had lost about half its value since he purchased the company in October for $44 billion, meaning Musk can now offer employee stock grants based on a $20 billion valuation.
According to the memo, Musk said he sees a "clear but difficult path" to increase the value of the company, although he did not elaborate.
Previously, Musk said he was "obviously overpaying" for Twitter when he reluctantly inked the deal to purchase the San Francisco-based company six months ago.
Since taking over the platform, Musk has faced multiple public controversies while the company has lost about 75% of its workforce due to resignations and mass layoffs while hundreds of big-name advertisers have also severed ties.
The Twitter boss has previously indicated that his tenure at the company is only temporary, and that he would appoint someone else to serve as the company's CEO before the end of the year.
Advertisement



Topics
Law and CrimeBusinessTechnologyElon Musk






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Kamala Harris takes stage at Democratic convention on night to honor President Joe Biden
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago, President Joe Biden -- who topped the Democratic ticket last month -- will speak Monday night to make the case for Vice President Kamala Harris.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Trump tells defense workers he will cut energy costs 'in half' by boosting production
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former President Donald Trump on Monday pledged to cut the "cut the cost of energy in half" with a massive change of energy production and manufacturing if he returns to the White House.










U.S. News // 7 hours ago
Chicago DNC protesters breach security fence near where Bidens set to appear
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators, including some who breached a security fence. Four were arrested.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
Border patrol agents find hundreds of pounds of meth in celery at San Diego crossing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents seized 629.72 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value estimated at $755,00, concealed within a shipment of celery in San Diego, the agency said Monday.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
Ex-NFL player Gosder Cherilus accused of urinating on elderly woman during flight
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Gosder Cherilus, a former lineman for nine seasons in the NFL, is facing several federal charges after he is accused of urinating on an elderly woman for approximately 20 seconds during a flight from Boston to Ireland.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
Hyatt hotels settles with D'Vontaye Mitchell's family, same day 4 suspects in court
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Hyatt Regency hotels said Monday it reached a settlement in the recent death of an unarmed Black man in Wisconsin allegedly at the hands of four Hyatt employees.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
Former Rep. George Santos pleads guilty to federal fraud charges, faces prison time
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., pleaded guilty Monday to federal fraud charges in a plea deal that will send the former lawmaker to jail and bypass a criminal trial that was scheduled to start next month.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
D.C. council member Trayon White Sr. arrested on $150,000 bribery charge
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- District of Columbia council member Trayon White Sr. has been charged with bribery of $150,000 in contracts kickback case, the Justice Department said Monday.










U.S. News // 7 hours ago
Harvey Weinstein to stay in N.Y. prison pending retrial on sex charges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will remain incarcerated in New York as he awaits a new sex crimes trial set for November before being returned to California to serve out his sentence there.










U.S. News // 8 hours ago
Deal reached to keep road open when Donald Trump not at Mar-a-Lago home
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- A busy road in front of Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in the town of Palm Beach, Fla., will be open when the former president is not at the residence, according to an agreement.






 March 27 (UPI) -- Twitter is investigating after portions of the company's proprietary computer codes were apparently leaked and discovered last week posted to a public online platform used by software developers. On Friday, the social media giant run by billionaire CEO Elon Musk sent a copyright infringement notice to GitHub to immediately take down the source code, which serves as the operating core of the company's major digital functions, according to a federal legal filing in the Northern District of California that was first reported by The New York Times.
Advertisement The source code was removed from GitHub the same day but might have been on the site for at least several months after a user with the handle "FreeSpeechEnthusiast" shared excerpts from the protocol. For now, the person responsible has not been identified.
Related
Elon Musk values Twitter at $20 billion after purchasing for $44 billion
Elon Musk announces change in Twitter policy for responding to journalists
Elon Musk looking to find a replacement Twitter CEO by end of the year Twitter has asked the court to order GitHub to reveal the identity of the person who shared the source code and anyone else who might have downloaded it, but there was no immediate indication of whether the company planned to pursue criminal charges. Prior to the debacle, Musk announced on March 17 that Twitter would open source the code related to its recommended tweets algorithm at the end of the month.
Advertisement "Our 'algorithm' is overly complex & not fully understood internally," Musk wrote on Twitter. "People will discover many silly things, but we'll patch issues as soon as they're found! We're developing a simplified approach to serve more compelling tweets, but it's still a work in progress." Meanwhile, Musk sent an internal memo to employees over the weekend that said Twitter had lost about half its value since he purchased the company in October for $44 billion, meaning Musk can now offer employee stock grants based on a $20 billion valuation. According to the memo, Musk said he sees a "clear but difficult path" to increase the value of the company, although he did not elaborate. Previously, Musk said he was "obviously overpaying" for Twitter when he reluctantly inked the deal to purchase the San Francisco-based company six months ago. Since taking over the platform, Musk has faced multiple public controversies while the company has lost about 75% of its workforce due to resignations and mass layoffs while hundreds of big-name advertisers have also severed ties. The Twitter boss has previously indicated that his tenure at the company is only temporary, and that he would appoint someone else to serve as the company's CEO before the end of the year.
Advertisement