 If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, Rolling Stone may receive an affiliate commission.  If you’re considering downsizing your desk, or are tired of bulky towers taking up precious floor space, it may be time to pick up a mini PC. Don’t be fooled by the size — the best mini PCs contain a full desktop computer inside, freeing up more of your workspace and letting you easily take it with you as well. More from Rolling Stone Fashion Brand Celine Taps The Strokes' Julian Casablancas for New 'Portrait of a Musician' Campaign Shawn Mendes Puts the 'Fine' in Fine Jewelry With New David Yurman Campaign Brand It Like Beckham: Brooklyn Beckham Launches Sake Brand Inspired by Community and Culture Instead of a traditional tower-type hard drive for a desktop machine, a mini PC contains everything in a simple space-saving little unit, which you then hook up to a monitor, keyboard and mouse. They’re much more compact, and give you the option of an entire desktop computer that you can now carry around with you, or sometimes even mount to the back of the monitor itself. While most any mini PC can handle the basics of everyday internet life, such as web browsing, streaming, and social media, anything beyond that is something you’ll want to check the stats for, to see if your mini computer can deal with what you need. For example, heavy gamers using a mini PC with an average RAM and processing speed would face lots of annoying lag and latency, not to mention a unit that’s at risk for overheating (and gets obnoxiously loud when the cooling fans kick in). But for regular usage, like schoolwork, spreadsheets and office tasks, getting a beefed-up machine with loads of storage would be a waste, as those types of applications don’t weigh down the CPU processing and put much of a strain on it. There’s also the customizable aspect too. While many of the best mini PC brands let you choose between a few pre-built ones that are ready to go right out of the box with varying storage and memory amounts, others are designed to be further customized once they arrive, as more experienced users add their own parts and remove others. There are a lot of good mini PCs available, and shopping for one can be overwhelming. So we’ve selected four of the most accessible and versatile computers to get you started. Read on to find out what’s going to work for you, your online and offline lifestyle, and your space – both physical and memory-wise. Fueled by an 11th Gen Intel Core i5 processor with up to 4.2gHz of speed (the base unit supports 2.4gHZ, but you can add components to make your PC more powerful), there’s a lot packed into this little unit. There are Intel graphics integrated, allowing you to stream mostly clear video and use this mini PC for your basic productivity needs. You’ll be able to connect up to four monitors as well via the HDMI, mini DisplayPort and two Thunderbolt 3 ports. You’ll also be able to pick anywhere between 8 to 32 GB or RAM and up to 1TB of storage. We suggest choosing one of the heftier options if you plan to game or create with your new PC. If you’re using it for basic productivity needs and don’t plan on downloading storage-heavy apps, you’re fine choosing a more barebones option. Your new Intel PC is fast, responsive, and portable (at just 1.32 pounds), this is recommended more for users who have built and maintained machines before, as it might be confusing or overwhelming for newbies. It can handle regular internet usage and mild gaming with no problem, but heavy gamers will probably need something more powerful and with a better response to overheating. Price: $462.00 Buy Now Apples Mac Mini is a good choice for Mac users and is both incredibly compact and portable.  There are two storage sizes to choose from (256GB and 512GB) and both pack 8GB of RAM, just enough for your work-from-home needs, as long as your job doesn’t involve heavy video editing. You’ve also got Apple’s M2 chip built-in which features faster processing times with lower fan speeds.  The performance will be quick, fast and powerful and Apple even claims that the M2 chip boasts faster graphics processing for clear visuals. The macOS is also super user-friendly and intuitive with hundreds of useful apps and top-notch privacy settings available,  making this a great option for beginners who don’t have much experience building PCs and just need something to get their day-to-day work done.  Price: $799.00 Buy Now If you want to create your own setup and figure out what works best for you, the Raspberry Pi 400 B is the PC you need.  Don’t be fooled by its exposed design — this PC is just as powerful as any other we mention on this list. It’s got two USB ports and two HDMI ports, supporting 4K video. Built-in RAM is at 4GB and speed’s at 2.4GHz to start. This is a basic enough setup for casual streaming or web browsing, but you’ll need to upgrade your PC based on your daily needs.  What’s more, this Mini PC can be tinkered with and used to build anything — which means you can use this PC even if you want to try your hand at robotics or build your own smart display. If you’re new to the Raspberry Pi ecosystem, you can even purchase one of the kits to get you started.  Price: $168.50 $149.00 Buy Now The HP ProDesk 400 G6 is a great beginner’s option with a 10th-generation intel i3 processor and 4GB of RAM. It’s also got Intel UHD graphics integrated so you know your videos, games and presentations will look clear and vivid.  This mini PC has got Windows 11 Pro as well. As for ports, you’ve got an HDMI port, a Display Port and multiple USB ports, plus an audio jack. Plus, since it’s customizable, you’ll be able to pick some of your own preferred specs (including better RAM, your choice of Windows OS and additional storage). It’s also relatively light weighing just under three pounds, so you can carry it around when you’re traveling on business. Price: $1,147+ Buy Now This shiny mini PC features Intel's Core i3-8100T, with their UHD Graphics 630 and 3.1 GHz of processor speed. Dual-band wireless and Bluetooth provide a quick and secure connection. At 6.5 pounds, it's the heaviest of the bunch here, but also contains a lot: 2666MHz of memory speed, a 500GB HDD, 4GB RAM, and probably the best and most plentiful port selection too (the dual audio input jacks are a nice bonus). Windows 10 Pro is the OS of choice here, and there's even an HP keyboard and mouse included. Buy Now There's nothing "sus" about the ASUS. This sleek machine runs on Google's Chrome OS, with a fast Intel Celeron processor that can handle 4K movies without lag, as well as 4GB DDR4 of memory. Graphics look great when plugged into a monitor, and it can even handle two screens at a time using HDMI and DisplayPort over a USB-C connection. All Android apps are fully supported, and there's built-in Bluetooth, WiFi, and and a gigabit LAN port for a faster connection. Startup is swift, it's near-silent when running, the OS is user friendly, and it barely takes up any space on your desk. It's also well-protected against malware and viruses, automatically installing the latest software updates and bug fixes to keep your stuff secure. Buy Now Fueled by a quad-core 8th generation Intel Core i7 processor with 2.7gHz of speed, there's a lot packed in to this little unit. And it's up to you what exactly goes in, since it's customizable to your lifestyle, particularly how much memory you'll need. Intel's Iris Plus Graphics 655 look vivid and sharp, and can support triple displays – all in 4K Ultra HD. Audio sounds great as well due to the eight-channel output. There are plenty of ports too, including Thunderbolt 3, two 2.0 USB, HDMI 2.0a, DisplayPort 1.2 via USB-C, and a 3.5mm headphone jack. While fast, responsive, and portable-ish (at three pounds), this is recommended more for users who have built and maintained machines before, as it might be confusing or overwhelming for newbies. It can handle regular internet usage and mild gaming no problem, but heavy gamers will probably need something more powerful and with better response to overheating. Buy Now The Intel 2.3GHz Celeron Apollo Lake Quad-Core J3455 powers this unit, and setting up dual displays is easy due to the double HDMI outputs. 4K HD video looks great, and 4GB of RAM keeps everything running pretty smoothly. The 2.5G and 5G WiFi options provide a strong and steady signal, and build is small and light enough (just 1.3 pounds) so it can attach to some monitors for increased space on your desk. But if you want more (virtual) space, there's a slot for a microSD card up to 128GB, and extra customizable options to make sure you're getting the exact specifications that are going to fit what you need. Buy Now Best of Rolling Stone RS Recommends: 5 Devices You Need to Set Up Your Smart Home The Best Audiophile Turntables for Your Home Audio System Click here to see more up-to-date holiday deals! Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace.