Texas A&M (25-9, 15-3 SEC) was overlooked for much of the regular season and they were arguably disrespected when handed the No. 7 seed in the Midwest Region of the NCAA Tournament. But any casual college basketball fan knows that the Aggies are a team not to be trifled with. As you fill out those March Madness brackets, you may want to think twice about counting out the Maroon and White early on. USA Today unveiled the teams that could bust your men’s NCAA Tournament bracket, and the first name on the list should come as no surprise: No. 7 Texas A&M. The Aggies were criminally under-seeded considering they’ve won 10 of their last 11 games and finished second in the SEC during the regular season. Yes they got blown out by overall No. 1 seed Alabama in the SEC tournament championship — and that’s exactly why they’ll be poised to make a run, to get that bad taste out of their mouth. The selection committee flexed their agenda after seeding the Aggies as low as seventh, whether as a result of punishing head coach Buzz Williams or trying to set up a box-office matchup in the Round of 64. Whatever the reason may be, the stats prove that the Maroon and White are poised to make a run deep into March. Of all the seven seeds in the tournament, Texas A&M holds the highest NET ranking (19) while sitting 25th in KenPom and 17th in the final AP and USA TODAY Coaches polls. They’ve bested the likes of Alabama, Tennessee, and Arkansas at home and have beaten Auburn and Missouri on the road. The math adds up to a battle-tested resume. Simply put, the lights won’t be too bright come Thursday evening. This is a team that overcame a 6-5 start to the season while playing through adversity, which means bouncing back from a title game loss should be child’s play. It helps to know that the Aggies shot 29.7% from the floor while their best player Wade Taylor IV went 3-for-11. Think of it as “ironing out the kinks.” This team has the formula to make a deep run in March with their roster posing a matchup nightmare to anyone in their path. Of course, the most successful teams take it one step at a time, focusing their time and energy on who awaits them now. For the Aggies, their path begins Thursday with an opening-round matchup versus No. 10 Penn State. Tip-off is set for 8:55 p.m. CT and will air on TBS. Contact/Follow us @AggiesWire on Twitter, and like our page on Facebook to follow ongoing coverage of Texas A&M news, notes, and opinions. Follow Pete on Twitter: @PeteThreee Story originally appeared on Aggies Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the 2024 season quickly approaching, here's a look at the Big Ten. Ohio State has a lot of pressure entering the season and a few teams could be right on its heels. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL.