
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/07/24/hines-lists-site-of-61-story-san-francisco-project-for-sale/   $80M loan on Transbay Parcel F is coming due in October. Hines has disclosed it is selling the site of Transbay Parcel F, a 61-story mixed-use tower that was scheduled to rise at 442-550 Howard Street in San Francisco. The Houston-based developer, which has $80M in loans associated with the project coming due in October, and its investment partners have listed for sale the high-profile site in the SoMa submarket, according to a report in the San Francisco Business Times. Parcel F, which would become the fourth-tallest building in San Francisco, was approved by the Board of Supervisors in March 2021 after a four-year battle during which community activists tried to stop the project from moving forward—they didn't want to be in the shadow of the mammoth skyscraper. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Jack Rogers |  August 15, 2024 California metros top NAR list of most-expensive U.S. home markets. By Jack Rogers |  August 14, 2024 Swift hands keys for Showplace Square industrial-to-lab conversion back to lender. By Jack Rogers |  August 08, 2024 Downtown project would rise over fire station near Transamerica Pyramid. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
