Yael Klass is the Vice President of Corporate Marketing at Similarweb.   What do the cutthroat power struggles of a dysfunctional billionaire family have to do with effective marketing? More than you might think. Now in its final season, HBO’s gritty family drama Succession is making more waves than ever. The show’s razor-sharp wit, layered character development and intricate plotlines have cemented its must-watch status. But, binge-ability aside, what’s in it for us digital marketers? Let’s delve into the Roys’ boardroom battles and find out. Succession thrives on conflict—the fight for a media empire’s throne, to be specific. The clashes between strong personalities, the sibling rivalries and the power plays all keep us coming back for more. Marketing narratives need conflict, too. That doesn’t mean pitting CEOs against their adult children (though it could be an interesting strategy!). Conflict can be as simple as your target audience’s pain point versus your product or service, or your brand versus your competitors. Take ClickUp, the project management platform, for example. (Full disclosure: ClickUp is a client of my company.) They leverage conflict by advertising on competitors’ search terms with openly competitive copy. If you search “Monday” on Google, you might get a ClickUp ad that says “Stuck on The Worst Week Day?” Or you might search “Asana” and get ClickUp’s “Don't Get Stuck with Asana” ad. (Full disclosure: Monday is a client of my company.) By positioning your brand as the solution to a pressing issue or the winner of a competitor showdown, you create an engaging narrative that compels the audience to act. Each character in Succession has their own unique strengths, flaws and motivations. They feel real, and that’s why we relate to them, root for them or love to hate them. Likewise, a brand is its own sort of character. The emotional response you create for your audience can make or break a marketing strategy. That’s why it’s crucial to know your audience like the back of your hand. Understand their motivations, aspirations and pain points—and tailor your brand’s “character” accordingly. How do you create your brand’s character (or persona, as it’s often called in marketing)? Glad you asked—I recently wrote an article on the topic. Here are the CliffsNotes: • Determine what your brand is and is not. Your brand isn’t your name, website or product. It’s the personality traits or word associations people make about your brand as a whole. • Differentiate branding from marketing. Branding is the why; marketing is the how. • Pick personality traits that define your brand. Try out Carl Jung’s 12 archetypes to get started. • Consider your colors. Up to 90% of customers make snap decisions based on color. • Get a mascot. • Define your tone. Remember: Voice and tone are not the same. • Create your key messages. Start with “power words,” then list concepts you want to grow, reduce and remove. • Keep your persona up to date. Check in at least once a year to make sure your brand personas are in line with your company’s vision and mission. One of Succession’s hallmarks is unexpected plot twists. Just when we think we know where things are going, the narrative takes a sharp turn, leaving us with our jaws on the floor. Injecting elements of surprise into your marketing narrative can elevate your storytelling. When a campaign defies expectations, it stands out from the crowd, making your audience sit up and take notice. Take Kia, the automotive company, for example. Remember those hamster ads for the Kia Soul? It’s fair to say that giant dancing rodents aren’t the centerpiece of most car commercials. And that’s why Kia’s campaign was so memorable. So during your next strategy session, try embracing that left-field idea. It could very well be the plot twist you need to keep your audience hooked. With its biting dialogue, acidic one-liners and dark humor, Succession has a distinctive voice you can practically hear from space. Your audience should be able to identify your brand voice, too, at least subconsciously. While Succession’s acerbic wit isn’t the right call for most companies, it’s essential that your marketing efforts have a distinct, consistent voice. Whether you’re punchy and playful or formal and authoritative, your vocabulary and tone choices shape your brand voice. Use language that reflects your brand personality and resonates with your audience—so they can always pick you out of the crowd. Succession is about many things, but it’s certainly not about quick resolutions. A slow-burn drama that unfolds over time, the show’s twists and turns keep us invested in the long run. It can be tempting to focus on quick wins as a marketer, especially in turbulent economic times, but building a consistent, lasting narrative usually yields greater rewards. Your brand story isn’t a one-off campaign—it’s a journey that builds audience trust and loyalty over time. Just as Succession’s characters have to constantly adjust their strategies to achieve their end goal of becoming the heir to Logan’s empire, your brand should also evolve to reflect changing times and your audience’s changing needs. Consistency is key, yes, but that doesn’t mean stagnation. Adapting to market changes while staying true to your brand’s core values is a tough balance to strike, but it’s the cumulative effect of deliberate, strategic adjustments that will keep your audience in for the long haul. Whether it’s high-stakes corporate drama or a marketing campaign (or both), compelling storytelling is the name of the game. And while most of us don’t have a billion-dollar media empire at stake, the lessons gleaned from Succession’s success can help us craft narratives that deliver results. Forbes Communications Council is an invitation-only community for executives in successful public relations, media strategy, creative and advertising agencies. Do I qualify? 