MENU Business News Daily provides resources, advice and product reviews to drive business growth. Our mission is to equip business owners with the knowledge and confidence to make informed decisions. As part of that, we recommend products and services for their success. We collaborate with business-to-business vendors, connecting them with potential buyers. In some cases, we earn commissions when sales are made through our referrals. These financial relationships support our content but do not dictate our recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates products based on thousands of hours of research. We are committed to providing trustworthy advice for businesses. Learn more about our full process and see who our partners are here. Need a better way to manage your employee scheduling? Our picks for best time and attendance systems make it easy to track hours. At Business News Daily, we’ve spent years researching and testing the HR software and services that entrepreneurs need to manage their teams effectively. Our team of small business HR specialists conducts independent evaluations of the best HR service providers to determine which best support internal operations. We also regularly consult with HR experts, including recruiters, hiring managers, compliance officers and HR consultants, to stay on top of the latest HR trends impacting small businesses. And every review we publish is evaluated by our editorial staff to ensure objectivity, accuracy and fairness are at the core of our decision-making. Learn more about our editorial guidelines. To create our list of the best time and attendance systems, our team of small business HR experts conducted dozens of hours of research, including live demonstrations, firsthand testing and gathering of customer reviews. We asked company representatives questions about pricing and plans, installation and setup, and the core features of their platforms. Then we tested the... To create our list of the best time and attendance systems, our team of small business HR experts conducted dozens of hours of research, including live demonstrations, firsthand testing and gathering of customer reviews. We asked company representatives questions about pricing and plans, installation and setup, and the core features of their platforms. Then we tested the software ourselves, taking note of the overall user experience, the effectiveness of each feature and the comprehensiveness of reports. We also considered how a small business owner and their employees would use each system on a day-to-day basis and gathered customer feedback to see how real-life users felt about the platforms. considered reviewed selected To create our list of the best time and attendance systems, our team of small business HR experts conducted dozens of hours of research, including live demonstrations, firsthand testing and gathering of customer reviews. We asked company representatives questions about pricing and plans, installation and setup, and the core features of their platforms. Then we tested the software ourselves, taking note of the overall user experience, the effectiveness of each feature and the comprehensiveness of reports. We also considered how a small business owner and their employees would use each system on a day-to-day basis and gathered customer feedback to see how real-life users felt about the platforms. considered reviewed selected In today’s modern work world, driven by remote setups and hybrid schedules, employers need innovative tools to monitor employee time and attendance. Whether team members are in the office, working from home or spending the work day in a coffee shop, businesses want to know where their workers are and even what they’re working on. Fortunately, digitally advanced time and attendance software can track employees’ locations, schedules and productivity. The very best systems, such as When I Work and TimeClock Plus, also integrate with payroll services, help with labor law compliance and leverage artificial intelligence for automated workflows — all of which make timekeeping easier than ever. After extensive research and hands-on testing, we’re breaking down the top time and attendance software solutions we recommend.  Time and attendance software from vendors like UKG are valuable for not only timekeeping but also scheduling worker shifts. (Source: UKG) Communication Restaurants and retail Policy compliance management Ease of Use Scaling businesses Automation 14 days 14 days 14 days 7 days None None $0 $3 per user per month $19 per month, plus $3.99 per user Custom quote Custom quote Custom quote Cloud Cloud Cloud Cloud Cloud or on-premise Cloud Customizable Shift-based Shift-based or on-demand Limited Customizable Customizable iOS and Android iOS and Android iOS and Android iOS and Android iOS and Android iOS and Android Email, online form Chat, help ticket Chat, email Phone, chat, email Phone, email, chat, help ticket Phone, chat No No No No Yes Yes Geofence, GPS GPS Geofence, GPS GPS Geofence, GPS Geofence, GPS Connecteam offers businesses stellar communication tools that not only make it easier to track time and attendance but also enhance your overall company culture.  The no-cost Small Business Plan gives organizations with 10 or fewer employees full access to the vendor’s Operations hub for timekeeping, Communications hub for internal communication and HR & Skills hub for employee engagement. We love that managers, employees and co-workers can all chat with one another (much like Slack), see business updates, look up colleagues in the company directory, participate in surveys and access an organizational knowledge base.  Connecteam allows you to customize messages, from the font and imagery to the color scheme, as you send updates to your team through its software. (Source: Connecteam) TrustRadius Score: Connecteam has a trScore of 8.4 out of 10, however, this rating is based on fewer than 10 reviews. One testimonial states, “I have actually recommended this platform 3 times to fellow contractors and one farmer within the last month. It is easy to set up and intuitive for employees. Our team begged us to keep in after our initial trial and requested we never return to paper time cards. Once you approve time cards it is so easy to run your payroll report and do payroll.” When I Work is the best time and attendance solution for shift-based workplaces like restaurants, cafes and retail stores because it offers several scheduling features, including an auto-scheduler that leverages artificial intelligence. We especially liked how this tool auto-assigns worker shifts based on several data points, like preferred shifts and maximum available hours. Managers can build schedules on mobile or desktop devices and send them to employees, while workers can use their smartphones to request time off and swap or pick up shifts, a feature we found particularly useful for retail businesses and restaurants with dynamic staffing needs.  When I Work’s scheduling tools make it easy to switch shifts among your staff. (Source: When I Work) TrustRadius Score: When I Work has a trScore of 9.1 out of 10 based on dozens of ratings. “Every aspect works well for my company. My managers love the auto-fill option for the scheduling. Comes in very handy when you are scheduling over 150 employees. The reports even on the cheaper option are very useful for me to follow-up with employee call-outs, no-shows, etc. Even though they do not connect to my payroll system the payroll report is easy to use to transfer information,” says one user. Read our full When I Work review. Buddy Punch is our top choice for companies wanting time and attendance software that reflects internal policies while helping them comply with employment and labor laws. It gives businesses more control and visibility over employee timesheets, breaks, overtime and PTO. Buddy Punch supports more than a dozen overtime types, including custom rules. Likewise, administrators can personalize PTO accrual features to match PTO policies. Plus, automatic, trigger-based breaks and clock-outs help ensure labor law compliance.  With Buddy Punch, you can ensure you’re tracking employee overtime in accordance with state laws. (Source: Buddy Punch) TrustRadius Score: After nearly 50 ratings, Buddy Punch has a trScore of 7.0 out of 10. One of the user reviews states, “It’s the easiest app to use to login on to punch in and punch out for your job. You can track all your hours and time off hours. You can adjust the hours you need [in case] you make a mistake or forgot and then your supervisor [will] only have to approve it. You can take a picture to prove [you’re] at work and sign in with so many features like face recognition or password or passcode with symbols.” BambooHR is our preferred time and attendance software for businesses prioritizing usability because its fully featured platform eliminates the need for multiple HR-related applications. Through this one straightforward and easy-to-use platform, HR leaders, company managers and employees can access all the tools they need not just for time tracking but also for new-hire onboarding, benefits administration, payroll processing and performance management. The administrative dashboard provides a helpful look at your workforce status at any given time, including which employees are on PTO. While the software is intuitive, it’s reassuring to know phone support is included in all plans should you need assistance or have a question.  BambooHR makes it easy for employees to assign hours worked to specific projects and tasks. In turn, managers can see exactly how staffers’ time is spent and which initiatives are taking longer than others. (Source: BambooHR)  TrustRadius Score: BambooHR has a trScore of 8.3 out of 10 based on more than 400 ratings. One user shares, “We use BambooHR for all HR and Payroll facets now. We use the ATS system, the HR Management and just recently added Payroll, Time Tracking and Benefits. We love the ease of use and the way the system flows into each module. Payroll has made a huge difference in our process, and we enjoy it.” Read our full BambooHR HR software review. TimeClock Plus is the top time and attendance platform for companies that want a scalable solution. It’s geared toward midsize and large organizations, but smaller businesses can start with basic time-tracking features and expand their feature set as they scale operations. The basic modules include time and attendance, employee and job code management, and overtime calculations. Advanced tools like the auto-scheduler optimize and automate processes based on custom variables. As a complete workforce management suite, TimeClock Plus can scale to handle everything from compliance and audits to advanced leave and absence policies.  TimeClock Plus provides desktop and mobile software along with time clocks that, depending on the device, can use ID numbers, badges or biometrics for clock-ins. (Source: TimeClock Plus) TrustRadius Score: With less than 20 ratings, TimeClock Plus has a trScore of 7.9 out of 10. Says one of the users, “Our organization uses TimeClock Plus and I find it to be user-friendly as an employee and as a user of the portal. It allows me the accessibility to track my hours for our finance team. It is effortless to log your hours from when you clock in to work to when you log out on a day-to-day basis. I log what the hours are used for, whether it be for paid time off, volunteerism, holiday, etc. I truly believe this portal allows our finance team to stay compliant, especially during our bi-weekly pay periods.” Read our full TimeClock Plus review. UKG is the best time and attendance solution for businesses looking to ease their timekeeping burden with automated workflows and advanced technology. With the UKG Ready platform, employers can automate time tracking, set up automatic notifications, establish rules and policies for automatic enforcement and automate time-off approvals. In addition, UKG makes it simple to collect and analyze workforce data, allowing businesses to make informed decisions that further drive efficiencies. We were also pleasantly surprised to see a somewhat unique feature: peer-to-peer time-off donations, allowing employees to grant co-workers some of their PTO allotment.  The UKG InTouch DX time clock can be integrated with UKG TouchFree ID software for clock-ins using facial recognition. (Source: UKG) TrustRadius Score: Across hundreds of ratings, UKG has earned a trScore of 8.1 out of 10. “Processing timesheets and processing payroll is really easy to navigate using the checklists it makes you go through. I cannot miss anything using the checklist process. It’s very streamlined and user-friendly,” reads one testimonial. Expect to pay more for more technologically advanced time clocks, like this one from TimeClock Plus that uses thermal scanning to take employees’ temperatures. (Source: TimeClock Plus) There are two standard pricing models for time and attendance software: cloud subscriptions and on-premise licenses. You typically pay a monthly fee for cloud-hosted subscription services based on your number of employees (or users). On-premise systems must be downloaded and stored on an office computer and generally have a one-time licensing fee. Cloud-hosted time and attendance software costs usually range from $2 to $10 per month for each employee. Some providers like Buddy Punch also have a monthly base fee. Add-on charges may include fees for installation or setup. Support fees are commonly included in your monthly subscription price. If you choose a timekeeping system like Time Doctor that you download to a computer and host on your IT network, pricing traditionally ranges from $100 to $400 per license. You’ll also have to purchase computers and, in some cases, a physical time clock. In general, you’ll also have to pay an annual fee if you need technical support after your installation period ends. Ensure the time and attendance platform you choose benefits your small business by reviewing your options and understanding your costs. You should be able to calculate your ROI and determine how quickly you can recover your expenses. It is also critical to get your employees behind software or workflow changes by involving them in the selection process. Here are the steps to take when choosing a time and attendance system: Identify the problems that you want time and attendance software to solve. Speak with department managers and influential employees, including people without a title that other workers look to for advice or assistance. Gather information about various data points, such as time theft occurrences and time spent collecting or fixing timecards. If you collect team feedback or suggestions, look for employee requests related to time and attendance, like a desire for transparent PTO accruals or on-demand pay. Create a spreadsheet to house your time and attendance software research. Include provider contact details, links to information and itemized pricing. Add columns for must-have features or tools and group others into a catch-all box. Remember to share this information with other decision-makers and encourage them to leave comments within the document. Here’s how to look into various services: Once you’ve narrowed down your choices based on pricing and features, set aside time to use the products. Many time and attendance tools offer a free trial or free version. Others have video demos. Check YouTube to see if other business owners or software reviewers have software walk-throughs. Go back to your problem list and use the software to solve them. Log into the system on multiple devices and test different roles (administrator, manager and employee) to see how the user experience and functionality change.  Employees using Buddy Punch can clock in via their mobile device and then the time card data is set to a managerial dashboard for timesheet approval. (Source: Buddy Punch) Time and attendance systems replace outdated wall-mounted time clocks, paper time sheets and confusing spreadsheets. They provide an easy, accurate way for employees to clock in and out. In addition, most time and attendance software solutions offer configurable timesheet reports that you can export to your payroll system and have helpful features such as workflow automation, time-of management, team communications and reminders. Here is a rundown of the top features we like to see in high-quality time and attendance software. Identify your must-have features before comparing time and attendance systems. Some companies sell bundled packages, whereas others offer different functions on an a la carte basis. Choose the system with the tools you want at a price point you can afford.  One of the ways software like When I Work helps supervisors save time is by enabling them to manage employee time off while on the go themselves, thanks to feature-packed mobile apps. (Source: When I Work) A timekeeping system will save your business money if set up and used correctly. When you use modern time and attendance software, employees can no longer round up their hours or punch in for their friends; instead, the software documents their work hours with tools that prevent time fraud. Here are some other benefits of using time and attendance software. A digital time and attendance system eliminates manual recordkeeping, which reduces errors. In addition, you can more easily demonstrate your business’s compliance with overtime tracking rules and other labor and employment laws thanks to features that help you follow local, state and federal regulations. Top-rated time and attendance software like BambooHR saves your managers and HR staff time they would have otherwise spent tallying employees’ work hours and transferring the information to a payroll software program. With other features that streamline operations, these solutions free your human resources team and supervisors to focus on other business tasks. Adding up each employee’s timecard can take up to six or seven minutes per card. Time and attendance software will do the calculators for you.  Time and attendance platforms benefit employees who can see their work schedules in advance; they’ll know exactly when they’re supposed to work and can rest assured they’re being paid for time logged. Most time and attendance tools are easy to use, allowing employees to clock in using their computer or mobile device. These systems also show staffers their total hours worked, weekly schedules, time-off accruals and PTO requests so they’re always in the know. When evaluating time and attendance software, look for user-friendly self-service features like intuitive employee dashboards. This one from BambooHR allows workers to submit their hours and time-off requests on the same screen. (Source: BambooHR) When purchasing time and attendance software, ensure the platform you choose benefits your small business by reviewing your plan options and understanding your costs. You should be able to calculate your ROI and determine how quickly you can recover your expenses. It is also critical to get your employees behind software or workflow changes by involving them in the selection process. Here are the steps to take when choosing a time and attendance system. Identify the problems you want time and attendance software to solve. Speak with department managers and influential employees, including people without a title that other workers look to for advice or assistance. Gather information about various data points, such as time theft occurrences and time spent collecting or fixing timecards. If you collect team feedback or suggestions, look for employee requests related to time and attendance services, like a desire for transparent PTO accruals or on-demand pay. Ultimately, you want to identify the problems you want your new time and attendance software to solve. Create a spreadsheet to house your research for each time and attendance system you’re considering. Include contact details for vendor, links to information about the software and itemized pricing. Add columns for must-have features or tools and group others into a catch-all box. Share this information with other decision-makers and encourage them to leave comments within the document. Here’s how to look into various services as you compare products. Use the information you collect to identify your top solutions. Once you’ve narrowed down your choices based on pricing and features, set aside time to test the products. Many time and attendance providers offer a free trial or free version you can try. Others have video demos that showcase the platform. Check YouTube to see if other business owners or software reviewers have software walk-throughs. Go back to your problem list from step one and use the software you’re testing to try to solve them. Log into the system on multiple devices and test different roles (administrator, manager and employee) to see how the user experience and functionality change. With usability in mind, you can now make your final buying decision. Choose the software that performs best for your company’s needs without breaking your budget. If our six top picks for time and attendance software above aren’t quite what you’re looking for, compare and contrast these additional options. As our investigations demonstrated, there’s plenty to like in each of them no matter your timekeeping needs. Although Clockify doesn’t include tools for shift planning and won’t integrate with third-party payroll services, we still found it to be a suitable solution for businesses with hybrid teams. With both free and paid plans, your in-office team members can clock in via an on-premise kiosk, while remote workers can use virtual options via their phone, tablet or desktop computer. In-app messaging keeps both groups of staffers in touch. Learn more in our full Clockify review. Rippling’s time and attendance module makes timekeeping extremely efficient. Users can customize dashboards, time-tracking rules and workflows to speed up time and attendance processes for managers and employees alike. With an intuitive cloud-based platform and self-service mobile app, it takes mere minutes to request and approve time off, set up meal break notifications and sync worked hours for payroll processing. Note, however, that this module is only available as an add-on to Rippling Unity, its employee management platform. Find out more in our detailed review of Rippling. We love the way Time Doctor goes above and beyond typical time and attendance services to also assist with employee productivity. The platform’s tools for tracking and optimizing user activity can help businesses refine their workflows, identify distractions and even improve work-life balance. The productivity dashboard, employee monitoring functions and behavior reports are great resources for employers interested in more than just when team members clock in and out. See an overview of these features in our Time Doctor review. For managers and staff on the go, QuickBooks Time is a mobile time and attendance solution that lets users clock in and out via a variety of methods while accessing numerous time management tools from a mobile app. This flexibility is a huge asset for businesses with distributed teams, field workers and hybrid arrangements. Companies with mobile workforces will also like the GPS and mileage trackers. Plus, if you’re already familiar with other QuickBooks products, the learning curve is likely to be minimal. See the plan options and pricing in our QuickBooks Time review. The best part of OnTheClock is its affordability. If you have two or fewer employees, this time and attendance software solution is free. As your staff grows, you’ll pay just a couple dollars per employee each month. Not to mention, advanced features like fingerprint clock-ins will only set you back 50 cents per person monthly. Such tools are great for preventing time theft. We also like that the system facilitates team communication with in-app messaging and a function for company announcements, similar to Connecteam. The Paychex Flex platform is ideal for businesses looking for an all-in-one solution encompassing timekeeping tools, HR services, payroll processing, benefits administration and more. While the vendor isn’t upfront about its pricing, we found this to be a robust system with biometric time clocks, schedule templates and valuable analytics. Keep in mind, however, that Paychex doesn’t offer a free trial. Our comprehensive Paychex Flex review shares our experience with the software. Putting aside our disappointment that PurelyHR doesn’t offer a mobile app, we love how customizable its system is. You begin with the required employee portal and build upon the platform with only the components you want, such as timesheets and time-off management. This level of customization even extends to incorporating your business logo and branding for a visual display that fits right in with your company and can even take employees to your website. Justworks is a professional employer organization (PEO) that can handle all of your human resources needs, including timekeeping. The vendor’s time-tracking software helps you stay compliant with labor laws and manage your personnel budget. We also love that employees can clock in and out using Slack — an integration we didn’t see in most competitors. If you’d like, hours worked can automatically sync with the platform’s payroll module for a streamlined, user-friendly process. [See all our recommendations for the best PEO service providers.] At Business News Daily, our team of small business HR experts has been researching and testing time and attendance software for years, comparing some of the leading solutions across more than 30 key metrics. We considered 20 time and attendance services to start and closely reviewed and tested 16 of them before selecting our six best picks above. Below are the factors we examined when deciding our top recommendations. Each is weighted according to how much the criteria typically influences business owners’ buying decisions. In addition to evaluating each time and attendance software based on these criteria, we also determined the best use-case scenarios for each. No two businesses are exactly alike, so we put ourselves in the shoes of different types of small business owners to identify the best time and attendance solutions for a variety of needs. To learn more about how we review and test sales technology products and services for small businesses, read about our editorial process.  You may need new time and attendance software if you’re using outdated processes that waste time and money. Businesses that spend hours collecting, verifying and correcting timecards and time sheets should consider digitizing their workflows. If you’re still relying on paper time sheets or a traditional punch clock, consider the advantages of using modern time and attendance software. Your company is likely to benefit from error reductions, payroll integrations, electronic schedules, PTO management and more.
First off, it reduces the chances of time-related errors in your payroll. Most of these systems integrate with payroll by uploading the time sheet data into your payroll program. No one has to manually calculate time punches and re enter them into the payroll software — a process that’s more likely to result in errors. Time and attendance systems allow businesses to create electronic schedules, manage PTO, and store employees’ schedules, work hours, break time, time off, overtime and paid hours in one place. That means you’ll no longer need to dig for data in paper files when an employee or your payroll provider has a question. Time and attendance software can save you money by reducing time theft, increasing productivity and streamlining HR processes, resulting in significant savings. You may pay $2 to $10 per employee per month for timekeeping software, but your return on investment (ROI) can far outweigh the cost. You should expect your time and attendance system to handle all your hourly and salaried employees’ time-tracking needs, including overtime. At the very least, your solution should offer multiple ways to clock in and out, gives remote workers the ability to punch in and out from wherever they are, and integrate with your payroll software to ensure staffers are paid correctly for all hours worked. Other valuable features include the ability to generate employee schedules, manage time-off requests and approvals, log how long employees work on specific projects and monitor where your employees are clocking in and out each day. An employee time clock works by recording when an employee has clocked in and clocked out. With traditional punch clocks, an employee inserts a paper timecard into the machine, which then records on the card what time the employee clocked in or out. Digital time clocks (e.g., computers, kiosks and mobile devices) record the clock-in and clock-out times directly in the associated time and attendance software, using a secure method to avoid time theft. Instead of punching a card, these time clocks usually involve a login ID, PIN, swipe card or biometrics (such as fingerprint, photo or facial scan). Employee time tracking integrates with payroll and HR by providing human resources teams with the timekeeping data they need to calculate employee pay and process payroll. The best time and attendance software facilitates this integration automatically instead of requiring manual work. This process saves time and reduces errors in transferring time and attendance data from one program to another. It is important for employees to clock in and out at work to ensure there is a record of their hours worked and that employers are paying their team members for those hours in compliance with federal and state labor laws. Digital time and attendance systems have the added benefit of giving employers precise details on when employees are working and where. If you partner with a professional employer organization and seek their assistance with timekeeping, time and attendance would be managed through their PEO platform. This system typically works the same as other time and attendance solutions but will also include features related to other HR services, such as benefits administration. It is important to document employee time and attendance to ensure you are paying employees accurately for hours worked and in compliance with labor laws. This recordkeeping is also critical for verifying team members are working when and where they’re supposed to. In addition, a log of employees’ hours helps employers optimize their staffing levels so they are not under or overstaffed. This is especially important for service businesses like restaurants and retailers. A reasonable attendance policy is one that balances business needs and legal obligations with the flexibility today’s workforce increasingly desires. When drafting your company’s attendance policy, consider your industry, company culture and the demands of the business. For example, one employer may find it acceptable for an office worker to be 30 minutes late because their work schedule is flexible, but a manufacturer or retailer may not tolerate tardiness or an unauthorized absence because it may affect the business’s ability to function. Set rules according to your needs while still being attentive to employees’ own needs. Once you’ve created your company’s attendance policy, you should meet with your team to review it and ensure they understand what is expected of them. In 2024, time and attendance software will be about more than just clocking in and out. These solutions will be designed to facilitate a work environment that’s flexible, data-driven and prioritizes both productivity and employee well-being. For example, popular workplace trends like hybrid and remote work will be seamlessly accommodated by cloud-based timekeeping systems that can track hours worked across multiple geographical boundaries and time zones. As workforce diversification increases in 2024, we may see a push to cross-train staff to cover understaffed or unfilled shifts at one or more locations. Unlike traditional employment situations, this year will have teams of full- and part-time workers, on-demand freelancers and regular contractors. Time and attendance software will evolve to meet these needs by offering custom job codes and guest or temporary time clock access. Additionally, as artificial intelligence (AI) makes its way into various aspects of business, we can expect time-tracking systems to increasingly integrate this revolutionary technology. Imagine software that learns employee work patterns and proactively suggests breaks or adjustments to optimize productivity. AI-powered algorithms can analyze timekeeping data to identify potential burnout or overtime risks, nudging employers towards a more human-centric approach. Finally, sustainability will become a key differentiator. We’ll see systems that track not just time but also energy consumption and carbon footprint. This data can then be used to optimize workflows and promote eco-conscious practices within organizations. Insights on business strategy and culture, right to your inbox.Part of the business.com network.