Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 Americans’ buying power has been squeezed since the start of 2022 as companies steadily raised prices to restore their profit margins — deflated by higher costs for freight and labor — to pre-pandemic levels. Now Walmart Inc. appears to be saying enough is enough.Consumer goods companies have been willing to hike prices on core products even if it meant selling fewer units, as long as the end result is more profit. But those price increases have been costing Walmart, too. That’s because Walmart earns higher margins on discretionary spending — categories like apparel and home goods — so for the company, household budgets being gobbled up by the basics is bad for business.Walmart is determined to push back against this trend. The chief of Walmart’s U.S. operations explained the strategy on the company’s recent earnings call, saying that “working with those suppliers that are on the prepared foods and consumable categories to get costs down more as fast as we possibly can would help them drive unit volume” and would “free up cash for customers to use for discretionary goods.”In other words, consumer product companies have been prioritizing price over sales volumes, and now Walmart is saying it wants them to focus on volumes over price.And Walmart is likely to win this round. With more than $600 billion in annual revenue — and making inroads with higher-income consumers — Walmart is twice the size of Costco Wholesale Corp. and Target Corp. combined, giving it an unmatched level of sway with its suppliers.Plus, it has more than just its own clout in its favor; there is the whole economic environment of mid-2023 as well. At the end of 2021, when these companies had absorbed a lot of higher costs and hadn’t yet passed them on, and consumers still had significant excess savings built up during the pandemic, it made sense that we would be in for a prolonged period of those higher costs being pushed along to consumers.But that isn’t the world we live in today. Excess savings have been run down to a large degree, and consumers have become more cost-conscious after absorbing a lot of inflation. Additionally, while profit margins for consumer-goods companies might not be fully restored in all cases, they have normalized a lot.A good example of this is Clorox, one of the biggest pandemic winners. Prior to the pandemic, Clorox’s gross profit margins were stable at around 45%. By the fourth quarter of 2021, consumers had stocked up on all the bleach and wipes they needed for a while, and elevated costs on freight and commodities dropped the company’s gross margin to 33%. In the most recent quarter, the number had recovered to 42%. That’s not all the way back to where it wants it to be, but if Walmart and other retailers put the squeeze on prices for a while, it can probably manage.

There are also signs of progress on food inflation. In the Consumer Price Index report, the food-at-home category grew by more than 1% a month in the first half of 2022 as companies were aggressively passing cost increases on to consumers. But in the past two months food inflation has been negative.So there are a lot of reasons why inflation in everyday essentials should finally be easing up.The trucking and freight markets have weakened considerably, and energy costs have fallen significantly from this time a year ago. That’s already lifting pressure on prices for bulky consumer items that are moved around the country in trucks. Profit margins for consumer product companies have normalized to a large degree. Consumers no longer have the financial cushion to absorb double-digit price increases on essentials. And retailers like Walmart, which has mostly put its supply chain and excess inventory problems behind it, see getting inflation under control for household basics as the key to getting its profit back on track for more lucrative discretionary merchandise.The Federal Reserve did a lot of heavy lifting last year by raising interest rates to beat back inflation. Now it’s Walmart’s turn to do its part.Conor Sen is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist. He is founder of Peachtree Creek Investments.Related Articles
Opinion |  

			Lisa Jarvis: Bizarre raw milk trend puts kids at risk		


Opinion |  

			F.D. Flam: The oldest Olympians might hold the key to slowing aging		


Opinion |  

			Jim Warren: Deepfakes target Democrats and Republicans alike		


Opinion |  

			David Brooks: We’re only as smart as our emotions		


Opinion |  

			Zeynep Tufekci: Wealthy nations must prioritize the fight again the monkeypox virus		

 Consumer goods companies have been willing to hike prices on core products even if it meant selling fewer units, as long as the end result is more profit. But those price increases have been costing Walmart, too. That’s because Walmart earns higher margins on discretionary spending — categories like apparel and home goods — so for the company, household budgets being gobbled up by the basics is bad for business. Walmart is determined to push back against this trend. The chief of Walmart’s U.S. operations explained the strategy on the company’s recent earnings call, saying that “working with those suppliers that are on the prepared foods and consumable categories to get costs down more as fast as we possibly can would help them drive unit volume” and would “free up cash for customers to use for discretionary goods.” In other words, consumer product companies have been prioritizing price over sales volumes, and now Walmart is saying it wants them to focus on volumes over price. And Walmart is likely to win this round. With more than $600 billion in annual revenue — and making inroads with higher-income consumers — Walmart is twice the size of Costco Wholesale Corp. and Target Corp. combined, giving it an unmatched level of sway with its suppliers. Plus, it has more than just its own clout in its favor; there is the whole economic environment of mid-2023 as well. At the end of 2021, when these companies had absorbed a lot of higher costs and hadn’t yet passed them on, and consumers still had significant excess savings built up during the pandemic, it made sense that we would be in for a prolonged period of those higher costs being pushed along to consumers. But that isn’t the world we live in today. Excess savings have been run down to a large degree, and consumers have become more cost-conscious after absorbing a lot of inflation. Additionally, while profit margins for consumer-goods companies might not be fully restored in all cases, they have normalized a lot. A good example of this is Clorox, one of the biggest pandemic winners. Prior to the pandemic, Clorox’s gross profit margins were stable at around 45%. By the fourth quarter of 2021, consumers had stocked up on all the bleach and wipes they needed for a while, and elevated costs on freight and commodities dropped the company’s gross margin to 33%. In the most recent quarter, the number had recovered to 42%. That’s not all the way back to where it wants it to be, but if Walmart and other retailers put the squeeze on prices for a while, it can probably manage. There are also signs of progress on food inflation. In the Consumer Price Index report, the food-at-home category grew by more than 1% a month in the first half of 2022 as companies were aggressively passing cost increases on to consumers. But in the past two months food inflation has been negative. So there are a lot of reasons why inflation in everyday essentials should finally be easing up. The trucking and freight markets have weakened considerably, and energy costs have fallen significantly from this time a year ago. That’s already lifting pressure on prices for bulky consumer items that are moved around the country in trucks. Profit margins for consumer product companies have normalized to a large degree. Consumers no longer have the financial cushion to absorb double-digit price increases on essentials. And retailers like Walmart, which has mostly put its supply chain and excess inventory problems behind it, see getting inflation under control for household basics as the key to getting its profit back on track for more lucrative discretionary merchandise. The Federal Reserve did a lot of heavy lifting last year by raising interest rates to beat back inflation. Now it’s Walmart’s turn to do its part. Conor Sen is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist. He is founder of Peachtree Creek Investments. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group