Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Over the past decade, rising household incomes have helped boost the consumer goods sector, providing a great investment opportunity for those who know where to look. TipRanks recognized Wall Street's 10 best analysts in the consumer goods sector for identifying the best investment opportunities. These analysts outperformed their peers with their stock picking and generated significant returns through their recommendations. TipRanks used its Experts Center tool to identify the pros with a high success rate, and analyzed each stock recommendation made by analysts in the consumer goods sector over the past decade.  The ranking highlights the analysts' ability to deliver returns from their recommendations. TipRanks' algorithms calculated the statistical significance of each rating, the analysts' overall success rate and the average return. Further, each rating was measured over one year. The image below shows the most successful Wall Street analysts from the consumer goods sector.   John Baugh tops the list. Baugh has an overall success rate of 63%. His best rating has been on RH (NYSE:RH), a leading retailer of luxury home furnishings. His buy call on RH stock from March 31, 2020, to March 31, 2021, generated a solid return of 493.8%. Paul Quinn is second on this list and has a success rate of 58%. Quinn's top recommendation is Interfor (TSE:IFP), a Canadian company offering a diverse range of lumber products. The analyst generated a profit of 440.2% through his buy recommendation on Interfor stock from May 8, 2020, to May 8, 2021. Citi analyst Anthony Pettinari ranks No. 3 on the list. Pettinari has a success rate of 69%. His best recommendation has been on Lennar (NYSE:LEN), a home construction company. The analyst generated a return of 161.2% through a buy recommendation on LEN from April 15, 2020, to April 15, 2021.  Sam Poser bags the fourth spot on the list. The analyst has a 53% overall success rate. Poser's best recommendation has been on Crocs (NASDAQ:CROX), a footwear company. His buy call on CROX stock generated a 375.5% return from May 13, 2020, to May 13, 2021. Fifth-place analyst Martin Landry has a success rate of 57%. His best recommendation is Canopy Growth (TSE:WEED), a Canadian cannabis company. The analyst delivered a profit on this stock of 580.8% from Sept. 8, 2017, to Sept. 8, 2018. Taking the sixth position is Toshiya Hari. The analyst has a success rate of 62%. His top recommendation was for leading chip company Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA). Through his buy call on NVDA stock, Hari generated a solid return of 206.4% from June 2, 2016, to June 2, 2017. EF Hutton analyst Chip Moore is seventh on this list, with a success rate of 61%. Moore's best call has been a buy on the shares of Plug Power (NASDAQ:PLUG), a company focused on developing hydrogen fuel cell systems. The recommendation generated a return of 382.5% from Sept.19, 2019, to Sept. 19, 2020. In the eighth position is Michael Swartz of Truist Financial. Swartz has an overall success rate of 49%. The analyst's top recommendation is MarineMax (NYSE:HZO), a retailer of recreational boats and yachts. Based on his buy call on HZO, Swartz generated a profit of 609.6% from March 20, 2020, to March 20, 2021.  Nik Modi ranks ninth on the list. The analyst sports a 65% success rate. His top recommendation has been on Boston Beer (NYSE:SAM), offering craft-brewed beers. The buy recommendation generated a return of 230.2% from March 23, 2020, to March 23, 2021. Mark Astrachan has the 10th spot on the list, with a success rate of 65%. Astrachan's best call has been a buy on shares of Celsius Holdings (NASDAQ:CELH), a consumer packaged goods company focused on lifestyle energy drinks. The recommendation generated a return of 174.5% from May 11, 2022, to May 11, 2023. Investors can follow the ratings of top analysts to help them make an informed investment decision. We will soon return with the top 10 analysts of the past decade in the service sector.   Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by