Department of
Mechanical Engineering Contact Bob Carter, Associate Department Head
585-475-7098, rncbme@rit.edu The Department Mechanical Engineering Office
585-475-5181, mece@rit.edu Make a Gift From rockets to robots, power plants to biomechanical parts, mechanical engineers put both energy and machines to work. Wherever there is motion or energy, mechanical engineers have played a role in the innovations that define modern life. Read More...  Mechanical engineering is a broad discipline, covering topics that include aerodynamics, medical devices, energy systems, system control, robotics, new product development, materials development, structural integrity, manufacturing, automotive systems, and space vehicle systems. The mechanical engineering department offers a solid foundation in mechanical engineering fundamentals with options for students to concentrate their studies in several specific areas of engineering.  Mechanical engineers work in many different industries and businesses as product developers, researchers, prototype designers, automotive engineers, aerospace engineers, management consultants, among many others. Because of their comprehensive training, mechanical engineers are often called upon to serve in senior leadership positions. Well-equipped labs and facilities offer students the opportunity to build models and prototypes to demonstrate particular engineering design concepts. Experimentation and research are encouraged and there are opportunities for students to enrich their undergraduate and graduate experience by engaging in faculty-led research in areas such as sustainable energy systems, biomedical and assistive device technology, systems analysis, robotics, vibrations, and automotive and aerospace engineering.  The BS degree in mechanical engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, www.abet.org. For Enrollment and Graduation Data, Program Educational Objectives, and Student Outcomes, please visit the college’s Accreditation page.  
  
		4
	 
				Undergraduate options in aerospace, automotive, bioengineering, and energy and the environment
			 
		5
	 
				Areas of research
			 Learn More about research 
		1000+
 
				Undergraduate and graduate mechanical engineering students
			 Undergraduate Degrees 

              Aerospace Engineering Option - Mechanical Engineering BS
							              


 The aerospace engineering option allows for specialized study in all engineering aspects of air- and space-borne vehicles. 

              Automotive Engineering Option - Mechanical Engineering BS
							              


 The automotive engineering option offers specialized electives that provide a comprehensive understanding of automotive design and manufacturing, vehicle power plants, dynamics, control systems, and more. 

              Bioengineering Option - Mechanical Engineering BS
							              


 Bioengineering is the application of engineering fundamentals to the principles of biology, the life sciences, and the physical sciences. 

              Energy and the Environment Option - Mechanical Engineering BS
							              


 The energy and environment option is focused on identifying, developing, and effectively utilizing alternative energy systems. 

              Mechanical Engineering BS
															  (Accelerated dual degree available)



 Mechanical engineers put energy and machines to work–from rockets, robots, and airplanes to automobiles, satellites, and renewable energy systems. In RIT’s mechanical engineering BS degree you'll study math, science, physics, engineering science, and engineering systems. Graduate Degrees 

              Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Ph.D.
							              


 In the mechanical and industrial engineering doctorate you’ll graduate with a depth of knowledge in mechanical or industrial engineering while engaging in cutting-edge, cross-disciplinary research. 

              Mechanical Engineering ME
							              


 In the ME in mechanical engineering, you’ll apply mechanical engineering principles and theories to enhance your skills through formal education, training, and independent inquiry. 

              Mechanical Engineering MS
							              


 A mechanical engineering master’s degree that focuses on the in-depth examination of dynamics, robotics, nanotechnology, biomechanics, and energy systems to prepare you to enter a career in industry or research. 

              Microsystems Engineering Ph.D.
							              


 Conduct research in nano-engineering, design methods, and technologies for micro- and nano-scaled systems. This microsystems engineering doctorate is a multidisciplinary program that addresses the technical challenges of micro- and nano-systems. 

              Vibrations Adv. Cert.
							              


 Vibration engineering helps you control vibration in engineering systems and in everything from consumer product development and design, manufacturing, aerospace and automotive systems, and more. Minors and Immersions 

              Mechanical Engineering Minor
							              


 The minor in mechanical engineering exposes students to the core foundations of the discipline. Courses help non-majors explore high-technology careers and communicate more effectively with engineers on project teams. The minor consists of a five-course sequence that builds on prerequisite knowledge from calculus and engineering mechanics. Elective courses provide additional depth of knowledge in an area of individual student interest. 
						Advanced Gear Design and Simulation
					 Led by Dr. Alfonso Fuentes-Aznar, the research performed at RIT’s Gear Research Laboratory is focused on the study of new gear geometries and the development of new methodologies for advanced design, analysis, simulation, and troubleshooting of gear drives. Learn more 
						Clean Energy and Water
					 Led by Dr. Howard Tu, the Clean Energy and Water lab targets interdisciplinary problems coupling mechanics, electrochemistry, and materials in the field of energy storage and water desalination.  Learn more 
						Droplet Based Microfluidics
					 The Discrete Microfluidics Laboratory studies the physics of small droplets. The goal is to understand fluid interactions and leverage the physics of microdroplets for innovative advancements in current technologies. Learn more 
						Smart Manufacturing
					 The Smart Manufacturing Research Group (SMRG), under the leadership of Dr. Rui Liu, is dedicated to investigating the research problems related to smart manufacturing on the fundamental level and expanding the research scope by exploring new research topics and introducing state-of-the art technologies. Learn more 
						Respiratory Technologies Lab
					 The Respiratory Technologies Lab (RTL) specializes in the mechanics of inhaled particles. Its current research focus is to understand the relationship between tobacco product characteristics, behavior, and health effect. The RTL studies e-cigarettes, waterpipe, cigarettes, and tobacco heated products.  Learn more 
						Interfaces and AI-Powered Diagnosis
					 Dr. Isaac Perez-Raya conducts research on interfacial phenomena such as boiling heat transfer and applies artificial intelligence (AI) in modeling of intracranial blood flow and breast cancer. Other relevant fields of study include pollution monitoring and optimization problems.  
						X-Ray Diffraction, Atomic Force Microscopy, Quantitative Microscopy
					 The Advanced Materials Laboratory focuses on X-ray diffraction (both powder and high resolution), scanning probe microscopies, optical microscopy, microhardness testing, and specimen preparation by mechanical and electrochemical polishing. Learn more 
			July 3, 2024
		 
						Engineering researchers receive NSF funding to develop computational tools to monitor ablation therapy on cardiac tissue 
					 Researchers at RIT are developing non-invasive technology that will better assess cardiac tissue response to thermal energy, a common therapy approach for both cancer and cardiac arrhythmia treatments. 
			June 17, 2024
		 
						RIT Formula Racing zooms to big win at SAE Michigan 
					 RIT Racing held a mere three-point lead at the top of the leaderboard for the Michigan SAE Formula electric competition June 14-16, but it was enough to give the team one of its biggest wins since it began racing more than 30 years ago. 
			June 3, 2024
		 
						Engineering faculty and cardiologist collaborate to design heart pump assessment prototype
					 Researchers at RIT are developing technology that will be able to determine the lifespan of a heart valve with more precision. A Novel Breast Cancer Detection Tool Powered by Inverse Heat Transfer Modeling 
											Carlos Gutierrez									 
							
																																	Effective treatment of breast cancer relies heavily on early detection. Routine annual mammography is a widely accepted screening technique that has resulted in significantly improving the survival...
																					 Mechanical Engineering Alumna Makes History at Indianapolis 500 
 
							
																								Nicole Rotondo ’16 (mechanical engineering) was a trackside engineer with the Honda Performance Development Team at the 2022 Indianapolis 500. 
																					 Internship at SpaceX Catapults Graduate into Full-time Position 
 
							
																								Isabella Daquita landed a job as a composite manufacturing engineer at SpaceX after completing a three-month internship.
																					 Joseph Vasquez Participated in the MIT Summer Research Program  
 
							
																								Vazquez spent his summer conducting research in optics and photonics at the MIT Summer Research Program.
																					 
              Risa
              Robinson
             
              Bob
              Carter
             
              Marca
              Lam
             
              Steven
              Day
             
              Jennifer
              Kamish
             
              Fernando David
              Cunez Benalcazar
             
              Chanda
              Duncan
             


													Honor Societies
											



 Pi Tau Sigma Pi Tau Sigma is the mechanical engineering national honor society. Membership, by invitation, is open to students ranked in the upper third of their class in their fourth and fifth years at RIT. Chapter activities are tailored to foster high ideals in the engineering profession, support departmental activities, and promote professionalism.  Tau Beta Pi This national engineering honor society was founded to celebrate those who have conferred honor upon their alma mater by distinguished scholarship and exemplary character as students in engineering, or by their attainments as alumni in the field of engineering, and to foster a spirit of liberal culture in engineering colleges. Election to Tau Beta Pi is one of the highest honors bestowed on an engineering student by his or her peers.  


													Professional Organizations - Student Chapters
											



 American Society of Mechanical Engineers The student chapter of ASME offers educational, technical, and social activities. It helps students develop leadership skills and leads to contacts with engineers in industry and students at other colleges within the region. The student chapter is active and works closely with the local professional chapter.   Society of Automotive Engineers and FSAE Competition Team The purpose of the RIT Society of Automotive Engineers is to give students the opportunity to meet with senior engineers in industry and provide students a chance to apply their classroom knowledge in various projects. The student chapter of the National Society of Black Engineers is dedicated to the retention, recruitment, and successful graduation of its members.  Learn More  Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers The Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers is an association of professionals and students in engineering, science, technology, business, and other related disciplines at RIT. SHPE’s aim is to identify and promote professional growth opportunities for Hispanic students.  Learn More Society of Women Engineers The Society of Women Engineers is a student-run organization that organizes and hosts guest speakers, high school outreach, community activities, tours, social events, and events with other student organizations. The RIT chapter is strongly committed to encouraging women in their pursuit of careers in engineering or related fields.  Learn More 


													Professional Organizations - National
											



 Professional organizations and societies provide opportunities for students to enhance their professional development, including society-sponsored conferences, symposia, and workshops, through local and student chapter meetings and activities. Explore professional organizations and societies for opportunities to volunteer, get involved, and shape your career. American Institute of Aeronautics and AstronauticsAmerican Society for Engineering EducationAmerican Society of Mechanical EngineersInstitution of Mechanical EngineersMaterials Research SocietyNational Society of Black EngineersRochester Engineering SocietySAE InternationalSociety of Hispanic Professional EngineersSociety of Women Engineers 


													Student Clubs
											



 Aero Design Club The student chapter is dedicated to promoting careers and opportunities in the aerospace industry.   Learn More Formula One SAE Racing Team Our award-winning SAE team, builds a car from the ground up every year. Purchasing only the engine block, tires, and bulk materials, it is entirely designed and constructed by our students to compete in national and international competitions. Learn More The Mechanical Engineering Department offers a variety of resources for our students that vary from academic support to handbooks and more. Visit our Student Resources page for more information. Address and Phone 
									77 Lomb Memorial Drive
									Rochester, NY 14623
									585-475-2146
								 Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			