As part of Canada's largest engineering school and most innovative university, the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Waterloo is home to approximately 1,000 students, faculty and staff, and has thousands of alumni worldwide. Our Department consistently ranks among the top two universities in Canada and the number one university in Ontario in Chemical Engineering according to the Shanghai Academic Ranking of World Universities. In addition to offering  undergraduate and  graduate programs in chemical engineering, the Department provides academic expertise and support to Waterloo's collaborative nanotechnology and biomedical engineering programs. The department's collaborative research culture, engaging teaching practices and state-of-the-art facilities create a vibrant learning environment where students are empowered to solve the problems our world faces. In this video, Dr. Elisabeth Prince discusses her research which addresses the plastic waste crisis by creating more degradable and recyclable plastics. Her disruptive research in advanced materials has the potential to have a huge impact on sustainability and environmental remediation and supports Canada’s ambitious goal of achieving zero plastic waste by 2030. Check out this video about Professor Hamed Shahsavan’s research into developing smart polymers for applications in biomedical robotics. Shahsavan’s research group utilizes shape change to produce movement in the micro-robots. The micro-medical robots have the potential to be used for biopsies, cell transport and drug delivery. He also discusses the critical role of graduate students in research labs. Join us for a tour of the Chemical Engineering undergraduate labs in the Douglas Wright Engineering Building at the University of Waterloo. Find out more by exploring the programs, research and news stories on this site. Imagine a coat that harnesses solar energy to keep you warm on a brisk winter walk, or a shirt that seamlessly monitors your heart rate and temperature. Picture athletes wearing smart clothing that tracks their performance, all without the burden of bulky battery packs. Professor Yuning Li's research group has developed a smart fabric with these remarkable capabilities. The fabric can potentially harvest energy, monitor health, and track movement. The new fabric, designed by the research team, can convert body heat and solar energy into electricity, potentially enabling continuous operation without the need for an external power source. Additionally, different sensors that monitor temperature, stress, and more can be integrated into the material. A new reverse osmosis (RO) water system was installed in the Chemical Engineering undergraduate teaching labs in the Douglas Wright Engineering Building (DWE) this summer. The new RO system eliminates the need for a large amount of hazardous chemicals and manual operations required for the outdated existing unit while providing a quality and sustainable supply of deionized (DI) water for teaching and research in DWE. The unit was partially funded through the Sustainability Action Fund. Researchers from the Universitat Duisburg-Essen in Germany and the University of Cambridge arrived at the University of Waterloo in June to participate in ongoing graduate student training aimed at leveraging 2D materials for various manufacturing applications. This international collaboration is supported by an NSERC CREATE grant, with Professor Michael Pope from the Department of Chemical Engineering serving as lead Principal Investigator. Researchers from the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Science and the Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology are involved in the collaboration. Optimal Integrated Decision-Making in Chemical Engineering: MINLP Advances and Applications University of Waterloo
Engineering 6 (E6)
Phone: 519-888-4567 Staff and Faculty DirectoryContact the Department of Chemical Engineering Waterloo Engineering Faculty OpeningsProvide Website Feedback Engineering Website Help The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg, and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is co-ordinated within the Office of Indigenous Relations.