Cloudera has been positioned by Gartner in the Leaders Quadrant in the 2022 Magic Quadrant for Cloud Database Management Systems (DBMS) based on Cloudera’s flagship offering Cloudera Data Platform (CDP). The evaluation was based on specific criteria that analyzed the company’s overall completeness of vision and ability to execute. According to Gartner, “organizations that adopt aggressive metadata analysis across their complete data management environment will decrease time to delivery of new data assets to users by as much as 70%.” The analyst firm also predicts, “by 2025, 90% of new data and analytics deployments will be through an established data ecosystem, causing consolidation across the data and analytics market.” “We’ve heard loud and clear from our customers and the industry that data management tools and platforms that fail to support hybrid and multi-cloud capabilities will be set for decommissioning,” said Sudhir Menon, chief product officer at Cloudera. “We believe our placement in the Leaders Quadrant of this year’s Gartner Magic Quadrant for Cloud DBMS demonstrates that Cloudera’s hybrid and multi-cloud strategy is the right one. With our open data lakehouse and unified data fabric, Cloudera is still the only hybrid and multi-cloud enabled data platform for all data everywhere – all divisions, all geographies, all datasets. Cloudera also includes the security and tools that geographically distributed enterprises need to confidently move their businesses forward.” Magic Quadrant reports are a culmination of rigorous, fact-based research in specific markets, providing a wide-angle view of the relative positions of the providers in markets where growth is high and provider differentiation is distinct. Providers are positioned into four quadrants: Leaders, Challengers, Visionaries and Niche Players. The research enables you to get the most from market analysis in alignment with your unique business and technology needs.   Previous Issue   SMEChannels is a leading IT Channel magazine, which represents the voice of more than 32,000 partners in India. The focus is to work towards the growth of the entire channel ecosystem. Therefore, the magazine covers all the topics that are relevant to the partner ecosystem. Broadly we cover technologies that go as solutions and services. Therefore, the topics we cover include cloud computing, big data & analytics, security, surveillance, mobility, enterprise applications, data center, 3D printing, robotics, machine learning, IOT, etc. For Editorial:
Sanjay Mohapatra, Group Editor
Email : sanjay@accentinfomedia.com
Phone No. +91 99100 97969
Manash Ranjan Debata, Editor
Email : manash@accentinfomedia.com For Print and Online Advertisement :
Lagan Sehgal, Marketing Manager
Email : lagan@accentinfomedia.com
Phone No. +91 9625863015 For Events and Webinar:
Sanjib Mohapatra, Director
Email : sanjib@accentinfomedia.com