Alibaba Cloud, the digital technology and cloud services unit of Alibaba Group Holding, is offering discounts of up to 40 per cent and technical support to its overseas partners as it seeks to accelerate its global expansion. The company will strengthen its “global partnership ecosystem” through a series of new initiatives, including the launch of a training empowerment programme for partners and financial incentives to reward partners, according to a company press release on Monday. Alibaba owns the South China Morning Post. Alibaba Cloud, which is under the direct management of Alibaba chairman and CEO Daniel Zhang Yong, was the top cloud infrastructure services provider in mainland China last year, but its revenue growth has slowed amid competition from Huawei Technologies Co and China Telecom. During the December quarter of 2022, Alibaba Cloud posted a 3 per cent year-on-year increase in revenue, marking the unit’s slowest quarterly growth last year. Its market share in China dropped to 32.6 per cent in the second half of 2022 from 34.5 per cent in the first half, according to a report published by research firm IDC. 02:17 After long absence from China, Jack Ma makes rare appearance to visit school in Hangzhou Alibaba Cloud stated in April that it would cut prices of its core products and services in China by up to 50 per cent starting May 7. The range of price cuts for global partners is up to 40 per cent, the company said in a separate post on its official WeChat account on Monday. Alibaba Cloud’s overseas expansion plan is also facing challenges. The US has stepped up scrutiny of Chinese cloud service providers. A group of Republican senators last month publicly urged the Biden administration to impose sanctions on Huawei Cloud and other Chinese cloud service providers, citing national security and data privacy concerns. Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and Google cloud, the three US-based cloud service providers, jointly accounted for 65 per cent of total global cloud spending in the fourth quarter of 2022, according to research firm Canalys. Alibaba’s overseas cloud business has increased by more than 20 times in the past five years, according to the company. Alibaba Cloud provides services to more than 4 million enterprises globally, and more than one third of theses are top 500 companies in the world. “We are committed to growing together with our global partners and providing them with even stronger support to expand their businesses into Southeast Asia and beyond,” Edward Cai, chief commercial officer of Alibaba Cloud Intelligence, said at the company’s Partner Summit 2023 in Singapore on Monday. Alibaba Cloud’s overseas push comes amid a broad restructuring of the Alibaba Group and a potential price war among cloud service providers. Under the sweeping reorganisation of Alibaba’s US$257 billion empire, the cloud business will become one of six independently run entities.