Karnataka Election Results Highlights: DK Shivakumar or Siddaramaiah? The suspense over who’ll become the next chief minister of Karnataka continues even as the swearing-in is scheduled for May 18 (Thursday), according to a Congress spokesperson. The newly elected MLAs decided to empower Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge to take a call on the matter, during the CLP meet held on Sunday evening. This was done amidst a slogan war between supporters of Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah outside the venue of the meeting, each section wanting their leader to be the next CM of Karnataka. In other news, the BJP’s pre-election move in Karnataka to hike the reservation quota of Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities did not pay off is illustrated by its performance in reserved constituencies. While the party failed to secure a single ST-reserved seat — it won seven last time — its tally of SC-reserved constituencies dropped from 16 in 2018 to 12. As suspense builds up over the question of who the next Karnataka Chief Minister will be, one of the top contenders, Congress MLA DK Shivakumar said, "We have passed a one-line resolution. We will leave it to the party high command. I have not decided to go to Delhi. I have done whatever job I have to do." "We have passed a one-line resolution. We will leave it to the party high command. I have not decided to go to Delhi. I have done whatever job I have to do": KPCC chief DK Shivakumar on the decision on Karnataka CM#Karnataka pic.twitter.com/hGDDNvgQUg Bhanwar Jitendra Singh, AICC observer in Karnataka, commented on the suspense surrounding on who the next Chief Minister will be and said, "We have taken the views from all the MLAs, the meeting went on till 2am. We have prepared a report and will submit it to the Congress president." Newly-elected MLAs had on Sunday empowered Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge to decide who the next CM will be. KPCC President DK Shivakumar celebrated his 62nd birthday by cutting a cake at a private hotel in Bangalore on Sunday midnight. Former CM Siddaramaiah fed cake and congratulated him. AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, former minister Dinesh Gundurao, working president Salim Ahmed and others were present.  Newly elected Congress MLAs in Karnataka on Sunday authorised party president Mallikarjun Kharge to pick the next chief minister, with the leadership battle heating up between Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar - the frontrunners for the coveted post. AICC General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal said the three central observers appointed by Kharge will take the opinion of the legislators which will be conveyed to the party president. "This process of taking the opinion of all MLAs would be completed today itself," he said. Sources said the observers will be handing over their report to Kharge by Monday. The Congress Legislature Party, which met at a private hotel here on Sunday evening, passed a unanimous resolution authorising the party chief to pick its leader. (PTI) Newly elected Congress MLAs in Karnataka on Sunday authorised party president Mallikarjun Kharge to pick the next chief minister, with the leadership battle heating up between Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar - the frontrunners for the coveted post. AICC General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal said the central observers will take the opinion of MLAs which will be conveyed to the party president. "This process of taking the opinion of all MLAs would be completed today itself," he said. The Congress Legislature Party, which met at a private hotel here on Sunday evening in the presence of the three central observers, passed a unanimous resolution authorising the party chief to pick its leader. (PTI) #WATCH | "This process of taking the opinion of the MLAs will be completed tonight itself. Like Randeep Singh Surjewala said, this is a unanimous resolution moved by Siddaramaiah and supported by DK Shivakumar and all the senior leaders...": Congress General Secy KC Venugopal,… pic.twitter.com/8X2SVbY66M "Siddaramaiah, moved the single-line resolution authorising AICC president to appoint a new leader of CLP party and 135 Cong MLAs proceeded to unanimously approve his resolution. It was endorsed by DK Shivakumar also... Congress General Secy KC Venugopal informed Kharge about the resolutions and Kharge then instructed KC Venugopal that the 3 senior observers must take individual opinions of each legislature and convey them to the high command," says Randeep Singh Surjewala AICC in-charge of Karnataka #WATCH | ..."Siddaramaiah, moved the single-line resolution authorising AICC president to appoint a new leader of CLP party and 135 Cong MLAs proceeded to unanimously approve his resolution. It was endorsed by DK Shivakumar also... Cong Gen Secy KC Venugopal informed Kharge about… pic.twitter.com/ktunL3e7ie 
 According to Congress leader Randeep Surjewala, the CLP meeting moved two resolutions today. The first resolution, moved by DK Shivakumar thanked the people of the state and Congress leaders for the 'stellar work' in ensuring protection of Karnataka and democracy.  The second one, moved by Siddaramaiah, was a single-line resolution authorizing the AICC president to appoint a CLP leader.  Now, the process of seeking the opinion of every individual legislator will start next. They will convey their choice to Congress leadership. Sloganeering continues outside the hotel in Bengaluru where the CLP meeting is being held, by supporters of DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah #KarnatakaElectionResults2023Follow Live Updates here: https://t.co/1PMzBuJzT7 pic.twitter.com/DP4ZH72Dzm DK Shivakumar or Siddaramaiah? The suspense over who’ll become the next chief minister of Karnataka continues as the newly elected MLAs, during the CLP meet, decided to empower the Congress president to take a call on the matter. This comes at a time when a slogan war broke out between supporters of Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah outside the venue of the meeting, each section wanting their leader to be the next CM of Karnataka Visuals of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting at Shangri-La Hotel in Bengaluru. #KarnatakaResultsWithPTI pic.twitter.com/EX9GbZ2cAD       VIDEO | "It is going to be a tough choice as people have worked in different capacities, but it is a good problem to have," says Congress leader Priyank Kharge in response to media queries on who will be the next CM. #KarnatakaResultsWithPTI pic.twitter.com/691IwtdYHj   VIDEO | Supporters of Congress leader DK Shivakumar raising slogans outside Shangri-La Hotel in Bengaluru. #KarnatakaResultsWithPTI pic.twitter.com/s1HJT78atX VIDEO | "The High Command will take opinions of the MLAs and then Congress chief will consult senior leaders to make a decision (on who will be the CM)," says Congress leader Ramalinga Reddy. #KarnatakaResultsWithPTI pic.twitter.com/TcP7xIJv15 VIDEO | Karnataka PCC chief DK Shivakumar arrives at Shangri-La Hotel in Bengaluru for the CLP meet. #KarnatakaResultsWithPTI pic.twitter.com/RpsQbPt3aL Prominent Vokkaliga pontiff of Adi Chunchanagiri Nirmalananda Natha Swamiji on Sunday appealed to the Congress leadership to appoint Karnataka party unit president D K Shivakumar as the next chief minister of the state. In the wake of Congress getting a thumping majority in the Assembly polls, he also said Shivakumar is the most eligible candidate by all standards to head the state. The Vokkaliga Sangha, which is the main body of one of the dominant communities of Karnataka, organised a meeting of Vokkaliga pontiffs where a unanimous decision was taken to request the Congress top brass to appoint Shivakumar, a Vokkaliga who has been steering the state unit, as the next chief minister. He added that Shivakumar had suffered a lot while discharging his duty. "We all saw tears in his eyes yesterday, which were a mix of joy and pain. The man who toiled so much should get the result," Nirmalananda Natha Swamiji said. (PTI) Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting, is currently being held in Bengaluru to discuss government formation in Karnataka. It includes all the newly elected Congress MLAs in the state. The Congress has appointed three central observers, including senior leader Sushil Kumar Shinde, party general secretary Jitendra Singh and former AICC general secretary Deepak Babaria, to oversee the meeting.  Leader of Opposition in the outgoing assembly Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar are strong claimants and front-runners for the coveted post. #WATCH | Senior Congress leader and former Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah arrives at Shangri-La hotel in Bengaluru for CLP meeting pic.twitter.com/MP33Hg2F55 Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday said AICC observers will convey the opinion of the party's MLAs in Karnataka to the high command which will then take a decision on the chief ministerial pick. He also asserted that everything has gone smoothly for the party in the assembly polls and the government will be formed soon. The newly elected assembly in Karnataka has to be put in place as the term of the previous assembly expires on May 24. Talking with reporters, Kharge said, "Our observers have gone to Bengaluru, they will reach in the evening. After that there will be a CLP (Congress Legislature Party) meeting following which whatever opinion is there, it will be communicated to the high command. The high command will then make its decision." Leader of Opposition in the outgoing assembly Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar are strong claimants and front-runners for the coveted post. (PTI) ? The BJP, which witnessed defeat in the Karnataka Assembly polls, failed to win even a single seat reserved for the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category. ? Besides, the party also lost in 24 constituencies out of 36 reserved for the Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates. ? Karnataka has 51 reserved constituencies, out of which 36 seats are reserved for SC candidates and 15 for candidates belonging to the ST community. ? The poor show of the saffron party in the reserved seats came despite the outgoing Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's decision to increase reservation for the SC/ST community in the state. ? The Congress, which won 135 seats in the 224-member state assembly, registered a massive win in the seats reserved for the SC/ST candidates. ? Out of 36 SC seats, Congress candidates won 21, while the BJP candidates emerged victorious in 12 seats. The JDS, which showed poor performance in the polls, managed to win just three seats. The BJP finished as first runner-up on 13 SC-reserved seats. (PTI) #WATCH | Karnataka: Congress leaders arrive for CLP meeting at a hotel in Bengaluru#KarnatakaElection2023 pic.twitter.com/5sIgZ97Mh1 
 Visuals of Congress MLAs arriving at Shangri-La Hotel in Bengaluru for the CLP meet. #KarnatakaResultsWithPTI pic.twitter.com/N5W6ARUMQ0 With Congress emerging victorious in the Karnataka Assembly election, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday said he hoped that the grand old party will fulfill its pre-poll promises made to the public. "The people of Karnataka took a decision...(they) gave power to Congress. We expect them (Congress) to fulfill the promises they made to the people. But, the work on strengthening of Majlis (AIMIM) in states be it Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand and Bengal will continue," the Hyderabad MP said. On the results of the Karnataka elections, Owaisi said, "We did not succeed there. We will work hard. We won't be discouraged." (PTI) #WATCH | Huge number of supporters gathers outside the residence of Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar in Bengaluru and raise slogans of 'We want DK Shivakumar as CM' pic.twitter.com/wk5u74UWD9 A day after the results of the Karnataka polls, Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday urged the opposition to unite stating that if the opposition does not unite now then the people of the country will not forgive them. While talking to ANI, he said "We are saying from the beginning that if the Opposition is united then BJP can't remain in power. After the Karnataka polls, a wave has started across the country and people are saying that the days of PM Modi and BJP are ending." "If the Opposition will not unite now then the people of the country will not forgive us," added Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. He also said that vote of the public is not always fixed for one party like a fixed deposit rather it changes according to time. (ANI)  Karnataka has voted decisively for the Congress, after a decade. In 2013, it won 122 seats with a 36 per cent vote. On Saturday, it won 135 seats — its ally, the Sarvodaya Karnataka Paksha, won the one seat it contested — more than double the BJP’s tally of 66, and almost 43 per cent of the vote. The BJP performed below par across the state, including in its strongholds such as the capital city of Bengaluru, despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi leading the campaign. The PM had given a personal tone to the campaign, framing the election as a vote for a double-engine sarkar. He also gave it a polarising spin, particularly in the last lap, by invoking Bajrang Bali. The gambit failed. (Read More) he Congress on Sunday alleged that the BJP was not able to come to terms with the decisive verdict against it in Karnataka and was "manufacturing lies" and indulging in politics of polarisation. In a tweet, Congress general secretary in-charge communications Jairam Ramesh said, "Not able to come to terms with the resoundingly decisive verdict in favour of Congress from all sections of society in Karnataka, BJP's online hate factory is working overtime to manufacture lies." "No doubt inspired by PM's politics of hate and polarisation. Desperation of sick minds!" he said. His attack apparently came over BJP IT department head Amit Malviya tweeting a video of a person raising a green flag with a crescent moon and star on it purportedly in Karanataka's Bhatkal. (PTI) Hailing the Congress party’s decisive win in the Karnataka Assembly Elections, Rahul Gandhi on Saturday thanked the people of Karnataka and vowed to fulfil the party’s 5 guarantees in the very first cabinet meeting. “I thank and congratulate the people of Karnataka, party workers and leaders. During the course of the election campaigning, we promised 5 guarantees to the people of Karnataka. We will fulfil these 5 guarantees on the first day and in the first cabinet meeting itself,” Gandhi said. What are the 5 guarantees promised by the Congress party?  Click here to read more.. "People of Karnataka have rejected BJP and brought the Congress party back to power. The people who were fed up with inflation, unemployment and corruption have given us a record number of votes. We will implement all 5 promises that we made to the public in our manifesto after we form our cabinet," said Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge.  #WATCH | People of Karnataka have rejected BJP and brought the Congress party back to power. People have given us a record number of votes. We will implement all 5 promises that we made to the public in our manifesto after we form our cabinet: Congress president Mallikarjun… pic.twitter.com/sbUQsCbEZ0 
 AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday said Latha Mallikarjun, who has got elected as an independent from Harapanahalli Assembly segment has extended unconditional support to the Congress party in the State. Latha Mallikarjun, is daughter of veteran leader and former Deputy Chief Minister, late M P Prakash. "She has extended unconditional support to the Congress Party in Karnataka considering her ideological roots and commitment to Congress ideals. I thank her, her husband Mallikarjun and all the supporters and well wishers. We will serve the 6.5 Crore Kannadigas together," Surjewala said in a tweet. Latha Mallikarjun has won the Harapanahalli seat by defeating BJP's G Karunakara Reddy by a margin of 13,845 votes. (PTI) Smt. Lata Mallikarjun, Independent MLA from Harpanhalli Assembly is daughter of veteran Congress Leader and Ex Deputy CM, Late M.P.Prakash.She has extended unconditional support to the Congress Party in #Karnataka considering her ideological roots and commitment to Congress… pic.twitter.com/SK794yku8J 
 The Congress on Sunday appointed three central observers, including senior leader Sushil Kumar Shinde, ahead of its crucial legislature party meeting in Karnataka to elect the new chief minister, amid hectic lobbying for the top post. Besides Shinde, a former chief minister of Maharashtra, the other observers are party general secretary Jitendra Singh and former AICC general secretary Deepak Babaria. The newly elected Congress MLAs in Karnataka are meeting in Bengaluru at 5.30 pm to discuss government formation.Leader of Opposition in the outgoing assembly Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar are strong claimants and front-runners for the coveted post. (PTI) Hon’ble Congress President has deputed Shri.Sushilkumar Shinde (Former Chief Minister, Maharashtra), Shri.Jitendra Singh (AICC GS) and Shri.Deepak Babaria (former AICC GS) as observers for the election of the CLP Leader of Karnataka. 
 #WATCH | "Bajrang Dal is different and Bajrang Bali is different. Bajrang Dal believes in spreading the politics of hatred & violence...what Congress said in its manifesto is any organisation that breaks the law, spreads religious hatred, religious bigotry, spreads communal… pic.twitter.com/L9dCTpwJvA "What do they mean by double-engine? It means I (Modi) am there in Delhi and my puppet is there in Bengaluru, Bhopal etc. Instead, the real double-engine should mean economic and social welfare. That has been given by Congress for the past 70 years. People are tired of PM & his campaign, no matter how many roadshows he did...but people were not enthusiastic..." said Jairam Ramesh.  "Just see the voter turnout in Bengaluru, despite the (PM's) roadshow, the turnout was low. We (Congress) got the vote from every section of the population, especially voters living in the rural areas," he said. #WATCH| Bengaluru: ..."People are tired of PM & his campaign, no matter how many roadshows he did...but people were not enthusiastic...": Jairam Ramesh, Congress General Secretary in-charge Communications#KarnatakaElections2023 pic.twitter.com/PNWrzPV50S 
 Outgoing Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday wished "all the best" to Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar, who are in the race to become the next Chief Minister of Karnataka. "I wish both of them all the best," Bommai said. To a question how will BJP focus on Congress implementing its manifesto, Bommai said, "Let them form the government and have the cabinet meet and spell out their decisions, let's see what will be implemented, let's wait and watch." (PTI) Amid speculations over the chief ministerial face in Karnataka after Congress' emphatic victory in the Assembly polls, state party president DK Shivakumar on Sunday said that he has no differences with Siddaramaiah, who is being seen as a front-runner for the position of the top post. 'Some people said that I have differences with Siddaramaiah. There are no differences between us,' said DK Shivkumar while addressing a press conference in Tumkur on Sunday. The Karnataka Congress chief's remarks came hours after posters were put up by the respective supporters of both leaders referring to them as the 'next CM' of Karnataka. 'Many times I have sacrificed for the party. I sacrificed and helped and stood with Siddaramaiah. Wasn't I patient when I was not made a minister in the beginning? I have given cooperation to Siddaramaiah,' he said. (ANI) Some people say that I have differences with Siddaramaiah but I want to clear that there is no difference between us. Many times I have sacrificed for the party and stood with Siddaramaiah ji. I have given cooperation to Siddaramaiah: Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar pic.twitter.com/yUU3GKsGKQ Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge has appointed former chief minister Sushilkumar Shinde and party leaders Jitendra Singh and Deepak Babaria as observers for the election of the CLP leader in Karnataka. AICC general secretary, organisation, KC Venugopal said the central observers will oversee the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting. "Hon'ble Congress President has deputed Shri.Sushilkumar Shinde (Former Chief Minister, Maharashtra), Shri.Jitendra Singh (AICC GS) and Shri.Deepak Babaria (former AICC GS) as observers for the election of the CLP Leader of Karnataka," he tweeted. (PTI) Hon’ble Congress President has deputed Shri.Sushilkumar Shinde (Former Chief Minister, Maharashtra), Shri.Jitendra Singh (AICC GS) and Shri.Deepak Babaria (former AICC GS) as observers for the election of the CLP Leader of Karnataka. 
 After Karnataka Chief Minister and BJP leader Basavaraj Bommai took the blame for the BJP's performance in the Assembly elections, Chattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel said, "The entire Karnataka election was fought on the face of PM Modi and now he (Basavaraj Bommai) is taking responsibility for the defeat which should be given to PM Modi" #WATCH | The entire Karnataka election was fought on the face of PM Modi and now he (Basavaraj Bommai) is taking responsibility for defeat which should be given to PM Modi: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel pic.twitter.com/qzZ5PQKXtr 
 After the BJP's tally was reduced to 65 seats in the 224-seat Assembly in Karnataka, leader Basavaraj Bommai said, "We had an informal meeting with our president and we have discussed certain issues and we'll shortly call elected representatives and the people who contested. We will have in-depth analysis and do the course correction to come back to power in the Lok Sabha elections".  #WATCH | We had an informal meeting with our president and we have discussed certain issues and we'll shortly call elected representatives and the people who contested. We will have in-depth analysis and do the course correction to come back to power in the Lok Sabha elections:… pic.twitter.com/3uYaa1SPsu 
 On the question of when the party will announce the next Chief Minister of Karnataka, Congress leader Syed Nasser Hussain said, "CM's will be announced within 2-3 days, and we are also preparing for the cabinet to be formed as soon as possible" VIDEO | "CM's will be announced within 2-3 days, and we are also preparing for the cabinet to be formed as soon as possible" says Congress leader Syed Naseer Hussain in response to media queries on next CM of Karnataka. #KarnatakaResultsWithPTI pic.twitter.com/SMFcn7Y9gY 
 Regardless of who wins, let there be a clear mandate — this was a refrain heard across Karnataka during the recent assembly election campaign. It was quite natural that the common voter in the state was tired of repeated efforts to engineer defections and “resort stays” for power-seeking defectors in search of ministerial offices. Even with the strong desire for political stability, Congress Party’s stunning and emphatic victory in the assembly elections held on May 10 comes as a surprise. Both political pundits and voters had anticipated a much closer election and possibly a hung assembly, given the intense political competition in each constituency across the state. Read the full Opinion piece here With just hours to go for the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) to decide the next chief minister of Karnataka, Siddaramaiah visited national party chief Mallikarjun Kharge's residence in Bengaluru. Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar are frontrunners for the CM post. #WATCH | Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah arrives at the residence of party national president Mallikarjun Kharge in Bengaluru #Karnataka pic.twitter.com/3hUCTJ8IyB 
 Well done, Karnataka. I say this not because I have suddenly become a fan of the Congress Party. Or the Dynasty. I say it because there was an ugliness to the campaign that the BJP ran that needs to be called out and put on record. They deserved to lose. For me personally the most offensive thing was not the religiosity and the hysterical Hindutva. This has become the leitmotif of every BJP election campaign, so there is no point in whining on about the dangers and hatred this sort of campaigning unleashes. It is something we have all learned to accept. For me it was the deliberate attempt to link the Bajrang Dal to Bajrang Bali that was both dishonest and disgusting. Tavleen Singh writes With the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting scheduled later today to decide the post of the next Chief Minister of Karnataka, State working president Ramalinga Reddy said, "Not only DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah even MB Patil and G Parameshwara are also interested. Only one will become CM & the party's high command & MLAs will decide that".  #WATCH | In every party, ambitions will be there. Not only DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah even MB Patil and G Parameshwara are also interested. Only one will become CM & the party's high command & MLAs will decide that. I will get minister (post): Ramalinga Reddy, Karnataka… pic.twitter.com/uYlUc3cgb4 
 A day after the Congress secured a resounding win in Karnataka polls, Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal urged his former party to 'win people's hearts' for the next five years in the state by being open, honest and non-discriminatory. In a tweet, Sibal said, "Karnataka, winning elections is tough. Winning people's hearts is tougher! For the next 5 years win people's hearts by being: open, honest, non-discriminatory". Karnataka Winning elections is toughWinning people’s hearts is tougher !For the next 5 yearsWin people’s heartsBy being :openhonestnon-discriminatory BJP lost for not being any of this ! On April 12, 2022, Santosh Patil, a 40-year-old contractor who had accused senior BJP leader and Rural Development and Panchayati Raj minister K S Eshwarappa of harassing him for a 40 per cent commission, was found dead in a hotel in Udupi. The BJP tried its best to stem the damage — easing out Eshwarappa from the Bommai Cabinet and, more recently, denying him a ticket to the Assembly elections. Yet, agonisingly for the BJP, what stuck was the “40 per cent” tag and the image of a party that winked at corruption, a burden that the BJP bore during the poll campaign and is said to have cost the party the election. Akram M writes #WATCH | Firecrackers being burst outside the residence of Congress leader Siddaramaiah, in Bengaluru#KarnatakaElectionResults pic.twitter.com/RK4wfF0T6e  After he was defeated by the BJP's Mahesh Tenginkai in Hubbali-Dharwad, Congress leader and former Karnataka CM Jagdish Shettar said, "Money power has played a very important role".  #WATCH | Congress leader and candidate from Hubli-Dharwad-Central, Jagadish Shettar speaks on his defeat in the Karnataka Assembly Elections. Says, "Money power has played a very important role." (13.05) pic.twitter.com/F8bzqyV74m 
 As Congress swept Karnataka after it secured 136 seats in the 224-seat Assembly, have a look at the political map of India. In sporting terms, the Karnataka Assembly elections can be termed as the quarter-finals and the elections in Rajasthan, Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, and Telangana later this year the semi-finals ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.    Congress leader DK Shivakumar's supporters put up posters outside his residence in Bengaluru asking to declare him as the next chief minister of Karnataka.  #WATCH | Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar's supporters put up a poster outside his residence in Bengaluru, demanding DK Shivakumar to be declared as "CM" of the state. pic.twitter.com/N6hFXSntJy 
 Ahead of the CLP meet later today where the next chief minister of Karnataka will be decided, Congress leader DK Shivakumar said that he was travelling to Nonavinakere to meet his spiritual guru "Ajjayya".  VIDEO | Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee chief @DKShivakumar speaks to media ahead of the CLP meet today. #KarnatakaResultsWithPTI pic.twitter.com/c2piuTmb48 
 With the Congress party likely to meet later today, supporters of leader Siddaramaiah have put out posters outside his residence in Bengaluru, referring to him as the "next CM of Karnataka". #WATCH | Supporters of senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah put up a poster outside Siddaramaiah's residence in Bengaluru, referring to him as "the next CM of Karnataka." pic.twitter.com/GDLIAQFbjs 
 The high-profile Hindutva issues raised by the ruling BJP during its tenure in Karnataka, including the Congress’s promise of action against the Bajrang Dal, failed to resonate with voters in Karnataka. The only exception was the coastal region, where the party anyway remains a dominant force. During the campaign, the BJP initially treaded carefully over issues such as ban on hijab and halal meat that were raised during its government. However, later, as things appeared to be going tough for the party, it latched on to the Congress manifesto promise to crack down on organisations that disrupt communal harmony, putting the radical Islamist outfit Popular Front of India and Bajrang Dal in the same bracket. Read the full story here On April 12, 2022, Santosh Patil, a 40-year-old contractor who had accused senior BJP leader and Rural Development and Panchayati Raj minister K S Eshwarappa of harassing him for a 40 per cent commission, was found dead in a hotel in Udupi. The BJP tried its best to stem the damage — easing out Eshwarappa from the Bommai Cabinet and, more recently, denying him a ticket to the Assembly elections. Yet, agonisingly for the BJP, what stuck was the “40 per cent” tag and the image of a party that winked at corruption, a burden that the BJP bore during the poll campaign and is said to have cost the party the election. Kiran Parashar reports The one person for whom the clear majority for the Congress party in the Karnataka polls will taste the sweetest is 60-year-old state party chief D K Shivakumar. The former minister who was appointed Karnataka PCC chief in 2020 despite being arrested a year earlier by the Enforcement Directorate on charges of money laundering, fought a long, uphill battle to bring the party to position of power. Once considered a blue-eyed boy of former Congress chief minister S M Krishna, Shivakumar appeared to have run aground following the corruption cloud hanging over him from his time as minister during the Congress tenures of 1999-2004 and 2013-2018. Now, he is a frontrunner to be CM of Karnataka. Johnson TA reports A post shared by The Indian Express (@indianexpress) Amid a controversy and drama well past midnight over counting of votes at Jayanagar constituency in Bengaluru, BJP candidate C K Ramamurthy was declared winner over Congress’s Sowmya Reddy, a decision Congress leaders said they will contest in High Court. “We will move the High Court against the BJP candidate and the Election Commission,” a senior Congress leader said. Sanath Prasad reports  After the Congress secured 136 seats in the Karnataka Assembly elections, Congress President Mallikarjun Kharge said, “We have won the battle, but the war remains,” in reference to the upcoming 2024 Assembly Elections. Congress leader Siddaramaiah again took a subtle dig at PM Modi and said, "PM Modi thinks that by seeing his face voters will vote for the BJP, this has been proved wrong.  Following BJP’s defeat, Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai submitted his resignation to Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. Conceding defeat, Bommai said, “We respectfully accept the decision of the people. I take the responsibility for the defeat”.  “In spite of a lot of efforts put in by the Prime Minister and the BJP workers, we have not been able to make the mark. Once the full results come, we will do a detailed analysis,” Bommai told reporters. The high-profile Hindutva issues raised by the ruling BJP during its tenure in Karnataka, including the Congress’s promise of action against the Bajrang Dal, failed to resonate with voters in Karnataka. The only exception was the coastal region, where the party anyway remains a dominant force. During the campaign, the BJP initially treaded carefully over issues such as ban on hijab and halal meat that were raised during its government. However, later, as things appeared to be going tough for the party, it latched on to the Congress manifesto promise to crack down on organisations that disrupt communal harmony, putting the radical Islamist outfit Popular Front of India and Bajrang Dal in the same bracket. Is Karnataka a one-off or does it hold replicable lessons for the Congress going to other state polls this winter — and finally the general elections due next year. The Congress got several things right this time. From all accounts , the party was ready with its Plan A, B, C — a majority on its own, a hung assembly and defeat — so that it would not be caught napping. The party also displayed its old deft touch in the way it handled the dissensions between Leader of the Congress legislature party Siddaramaiah and PCC chief DK Shivakumar. Both admitted they were contenders for the CM’s job but all through the campaign they said that the newly elected MLAs and the party high command would decide — when the time came. 7% that gave Congress 70-seat boost over BJP How Congress’s ’40 per cent cut’ charge cost BJP 40 per cent seats in Karnataka Karnataka looks set to turn into two-party state How Congress’s ’40 per cent cut’ charge cost BJP 40 per cent seats in Karnataka