A New Zealander who specializes in food challenges took on the task of drinking a “gallon” of Coca-Cola, sharing footage of the task to YouTube on December 15. Auckland-based competitive eater and model Nela Zisser can often be found making her way through outrageous food challenges. This time Zisser added three 1.25-liter bottles of coke to a bowl to come to 3.75 liters, just a fraction below the 3.785 liters that make up a gallon. After a lot of careful sipping and plenty of burping though, Zisser finished the challenge in 28 minutes and 25 seconds, describing it as “awful”. Zisser also noted several times throughout that the task had solidified her preference for sugar-free versions of Coca-Cola. Finishing up the video, Zisser added, “I’m going to go and die right now”. Zisser’s YouTube account chronicles such food feats as wolfing down 10 Burger King Whoppers in 17 minutes, devouring a 1-kg burrito in just under 100 seconds, and consuming a 2.2-pound jar of Nutella in under four minutes. Credit: Nela Zisser via Storyful NELA ZISSER: Hey, guys, It's Nela here. Today, I've got an epic challenge. I'm going to be drinking one gallon of Coca-Cola. Now, I've got three of the 1.25-liter bottles in front of me here, and I'm going to be pouring them into this bowl. It equals 3.75 liters, which is just roughly a gallon. I think a gallon is like 3.78. So just under a gallon. I'm going to be pouring them into this bowl right here. And I've got my timer over there. So I'm going to be timing myself and seeing how quickly I can do it. So yeah, it's going to be it's going to be a tough one, I reckon. I've done-- I've done a Fanta challenge before. I've had a gallon of Fanta. So if you haven't seen that, I'll check a link down below in the description, and you guys can go check that out as well after this video. But yeah, today. I'm doing Coca-Cola. And it's a full-sugar Coke. As well I normally drink Coke no sugar, vanilla. So yeah, this is going to be-- it's going to be interesting. So yeah, let's get into it. All righty. [COKE FIZZING] As you guys can see, it's a very fizzy. All right, first bottle going in. The problem is I also just bought this. So I haven't had time to refrigerate them yet. So it's going to be a little bit warm. They're not warm. They're kind of-- they're like supermarket cold. So they're like not cold-cold, but it was like, room temperature-- ooh-- I guess. I remember having to fit three in here. I swear last time I fit three of the Fantas in here. First bottle, down. Second bottle. [COKE FIZZING] Ooh. Yeah, I don't know how it's going fit. I guess the top of the bowl is bigger. Oh, my god. It is so fizzy. I haven't had Coke, like normal Coke, in so long. I'd say it's probably been like years since I've had normal Coke. There, I'm gong to have to do like, two. OK, third bottle. [COKE FIZZING] I guess I can always put some-- yeah, I'm might just have to pour some in later. Here you go. We'll start there. Start there. And we'll have this one stand by. And he'll go on the bowl afterwards. All right, OK. Oh, my god. It's like fizzing. Oh, it's still fizzing. Just look at this. This is insane. This is crazy. This is [INAUDIBLE] OK. Oh my god, I'm so worried. Let's get that out of the way. All right. Oh, my god. I'm just going to go for it when it's fizzier. I think it's more of a challenge if it's fizzy. OK. All right. 3, 2, 1. And go. OK. Oh, that's warm. Oh, my god, that's so fizzy. Oh. It looks like I haven't really done much, but-- [BURPS] --oh. Uh, feels like a lot. Oh, my god. Why is it that this tastes more like Pepsi than Coke to me? I don't know why. Maybe because it warm. Maybe because it's like [INAUDIBLE]. I don't know, it doesn't taste like the normal Coke that I had. Oh. [BURPS]. Pardon me. [BURPS] OK. I can pick it up now. It's less heavy. [BURPS] Oh. [BURPS] How's this harder than Fanta? [BURPS] I thought this would be easier. Oh. [BURPS] [BURPS] Oh, man. OK. I made a pretty good day, I reckon. [BURPS] Ugh. [BURPS] Put some more in. [BURPS] Oh, I don't think we can get all this in. [BURPS] Oh, yeah, we did it. [BURPS] If you guys could see how much it's fizzy, it looks like little things like jumping. Adorable. Oh, my god. OK. All right. Oh. [BURPS] OK. It's so warm. [BURPS] How are we doing for time? Five minutes. OK. Oh, my god. Uh. [CHUCKLES] Mm. I think I filled the bowl too full now. How is it so fizzing so much? [BURPS] Uh. I feel like I need a straw. [BURPS] Pardon me. Woo, OK. Going back in. Ugh. I remember why I don't like the taste of Coke before sugar. Ugh. [BURPS] Oh. [BURPS] This is so much-- it's so much fizz in this, it's absolutely insane. Ooh, my god. [BURPS] Ooh, OK. Ugh. Kind of regretting not doing full sugar now. Should have done like Coke no sugar. Woo, OK. [BURPS] Ooh, OK. Ooh, my god. This is a tough one. [BURPS] Ugh. Oh, my nose is running. [BURPS] OK, I'm going to blow my nose and look for a straw. I'll be back. All righty, I found a straw. So it's going to be so much easier. Ugh. [BURPS] Why does it taste fizzier through the straw? Uh, OK. Ugh. Oh, my god. Woo. Where are we on time line? It's 12 minutes. OK. This is awful. [BURPS] It's fizzier than the straw, but it's like easier to drink quicker, I feel, than lifting the bowl. Oh, OK. Ugh. That is so gross. I don't know how people drink this. Oh, [INAUDIBLE]. [BURPS] Oh, god. OK. [BURPS] Uh, I'm starting to like, get nauseous. Oh. [BURPS] Pardon me. [BURPS] Oh, my god. It's like I'm drinking. It's just not going down. [BURPS] Oh. That's just-- Coke sugar is just not very good. Sorry to anyone who likes it. To be honest, it would be nice if it was cold. I feel like because it's warm, that's why it tastes like shit. I'm sure if it was cold, it would be very tasty. Oh, my god. [BURPS] Gah. OK. I can do this. I can do this. I can do this. Ugh. [BURPS] I don't if the straw's making it worse. But let's try it without the straw for a minute. Woo. Oh, I'm going to lift it up. Oh, yucky. Ugh. I just don't want to finish this so bad. But I want to do it. I want to finish it, but I don't want to drink it. [BURPS] Oh, fuck. It just tastes so disgusting. I think the fact that it was warm was like a bad mistake. Ugh. Woo, my god. I'm like shaking. I feel like I'm shaking. It's all the sugar kicking in. Ah. [BURPS] Ugh. It's just so gross. I got hair in there. I don't know what that was. It was like a piece of fluff, Oh, my god. I don't want to quit, but it's so bad. Oh, I feel like I'm going to puke this in. [BURPS] Woo. How much do I have left? Ah. Ah, maybe if I take a break. I just want to finish this so badly. Woo. My dress is going to be so tight. What have got? Oh, it's at 20 minutes. Oh, my God. I think the Fanta was much quicker than this. Oh, god. If I wait a little bit, some will go down. [BURPS] Woo, my god. That was nuts. Took too long. And the camera went off. I didn't think that would happen chugging challenge. It's not like it was meant to be a chugging challenge. Yeah, luckily, I heard it go off. It was good luck. Oh, my god, I'm going to try to drink some of this. Oh, god, it's so bad. I really just want to quit. I don't think really it's that much left. Just tastes so bad. Oh, my god. Don't puke. [BURPS] I'm gong to puke. OK. Oh, it was like-- this is such-- this is such a little amount left. Ugh. It's difficult. [BURPS] I'm like-- like shaking. My nose is running again as well. Oh, man. Oh, god. This is so difficult. Oh, my god. God, I can not be those close and give up. [BURPS] It was harder than any food challenge, to be honest. This is gross. [BURPS] Oh. Oh, god. It's just-- it's like there's a little amount left. Why am I struggling so much? God, I've got to finish it. [BURPS] Oh, god. [BURPS] Oh. My god, my stomach is of full. Oh, god. So close. So close. God, I want to puke. [BURPS] God, I'm struggling. It's like such little amount left. Look at that. It's nothing. Uh, it's just so hard to-- and look at my stomach. It has a knot. Oh, my god. Oh, my god. [BURPS] Oh, I almost puked. Oh, my god. That was so difficult. Why is it so difficult? Oh, my god. Oh, my god. [BURPS] Oh, I'm struggling. Oh! [MUTED] yeah. 28 minutes and 25 seconds. Oh, my god. It was [MUTED] torture. I mean, that was awful. That was absolutely awful. Oh, my god. I feel ill. Like, I'm actually like shaking. I dont know if you guys can see, but I'm hella shaking. Oh, that's so bad. [BURPS] Forget it. I'm going to go die. [BURPS] All right. Thank you guys for watching. I love you all so, so much. I'm going to go die right now. But before I do, just have look at my like-- oh, my god. I can barely move. Oh, god. OK. Look at that. That is crazy. This is nuts. My stomach is just so full. Oh, god. Oh, my gosh. Look, my whole body is just like shaking. Yeah, love you guys so, so much. Thank you for watching. And I'll see you guys next time. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.