Five Star Food Service announced Friday the acquisition of the Canteen Franchise, Franks Vending, a vending machine and micro-market operator in Pulaski, Tn. The acquisition will expand Five Star's presence into the southern Middle Tennessee area. The territory expansion acquisition, situated immediately west of Five Star's existing Fayetteville, Tn. geography, presents exciting growth opportunities for the company - with Five Star's current footprint already bordering the newly acquired territory on the south, north, and east. Franks Vending Service was founded in 1946 by E.W. Franks, the father of the late Bobby Franks who took over in 1982.  Franks Vending became a Canteen franchise in 2003. Following the recent passing of Bobby Franks, the Franks family and Five Star were committed to completing the already on-going acquisition in honor of Bobby's legacy. The Franks family's involvement in the beverage industry extends beyond vending, as they also own Coca-Cola Bottling Works in Pulaski. Coca-Cola Bottling Works will continue to be operated independently by the family, while Five Star takes over the operations of Franks Vending. David Franks and Debbie (Franks) Gowan, the children of Bobby Franks, have been instrumental in running the vending business and will continue to play an essential role during the transition period. With the synergies between the two companies, Five Star aims to further elevate its service offerings, expand its product portfolio, and continue providing unmatched value to customers in the Middle Tennessee region, said officials. Five Star's CEO, Richard Kennedy, expressed enthusiasm about the acquisition, stating, "We are excited to welcome Franks Vending into our family. This acquisition aligns perfectly with our growth strategy and represents a fantastic opportunity to expand our reach in the Middle Tennessee market. We look forward to working alongside the Franks family and building upon the strong foundation and legacy they have established." A new restaurant and bar at Hamilton Place will be opening on Monday, Aug. 26. The business comes to Chattanooga from Kentucky where there are locations in both Lexington and Louisville. 
 The ...  more The City of Red Bank will be hosting their next Mini Farmers Market this Saturday. Patrons will once again have the opportunity to shop for an array of foods, fresh homegrown produce and more, ...  more New restaurants that have recently opened in the Chattanooga area include Acme Fusion Café, 9469 Bradmore Lane, Unit 105 at Cambridge Square in Ooltewah. The full-service restaurant fuses food ...  more