terms terms of use privacy privacy policy cookie settings cookie settings ca privacy california privacy site map site map public notice public notice accessibility statement accessibility statement COMPLEX participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means COMPLEX gets paid commissions on purchases made through our links to retailer sites. Our editorial content is not influenced by any commissions we receive. © Complex All Rights Reserved. In an interview with Nardwuar, the rapper confirmed he once cohabited with a roach the size of "about a whole dollar bill" for seven months. In an interview with Nardwuar, Snoop Dogg said he once lived with a huge roach that he and a friend nicknamed "the Gooch." "Did you have a roach called Gooch?" Nardwuar asked Snoop at the 6:50 point of the interview, as seen above. "Oh yeah, Gooch used to live with me," Snoop replied. "In my apartment, I had a roach that we couldn't kill. We tried to kill the motherfucker when we first moved in and he wouldn't die so we called him the Gooch and he just kept getting bigger and bigger. I stayed in that apartment for about, like, six-seven months. Cuz grew to the size of about a whole dollar bill. He was about the size of a dollar bill, we called him the Gooch. We would leave food out for him and everything." Elsewhere in the chat with the legendary Canadian interviewer, Snoop was shown a toy recreation of their 2010 interview by artist Duane Shoots Toys. In that interview, Snoop was given a VHS copy of his Smokefest video release, which was his first live concert movie. Nardwuar noted that Snoop recently sold the VHS release of Smokefest at a garage sale, which he blamed on his wife, Shante Broadus. "Yeah well you know my wife, she sold the motherfucker," he said. "She'd be all in my shit. Whenever you're having them little yard sales and shit that's when I'm, like, on the road. Right now they probably having one right now selling all this shit I don't know they selling. I just gotta act like I'm cool with it." When shown the recreation of their previous interviews, Snoop praised Duane. “Smokefest the small version, that’s gangsta,” Snoop said. “He’s a dope artist. That shit hard as fuck cuz.” Last month, Snoop Dogg opened up about the creation behind his iconic track "Murder Was the Case." I wrote that song ‘Murder Was the Case’ where I was like, ‘I came when my booboo’s ‘bout to have my baby.’ She wasn't even pregnant, and I hadn't even caught the murder case," he said in an excerpt from Audible's Words + Music series. "That's the fucking crazy part about it. He was born May 20th, right? 1994. The murder case was in August of 1993. So I wrote ‘Murder Was the Case’ about some shit that had never happened in my life. I didn't have a baby. I didn't have a murder case, but my penmanship was writing shit that was about to happen." Check out the full interview with Snoop Dogg above. Master P Calls Out Google for Confusing Him With Luther Vandross in Search Result: 'Stop Letting A.I. Run Your Company' Snoop Dogg Recalls Writing "Murder Was the Case" A Year Before Catching Actual Murder Case Snoop Dogg Issues Succinct Response to Island Boys Threat SHARE THIS STORY Got something to say?