Cockroach Labs, the company behind the cloud-native distributed SQL database CockroachDB, is announcing a variety of exciting developments, including the launch of CockroachDB-as-a-Service on Microsoft Azure, as well as CockroachDB serverless and extended capabilities for CockroachDB MOLT (Migrate Off Legacy Technology). These latest innovations from Cockroach Labs, paired with CockroachDB supported by all three major clouds, enable customers to run a best-of-breed distributed database everywhere and anywhere, effortlessly, according to the vendor. CockroachDB-as-a-Service on Azure offers multi-region deployment functionality underpinned by high resilience, scalability, and operational efficiency. These deployments support local performance and data compliance while simultaneously operating on and integrating with the Microsoft ecosystem. Data-intensive applications can be run anywhere, where enterprises can pick and choose between cloud providers and mix workloads effortlessly between on-premise data centers and public clouds. “The idea of our platform is to be able to survive a cloud vendor outage, so we’re not going to be dependent on any cloud vendor,” said Kevin Holditch, head of platform at Form3. “We’re going to have a Kubernetes cluster in each cloud vendor—so Azure, AWS, GCP—and run CockroachDB across the three.” CockroachDB serverless—Cockroach Labs’ consumption-based, auto-scaling offering—now supports multi-regional capabilities, permitting organizations of any size to distribute rows of data across multiple cloud regions. These deployments still function as a single, logical database, helping customers save on ramping costs by only paying for exact storage and compute uses. Additionally, CockroachDB MOLT is receiving enhancements for data migration validation from Postgres and MySQL, imagined as MOLT Verify, where the solution mitigates resource drains during the often costly journey of enterprise data transition. MOLT Verify ensures correct replication, smoother syntax conversion in bulk changes, and authentication of Postgres and MySQL clusters, ultimately streamlining migration with limited interruptions to provided services. This series of announcements from Cockroach Labs is further accompanied by other updates, including Distributed User-Defined-Functions (UDFs) to eliminate scaling bottlenecks during UDF builds; Terraform provider for automated provisioning and management of CockroachDB dedicated and serverless; and adherence to the Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2—a cryptography standard required for many government agencies—through a new FIPS-ready binary for CockroachDB self-hosted. “While the move of transactional data to the cloud is accelerating, many data leaders are still at the beginning of their cloud journey and are finding that legacy solutions simply do not meet their needs, especially for their mission-critical applications,” said Spencer Kimball, CEO and co-founder at Cockroach Labs. “This release embodies the fulfillment of the vision we set out to accomplish eight years ago. We offer true flexibility and resilience and will meet you where you are in your cloud journey—now and in the future.” To learn more about Cockroach Labs’ latest innovations, please visit https://www.cockroachlabs.com/.