Comment  Stelo Labs, a web3 security company, raised $6 million in a seed round led by Andreessen Horowitz, the company exclusively told TechCrunch. The company was co-founded by Ben Scharfstein, CEO, and Aman Dhesi, CTO. Both have backgrounds in product management — Scharfstein worked at Google, and Dhesi held roles at Facebook, DoorDash and Square. Stelo Labs’ goal is to make web3 “safe and understandable for everyone,” Scharfstein said. “When we think of what web3 can be and enable, it’ll be cut off at the knees if things aren’t safe.” While there are a number of web3 security companies out there, Stelo Labs focuses on helping prevent malicious transactions, phishing and social engineering for Ethereum-based users, Dhesi said. “The surface area of these attacks have been growing as people innovate and create new schemes — there’s more ways for people to phish you.” The startup launched its Stelo extension in September to help users protect their wallets from scams and phishing attacks. The open source extension acts like a firewall between any transaction and a user’s wallet, but never has access to one’s private seed phrase or keys. “We realized the security problems in web3 are product problems, interface problems as well as data problems and security problems,” Dhesi said. “But in web3, the responsibility often falls on the user. “There’s no intermediaries that help there,” Dhesi said. “It really comes down to building experiences and products for users so that they can be empowered to feel safe.” Since September, it has protected thousands of wallets with a collective amount worth over $100 million, Scharfstein said. The service runs the most popular signature types — or transaction agreements — through its engine to help determine whether a transaction is a low, moderate or high risk, and also provides context so people can understand what they’re signing, as opposed to telling them what to do, Dhesi said. Today it’s releasing its developer API so independent dApps and wallets can use its Stelo Transaction Engine. It’s also launching a token approvals experience to help users understand their wallet’s “health score” and keep it safe by recommending revoking approvals to third parties, the co-founders said. The capital will be used to expand the team and its product beyond a Google Chrome extension and “meeting users where they are,” Scharfstein said. Over time, Stelo plans to develop an embedded version of its API and find a way to make the Ethereum transaction “human readable,” because there are many nuances at the moment, Dhesi said. “We don’t want every developer to reinvent the wheel, so we will package the Stelo user interface inside a library so they can just drop it in and make a customizable fit […] that’s something we’ll invest in over the next few months.” In the long term, Stelo wants to build a user interface that puts every transaction through its service, whether that’s through a crypto wallet, consumer-facing extensions or another avenue, the co-founders said. While the service is Ethereum-focused right now, Stelo wants to bring it to more Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)-compatible chains on board in the future, Scharfstein said. “We want to make sure every transaction goes through our risk extension.” Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP