Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Garmin wearables can be a little bewildering at first, especially some of the higher-end smartwatch models. The company likes to cram in as many software features as possible, to the point where it's not always clear what everything does. It can take days or even weeks to get a full grasp on everything.
     You don't need any apps or gadgets to lift heavy, but they can certainly help.                     You probably have a basic sense of what Garmin Pay is -- but how does it work? And more importantly, where can you use it, and which devices are supported?
                         The short version of what Garmin Pay is that it's the company's equivalent of Apple Pay or Google Wallet. It lets you make credit or debit payments at compatible businesses without pulling out a physical card, or even your phone. In fact, there's no phone- or desktop-based version of Garmin Pay to speak of -- it's mostly meant to let you go for a run or breeze through a commute without worrying about whether you've got cash in your pocket. More on the commute part later.
                         You can add a card to Garmin Pay via the Garmin Connect mobile app, which syncs them securely with your watch. To make a payment, you select Wallet from your watch's Controls menu, then enter a passcode if it's been 24 hours since you last used Garmin Pay or you've taken off your watch since then. At that point, you can bring your watch near an NFC payment terminal, or switch cards first if you don't want to use the most recently selected one.
                         The process is relatively easy on Garmin's end, but could be more complicated depending on the bank(s) your cards are associated with.
                         Quite a few do. You can filter for compatibility on Garmin's web store, but here's what was compatible as of July 2024:
                         The list of compatible banks is too long to share here, but Garmin maintains an active roster you can sort by region and card issuer (Visa, Mastercard, etc.). The feature is available in many countries around the world, including of course places like Australia, Canada, the US, and the UK.
                         There's no comprehensive list of retailers, but if Garmin Pay works in your country and a payment terminal supports other NFC standards like Apple Pay, you're probably good to go. Look for an icon indicating wireless support.
                         Speaking of which, Garmin Pay can be used to pay for rides on select public transit systems. Here's the list as of July 2024:
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful. Your comment has not been saved  Garmin Pay is available in Canada, but it's limited to just a few banks, mostly American with tiny Canadian branches. As a result, it's useless for the vast (and I mean VAST) majority of Canadians. Very disappointing. Useless if your bank does not support garmin pay! If a Garmin has been on your wishlist, now is the best time to buy. Some of the adventure watches are at record lows. There are plenty of worthy budget TVs out there, but some deals are too good to be true. Here's what you should know. Deciding between an iPad or notebook this school year? If might come as a surprise, but an e-reader could by a better option. The answer may depend on the type of disc and how you preserve it. The sales for the PS5 have slowed faster than anticipated, and I know a few key reasons why. You need to think strategically when picking iPad specs.