Leading RegTech provider Know Your Customer is proud to announce its latest strategic client wins in Singapore: Volopay and Coda Payments. Know Your Customer’s innovative compliance platform will streamline client onboarding and periodic review tasks for both clients, delivering a more seamless due diligence experience to their vast pool of SME and corporate clients. Volopay was founded in 2020, in Singapore, to help businesses better manage their finances to achieve their strategic growth. The product employs corporate cards and  receivable and payable management software in order to streamline approvals and expense workflows, lending complete control and visibility over business expenses. Since then, it has expanded globally to Australia, Indonesia, and India, as well.  Founded in 2011 and headquartered in Singapore, Coda Payments is one of the world’s leading providers of secure, cross-border monetisation solutions for digital products and services. The company helps digital content publishers, including some of the biggest names in gaming such as Activision Blizzard, Riot Games and Tencent, unlock new revenue for their games, apps, and services in more than 60 markets worldwide. The double client win comes in the context of an unprecedented growth of the digital payments industry in Southeast Asia, which is expected to reach an astonishing USD1.5 trillion by 2030. In this environment, the next frontier of innovation is to provide financial services to entrepreneurs, SMEs and corporates in a seamless way, similar to what has now become the standard for consumers. To support payment providers in their dual objective of seamless onboarding and iron-clad compliance, Know Your Customer has developed a highly modular compliance platform that supports clients’ need for cross-border verification and Know Your Business (KYB) automation. By providing live access to company registries in 127 countries worldwide and an end-to-end digital compliance platform, Know Your Customer empowers Fintech businesses to safely onboard clients across borders, unravel complex company structure charts and constantly stay in control of their regulatory obligations through automated periodic reviews. Claus Christensen, CEO of Know Your Customer, commented: "In a constant effort to lower the cost of compliance and provide access to essential payment services to SMEs and entrepreneurs, more and more Fintech companies are turning to RegTech providers to help them achieve this goal in a shorter timeframe. We are proud that both Volopay and Coda Payments have chosen to partner with Know Your Customer to bring to life their ambitious vision for seamless onboarding and periodic reviews and we look forward to working with them to deliver the best possible experience to their vast range of local and international clients.” Rohit Bhageria, Founding Member at Volopay, added: “We at Volopay were looking for a comprehensive Identification and Verification software suite coupled with strong watchlist management and enhanced security features, and we have found that Know Your Customer checks all the boxes of our requirements.” Finally, Abhi Sharma, Chief Financial Officer at Coda Payments, said: “At Coda Payments, we’ve always been a solution-focused company that is constantly looking for ways to improve productivity and strengthen our compliance commitments. We’re confident that our partnership with Know Your Customer will allow us to do exactly that, and look forward to working together to streamline our compliance processes and boost efficiencies across the business.” Both client wins were celebrated during an official signing ceremony hosted at the Tower Club Singapore, organised in partnership with the Ireland Ambassador to Singapore and Enterprise Ireland. The event marks another significant milestone for Know Your Customer in Singapore, as it continues to drive RegTech innovation in the region. 
                        Get FinTech news headlines, videos, stories and product reviews on your mobile device. Download Financial IT App for Free
                    