Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  A down payment is the portion of a home's purchase price paid upfront, rather than the part loaned to you by a bank or mortgage provider. In 2023, the average down payment for first-time homebuyers was 8%, according to the National Association of Realtors. That can be a considerable obstacle for many would-be homeowners, but down payment assistance programs (DPAs) can help close the gap. Any grant or loan intended to help homebuyers increase how much they can contribute upfront to the purchase of a home is considered down payment assistance. It may come from a government agency, private lender or other organization. These programs typically have eligibility requirements and borrowers usually have to take out a mortgage with a participating lender to take advantage of their assistance program. Many DPA programs are geared toward first-time homebuyers and most require the property to be your primary residence. Some may require the borrower to take a homebuying education course. Other criteria may include: If you're already working with a lender, ask them what options are available to you. There are several types of assistance, some of which don't have to be repaid and some of which do. DPA grants do not have to be repaid, but they are often limited to first-time homebuyers with low to moderate incomes. They may come from private lenders or federal, state or local government agencies The Maine State Housing Authority's First Home Loan Program, for example, offers up to $5,000 toward a down payment, closing costs and prepaid escrow expenses for borrowers who meet certain income requirements and take a homebuyer education program before closing. Freddie Mac has a database of DPA programs across the US. Many commercial banks have grant programs, too. Bank of America will give qualified borrowers up to 3% of their home's purchase price, up to $10,000, toward a down payment. Apply online for personalized rates; fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages included Conventional loans, FHA loans, VA loans, Affordable Loan Solution® mortgage, Doctor loans Varies Conventional loans typically require a 620 credit score 3% with Bank of America's Affordable Loan Solution® mortgage loan Terms apply. Yes — click here for details Chase Bank's homebuyer grant offers up to $7,500, which needs to be used to purchase mortgage points. But any remaining funds can be put toward the down payment. Apply online for personalized rates; fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages included Conventional loans, FHA loans, VA loans, DreaMaker℠ loans and Jumbo loans 10 – 30 years 620 3% if moving forward with a DreaMaker℠ loan Terms apply. Yes — click here for details Many cities, counties and states offer forgivable loans to first-time homebuyers. Provided you stay in your home for a set number of years, you don't have to pay the money back. You may be required to work with a partner lender, however, limiting your ability to shop around. The New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development's HomeFirst down payment program provides qualified first-time homebuyers with a forgivable loan of up to $100,000 for a down payment or closing costs. Depending on the loan size, borrowers must use the home as a primary residence for 10 to 15 years to have their debt forgiven. Your state housing agency website should have details on local programs or you can check Freddie Mac's DPAOne database.  Some DPA programs come in the form of loans with very low or zero interest. Others may allow borrowers to put off repaying the loan until the end of their mortgage term. The Home Advantage program from the Washington State Housing Finance Commission allows buyers to take out a second mortgage to help with a down payment. The loan has a 0% interest rate and payment is deferred for 30 years. If you don't meet the requirements for down payment assistance, most lenders offer mortgages with low down payment requirements. Ally Bank's HomeReady loan, for example, only requires 3% down. Applicants must make no more than 80% of the area median income and take a homeownership education course. Ally doesn't charge lender fees, so even if you don't qualify for a HomeReady mortgage, your closing costs could be considerably lower. Apply online for personalized rates; fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages included Conventional loans, HomeReady loan and Jumbo loans 15 – 30 years 620 3% if moving forward with a HomeReady loan Terms apply. SoFi also offers mortgages with 3% down for qualified first-time buyers. Borrowers may also earn a 0.25% rate reduction on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage and up to $9,500 cash back if they buy their home through SoFi's Real Estate Center. Apply online for personalized rates; fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages included VA loan, FHA loan, conventional loan, fixed-rate loan, adjustable-rate loan, jumbo loan, HELOCS & Closed End Second Mortgages 10 – 30 years 600 3% Terms apply. Government-backed mortgages like VA loans, USDA loans and FHA loans typically have lower down payment requirements. They also have specific eligibility criteria, however, and the amount of your down payment will vary based on your credit score and other factors. Any program aimed at helping borrowers increase the amount of the purchase price they provide upfront can be considered down payment assistance (DPA). Many banks have DPA programs for their lenders, and there are also offerings from government agencies and nonprofits. In January 2024, the median down payment was 14.2%, according to real estate data analysis firm ATTOM. Down payment assistance is typically aimed at first-time or low-income homebuyers but there are programs with broader parameters. Check with your lender to see if there are options available to you. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. Saving up for a down payment can be a major obstacle to homeownership, especially if you're a first-time homebuyer. Since most down payment assistance is limited by lender and loan type, you should look at what's available when you are first shopping for a mortgage. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every mortgage article is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of mortgage products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.