 The Government has confirmed the exact dates people will receive the cost of living payments as well as who is eligible for them. The first instalment of a series of cost of living payments worth up to £1,350 will be available in the coming weeks. More than eight million households claiming means-tested benefits will automatically receive the first payment of £301 Between April 25 and May 17. An extra payment worth £150 will also be handed out to over 6.5 million claimants on disability benefits this summer. Overall, five cost of living payments are scheduled across the 2023/24 tax year and will cover vulnerable households, pensioners, and those living with physical and mental disabilities. When will the cost of living support be issued? According to the DWP, the payment timetable is as follows: READ MORE: Best savings accounts: Cash ISA interest rates hit 14 year high - savers can get 4.26%   Who is eligible for the cost of living payment?People receiving certain benefits or tax credits are eligible for the cost of living payment. The payments totalling to £900 will automatically be on offer for those receiving means-tested benefits. This includes: Britons also have to have been eligible for these benefits by a certain date. Don't miss...HMRC warning as pensioners targeted in growing tax fraud [LATEST]State pension payment dates may change in April [LATEST]Britons can get up to 100% off their TV licence bill as fee rises £13 [LATEST] They will be eligible for the first cost of living payment if they were entitled to benefits for the assessment period between January 26 and February 25 (or the DWP finds that they were eligible during this time). If someone gets both child tax credit and working tax credit they’ll only receive a cost of living payment for child tax credit. If they get tax credits from HMRC and a benefit from the DWP, they’ll only receive the cost of living payment from the DWP. Couples with a joint claim will only receive single payments of £301, £300 and £299 between them. We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy  Eligibility for disability and pensioner cost of living payment Meanwhile, an additional £450 will be available for those eligible for summer's disability payment as well as winter's pensioner payment - equating to £1,350. According to the DWP, up to 5.4 million households in the UK are believed to qualify for these benefits, and in turn, qualify for the cost of living payments. To be eligible for the disability cost of living payment worth £150, you must have received a payment for one of the following during a yet unannounced qualifying period: People will receive a Winter Fuel Payment for winter 2023 to 2024 if they were born before September 24, 1957. The Government said it will update qualifying dates for payments in due time. As the cost of living crisis continues, many families are urged to claim all the financial support available to them. Millions of households across the country are set to benefit from the £1,350 cost of living payments over the next year. For more information on financial support available, Britons are encouraged to check the Government website. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?