Department for Work and Pensions took to social media ahead of the long weekend for the coronation of King Charles III Sign up to FREE email alerts from the Money Saving Club  We have more newsletters Sign up to FREE email alerts from the Money Saving Club  We have more newsletters The government Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) today took to social media to remind people that the coronation of King Charles III will mean some changes to benefit payment dates. In a post on Twitter the DWP said that in some cases people who would have got paid on Monday May 8 will instead get it earlier. The DWP said: “If you are due to be paid on 8 May, you will be paid on 5 May. Please contact us straight away if there is a problem with your payment.” May will see three bank holidays, including the extra one to celebrate the coronation of King Charles III. Benefits are usually paid straight into a claimant’s bank, building society or credit union account. If your usual payment date falls on May 8, the DWP will instead send out your benefit payments earlier than usual. Read more: Martin Lewis in urgent two week warning to claim benefit and get £301 extra payment So if you’re due to receive your payment on May 8, you’ll actually get it three days before on May 5 instead. This counts for the following 12 benefits: Income Support, jobseeker’s allowance and pension credit payments usually arrive every two weeks while the rest arrive every four weeks. 2023 Bank Holidays in England and Wales: Monday, May 8 - Bank Holiday for the coronation of King Charles III Monday, May 29 - Spring Bank Holiday Monday, August 28 - Summer Bank Holiday  Monday, December 25 - Christmas Day  Tuesday, December 26 - Boxing Day When benefit payments will be handed out around these dates: Payments expected on May 8 (King Charles III’s coronation): Will be paid out on May 5. Spring Bank Holiday payments: Will be made on May 26, instead of May 29. Summer Bank Holiday payments: Will be made on August 25, instead of August 28. Payments expected on December 25, 26 and 27 this year: Will instead be paid out on December 22, ahead of Christmas. Read next: 