FARMINGDALE, N.Y., Dec. 15, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Codagenix Inc., a clinical-stage synthetic biology company with a rational virus design platform for viral vaccines and immuno-oncology therapeutics, today announced that Paul Grint, MD, has been appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors. 



 "We are delighted to welcome Paul to our Board of Directors. He is a biotechnology industry veteran who brings three decades of clinical leadership experience that will prove invaluable to the company as we continue to grow and advance our pipeline," said J. Robert Coleman, Ph.D., M.B.A., Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Codagenix. "Paul brings extensive expertise in research and development, operations, fundraising, and corporate governance along with years of Board experience with both public and private companies. He will be a great asset to Codagenix as we look to achieve key upcoming milestones, such as completion of our Phase 3 clinical trial of CoviLiv." "I am honored to join Codagenix at such a pivotal time, as the organization leverages its impressive synthetic biology-based platform to pioneer a new era of live-attenuated vaccines and immuno-oncology therapies," said Dr. Grint. "I look forward to partnering with this talented Board and management team to take on the biggest threats in infectious disease and cancer." Dr. Grint has over 30 years of industry experience and was most recently Chief Executive Officer for Ampliphi Biosciences. Prior to Ampliphi, Dr. Grint served as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Medical Officer of Regulus Therapeutics. Previous leadership positions include President of Cerexa, Senior Vice President of Early Development and Internal Medicine at Forest Research Institute, and Chief Medical Officer and Head of Development at Kalypsys. He currently serves on the Boards of Directors of Cardea Bio, Synedgen, Inhibikase Therapeutics, and Persephone Biosciences. He is also Entrepreneur in Residence, Office of Innovation and Commercialization, at the University of California, San Diego. Dr. Grint earned his Bachelor of Science in Infection and Immunity from St. Mary's Hospital Medical School, London and his Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery from University of London, St. Bartholomew's Hospital Medical College, London. About Codagenix, Inc. Codagenix is a clinical-stage biotechnology company leading a new era of live vaccines and viral therapeutics. The company's breakthrough platform brings together live-attenuated virus design with cutting-edge codon deoptimization for powerful synthetic biology-based solutions to take on our biggest threats in infectious disease, cancer and animal health. Codagenix was founded based on technology developed in the laboratory of National Academy of Science member Dr. Eckard Wimmer at Stony Brook University; is supported by Adjuvant Capital, TopSpin Partners, and Euclidean Capital; and has ongoing research and license programs with various federal agencies. For more information, visit codagenix.com. Media Contact Ignacio Guerrero-Ros, Ph.D.Russo Partners646-942-5604ignacio.guerrero-ros@russopartnersllc.com Investor Relations Contact Leo Vartorella Argot Partners 212-600-1902 codagenix@argotpartners.com  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/codagenix-announces-appointment-of-paul-grint-md-as-executive-chairman-of-its-board-of-directors-301704218.html SOURCE  Codagenix, Inc. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.