The best fleet information source in the UK A new partnership has been launched between telematics firm Inseego and management software company Pocket Box. The collaboration has resulted in a new tool designed to ensure vehicles are kept road legal and safe, while staff are fit and eligible to drive. Pocket Box Fleet brings together essential vehicle and driver records – plus supporting documentation – in a single system, so vehicle operators can keep on top of key renewal dates, quickly access electronic audit trails, and ensure a fleet is operating legally. Reminders and alerts use traffic light colour-coding to prioritise important tasks and draw attention to potential vehicle or driver issues.  Meanwhile, the Pocket Box app captures additional information to support vehicle, driver, and fuel management. Pocket Box founder and CEO Jim Finnegan said: “Our software is designed to streamline fleet-related tasks, so this partnership creates an exciting opportunity to bring together two complementary systems. “Integrating our web-and app-based technology with the Inseego Fleet telematics solution enables users to access live data – such as mileage, utilisation and driving styles – to further automate and simplify vehicle and driver management processes. “By working closely with Inseego, we can deliver advanced telematics to our growing customer base, while existing users of Inseego Fleet can take advantage of added driver and vehicle management functionality.  “Our aim is to bring together likeminded technology and service partners to create an integrated ecosystem that takes the hassle out of operating vehicles and optimises fleet performance.” Inseego UK managing director Steve Thomas said: “We have a growing number of technology partnerships that bring together complementary systems to provide added value and return on investment to our customers.  “This latest agreement with Pocket Box will enable fleets to dramatically reduces workload, cuts costs and eliminates human error, while keeping drivers safe, a business compliant and vehicles on the road.” Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the Progressive Media network. 
 
				Powered by
				
 Copyright Business Trade Media International Limited. All Rights Reserved