COIT is the governance body that makes decisions regarding the future of San Francisco's technology.  Provides recommendations to COIT on budget and performance matters Provides recommendations to COIT on compliance with the Acquisition of Surveillance Technology Ordinance Policies governing the use of surveillance technologies by City Departments Resumption of In-Person Meetings After being held remotely due to COVID-19, in-person meetings are resuming as of Friday 4/20/23. All meetings will be held in Room 305 of City Hall (1 Dr. Carlton B Goodlett Pl, San Francisco, CA 94102). Meetings will continue to be streamed via WebEx to enable public commenters to watch and comment remotely if they wish to do so. Members of the public may use the email address coit.staff@sfgov.org to sign in to WebEx if needed. Public comment in meetings Individuals who wish to offer public comment while attending a meeting remotely can use the phone number and access code provided for each meeting. August 22, 2024 Privacy and Surveillance Advisory Board Meeting September 19, 2024 Committee on Information Technology Meeting September 26, 2024 Privacy and Surveillance Advisory Board Meeting August 15, 2024 Committee on Information Technology Meeting July 25, 2024 Privacy and Surveillance Advisory Board Meeting July 18, 2024 Committee on Information Technology Meeting 
      City Administrator Carmen Chu announces the transition of Jillian Johnson, Director of the Committee on Information Technology (COIT)
     Learn more about our technology strategies and financial forecast. COIT policies support strategic goals like cybersecurity, disaster preparedness, and sustainability. This inventory shows all upcoming and completed Surveillance Technology Policies and Impact Reports. This inventory shows all completed Annual Surveillance Reports for Board of Supervisors-approved policies. Materials from COIT meetings prior to April 2021. The Committee on Information Technology (COIT) is San Francisco's technology governance and policy making body. We provide a forum for City leadership to coordinate and collaborate to make citywide technology decisions. Join our conversation as we make important decisions related to government technology!  Subcommittees Related 

Email
 Request public records Email Coit.staff@sfgov.org to submit a request.