Jon Flaherty, Chief Executive Officer - Americas, Revolent Group.   Over 1.2 million—that’s how many software developer, quality assurance analyst and tester roles will be created over the next seven years, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. What’s more, businesses that invest in building their capabilities across the most in-demand areas of the cloud will be better positioned to maintain a competitive edge, despite the growing digital skills gap. Here are five steps to help you identify the cloud skills you should be focusing on and how to successfully acquire them. Although there are different methods for accomplishing this, I’ll focus on how to build these skills effectively within your existing workforce. Whether you invest in bringing fresh cloud talent into your organization or upskilling to build your internal cloud capabilities, you’ll first need to: • Get a full picture of your existing cloud competencies. • Identify the cloud digital skills that you’ll need to invest in based on your business goals and requirements. Because your IT team would have played a key role in implementing the cloud products and services used in your organization, seek out their expertise for this stage of the process. Ask them to delve deeper into the capabilities of the cloud products you’re already using and assess what new cloud products or services you should be investing in. Consider sending senior members of your IT team to cloud vendor conferences, such as AWS re:Invent, Dreamforce, Google Cloud Next or Microsoft Ignite, so they can test new products and network with industry specialists. This will help your IT specialists gauge the cloud products and services your business would benefit from. Ask your IT team to look at the typical roles required to either effectively implement the new cloud products they’ve identified or make the most of your existing cloud capabilities to help your operational processes become more efficient and, ultimately, profitable. It’s important that they look into the specific skills required for these roles. More often than not, these extend beyond the hard tech skills. For instance, if you require a cloud engineer, you’ll likely need to develop a host of crucial consultancy skills, too, such as stakeholder management, negotiation skills and effective communication. Next, have your talent management or learning and development (L&D) team conduct a detailed skills assessment to measure your tech employees’ existing capabilities and scope out the skills they’d like to develop to meet their personal career goals while also supporting your business goals. Once you’ve assessed where the biggest cloud skills gaps lie across your organization, it’s time to outline your cloud digital skills road map. Determine the cloud roles that you’ll be creating going forward and how you’ll develop your employee’s existing skill sets to match the requirements of these positions. For instance, you might discover that IT members who were involved in the implementation process of your existing cloud products may already meet some of the requirements. They may be able to develop more advanced capabilities through a focused upskilling program or even reskill from one cloud stack to another. Despite this, you’ll likely still need to recruit externally to bring highly technical cloud talent into your team, such as cloud solution architects, so make sure you allocate budget and resources for this, too. Your road map should outline quarterly as well as annual departmental targets, allowing enough flexibility to meet any urgent business requirements that may come up. Next, you need to consider how cloud training will be built into your cloud digital skills road map. Will you be offering training in-house or working with an external training provider? If you already have access to qualified, cloud vendor-certified trainers and your L&D department is well equipped to manage ongoing development at scale, then it makes sense to provide the training in-house. The most obvious benefit of training in-house is cost because you can use existing resources rather than outsource to a specialist training provider. Other important benefits include the ability to adapt the study material to your specific business requirements, as well as more opportunities for team building and cross-departmental collaboration, as your employees can learn together and bounce ideas off each other. However, if you don’t have the internal capacity or expertise to provide specialist cloud training in-house, working with an external cloud training provider may be the most beneficial way to gain these skills at speed. Although this may appear to be a more costly option, there are a number of benefits that these providers can bring to your organization, such as reduced strain on your own employees with minimal loss of productivity. Also, you’ll get access to expert cloud trainers and a way of acquiring a specific skill set that’s been tested and proven to work. It’s crucial to build regular check-ins into your road map, so you can monitor progress, measure results and make any necessary changes to your strategy. At the end of every quarter, ask your IT and L&D teams to assess where they are compared to the targets you set out. If progress is slower than expected, ask them to identify the main blockers. For instance, did more urgent business priorities take the focus away from your teams’ learning time? How much time could you realistically allocate each week for professional development without interrupting business continuity? Above all, remember that digital transformation doesn’t just happen overnight—it will take time before your organization is “cloud-fluent.” However, because advancements in technology show no signs of slowing down, following and refining these steps can help you make the most of your existing cloud capabilities and boost retention while making an ongoing investment in innovation. In the fast-changing world of IT, this is no small feat. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 