On September 1, 2023, Cognizant / TMG filed a notice of data breach with the Attorney General of Texas after discovering that an unauthorized party accessed confidential consumer data stored on the company’s computer network. In this notice, Cognizant / TMG explains that the incident resulted in an unauthorized party being able to access consumers’ sensitive information, which includes their names, addresses, email addresses, phone numbers, dates of birth, Social Security Numbers, claim numbers, bank account numbers and medical service information. Upon completing its investigation, Cognizant / TMG began sending out data breach notification letters to all individuals whose information was affected by the recent data security incident.  If you received a data breach notification from Cognizant / TMG, it is essential you understand what is at risk and what you can do about it. A data breach lawyer can help you learn more about how to protect yourself from becoming a victim of fraud or identity theft, as well as discuss your legal options following the Cognizant / TMG data breach. For more information, please see our recent piece on the topic here. The Cognizant / TMG data breach was only recently announced, and more information is expected in the near future. Cognizant / TMG’s filing with the Attorney General of Texas provides limited information on what led up to the breach; however, Cognizant / TMG also filed notice with the Attorney General of Maine, which provides more information. According to this source, between June 22, 2023 and July 18, 2023, Cognizant / TMG detected a potential network security incident that had occurred between May 30, 2023 and June 3, 2023. In response, Cognizant / TMG conducted an investigation, which confirmed that an unauthorized party was able to access personal information related to certain consumers. After learning that sensitive consumer data was accessible to an unauthorized party, Cognizant / TMG reviewed the compromised files to determine what information was leaked and which consumers were impacted. While the breached information varies depending on the individual, it may include your name, address, email address, phone number, date of birth, Social Security Number, Claim number, bank account number and medical service information. On September 1, 2023, Cognizant / TMG sent out data breach letters to anyone who was affected by the recent data security incident. These letters should provide victims with a list of which information of theirs was compromised. Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation is a business services company based out of Teaneck, New Jersey. Cognizant provides information technology, operations and technology consulting, infrastructure, and business process services to clients across the world. In 2017, Cognizant completed its acquisition of TMG Health, a then-leading provider of business process services to the Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D and Managed Medicaid markets in the United States. Cognizant employs more than 340,000 people and generates approximately $19 billion in annual revenue. See more » DISCLAIMER: Because of the generality of this update, the information provided herein may not be applicable in all situations and should not be acted upon without specific legal advice based on particular situations.
                    Attorney Advertising. © 
                    Console and Associates, P.C. 
                    
 Refine your interests » Back to Top Explore 2024 Readers' Choice Awards Copyright ©  JD Supra, LLC