William - stock.adobe.com Pentland Brands, a division of Pentland Group, the majority shareholder of JD Sports, has turned to Google Cloud’s BigQuery service to better understand its customers. The name behind well-known sports and outdoor apparel brands Speedo, Berghaus, Canterbury of New Zealand, Endura, Ellesse and Mitre, Pentland Brands’ products are sold in 190 countries. It’s also the British licensee for Kickers shoes. According to a case study recently published by its supplier, Google Cloud channel partner CTS, it works with so many distributors that it found it hard to understand how the products were performing in different territories and among different age groups. Its customer data sources include SAP systems, other databases and in-house-developed distributor systems where the company could not define the data received. The company’s analysts could only look at each individual distributor in isolation because, with no aggregation, combining data was a manual task. They needed, said CTS, a system to onboard new data sources efficiently and consistently. They turned to CTS, which designed and built a unified data and analytics platform. Based on Google’s big data analytics service BigQuery, the system CTS has built for its client pulls Pentland information sources into Google Cloud Platform in “raw form, allowing for reprocessing of data as required in the future”. The raw data was then processed and merged into a new data model to provide the same view of each customer, regardless of where they purchased from. CTS said all of the data is secure, reliably stored and available for analytical use across the business via the BigQuery interface or the Business Intelligence tools already in use at Pentland Brands. According to CTS, the time saved on ingesting and transforming data has allowed the company’s analytics teams to spend more time on analysis. CTS said it has helped to onboard eight of Pentland Brands’ largest, most valuable distributors to the platform, allowing unified analytics across its many distributors without analysis having to be done on a case-by-case basis. Data reporting has moved from quarterly to monthly. The company previously had no holistic view of its business, but it can now view metrics such as sell-through rates, assessing sales performance of products so it can reorder stock and sell more where needed. An improvement in data quality has, it is said, led to almost 100% eradication of errors. By having a master data point of view, CTS has helped to consolidate disparate data sources and align data back to its client’s finance systems. Computer Weekly requested a supporting quote from Pentland from CTS, but the supplier’s client declined to comment on the project. The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following a number of high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure ... In light of the recent CrowdStrike outage, security teams should ask their vendors 10 key questions to ensure they're prepared ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
