News and resources on ESG data and technology, Impact Investing and Sustainable Finance initiatives and best practices. This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. The number of NatWest customers accessing Cogo’s carbon impact data through their banking app has increased by 10%, according to the NatWest 2022 annual report. 
21 February 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. The number today stands at 334,500 active users - up from 300,000 in just six months. NatWest partnered with Cogo in 2021 to support customers wanting to know more about how their spending decisions impact the planet. The carbon footprint feature shows customers the carbon impact of their day-to-day spending decisions, and encourages them to choose the greener option, with tips and hints delivered through the app. They can also log their commitments and behaviour changes, to support motivation. Emma Kisby, EMEA CEO of Cogo says:"We're really heartened to see this growth in the number of customers accessing our carbon footprint data and taking control of managing their personal environmental impact. "Providing a touchpoint with so many customers, banks have an important strategic role to play in helping the wider public address their own climate impact. Today's new figures are a welcome confirmation of that opportunity.“Every day it’s clear that more and more consumers are taking an active interest in the climate debate and the crisis we undoubtedly face. Working in partnership is key to achieving both reach and flexibility in solving the problem, providing solutions which will support both businesses and consumers on their own journey.”  Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre