News and resources on cloud strategy, selection, build, migration and operation for banks and fintechs. This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. Global carbon footprint management fintech, Cogo, today announced that its carbon footprint management software is now listed on AWS Marketplace, a digital catalogue with thousands of software listings from independent software vendors that make it easy to find, test, buy, and deploy software that runs on Amazon Web Services (AWS). 
07 February 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. The listing will give more than 325,000 active AWS customers around the world access to Cogo’s cloud-based carbon footprint technology that enables individuals and businesses to measure, understand, and reduce their impact on the climate.Cogo works with 12 banks globally, including NatWest, Westpac, the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Royal Bank of Scotland, Suncorp Bank, and most recently Kiwibank, to provide carbon emissions data for banking transactions such as spend on electricity and fuel. The Cogo Personal and Business Carbon Manager solutions calculate carbon footprints for both individuals and businesses, and can provide personalised recommendations on ways to lower carbon footprints. Customers can also share their progress, which can help businesses attract and retain customers.“Carbon footprint integration is fast becoming a strategic priority for businesses, as customers seek ways to make more sustainable buying decisions and reduce their impact on the climate,” said Ben Gleisner, Founder of Cogo. “Cogo makes these insights easy to see so customers can take immediate action. We’re now excited to scale our solution globally by joining AWS Marketplace and making it easily available to AWS customers who share a desire to make a positive impact on our climate.”“Cogo also increases the sustainability of a bank’s portfolio, assists with compliance around ever-tightening legal requirements including possible climate related financial disclosure, and comes with significant brand benefits from being a sustainability champion,” adds Gleisner.“Amazon is committed to building a sustainable business for our customers and the planet, and co-founded The Climate Pledge to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 - 10 years ahead of the Paris Agreement,” said Tiffany Bloomquist, Country Manager, Commercial Sector, AWS New Zealand. “We’re also committed to powering our new AWS Asia Pacific (Auckland) Region with 100% renewable energy at launch. Cogo shares our commitment to sustainability and has developed an innovative way to help the finance sector make more carbon conscious decisions. We look forward to seeing them grow globally on AWS Marketplace and expand their solutions into new markets.” Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre