The presenter documented the procedure as part of her "groundbreaking" show, Pill Revolution Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters Davina McCall's brand new documentary investigating contraception methods, which aired on Channel 4 on Thursday, June 8, has received praise from viewers, specifically over the fact that she had her own coil changed on camera in the name of education and entertainment. Pill Revolution aired for an hour on Channel 4 on Thursday night and took a deep dive into female contraception 60 years after the pill first came into circulation.  The media personality and television presenter - who has just been revealed as the presenter of brand new dating show My Mum, Your Dad, read more on that here - spoke to several medical professionals as well as Alice Pelton from contraception site The Lowdown, to dispel misinformation about women's health and investigate the options available to women today regarding contraception. Also on the show, Davina underwent a medical procedure, on air, in which she had a new Mirena coil fitted to aid her Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT).  Read more: ITV Loose Women cuts off Kate Garraway interview as Charlene White says 'I'm going to stop you there' And viewers of the show have been praising the 55-year-old for raising awareness of it via this platform and for making women "feel heard".  Speaking about the procedure - which took place with a leading gynaecologist, Professor Dame Lesley Regan - she said that it was "always a bit uncomfortable" at the beginning when a device called the speculum is inserted, and added that most women over the age of 25, who have had a smear test, will know this. She added, also, that it's "not too bad" and with a numbing gel she could "barely feel a thing". After her previous coil was removed, the ambassador for Wellbeing of Women explained what she was experiencing - cramping - and once the new one was inserted, she felt "sore" and a small "scrape" but marveled at the speed at which the procedure was carried out: only around ten minutes.  She concluded: "The thing I like about the Mirena coil is that I am sorted and I don't need to think about it." Upon watching this, viewers took to Twitter to voice their admiration for Davina for shining a light on women's sexual health and contraception and showcasing the procedure on air.  User, @alex_lambert wrote: "@ThisisDavina thank you so much for putting the #PillRevolution out there. I’ve recently been diagnosed with endometriosis and I’m so angry about the little consideration that’s given to women’s health. Hopefully this helps to open people’s eyes." A second Twitter user, @emmaIreavey, added: "@ThisisDavina Pill Revolution is so eye opening!!! and super proud of the CERT team", meanwhile @LoulaQ said: "Full kudos to @ThisisDavina for showing her coil insertion on TV #pillrevolution." "A groundbreaking moment on national TV - @ThisisDavina getting her coil changed on camera. This transparency is what we need to normalise conversations about women's health," added another. A doctor also commented: "Greatly enjoyed seeing another coil fitter who does holiday chat during the coil fit. We also like to chat about tattoos, manicures, work and weekend plans to distract you! #c4davinapill." Davina McCall's Pill Revolution is available to stream on All4.  For more showbiz and television stories get our newsletter here.  READ NEXT: 