Bitcoin is holding on by its fingernails just over the $US30k mark, while Ethereum has having a tough tine, er time, ahead of its Shapella Day hard fork. Don't miss out on the headlines from Stockhead. Followed categories will be added to My News. Bitcoin loves to keep us on our toes.  It seemed to have gained a solid foothold above the $US30,000 mark earlier Wednesday, after a bit of a tug of war to keep it over the line a day earlier.  Then, it found itself on the brink again ... of course. At 12.30pm (AEST) on Wednesday, Bitcoin has slipped to $U30,003, down 1.2 per cent in 24 hours. It has plenty of company among the cryptocurrency top 10, with just Tether up over that period, and only by 0.2 per cent. . For the latest crypto news, sign up here for free Stockhead daily newsletters Dogecoin and Ethereum have copped it worst, down 4 per cent and 3.4 per cent respectively. More ETH examination later.  The crypto market is sitting at $US1.27 trillion, down 0.7 per cent across 24 hours. Bitcoin fans will be glad of the support from the US tech-heavy Nasdaq which has, I am told by reliable sources – and Eddy Sunarto – officially ticked over into bull market status. Most of the rest of the Big Names have been caught up in a sell-off that started around 6pm Tuesday night, local time. Here’s the state of play at 12.30pm (AEST), according to CoinGecko.  As mentioned, Tether is an island of green over the past 24 hours. No doubt to Elon Musk’s dismay, his favourite, Dogecoin, is continuing to flounder and is down $14.1 per cent over the past week. And Ethereum, as we mentioned down 3.4 per cent, has slipped to $U1867 a pop ahead of what could turn out to be a fairly significant day … Later on Wednesday, once folks have woken up a bit in the US, there’s a major event happening for Ethereum, the so-called “Shapella” upgrade. It’s actually a Really Big Deal for Ethereum – a hard fork that will enable stakers and validators to withdraw assets from the Beacon Chain. MORE FROM STOCKHEAD: Games ‘must adapt to web3’| Fast and furious gaming racing franchise|‘We have begun Bitcoin era’ If you’re out of the loop, here’s a super-quick rundown: STAKED Ether accounts for around 14.2 per cent of the total supply of the token. That’s roughly 16 million coins, worth more than $US30 billion, with a B.  THAT $30 billion will be “unlocked”, and available for stakers and validators to withdraw. THERE’S a bunch of crazy technobabble about who staked what and why. ETH was staked in Validator blocks of 32. Each 32 ETH block is worth around $US60,000  Validators will have three options; ETH could plunge because the market is about to be flooded. It probably won’t because there’s incentive for stakers to keep on staking. That’s about all you need to know for now – but ETH will be an interesting one to watch, as stakers, some of whom have had their ETH tied up in making the system work for several years, will now have a chance to yank their value out of the system to spend on stuff, like rent, food and jet skis. Visit Stockhead, where ASX small caps are big deals News from CoinSpot this morning is that the exchange has announced the listing of the Australian Carbon Token (BCAU) on its platform, offering customers the opportunity to invest in the emerging asset class of carbon credits. Carbon credits are those things which allow a country (or company) to produce a specified amount of carbon emissions. Should that country (or company) not produce that amount of carbon, the credits can be traded to another country (or company). CoinSpot says that the Australian Carbon Token is “notionally backed by the value of Australian Carbon Credit Units (ACCUs), which represent 1000kg of carbon dioxide emissions reductions, and the BCAU represents 1kg of carbon per token”. Australian Carbon Credits are issued by the Australian government’s Clean Energy Regulator when green energy projects capture or reduce emissions – which is rapidly becoming a major part of a lot of small ASX-listed companies’ strategies to offset other capital costs for things like digging stuff out of the ground. Thought we’d forgotten, didn’t you? Sweeping a market cap range of about $US8.86 billion to about $US450 million in the rest of the top 100, let’s look at 24-hour gainers and losers at 12.30pm Wednesday. (Stats based on coingecko.com data).  PUMPERS Solana (SOL), (market cap: $US8.86 billion) +6.5 per cent Injective (INJ), (mc: $US518 million) +3.8 per cent Flare (FLR), (mc: $US450 million) +3.5 per cent Huobi (HT), (mc: $US613 million) +2.9 per cent Radix (XRD), (mc: $US531 million) +1.8 per cent SUMPERS Conflux (CFX), (market cap: $US812 million) -11.8 per cent Rocket Pool (RPL), (mc: $US823 million) -11.1 per cent Kaspa (KAS), (mc: $US588 million) -9 per cent Lido DAO (LDO), (mc: $US1.96 billion) -8.8 per cent Optimism (OP), (mc: $US696 million) -7.2 per cent  Crypto hosting and mining company Core Scientific has appointed a new president, snagging the services of XMS Capital Partners veteran Adam Sullivan from his role as managing director and head of the digital asset and infrastructure group. Sullivan comes on board at a difficult time for Core Scientific, after the Austin (that’s in Texas) based company filed for bankruptcy in December, after the one-two punch of sinking crypto values and rampant, thick-skulled idiocy by the Texas state legislature that sent energy prices soaring in the opposite direction. Despite that, the mining rigs at Core Scientific have continued to operate throughout the bankruptcy procedures. There’s no word on just how much the company has managed to churn out in the past four months, but with BTC prices skyrocketing past $US30,000, the balance sheet would be looking a lot healthier than it was before Christmas. Helping Sullivan out will be Todd DuChene, Core Scientific’s current president, who will step into the dual role of chief legal officer and chief administrative officer, while the company works to unpack the pickle it found itself in late last year. This content first appeared on stockhead.com.au Get the latest Stockhead news delivered free to your inbox. Click here Originally published as Crypto Espresso: BTC’s clinging on, hard fork for ETH could go either way In this special investor guide, health and biotech guru Tim Boreham leads Stockhead’s deep dive into the most cutting edge sector on the ASX. Stockhead's writers - including mining guru Barry FitzGerald - take you inside the copper and gold markets, and zero in on juniors exploring for the next major mine. Our Apps