Decentral Games and Coingecko will launch an exclusive limited edition ICE Poker skin NFT. The two entities will also host a metaverse drop party on Decentraland Decentral Games and CoinGecko will be releasing another 10,000 ICE Poker today Decentral Games announced that it had entered a strategic partnership with CoinGecko, the world’s largest independent cryptocurrency data aggregator. The partnership will see the two entities work together to launch an exclusive limited edition ICE Poker skin NFT and host a metaverse drop party. According to the press release shared with Coinjournal, the CoinGecko skin allows users to play ICE Poker and enter Sit-n-Go tournaments for free. Decentral Games added that players could also wear this skin around the Decentraland metaverse and become the iconic CoinGecko Gecko. This latest cryptocurrency news comes after 10,000 ICE Poker skin NFTs were launched through CoinGecko’s loyalty program, the Candy Reward store, on Wednesday, December 7.  The ICE Poker skin didn’t last long, as the Congecko community redeemed the entire 10,000 skins in less than 24 hours. While commenting on this latest development, Miles Anthony, CEO of Decentral Games, said; “It’s been amazing to see the unprecedented interest in the exclusive CoinGecko x ICE Poker Tournament wearable airdrop — all 10,000 were claimed in less than 24 hours! I’m looking forward to seeing Geckos at the ICE Poker tables and welcoming the CoinGecko community into Decentral Games and the metaverse.” Bobby Ong, COO and co-founder of CoinGecko, also commented that; “Decentral Games’ ICE Poker is one of the leading play-to-earn metaverse games. We are honored to be a strategic partner, and for the opportunity to launch this limited-edition Gecko ICE Poker wearable, as a way to engage and celebrate our community.” Thanks to this partnership, Decentral Games and Coingecko said they would be releasing another 10,000 ICE Poker skins through the Candy Reward store today, December 12. All CoinGecko ICE Poker skins will be airdropped on Friday, December 16, Decentral Games added.  In the spirit of the partnership, Decentral Games and CoinGecko will be co-hosting a metaverse drop party in Decentraland on Wednesday, December 21, at 9 pm EST. Decentral Games is a project that builds games and social experiences in the metaverse that reach hundreds of thousands of visitors every month. Meanwhile, CoinGecko delivers comprehensive information from thousands of data points such as price, trading volume, market capitalization, developer strength, community statistics, and more. It currently tracks over 13,000 crypto assets from over 500 exchanges worldwide.  Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
