
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- News Direct)  The Cryptocurrency market is known for its volatility and constant evolution. Today, we explore two exciting developments in the crypto space. They are the recovery of Binance coin and the anticipated listing of Tradecurve on popular cryptocurrency tracking platforms, CoinMarketCap and CoinGecko.Register For The Tradecurve Presale<<Binance Coin (BNB): A Steady ReboundBinance Coin (BNB) has shown signs of a recovery as its price has been on an upward trajectory recently. After a period of consolidation and correction, Binance Coin has started to regain strength and display positive price movements.In the last week alone, the Binance Coin has jumped by 6.2% on the price charts. Positive market sentiment and the continued expansion of the Binance ecosystem may have been the causes for this bullish trend. Currently, Binance Coin is worth $249.12 with a market cap of $38.2B, a drop of 0.33% overnight. However, analysts remain bullish as they predict a rise to $322.73 for the Bitcoin Coin price by December 2023. Tradecurve (TCRV): Listing on Prominent Tracking PlatformsTradecurve (TCRV), an upcoming hybrid trading platform currently in its presale run, will be listed on CoinMarketCap and CoinGecko. Tradecurve's listing on these platforms will increase the project's visibility, enhancing its reputation and accessibility among the broader crypto community. Additionally, traders and investors can easily access and analyze TCRV's market data, trading volumes, and other relevant information, making informed decisions about their investment strategies.Introducing a Game-Changing PlatformTradecurve has the potential to become a fan-favorite trading platform for millions of traders worldwide. This is with its hybrid infrastructure model, which combines the best features of CEX and DEX. In a move rarely-seen before, Tradecurve allows users to trade all derivatives on one account. It's traded in complete privacy and security as cryptocurrency can be used as collateral.Also, onboarding on Tradecurve will be easy. Just create an account using an email only (no sign-up KYC checks), link it to a crypto wallet, and make a deposit. Afterward, features such as subscribing to automated & AI trading bots and high leverage starting at 500:1 become available. These factors have contributed to analysts stating that Tradecurve could leave platforms like OKX in the dust after its launch. Outstanding Presale RunCurrently, Tradecurve is in Stage 4 of its presale. Its native token, TCRV is worth  $0.018  - an  80% rise  from its starting price of $0.01. Buyers flock to obtain governance. Thus, millions of tokens were sold. They also flock to gain access to VIP status, and more by holding the TCRV token. Lastly, over  15,000 users  have registered for the platform, helping it reach  $3.2M  in funds obtained. With so much demand, experts forecast a  50x  growth before its presale ends.  For more information about the Tradecurve presale:  click here for website click here to buy tcrv presale tokens follow us twitter join our community on telegram  Tradecurve – A new hybrid trading exchange that will enable users to trade global markets by bringing together the best aspects of Decentralized and Centralized exchanges. Choosing the right trading platform is essential to the performance of your portfolio, but never has there been the opportunity for users to trade crypto, stocks, forex, and commodities all from one unified account, until now.This post contains sponsored content. This content is for informational purposes only and not intended to be investing advice.MENAFN18072023005728012573ID1106625750  Register For The Tradecurve Presale<< Binance Coin (BNB) has shown signs of a recovery as its price has been on an upward trajectory recently. After a period of consolidation and correction, Binance Coin has started to regain strength and display positive price movements. In the last week alone, the Binance Coin has jumped by 6.2% on the price charts. Positive market sentiment and the continued expansion of the Binance ecosystem may have been the causes for this bullish trend.  Currently, Binance Coin is worth $249.12 with a market cap of $38.2B, a drop of 0.33% overnight. However, analysts remain bullish as they predict a rise to $322.73 for the Bitcoin Coin price by December 2023.  Tradecurve (TCRV), an upcoming hybrid trading platform currently in its presale run, will be listed on CoinMarketCap and CoinGecko. Tradecurve's listing on these platforms will increase the project's visibility, enhancing its reputation and accessibility among the broader crypto community.  Additionally, traders and investors can easily access and analyze TCRV's market data, trading volumes, and other relevant information, making informed decisions about their investment strategies. Tradecurve has the potential to become a fan-favorite trading platform for millions of traders worldwide. This is with its hybrid infrastructure model, which combines the best features of CEX and DEX. In a move rarely-seen before, Tradecurve allows users to trade all derivatives on one account. It's traded in complete privacy and security as cryptocurrency can be used as collateral. Also, onboarding on Tradecurve will be easy. Just create an account using an email only (no sign-up KYC checks), link it to a crypto wallet, and make a deposit. Afterward, features such as subscribing to automated & AI trading bots and high leverage starting at 500:1 become available.  These factors have contributed to analysts stating that Tradecurve could leave platforms like OKX in the dust after its launch.  Currently, Tradecurve is in Stage 4 of its presale. Its native token, TCRV is worth  $0.018  - an  80% rise  from its starting price of $0.01. Buyers flock to obtain governance. Thus, millions of tokens were sold. They also flock to gain access to VIP status, and more by holding the TCRV token.  Lastly, over  15,000 users  have registered for the platform, helping it reach  $3.2M  in funds obtained. With so much demand, experts forecast a  50x  growth before its presale ends.    For more information about the Tradecurve presale:   click here for website  click here to buy tcrv presale tokens  follow us twitter  join our community on telegram    Tradecurve – A new hybrid trading exchange that will enable users to trade global markets by bringing together the best aspects of Decentralized and Centralized exchanges. Choosing the right trading platform is essential to the performance of your portfolio, but never has there been the opportunity for users to trade crypto, stocks, forex, and commodities all from one unified account, until now.  This post contains sponsored content. This content is for informational purposes only and not intended to be investing advice.  MENAFN18072023005728012573ID1106625750 MENAFN18072023005728012573ID1106625750 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN