Roger Cranford  Roger Cranford gets his prison sentence: the 52 year-old man from Sugar Hill will serve five years behind bars, his punishment for last December’s assault on a Hall County sheriff’s deputy. Cranford was tased after charging at deputies with a tree branch. The deputy suffered what were described as minor injuries. From WSB TV… A Hall County man has been sentenced after he charged at a deputy with a tree branch in December 2021. Late in the afternoon on Dec. 3, 2021, Hall County deputies responded to Interstate 985 near HF Reed Industrial Parkway after someone reported a vehicle breakdown. When deputies arrived, they found a pickup truck under the overpass and Roger Wayne Cranford, 52, of Sugar Hill. Officials said Cranford refused numerous verbal commands, and then picked up a large tree branch and charged toward deputies. Prior to his arrest, he broke a glass pipe deputies saw him smoking something from and threw it into a nearby creek. Deputies tased Cranford, who continued resisting after being placed into handcuffs, according to the arrest report. He was sentenced to 20 years with the first five to be served in prison and the rest to be served on probation. Cranford was taken to the hospital to be checked out prior to being taken to jail. A Hall County deputy reported a minor injury as a result of the incident. Cranford was sentenced on charges of aggravated assault on a peace officer, tampering with evidence, and obstruction of an officer. ©2023 Cox Media Group Tim Bryant hosts Classic City Today, 6-10 weekday mornings on 98.7FM & AM 1340 WGAU in Athens. Your browser does not support HTML5 audio. news Sign up below to be added to our mailing list for the latest news updates, access to exclusive contests, and more! Enable our Skill today to listen live at home on your Alexa Devices!   ©  Cox Media Group. All Rights Reserved. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. Learn about  careers at Cox Media Group. You may be offline. Please check your connection and try again using the Retry button.