Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Over a month after the collapse of FTX, investor concern over crypto exchange Binance isn't fading. Binance's native token, BNB, has fallen 15% in the past week, including a drop of over 6% in the past 24 hours. BNB, first minted in 2017, is the world's fifth most valuable cryptocurrency, with a market cap of about $39 billion, according to CoinMarketCap. It's behind only bitcoin, ethereum, tether and USD Coin. The latest issue looming over Binance is FTX's bankruptcy proceedings. Binance was the first outside investor in FTX. In exiting its equity position in the company last year, Binance received payment equal to roughly $2.1 billion. In an interview with CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Thursday, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao dismissed concerns that his company could have that money clawed back as FTX winds its way through bankruptcy court and trustees look to retrieve any fraudulent conveyances made by FTX to outside businesses or investors. "We are financially OK," Zhao said, after he was asked by CNBC's Becky Quick if the company could handle a $2.1 billion demand. Crypto investors have become skeptical of comments from top executives about the financial health of their companies. FTX founder and ex-CEO Sam Bankman-Fried said on Twitter that his company's assets were fine, even as executives knew it was in the midst of a liquidity crunch that eventually forced the exchange into bankruptcy. Bankman-Fried was arrested this week in the Bahamas and charged by U.S. prosecutors with fraud and money laundering. Withdrawal demands are another area of concern. Zhao said that around $1.14 billion of net withdrawals took place on Tuesday, but tweeted that this was "not the highest withdrawals we processed, not even top [five]." On Wednesday, he said the situation had "stabilized." Blockchain analytics firm Nansen said the withdrawal number on Tuesday reached as high as $3 billion. This self-driving car technology stock could pop by more than 400%, say three analysts Looking for alternatives to Nvidia? Futurum CEO names 3 he's bullish on for 2024 Bernstein tech analyst's best idea for 2024 is to short Tesla Morgan Stanley picks 'alpha' opportunities in China tech - giving one 52% upside A Binance spokesperson told CNBC in a statement that, "we passed this extreme stress test because we run a very simple business model – hold assets in custody and generate revenue from transaction fees." The spokesperson did not provide an immediate response to a question about the drop in BNB. Binance and FTX were intimately connected. Zhao announced publicly last month that his company was liquidating its position in FTT, FTX's native coin, amid concerns surrounding the solvency of both FTX and its sister trading firm, Alameda Research. FTX then faced an immediate surge in withdrawal demands, and Binance stepped in with a non-binding agreement to acquire the company as part of a rescue plan. A day later, Binance backed out of the deal, stating that FTX's "issues are beyond our control or ability to help." Like all of the major crypto projects and companies, Binance developed its own currency. On its website, the company says people can "use BNB to pay for goods and services, settle transaction fees on Binance Smart Chain, participate in exclusive token sales and more." Areas where BNB can be used, the site says, include payment, travel and entertainment. There's a circulating supply of about 160 million BNB out of a total maximum supply of 200 million, according to CoinMarketCap. Bloomberg reported in June that the SEC was investigating whether the 2017 token sale amounted to a security offered that should have been registered with regulators. — CNBC's MacKenzie Sigalos contributed to this report. WATCH: Regulators highlight top risks: commercial real estate, credit losses, crypto Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by