Russians Evade Sanctions Using Tether, OTCs Transparency International's Russian branch found that Russians are using Tether to move money to the West, evading sanctions and KYC requirements. Despite being cut off from the SWIFT international payments network, at least eight OTC brokers in Moscow can sell stablecoins for cash, which can then be exchanged in the UK for pounds sterling without KYC paperwork. The process involves buying USDT stablecoin in Moscow and selling it for cash in London, with no registration or identity verification needed. Deutsche WertpapierService Bank (dwpbank) has launched wpNex, a platform enabling over 1,200 affiliated banks to offer Bitcoin trading to retail customers. The platform integrates crypto trading into the online banking experience, allowing users to see their crypto holdings alongside traditional securities. MLP Banking AG and DZ Bank are among the first institutions to offer the service, potentially prompting other German banks to cater to growing demand for convenient crypto trading access. Read the second part: Senator Elizabeth Warren's Digital Assets Anti-Money Laundering Act, Ethereum Shapella upgrade and more| FXMAG.COM   Coinpaprika is a service that presents complete data on more than 48,000 cryptocurrencies. We are directly integrated with more than 300 cryptocurrency exchanges. Follow the author: LinkedIn | Twitter © 2020 FXMAG. All Rights ReservedRisk Disclosure: Trading in financial instruments and/or cryptocurrencies involves high risks including the risk of losing some, or all, of your investment amount, and may not be suitable for all investors. Prices of cryptocurrencies are extremely volatile and may be affected by external factors such as financial, regulatory or political events. Trading on margin increases the financial risks. Before deciding to trade in financial instrument or cryptocurrencies you should be fully informed of the risks and costs associated with trading the financial markets, carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite, and seek professional advice where needed. FXMAG would like to remind you that the data contained in this website is not necessarily real-time nor accurate. The data and prices on the website are not necessarily provided by any market or exchange, but may be provided bymarket makers, and so prices may not be accurate and may differ from the actual price at any given market, meaning prices are indicative and not appropriate for trading purposes. FXMAG and any provider of the data contained in this websitewill not accept liability for any loss or damage as a result of your trading, or your reliance on the information contained within this website. It is prohibited to use, store, reproduce, display, modify, transmit or distribute the data contained in this website without the explicit prior written permission of FXMAG and/or the data provider. All intellectual property rights are reserved by the providers and/or the exchange providing the data contained in this website. FXMAG may be compensated by the advertisers that appear on the website, based on your interaction with the advertisements or advertisers.