Indian celebrities and businessmen have really impressive car collections in their garages. However, very few can match up to the huge lineup of exotic cars owned by the Indian billionaire Vikas Malu. A new video by the Mo Vlogs has revealed the Kuber Group Owner’s impressive selection of luxury and sports cars. This includes hundreds of expensive vehicles which are guarded by a security team. Let’s take a look at some of the best cars in his collection. You May Also Like: 5 New Cars of Indian Celebs – Ahmed Khan’s Mercedes G63 AMG to Uorfi Javed’s Jeep Meridian You May Also Like: Car Collection of Shubman Gill is FANTABULOUS As you can see in the above video, Vikas Malu’s parking lot is packed with some of the most sought-after cars. You can quickly spot the stylish Lamborghini Urus SUV in blue color. The custom-made Urus features dual-tone interiors (Black and Orange) ans comes with a starting price of Rs 4.18 Cr. He also owns a Lamborghini Huracan STO. Priced at around Rs 4.99 crore (ex-showroom), it is essentially a version of the Huracan Super Trofeo Evo race car. The Lamborghini Urus is housed next to the super expensive Bentley Continental GT (Rs 3.29 – 4.04 Crore). The 100th-anniversary edition comes with a Mansory kit. The video also showcases Bentley Bentayga, Mercedes-Maybach GL600 SUV, a modified Ford Mustang, a Toyota Tundra pickup, a custom-made Rolls Royce Phantom, and an all-black Bentley Flying Spur. Mr. Vikas Malu also owns multiple Rolls Royce and luxury cars in Dubai. Apparently, he considers the number 9 as his lucky number. Almost all of his cars feature the number 9 on their registration plates. Additionally, all cars in the garage feature Kuber stickers on the windshield. There is a Kuber sticker on the lower part of the front fenders as well. The Kuber group owns all the cars seen in the above video. All cars are equipped with wireless radios for security and communication. You May Also Like: New Mercedes Benz Cars of Bollywood Divas – Mrunal Thakur to Munmun Dutta You May Also Like: Exotic Car Collection of Top 5 Cricketers in the World Vikas Malu is the director of Kuber Grains & Spices Pvt Ltd. The highly influential businessman has a penchant for traveling in expensive cars. He uses a Toyota Fortuner as an escort vehicle. Apart from India, he also has a business in Dubai. The Indian Billionaire was also in the headlines due to allegations made by his wife about the late actor Satish Kaushik’s death. Saanvi Malu alleged that Mr. Vikas Malu might be involved in the death of the popular actor as he owed the actor Rs 15 crore which he refused to pay.  © 2023 Car Blog India, All Rights Reserved  © 2023 Car Blog India, All Rights Reserved