Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Kavya Pillai
          

            Dec 14, 2022
          
 
          Share         
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Ashish Singhal, co-founder and CEO of CoinSwitch started the company in 2017. Growing up in a middle-class family in a small town in Uttar Pradesh, Singhal saw the lack of right opportunities around Indians to grow money and wanted to do his bit. Crypto was the first ecosystem he approached. It was 2014 when he first read the Bitcoin whitepaper and was fascinated by what it could open up for the financial ecosystem. He then started trading cryptos to engage and understand the space better. While trading, he discovered a gap, crypto prices varied across exchanges. Singhal along with Govind Soni and Vimal Sagar Tiwari the co-founders got together to build a hack to discover the effective price of crypto across exchanges. They added a simple UI/UX to build a strong KYCcompliant ecosystem and continued to work on user feedback to fine-tune their offerings. A whopping 18 million users have chosen CoinSwitch as a preferred crypto platform. Their user analytics show that a lot of Indians started their financial investing journey with Crypto and CoinSwitch without a Fixed Deposit account. Ashish believes by solving user concerns consistently, the company has been able to contribute towards the expansion of a financial ecosystem at large. Singhal believes that cryptos are in a nascent stage of evolution in India, and innovators and regulators need to work together to keep track of the cutting-edge innovation crypto offers. The regulations will evolve as technology finds new dimensions, with customer protection at the centre. The CoinSwitch leadership team is composed of people with a variety of backgrounds spanning technology, crypto and financial services. Entrepreneur Staff 
          In a world where everyone is looking for the secret to success, the truth is there's no easy answer. A key is embracing a flexible mentality.
         
          Arsha Jones, founder and CEO of Capital City Mambo Sauce, wanted to satisfy a very specific craving — and it led to a seven-figure business.
         
          Taking your business idea from "what if" to "wow" requires trusting your instincts and embracing the failures. 
         
          Incorporate strategic HR management, recruitment, and talent development for a lasting impact.
         
          Many of us have taken time away from work over the last four years. There are reasons to be anxious about returning, but there are even more reasons to be excited and confident. Here are five of them. 
         
          In his nearly 40 years in business, this CEO has often been asked if there's a formula for success. There is, and he shares his here.  
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
