Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Courtesy Sediment from a July rainstorm in Joppa flows toward the Chesapeake Bay. Courtesy In the center of the photo, a barren area where new development is going up in Joppa is causing stormwater runoff, impacting neighborhoods and the Chesapeake Bay, residents say. Courtesy Sediment damage in Joppa from a new housing development. Sediment from a July rainstorm in Joppa flows toward the Chesapeake Bay. We, in Joppa, have been fighting stormwater runoff from what is now being called Ridgely’s Delight for approximately 15 months now. It is still just as bad as when we first called attention to it.Both county and state inspectors have made repeated site visits. The developer continues as if they only have to give lip service to either the law or the environment. As of yet, no fines have been paid.You can see several things from these three photos.First, is the scar on the land that the developer has created. It is the bright orange spot on the land in the second image. When it rains, the top layer of that bright orange clay runs into Foster Branch, then dumps into the Gunpowder River, sometimes as far out as to be in the bay.
In the center of the photo, a barren area where new development is going up in Joppa is causing stormwater runoff, impacting neighborhoods and the Chesapeake Bay, residents say.For perspective, Route 40 is the more-developed area along the bottom of that image. Magnolia Road is the smaller, less-developed road snaking toward the waters of the Gunpowder. On the image, it is about two thirds  of the way toward the left.
Sediment damage in Joppa from a new housing development.Pictures one and three show the sediment running into the Gunpowder River basin, primarily from this one site. Picture three might show this best. The small very bright orange waters about two thirds of the way on the left are Foster Branch. You can see the line where clay-filled waters of Foster Branch collide with less-impacted bluer waters.
Sediment from a July rainstorm in Joppa flows toward the Chesapeake Bay.There are two possible best steps to avoid this happening again:First, Harford County must pass legislation to ensure that no tract of over 25 acres is stripped at a single time. Smaller areas have less potential impact. Smaller areas are more easily monitored. Smaller areas can be replanted more quickly.

Second, Harford County needs to develop procedures to suspend and  forbid contractors from work in the county after they destroy any significant part of the environment. There are rules. Follow them. Break them and you should expect to be suspended or denied access to any future work in the county.Protection of the Chesapeake Bay starts upriver. Harford County needs to accept responsibility for its share of that protection.Bill TemminkJoppa Both county and state inspectors have made repeated site visits. The developer continues as if they only have to give lip service to either the law or the environment. As of yet, no fines have been paid. You can see several things from these three photos. First, is the scar on the land that the developer has created. It is the bright orange spot on the land in the second image. When it rains, the top layer of that bright orange clay runs into Foster Branch, then dumps into the Gunpowder River, sometimes as far out as to be in the bay. For perspective, Route 40 is the more-developed area along the bottom of that image. Magnolia Road is the smaller, less-developed road snaking toward the waters of the Gunpowder. On the image, it is about two thirds  of the way toward the left. Pictures one and three show the sediment running into the Gunpowder River basin, primarily from this one site. Picture three might show this best. The small very bright orange waters about two thirds of the way on the left are Foster Branch. You can see the line where clay-filled waters of Foster Branch collide with less-impacted bluer waters. There are two possible best steps to avoid this happening again: First, Harford County must pass legislation to ensure that no tract of over 25 acres is stripped at a single time. Smaller areas have less potential impact. Smaller areas are more easily monitored. Smaller areas can be replanted more quickly. Second, Harford County needs to develop procedures to suspend and  forbid contractors from work in the county after they destroy any significant part of the environment. There are rules. Follow them. Break them and you should expect to be suspended or denied access to any future work in the county. Protection of the Chesapeake Bay starts upriver. Harford County needs to accept responsibility for its share of that protection. Bill Temmink Joppa Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun