
			Dutch brewer finally pledges to withdraw brands after reaching deal with Arnest Group
		 Heineken is to take a €300m (£257m) loss on its Russian operations after selling the business for a token €1. The Dutch brewer said it had reached a deal with packaging and consumer goods company Arnest Group, which has now taken responsibility for Heineken’s 1,800 employees in Russia. Heineken has already stopped selling its eponymous beer in Russia, as well as other Western brands it sold there such as Guinness and Miller. However, some beers, notably Amstel, have still been on shelves. Heineken said that brand would now be scrapped in Russia and it pledged not to licence any other beers to brewers in the country. With the sale, Heineken has avoided the fate of fellow brewer Carlsberg, which had its business assets seized by Russian authorities. Carlsberg chief executive Cees ‘t Hart said last week he had lost contact with Russian employees since its subsidiary, Baltika Breweries, was commandeered by the Kremlin. Heineken had previously faced accusations of breaking the promise it made to leave Russia after the invasion of Ukraine in 2022. The brewer has called the claims “absolutely untrue and misleading”. Heineken had ring-fenced its Russian operations, not taking any profit from them, but argued that finding a buyer who could take on its local employees was a better outcome than shutting the business down and laying staff off. Arnest Group is owned by Russian businessman Aleksei Sagal. Its main business is manufacturing aerosols and the company has worked with partners including Unilever, Colgate-Palmolive and L’Oreal, according to the Roscongress Foundation, which promotes Russia’s economic interests. Dolf van den Brink, chief executive and chairman at Heineken, said: “Recent developments demonstrate the significant challenges faced by large manufacturing companies in exiting Russia. “While it took much longer than we had hoped, this transaction secures the livelihoods of our employees and allows us to exit the country in a responsible manner.”