An intriguing name has been added to the mix in the Toronto Raptors' ongoing search for a new head coach. According to ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski, former NBA veteran and current ESPN analyst JJ Redick has been interviewed for the Raptors' coaching vacancy. Redick, 38, retired from the NBA in September 2021 after 15 seasons split between the Orlando Magic, Milwaukee Bucks, L.A. Clippers, Philadelphia 76ers, New Orleans Pelicans and Dallas Mavericks. The shooting guard averaged 12.8 points over 940 career games, shooting 44.7% from the field and 41.5% from 3-point range. Redick was selected by Orlando with the 11th overall pick of the 2006 NBA Draft after starring at Duke University for four years. He was named ACC Player of the Year in 2005 and 2006, and won the Naismith College Player of the Year award in '06, among a plethora of other honours. Since he retired, Redick has carved out a career in broadcasting and media, joining ESPN as an analyst in November 2021. He has regularly appeared as a colour analyst for games and formed panels on shows like NBA Today and First Take. Redick has been praised for his candid opinions and willingness to hold fellow commentators accountable, while providing a player's perspective to popular basketball talking points. Redick has also found success in the podcasting space, having started his show while still playing in 2016, becoming the first active NBA player to have his own podcast. His show — The Old Man and the Three — regularly garners millions of listeners. The Cookeville, Tennessee native has never coached a professional basketball team before. In a December 2022 interview with Esquire, Redick admitted that he's been interested in coaching at the NBA level in the past, but ultimately turned down offers in order to remain in the media. "It's funny because I had a lot of coaches throughout my career tell me I would coach when I was done. Last spring, I just started thinking: Maybe I do want to coach," he said. "Then I got randomly four unsolicited, "Do you want to coach? Do you want to join the staff?" [messages] from different teams. And truthfully, I considered two of them. "I just didn't feel like the timing was right. Maybe the timing will never be right. And maybe the media stuff ends up being a 20-to-30-year thing. I just know that what I'm doing right now feels like the right thing." The Raptors' front office has been busy with their coaching search since parting ways with Nick Nurse in late April. The team has reportedly interviewed a number of candidates so far, including assistant coach Adrian Griffin and WNBA Coach of the Year Becky Hammon. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season?