College of Atmospheric and Geographic Sciences wordmark. Where the land meets the sky. Home to three academic units. Nine career tracks. Rated the number one school of aviation in the country by Flying Magazine. New professional pilot helicopter track options. Number one regionally in sustainability education. The largest meteorology program in the country. Number one nationally in severe storm research. Geography and environmental sustainability, aviation, and meteorology. There’s only one College of Atmospheric and Geographic Sciences. The University of Oklahoma wordmark.
 The College of Atmospheric and Geographic Sciences comprises the Department of Geography and Environmental Sustainability, the School of Aviation, and the School of Meteorology. We are training and educating engaged individuals for successful careers in diverse sectors such as geographic information science, climatology, water conservation, land-management, aviation, meteorology, climate science, and observation technology. In short, we craft the future of the land and skies. Join us. To offer innovative and multi-disciplinary education, research, and outreach programs in an environment that empowers students, faculty, and staff to seek equitable solutions to grand environmental and humanitarian challenges;  to advance technology and propel knowledge that addresses our changing planet; and to develop engaged individuals for rewarding careers in the private sector, academia, government agencies, non-governmental organizations, and entrepreneurship. #1 Nationally in severe
 storm research 9 Professional 
research units 7:1 Student-to-faculty 
ratio 
 Find the Bachelor's degree that's meant for you
 Find the Bachelor's degree that's meant for you 
 Take your education to the next level
 Take your education to the next level 
 Find out why our research enterprise is like no other
 Find out why our research enterprise is like no other 
 See all the opportunities a path at A&GS can offer
 See all the opportunities a path at A&GS can offer The latest from the College of Atmospsheric and Geographic Sciences 
May 21, 2024
 The University of Oklahoma will lead a new multi-university Data Assimilation Consortium to improve weather forecasts using enhanced numerical weather prediction systems, recommended as part of President Biden’s Investing in America agenda.  
 Read more
OU Leads $6.6M Data Assimilation Consortium to Improve Weather Forecasts and to Develop Workforce

 
April 03, 2024
 University of Oklahoma leaders and Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) celebrated the recent funding to support improvements to the Max Westheimer Airport in Norman. Renovations include extending and strengthening the runway, developing a new taxiway and adding hangar space to accommodate OU’s growing aviation school and increased airport traffic. The improvements will also create safer ingress and egress passageways.  
 Read more
OU Max Westheimer Airport Receives $36.5 Million for Improvements

 More News "Your degrees have prepared you to advise others on how best to use Earth’s natural resources in ways that benefit humankind while minimizing negative impacts on the environment, and how to provide severe weather warnings that assist in saving lives, protecting property, maintaining a strong economy, and meeting the expanding needs of air transportation. You are now a professional in your chosen discipline and as such, have a special responsibility to use your knowledge of the Earth wisely and carefully as you embark on your career." More from the Dean  