NFL FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. — The Atlanta Falcons will start veteran quarterback Taylor Heinicke over Desmond Ridder on Sunday. “Just for this week with all the variables and doing what is best for this week, Taylor will play this week,” Falcons coach Arthur Smith said Wednesday. Smith indicated this is not necessarily a long-term decision but said Ridder is healthy and will go into this week as the No. 2 quarterback. “There are a lot of variables,” Smith said. “Just kind of where we are at right now, getting ready to play the Vikings. Really our focus is short term and what gives us the best chance. This is not some grand statement for forever.” GO DEEPER QB Taylor Heinicke always a locker room favorite, but how long will he start in Atlanta? The Falcons (4-4) take on Minnesota (4-4) on Sunday in Atlanta. The Vikings will be starting rookie quarterback Jaren Hall following Kirk Cousins’ season-ending Achilles tear, Minnesota coach Kevin O’Connell said. Ridder has the most turnovers in the league thanks to seven fumbles and six interceptions. He has turned the ball over seven times in Atlanta’s last three games. Advertisement Heinicke, who has started 25 games in a six-year career, relieved Ridder at halftime of last week’s game against the Tennessee Titans and led four scoring drives that totaled 20 points as the team gained 253 yards. Ridder was 8-of-12 for 71 yards in the first half and led eight drives that totaled 89 yards and three points. The team initiated a concussion check on Ridder at halftime but stuck with Heinicke after Ridder was cleared. Ridder, who was taken in the third round of the 2021 draft, has started 12 games in Atlanta. He is 15th in the league with 1,701 yards and has six touchdown passes. “We know what Taylor can do,” wide receiver KhaDarel Hodge said. “He’s a good guy, a good leader, he played good. Taylor’s been in the league what 10 years, I saw him in Washington. He’s a good player for sure. We have the next man up mentality. Whoever is up, we all have to come together as a team and make things work.” GO DEEPER Schultz: Falcons' offense is failing, and that's on Arthur Smith, not the quarterback (Photo: Steve Roberts / USA Today) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Josh Kendall , a Georgia native, has been following the Falcons since Jeff Van Note was the richly bearded face of the franchise. For 20 years before joining The Athletic NFL staff, he covered football in the SEC. He also covers golf for The Athletic. Follow Josh on Twitter @JoshTheAthletic