Resident  Commuter** Pre-College Summer Session provides high school students with the unique opportunity to take summer courses offered by Carnegie Mellon University for credit. Students earn college credit while working in an academic setting that mirrors the supportive, rigorous environment of the first year of college. Every summer, Summer Session offers approximately thirty courses from academic disciplines across the university, including: science, humanities, social science, engineering, computer science, and technology applied to the arts. Successful Summer Session students leverage their experiences to demonstrate their ability to succeed in college. Upon successful completion of a course, they receive college credit at Carnegie Mellon University, which is transferable to other institutions that accept CMU college courses for credit. Please note that admittance into Pre-College Summer Session does not guarantee admittance to Carnegie Mellon University within the Undergraduate Admission process. Liam grew up again this summer... CMU showed him the potential of hard work... and the importance of setting goals. I am so happy to see his response to each class, new perspectives, interesting classmates with diverse backgrounds, and he wanted to learn more... ~ Amelia P., Summer Session Parent, 2023 Taking part of Carnegie Mellon’s Pre-College Programs was one of the best decisions I could make to prepare for college. ~ Christian L., Summer Session 2022 Hear more from our students and families HERE! The Summer Session program is comprised of undergraduate-level Carnegie Mellon courses. The courses are the same ones taken during the fall and spring by Carnegie Mellon students, usually in their first or second years. Students will receive the same rigorous, college-level work as an undergraduate student studying at Carnegie Mellon. All of the Summer Session instructors are vetted by their respective academic departments, and the majority of them are Carnegie Mellon professors who teach these courses during the academic year.  Students request their courses after admission to the program, as part of the enrollment process completed in the spring (generally February or March). Students living on campus must remain enrolled in two courses throughout the entire summer program (six weeks). Students living at home (who must have a permanent local address) may enroll in either one or two courses. Two courses completed in six weeks is as academically demanding as a full-time undergraduate course schedule. Courses offered remain relatively similar from year to year. Please see our 2024 Summer Session course list. We do not offer any courses online. To be eligible for Pre-College Summer Session, students must:  The application for Pre-College Summer Session consists of the following: Essays are required for the following prompts (300-500 words each): How difficult is the coursework? In Summer Session, students have the opportunity to take actual Carnegie Mellon courses, often alongside undergraduate students. While most students will be challenged due to the college rigor and pace of the six-week courses, the university seeks to support the education of everyone accepted into the program. If you have questions about the difficulty of the program, please contact the Program Director. We would be happy to discuss further. Will I need to purchase textbooks for my courses? Students will need to purchase any learning materials, including textbooks, at their own cost. (Note: The cost of textbooks is not included in a scholarship award.) Required materials can be found on either your course syllabus or the Canvas site. Consult the Canvas page for your course (if applicable), the CMU Bookstore, or your professor for further guidance. What do I need to do if I miss a class? It will be the students’ responsibility to make up any missed work. Students should reach out to the instructor to discuss further if needed. Please know that Summer Session classes are the same classes that are offered to CMU undergraduate students; therefore, instructors will have the same expectations for Pre-College students as for undergraduate students. Are remote courses offered or an option? No remote options are available for any Summer Session courses. Can I plan a vacation or depart early during the program? Due to the rigorous coursework in a condensed term, students should not plan any vacation or time away from campus during the 6-week program time. Students may have final exams on the last day (Friday, August 2, 2024) of the program, so please coordinate your travel home on the six-week move-out day (Saturday, August 3, 2024).  What is the grading policy for Pre-College Summer Session? Each instructor will announce their grading policy in their course syllabus for determining letter grades (A, B, C, D, and R, with no + or – grades) based upon student performance. Pre-College Summer Session courses cannot be taken on an Audit or Pass/Fail basis, nor are Incomplete grades possible. At the end of the program, instructors will submit all grades to the University Registrar. The University Registrar will only retain A and B grades on students' permanent record via the official Carnegie Mellon transcript of grades. No C, D, nor R grades will be recorded. It will be possible to have C grades officially recorded on a student’s Carnegie Mellon transcript, but a request to do this must be made by the student to the University Registrar. A grade of C is generally an “average” grade for a course and is considered a passing grade. The C grade will count for academic credit at Carnegie Mellon but may not be eligible for external transfer credit depending on the policy of other institutions. This Pre-College Summer Session grade forgiveness policy is not the normal grading policy for undergraduate Carnegie Mellon students, but rather a special policy for the Pre-College students seeking to test their backgrounds and skills in challenging university courses without the penalty of failure or low grades. How many classes can students take? Is there a limit? Students who enroll in two courses (between nine and 12 units each, comparable to three to four credits each at other colleges and universities) will experience fast-paced academic work. The workload of two courses completed over six weeks will be similar to the workload of five courses in 14 weeks, which is a typical workload for degree-seeking undergraduate students at Carnegie Mellon. Summer Session students may enroll in up to 24 units. We strongly recommend that students enrolled in two courses focus on this program during the six weeks. Do not plan to engage in other studies during Summer Session, including preparation for standardized tests or major school assignments. You will be taking college classes and it is necessary to focus on this. Is it possible to have a job while attending Pre-College Summer Session? Students enrolled in two full courses should not plan to have a summer job. Students enrolled in fewer than two full courses may wish to consider a part-time summer job. Will the college credits be transferable? Every university and college has the authority to determine its own policies about whether to accept credits from another institution of higher education. While it is therefore impossible to state definitively that these college credits will transfer elsewhere, the following statements are true: What if my child decides they don't like the courses they are taking? With the permission of the academic program director, students may be able to change classes during the first two days of the program. Such changes are subject to space availability and academic appropriateness. No schedule changes, including course drops, are possible after the first two days of the program. 
            Pre-College Programs
            Carnegie Mellon University     5000 Forbes Avenue
    Pittsburgh, PA 15213
    412-268-5914
Contact Us
