Get daily business news from the region delivered straight to your inbox The two companies will work together across various areas including private cloud solutions, as well as consulting, residency and managed services Dell Technologies and G42 Cloud have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to help customers in the UAE accelerate their digital transformation drive by collaborating on cloud, security and IT and managed services. The two companies will work together across various areas including private cloud solutions, as well as consulting, residency and managed services.  The collaboration aims to serve the UAE by enabling customers manage their day-to-day business operations and accelerate digital transformation with a more secure and consistent cloud experience.  The agreement will allow the two companies’ customers to leverage the best-of-breed features and performance, including computing, data storage and data protection needs. It aims to assist customers unlock and capitalize on cloud experiences and drive innovation. @CloudG42 is excited to announce the strategic partnership signed today with @DellTechMEA at Dell Technologies Forum UAE 2022 in Dubai.The two companies have joined forces to accelerate #digitaladoption for the regional entities focusing on maximizing performance and scalability pic.twitter.com/FxgvvSQXUR — G42 Cloud (@CloudG42) December 7, 2022   “To succeed in an increasingly digital economy, businesses need agile and scalable solutions that allow them to innovate and transform their operations,” said Walid Yehia, general manager – UAE, Dell Technologies. ‘At Dell Technologies, we aim to simplify this journey with our comprehensive portfolio of solutions and services. We are happy to work with G42 Cloud in its efforts to encourage organisations build a robust digital future.”  “Cloud technologies today are helping economies expand and meet new market demands. G42 Cloud is focused on driving value and helping businesses to succeed in a digital-first world. The MoU allows us to explore both companies’ wide range of offerings and support our customers to maximize their business outcomes,” added Talal Al Kaissi, CEO of G42 Cloud. Read: Abu Dhabi G42-owned Bayanat announces intent to list on ADX © 2021 MOTIVATE MEDIA GROUP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.