Gov. Ron DeSantis is in Oklahoma delivering a political speech, but that doesn’t mean disturbing news isn’t happening closer to home. Rep. Anna V. Eskamani tweeted on Saturday video of Nazi demonstrators outside of Disney World. A second image, from Twitter user Shannon Watts, contends that “two dozen white supremacists are outside the main Disney World entrance in Orlando right now, marching with signs featuring Gov. DeSantis’s face, swastikas, the n-word and homophobic slurs.” Florida Politics reached out to the Governor’s Office for comment. DeSantis has had to address neo-Nazi demonstrations in Orlando before, including back in 2022 when group of neo-Nazis lined a bridge in eastern Orange County, hanging the swastika flag and banners — including a banner with the pro-Donald Trump slogan “Let’s Go Brandon” — and yelling profanities and antisemitic slurs at passing cars. He was more concerned with Democrats talking about the issue in remarks after the fact. “So what I’m going to say is these people, these Democrats who are trying to use this as some type of political issue to try to smear me as if I had something to do with it, we’re not playing their game,” DeSantis said back in 2022. “Some jackasses doing this on the street, first of all, state law enforcement is going to hold them accountable because they were doing stuff on the overpass. So they’re absolutely going to do that, and they should do that,” DeSantis added before going back on the political counteroffensive. “But I’m not going to have people try to smear me who belong to a political party that has elevated antisemites to the halls of Congress,” DeSantis said, singling out Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota. In a tweet posted after the incident and later deleted, press secretary Christina Pushaw responded to Twitter outrage over the Orlando Nazi demonstration by asking, “Do we even know they’re Nazis?” Pushaw then sought to clarify that statement. “I don’t know what you mean by ‘denying Nazis.’ I was referring to this event in VA, when a group of Democrats dressed up as White supremacists to discredit a (Glenn) Youngkin rally,” she told Florida Politics at the time. Similar demonstrations including Nazi regalia and pro-DeSantis flags recurred in 2022.  A.G. Gancarski has been the Northeast Florida correspondent for Florida Politics since 2014. He writes for the New York Post and National Review also, with previous work in the American Conservative and Washington Times and a 15+ year run as a columnist in Folio Weekly. He can be reached at [email protected] or on Twitter: @AGGancarski June 10, 2023 at 2:49 pm These are the kinds of people drawn to the anti-democratic types.. especially when they make false promises to “destroy the left” in the USA. You get all the cess and rot in society, the sub-apes, and the anti-government terrorists all of a sudden act like they care about main steam politics. No real leadership is forthcoming…they just keep on fanning the flames of hatred and division so try and gain votes. That’s not leadership. That’s selfishness and stupidity. June 11, 2023 at 1:23 am Very well said! June 11, 2023 at 9:12 am Working part-time, I bring domestic nearly 13,000 per month. I was sharp to discover out after hearing a few others portray how much cash they were able to create online. Well, it all came to pass and totally modified my ba-50 life. Presently, everybody has to attempt this work by utilizing this site. vfd
.
.
Detail Are Here————————————————>>> ExtraMoney55.blogspot.com/ June 11, 2023 at 8:56 am Good morning America,
Those “Dispicable Nazi” prostesters have proven to be dook 4 brains eff bee eye agents in disguise trying to smear The Ronald and The Donald. America, lets get real for a moment: Ya know what annoys me, Earl Pitts American? Well I, Earl Pitts American am about to tell you: Every RINO out there always qualifying their statements about the corrupt eff bee eye by saying stupid crap like this:
“We are just disgusted at the corruption at the higest levels of the eff bee eye but”….(and here comes the part that whizzes me off)….”the the rank and file eff bee eye agents are all great hard working wonderfull Americans and BLA BLA BLA BLA” Are you RINO’s kidding???? The corruption in the eff bee eye has ran too long, too deep, and totally unchecked for decades.
Honestly folks the time to stop with your dook 4 brains rank and file agents being great disclaimers passed many years ago STOP IT ALREADY. Now its just like saying “Well sure Hitler was a monster but the rank and file SS Agents were really great and wonderful people’.
What idiot would say something like that about Hitler’s SS rank and file monsters? Nobody!!!
So stop it already with the rank and file agents of the eff bee eye. The entire agency needs to be shut down while we decide what needs to be done about that former agency in the future.
Thank you America,
Earl Pitts American June 11, 2023 at 11:31 am Provide evidence you MAGAT POS! June 11, 2023 at 3:28 pm Do you have any evidence of FBI Corruption since the maggot, J Edgar passed? June 12, 2023 at 9:06 pm They are probably antifa trying to discredit deSantis June 10, 2023 at 2:58 pm So Christina Pushaw thinks that Democrats dress up, masquerade and otherwise publicly demonstrate as Nazi white supremacists in order to discredit her fellow Republicans such as Glenn Youngkin?! Aw, pushaw!!! June 10, 2023 at 3:19 pm What do you mean? That actually happened. https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/oct/30/lincoln-project-glenn-youngkin-virginia-event And while the Lincoln Project may claim to be “Republican”, their actions support Democrats at every point. June 11, 2023 at 8:27 am Five guys wearing “white shirts, khaki pants and sunglasses” from the Lincoln Project showed up at a Youngkin event. That’s not people in nazi uniforms waving swastika flags and carrying banners with nazi slogans. It’s not Democrats, either. It’s Republicans at another Republican’s event. So, no, that 100% did not happen. You can claim RINO or whatever, but that’s just more inner turmoil from the GOP. June 11, 2023 at 3:29 pm Well, that’s because the Lincoln Project is Conservatives who think the Trump GOP is off the rails. Any person of decency would agree. June 12, 2023 at 9:22 pm I would have to disagree. They are the old style Conservatives that used to be the backbone of the GOP, but would never get heard in today’s GOP. June 10, 2023 at 8:40 pm Really?!? Why? Why would any reasonable, sane, law abiding citizen want to masquerade as Nazi’s? Hell, I don’t like it when people assume I’m a Republican!! June 11, 2023 at 3:58 am Same reason they dress up like the opposite sex and demand to be called that. Disgusting anyway you look at it. Mental illness runs wild in these Biden times don’t they? June 11, 2023 at 6:11 am Another judgie republican deflecting from the story to bring in trans. Stay hateful June 11, 2023 at 8:25 am Women wearing pants!
The founder fathers wearing powdered wigs. Priests wearing dresses! Mental illness runs wild! Wearing the wrong clothes is destroying America! Right Jim? June 11, 2023 at 11:34 am Mental illness running wild? LOLOLOLOL. Says the guy who probably voted for the guy who cut funds for mental institutions. The REPUBLICAN NAZI, Ronald Raygun. June 11, 2023 at 3:30 pm Yup. Just appeared out of no where two years ago. Yup, ypu, ypu. June 11, 2023 at 7:12 am Have to wonder about a guy that sets out mouse traps in a mouse poo infested area and then complains and finger points when he catches some mice, claiming they’re fake mice on the payroll of who else but George Soros. lol @ Rhonda June 10, 2023 at 2:58 pm I just got $30,850 from my last month of work doing this online part time. p36 I joined 4 months ago and I know how easy it is to get paid for this job. Register now via the website below.
.
.
Detail Are Here——————————————————>>> shorturl.ae/qbxu2 June 10, 2023 at 3:16 pm Ron DeSantis attracts these elements and gives them a voice. DeSantis’s announcement yesterday to renaming Fort Bragg has stirred the hate pot. June 10, 2023 at 3:23 pm Ron’s been working real hard to get the White supremacist vote – and the anti-LGBTQ, anti-intellection book burners. Kind of surprised he and the state Republican delegation weren’t there with their torches. June 10, 2023 at 3:35 pm ……and so the DeSantis for President campaign season of hate begins. Today’s Nazi’s for DeSantis demonstration at the Disneyworld entrance included hateful bullhorn screaming of misogynistic and homophobic rants. Stay tuned! ….. after DeSantis announced yesterday that he would reinstate The Fort Bragg name to the military training center named after a miserable traitor confederate…..DeSantis, like Trump before him, has given a participatory voice to the lowest common denominator in American politics! June 11, 2023 at 3:31 pm What I wonder is where has this American underbelly been? June 10, 2023 at 4:04 pm Springtime for Desantis and Florida!
The only surprise is the absence of Trump flags. June 10, 2023 at 4:46 pm Like Indiana says, “Nazis, I hate these guys.” June 10, 2023 at 6:25 pm Ever wonder how someone can be drawn to such a hatred ideology called neo nazis. Seriously, what is wrong with these people? June 11, 2023 at 8:02 am They believe the GOP’s lies that the other types of hopeless poors are the reason why they’re so poor and hopeless. Newsflash, poors are poor because of the Ivy League guy brought in to be CEO at a rate of 80x (or more) the average pay rate of any company employee. Look at SYSCO Food Service for one current example from Texas. Look at ENRON for a previous example, again from Texas.  Other newsflash, Ron DeSantis is an Ivy League guy. June 10, 2023 at 9:41 pm Democrats have lives to live, we don’t have time to “dress up as Nazis” to make DiSantis look bad. He can do that on his own. June 11, 2023 at 8:27 am Demo terrorists don’t wear uniforms when they are firebombing the Federal Courthouse in Portland. They don’t wear uniforms when they torch Minneapolis, Atlanta, New York City and loot stores, and destroy police cars. Nope. June 11, 2023 at 8:30 am Impeach Biden Syndrome, I told you it’s not necessary for you to bookmark good points from others by adding your name and attempting to change the subject. We can find good points all on our own, TYVM. June 11, 2023 at 11:15 am Go live in Germany if you love Nazis so much. American, you are not. Do you remember Americans losing their lives fighting Nazis?????? PATHETIC!!! No need to respond, your ignorance told me all I need to know. June 11, 2023 at 11:37 am And Republican terrorists don’t wear uniforms when they are blowing up a building and killing over 100 people or attacking the capitol building and killing 5 police men. Let’s see what they do for fun killing when Wundumfuk is thrown in jail for being the worst and most criminal president ever. June 11, 2023 at 3:54 pm Name the 5 policemen killed on Jan 6th.
Four officers committed suicide in the days and weeks after 1/6 June 11, 2023 at 3:35 pm Can you provide any proof of the link you suspect between the downtrodden, the “Killed by police”, the “no schools for you” folks and the Democratic party. I’ve looked and there are no such links. June 15, 2023 at 8:34 pm Kindly describe the laws that Biden has violated. The reason you Nazi Republicans can’t impeach Biden is because you have no evidence he violated any laws. Please continue wasting your time and spending your money trying to destroy Biden and the USA. June 10, 2023 at 10:39 pm I wanted to say something about the hypocrisy of the GOP. Then I remember that free speech is against the law in FL. June 10, 2023 at 11:14 pm DeSantis is trouble. June 11, 2023 at 6:52 am That is his white trash base June 11, 2023 at 7:09 am La Cage aux Folles … Birds of a feather. How ironic. June 11, 2023 at 7:14 am If it doesn’t fit, you must acquit. Ron’s problem is that it fits to a T. June 11, 2023 at 9:39 am That’s just what the state of Florida and people working in tourism want you to see. Nazi by Walt Disney World. Way to go Ron June 11, 2023 at 12:23 pm DeSantis is reluctant to comment on this Disneyworld Nazi political rally because it’s not in his political self interest to disenfranchise his base.  DeSantis doesn’t care if flocks of Disneyworld tourist ….. many of them children…..are exposed to such garbage Americans! Additionally “Mom’s For Liberty” have had 24 hours to make a statement…..Ho hum ….. all of this is predictable and expected. Republicans are America’s biggest problem! Vote all Republicans out of office! June 11, 2023 at 1:24 pm NO PROOF they aren’t just normal Trump supporters trying to smear RDS. It didn’t stop Trumpers from supporting him, so this is of NO CONSEQUENCE. #StillVotingDeSantis June 11, 2023 at 2:43 pm reminds me of the time gop masqueraded as antifa and stir up trouble. or the accusations at the trump riots jan 6 were dems in disguise. whether gop supports nazi and fascists or not is irrelevant since they support the gop and their bullying tactics to get their way in government as witnessed in the debt ceiling bullying. June 11, 2023 at 3:51 pm Please note, Democrats did not pose as Nazis at a Youngkin event…Lincoln Project anti-Trump Republicans did. Not in good taste, but a misguided attempt to shame Youngkin.  https://amp.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/oct/30/lincoln-project-glenn-youngkin-virginia-event June 12, 2023 at 1:17 am Trump passed the least amount of legislation than any president in history. Look up the FACTS. For years all he did was bitch about Obamacare, he did NOTHING about it. Democrats offered MORE than he was looking for for border a security budget and instead he wrote an executive order for 18 Billion to build a wall that CLEARLY DOESN’T WORK. HE DID LITERALLY NOTHING IN 4 YEARS other than shit on some of Obama’s policies which ANYONE who gets elected can do whenever they want. He said COVID would just go away. He gave Faucci a medal of freedom. You people are so insanely stupid. The worst thing about Trump is that he makes his supporters think that just because they have a right to open their mouths means they have something intelligent to say. None of you do, it’s always the same bullshit. No evidence, no proof, just words, words, words. Then complain like little babies when you get outsmarted by the left (so very unfair). You deserve it because you’re not just stupid, you’re completely weak, brainless sewage. Biden is going to win again and you should just hold yourselves responsible ahead or time rather than predictably resort to crying FRAUD when you lose again, like you always do, because you’re losers. I mean seriously, have you ever, EVER!!! stopped to consider, I mean REALLY REFLECT on the mythological levels stupid you people all are??? Rather than petitioning for REAL change, things you NEED for the future, you’re running cover for a blatant criminal who has done literally nothing for you and who the rest of the world despises. Think about it, you’re debating about whether or not the losers at Disney Flying NAZI flags are real or not and you don’t see how stupid that is? You should be pissed that’s happening regardless if they’re agents, antifa, MAGA or actual NAZIS. But no, because you’re you and you just love giving away all your freedoms and then crying about made-up, babbling words and phrases like a toddler. It’s the woke mob wahhhhhhhh. Trump won wahhhhhhhh. But Biden wahhhhhhh! Crooked HIllary waaaaaahhhhh!!!!!!!!!!!!! It’s nauseating at this point. June 15, 2023 at 4:46 pm Christina Pushaw is absolutely the most disgusting of Desanctus’s carnival of unqualified yes-men and cronies. She would have loved to be a real Nazi back in the day. Comments are closed. Florida Politics is a statewide, new media platform covering campaigns, elections, government, policy, and lobbying in Florida. This platform and all of its content are owned by Extensive Enterprises Media. Publisher: Peter Schorsch @PeterSchorschFL Contributors & reporters: Phil Ammann, Drew Dixon, Roseanne Dunkelberger, A.G. Gancarski, Anne Geggis, Ryan Nicol, Jacob Ogles, Cole Pepper, Gray Rohrer, Jesse Scheckner, Christine Sexton, Drew Wilson, and Mike Wright. Email: [email protected]
Twitter: @PeterSchorschFL
Phone: (727) 642-3162
Address: 204 37th Avenue North #182
St. Petersburg, Florida 33704 © Copyright by Extensive-Enterprises 2024. All rights reserved. STAFF LOGIN