
 
	Universal film chief Donna Langley is set to take control of content and creative ops across NBCUniversal‘s portfolio of brands, as TV chief Susan Rovner exits the company. 
	The shakeup in leadership is the first major restructuring move made by Comcast president Mike Cavanagh since he took direct oversight of subsidiary NBCU upon the ousting of CEO Jeff Shell in April.  
	In a memo to staff Thursday, Cavanagh announced NBCUniversal will be reorganized into four key units: NBCUniversal Studio Group, led by Langley, NBCUniversal Media Group, run by chairman of TV and streaming Mark Lazarus, NBCU News Group, run by existing news boss Cesar Conde, and the Universal Destinations and Experiences Group, headed up by parks boss Mark Woodbury.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	















	VIP+
	



	
		
					AI Content Licensing Deals With Publishers: Complete Updated Index		
			














	
		
					GLAAD CEO Sarah Kate Ellis Accused of Lavish Spending in New York Times Investigation, Including $22,000 Flight and Home Office Renovation; Nonprofit Denies Claims		
			






 
	Cavanagh is doubling down on his decision to not name a new CEO of NBCU, and instead continue to oversee the media company from his role as president of Comcast.




			Popular on Variety		




 
	Langley has been named chairman of NBCUniversal Studio Group and chief content officer, gaining oversight of all creative across film, television and streaming. From an operational standpoint, NBCUniversal’s streaming product Peacock still falls under Matt Strauss, head of direct-to-consumer and international. 
	Lazarus is being promoted to chairman of NBCUniversal Media Group, and Frances Berwick will be elevated to chairman of NBCUniversal Entertainment and report to both Lazarus and Langley.  
	Conde will expand his role as chairman of NBCU News Group to includes Telemundo Enterprises (which includes its entertainment, news, sports and studios operations) as well as NBCUniversal Local (which includes 43 Telemundo/NBC local stations). 
	The role Berwick is taking on is the equivalent of Rovner’s current job, chairman of entertainment content for NBCU TV and streaming, which she has held since 2020. Cavanagh said in his memo to staff that Warner Bros. vet Rovner has “decided to step down” as part of his new plan, writing: “We appreciate all of Susan’s valuable contributions and thank her for all she’s done during her time at NBCU.” 
	Universal TV studios boss Pearlena Igbokwe will remain in her current role leading the four small-screen-focused studios.  
	Langley is a pedigreed film executive known for deep filmmaker relationships and long-term vision in building original tentpole IP. She currently serves as a chair of the Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, a title she earned in 2019. She previously served as chairman of Universal Pictures, a role she held for a decade to great effect — offering up blockbusters like “Jurassic World” and building out the top-earning “Fast and Furious” franchise. 

	








 
	She’s known for attracting repeat business, as evidenced by a large stable of creative first-look and overall deals that currently live at Universal Pictures, including those for Jordan Peele’s Monkeypaw, Phil Lord and Chris Miller, LeBron James and Maverick Carter’s SpringHill, and pacts with Charlize Theron and Elizabeth Banks. Langley has also struck meaningful partnerships with NBCU holdings like DreamWorks Animation and Chris Meledandri’s Illumination (the co-producer of the runaway hit “Super Mario. Bros,” which has grossed over $1.3 billion worldwide). Langley is not expected to replace herself as head of the film studio, insiders said.  
	See Cavanagh’s Thursday memo to employees announcing the changes below. 
Dear Colleagues, 
It has been two and a half months since I stepped in to lead NBCUniversal, and I want to thank all of you and the leadership team for keeping the business humming during this time. I’ve had the privilege of spending time with many of you as I visited with all of our businesses. I’ve been deeply immersed in the day-to-day business of NBCU, which has reinforced what I already knew – that NBCU is a very special place with tremendous opportunities ahead. 
Here are some of my specific observations: 
Without a doubt, consumer trends such as cord cutting and new competitors, particularly from the technology sector, present challenges for us. But I firmly believe that we have the business strategy, management depth, and financial strength to emerge as long-term winners and value creators as the media landscape evolves. 
With that goal in mind, I’m pleased to announce a new leadership structure for NBCU that takes advantage of the strengths of our leadership team and the power of the business as a whole. I will continue to lead NBCU as President of Comcast and will not name a new CEO. Instead, I will hand responsibility to a core leadership team to work with me in pursuit of the opportunities outlined above. The new leadership team will be made up of four operational heads: Donna Langley, Mark Lazarus, Cesar Conde and Mark Woodbury; and four key corporate leaders: Kimberley Harris, Anand Kini, Adam Miller and Craig Robinson. This new structure will facilitate a streamlined decision-making process and foster even more collaboration across our company. 
As part of this new structure, we will create the NBCUniversal Studio Group led by Donna Langley, the NBCUniversal Media Group led by Mark Lazarus, and a broadly expanded NBCU News Group led by Cesar Conde – plus the rapidly growing Universal Destinations & Experiences Group led by Mark Woodbury. 
Donna Langley will become Chairman, NBCUniversal Studio Group & Chief Content Officer. In this role, Donna will oversee a unified content strategy across the broad NBCUniversal portfolio, bringing together our Film and Television Studios. Donna will oversee NBCU’s suite of creative teams including Universal Filmed Entertainment Group (Universal Pictures, Focus Features, DreamWorks Animation) and Universal Studio Group (Universal Television, Universal Content Productions, Universal Television Alternative Studios, Universal International Studios). Donna has been shaping the cultural conversation and creating the framework for what a modern-day studio can accomplish through bold content, impactful marketing and business model innovation. She will leverage her longstanding relationships with the creative community and ability to partner with the most prolific storytellers in our business to unlock a seamless cross-portfolio creative strategy including programming, distribution and marketing across Film, Television and Streaming. Pearlena Igbokwe, will continue to lead our four powerhouse TV studios under the Universal Studio Group umbrella. Under Pearlena’s three-year tenure, Universal Studio Group has seen an impressive revenue increase and year-over-year volume growth. The studio, which has 108 active series currently airing or streaming globally, is consistently responsible for 5 of the top 10 broadcast series and several #1 series across multiple streaming platforms. This unique combination will leverage the creative power, talent relationships, and valuable IP from both film and TV.









 
Mark Lazarus will become Chairman, NBCUniversal Media Group. In this role, Mark will run the company’s TV and Streaming platforms, distribution and monetization. He will continue to run our television networks, Direct to Consumer business, including Peacock, as well as the NBC Sports Group and NBC affiliate relations. Mark will permanently oversee advertising sales, which will continue to report to Mark Marshall, Interim Chairman, Global Advertising and Partnerships. He will now also oversee our content distribution business, which will continue to report to Matt Bond, Chairman, Content Distribution. Together, these businesses comprised more than $20 billion in revenue last year. Mark’s decades of experience running television, sports and advertising sales – both within NBCUniversal and earlier in his career – will be critical to the long-term growth of NBCUniversal’s media business. 
As part of this restructure, Susan Rovner has decided to step down, and Frances Berwick will be elevated to Chairman, NBCUniversal Entertainment, a newly formed role reporting into both Mark Lazarus and Donna Langley. In this role, Frances will add original content across broadcast, cable and Peacock to her current responsibilities running our linear entertainment networks. Susan has agreed to remain with us for a bit to help ensure a smooth transition for her team and our creative partners. During her time here, Susan and her team have played an integral role in developing and greenlighting hit programming across NBCU’s entertainment portfolio, including brand-defining series for Peacock as well as breakout hits for NBC and the continued success of our Bravo franchises, almost all of which have seen year over year growth under her leadership. We appreciate all of Susan’s valuable contributions and thank her for all she’s done during her time at NBCU.  
Cesar Conde will expand his role as Chairman, NBCUniversal News Group (NBC News, CNBC, MSNBC, NBC News NOW) to include overseeing NBCUniversal Local, which will continue to report to Valari Staab, Chairman, NBCUniversal Local; and the NBCU Telemundo Enterprises Group, which will continue to report to Beau Ferrari, Chairman, NBCUniversal Telemundo Enterprises. Under Cesar’s leadership, the NBCU News Group became the most-watched news organization in the country across all platforms and created the largest and fastest growing streaming news network. In his expanded role, Cesar will oversee NBCUniversal Local, which includes among other businesses 43 NBC/Telemundo stations across the country. He will also oversee Telemundo Enterprises, which includes its Entertainment, News, Sports and Studio operations. Cesar previously led NBCU International and Telemundo when it became the number one Spanish-language network in prime time for the first time in history. Based on that experience as well as his excellent record leading the News Group, he is the ideal person to take on this expanded role. NBCUniversal Local and Telemundo Enterprises Group will fit seamlessly with our News Group and will enable even more growth and collaboration across the division. 
Mark Woodbury will continue to be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Universal Destinations & Experiences, where he oversees the company’s destinations worldwide, including Universal Orlando Resort, Universal Studios Hollywood, Universal Studios Japan and Universal Beijing Resort, as well as the company’s growing consumer products and merchandise group. Mark will lead the charge as we continue to expand our growing Destinations & Experiences business. This includes projects such as Epic Universe, opening in 2025, as well as new experiences in the works, such as the recently announced park specifically for younger audiences in Frisco, TX, and the first year-round horror entertainment experience in Las Vegas, NV. Mark and his team will continue to bring our unique content and IP to life, and to be trusted stewards of great IP from external partners as well, such as the recently opened Super Nintendo World at Universal Studios Hollywood.









 
This core leadership team will also include: Kimberley Harris, Executive Vice President of Comcast Corporation and General Counsel of NBCUniversal; Anand Kini, Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Comcast Corporation and Chief Financial Officer, NBCUniversal; Adam Miller, Executive Vice President, NBCUniversal, who oversees Communications, Human Resources, Operations and Technology; and Craig Robinson, Executive Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer. 
I’m very excited to work with this team to build on our great momentum and drive NBCU forward.  Thank you to all for your efforts and hard work. 
Mike









 
			A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast		 The Business of Entertainment