Comcast subscribers are about to lose a big perk: free access to Peacock streaming. Since it launched in April 2020, the ad-supported version of Peacock Premium has been provided to Xfinity TV and broadband customers at no charge. Starting on April 3rd, it will no longer be offered to new subscribers, and as of June 26th, existing customers won't get it either, NBCUniversal has confirmed to Variety. The news was first noted on Reddit via screenshots posting more details. "Customers will be presented with discounted offer details within the Peacock app," an internal message reads. "Stay tuned for offer details and more information." NBCU has also sent messages to customers that they'll be able to purchase Peacock Premium at a discounted price, which has yet to be determined. Last month, Peacock stopped offering the free ad-supported standalone service to new users. At the time, the company said it believed Peacock's paid tiers were the best way to experience the service. More likely, it's because despite counting 20 million subscribers in 2022, up 9 million from the year before, Peacock has yet to turn a profit for NBCU/Comcast. The company's plan was always to phase out free Peacock access for Comcast users, a spokesperson told Variety. By next year, it aims to hit 100,000 hours of programing divided between original series, licensed TV, movies, live sports and more. Its buzziest original hit right now is Rian Johnson's Poker Face, and it also streams popular classic TV fare like The Office. Amazon's revived Echo Spot is back on sale, this time for $55. The Echo Show 5 and Echo Dot are on sale too. Gamescom 2024 is almost here. Exhibitors from over 60 countries will descend on Cologne, Germany, for what is now the industry’s biggest gaming event following E3’s demise. You can watch the opening-night showcase right here on Tuesday, August 20. Here is a list of the best PC games you can get right now, as chosen by Engadget editors. The biggest news stories this morning:   Fortnite returns to iOS, How to choose the best TV for gaming right now, Microsoft boosts Windows’ FAT32 partition size limit. Here's a guide to picking the best TVs for 4K gaming, plus a few of the best gaming TVs you can get right now. The US Department of Transportation has laid out a plan to deploy vehicle-to-everything tech across the country. The aim is to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries on America's roadways. X owner Elon Musk says that the company is shutting down operations in Brazil effective immediately. The company claims one of its legal representatives was threatened with arrest if it did not "comply with his censorship orders." In an Instagram story, Adam Mosseri has revealed that the app is testing a vertical grid for users' profiles. A recap of recent Engadget reviews, including our impressions of the Dyson OnTrac, Pixel 9 Pro Fold and Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. How to watch all of Xbox's Gamescom streams. All told, there are four events to check out. The company revealed that it did suffer a security breach wherein people's names, emails, addresses, phone numbers, social security numbers and mailing addresses had been stolen. A federal court granted an injunction against Fox-Disney-Warner's planned launch for Venu Sports. Google says the wording that was in a form sent out to Team Pixel members for device access "missed the mark" and has been removed. OpenAI says it thwarted an Iranian influence campaign that used ChatGPT to generate fake news stories and social posts in English and Spanish. In a blog post on Friday, the company wrote that it identified and banned accounts generating content for five websites pretending to be news outlets. Microsoft righted an age-old “wrong” (at least for those who geek out about disk formatting) earlier this week. With its latest Windows 11 Insider Canary Preview Build, the company increased the maximum FAT32 partition size limit from 32GB to 2TB when using the command line. San Francisco City Attorney David Chiu vowed to prosecute 50 defendants in a new complaint over AI undressing sites. Texas Instruments is the latest recipient of CHIPS Act funds. The 2022 law will award TI $1.6 billion in grants. Meta’s decision to shut down CrowdTangle, an analytics tool that was an “invaluable” resource to the research community, is drawing fresh scrutiny from European Union regulators. This week's best tech deals include the Sony WH-1000XM4 headphones for $198, the Nintendo Switch Lite for $159 and a bunch of pre-order offers for Google's new Pixel 9 phones. Meta sends Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas VR to the trash heap. The Quest remake is on hold indefinitely. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.