Comcast today announced it plans to invest $4.5 million to bring next-generation high speed broadband, the Xfinity 10G Network, to Planada, a rural community in Merced County, California. To further support the area, which was badly damaged in storms earlier this year, and to create greater digital equity, Comcast also donated $75,000 to United Way of Merced and $25,000 to the San Joaquin Regional Broadband Consortium. At the event, Comcast surprised approximately 100 graduating 8th graders from Planada’s Cesar Chavez Middle School with free laptops and school supply kits. Local dignitaries along with Planada youth and their families attended the celebration. Expanding its next-generation, fiber-rich Xfinity 10G Network and commercial broadband services to rural areas is an important part of Comcast’s overall effort to increase digital equity. Today’s groundbreaking event was attended by local elected officials as well as community and business partners who celebrated Comcast’s announcement of its expansion of multi-gig broadband internet speeds, video, mobile, voice, home security, and business products and services. The Central Valley is an area of focus for Comcast in California, as this announcement comes one year after the company expanded broadband services to Biola, CA, a rural community in Fresno County. Work is now underway on network expansion projects in several other areas of Fresno and Merced Counties. “The investments made by Comcast today will not only benefit our students, residents and businesses but also contribute to our rural economic development -- especially as we’re coming out of a severe winter season and the pandemic,” said Rodrigo Espinosa, Merced County Board of Supervisors. “We all know the need for fast, secure Internet service is more important now than it has ever been and I’m grateful to companies like Comcast who are making these investments in our community to create lasting change and impact.” Comcast concluded the event by making $100,000 in donations to Planada non-profit organizations. United Way of Merced County received $75,000 for storm relief efforts and other community programs and the San Joaquin Regional Broadband Consortium received $25,000 to support digital equity efforts. These grants were distributed through Project UP, Comcast’s $1 billion commitment to reach tens of millions of people in order to advance digital equity and help create a future of unlimited possibilities. “As the world we live in continues to become more digital than ever before, we must work with our business and community partners like Comcast to make sure all communities -- especially our rural communities like Planada -- are connected to the growing digital economy,” said Jose Gonzalez, Superintendent of Planada School District. “I’m thankful for public-private partnerships such as this one with Comcast, because it allows us to work together to provide the necessary tools and resources for our students to succeed and create vital educational opportunities for them in the future.” “After this season of unprecedented, severe weather, Merced County has especially felt the impact of the recent storm damage, said Robert Hypes, Interim CEO, United Way of Merced County. “From the very beginning, Comcast worked with us to support the communities of Merced County. During the first wave of storms in January, Comcast provided WiFi services to the evacuation shelters to keep our communities connected and safe. When the City of Merced issued an evacuation order for areas with flooding risk from Bear Creek, Comcast joined forces with us and delivered food, beverages, and personal hygiene kits to over 300 people at the Merced County Fairground evacuation center. We are so excited that Comcast will continue its partnership with the United Way of Merced County, granting us $50,000 to support disaster relief efforts. We plan on using this contribution to fund long-term recovery efforts and fill unmet needs among our residents and their families.” When Comcast’s network expansion is completed, Planada residential customers will have access to reliable and fast Xfinity Internet and Mobile services, including Internet Essentials, which provides eligible customers with high-speed Internet access at home for $9.95 per month (plus tax) and Internet Essentials Plus for $29.95 per month (plus tax) for qualified families/individuals. If individuals sign up for the Federal Government’s Affordable Connectivity Program, which offers a $30 per month subsidy ($75 per month in tribal areas), then both tiers of service are effectively free. For local businesses, Comcast Business offers a suite of connectivity, communications, networking, cybersecurity, wireless, and managed solutions to help organizations of different sizes prepare for what’s next. Powered by the Xfinity 10G Network Comcast’s next-generation network and Internet experience are powering homes today and into the future: More information about the Xfinity 10G Network can be found here. About Comcast Corporation  Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA) is a global media and technology company. From the connectivity and platforms we provide, to the content and experiences we create, our businesses reach hundreds of millions of customers, viewers, and guests worldwide. We deliver world-class broadband, wireless, and video through Xfinity, Comcast Business, and Sky; produce, distribute, and stream leading entertainment, sports, and news through brands including NBC, Telemundo, Universal, Peacock, and Sky; and bring incredible theme parks and attractions to life through Universal Destinations & Experiences. Visit www.comcastcorporation.com for more information. Jon Koriel +1 925-315-2690 jon_koriel@comcast.com Joan Hammel +1 925-519-4874 joan_hammel@comcast.com Paid Post: Content produced by TheNewswire.com. The Globe and Mail was not involved, and material was not reviewed prior to publication. All market data (will open in new tab) is provided by Barchart Solutions. Copyright © 2024. Information is provided 'as is' and solely for informational purposes, not for trading purposes or advice. For exchange delays and terms of use, please read disclaimer (will open in new tab). © Copyright 2024 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. Andrew Saunders, President and CEO