Walmart and Salesforce are offering the technology to help retailers with timely fulfillment and ... [+] delivery. Walmart Commerce Technologies and Walmart GoLocal today announced a partnership with Salesforce to provide retailers with access to technologies and solutions to power frictionless local pickup and delivery for shoppers. Both Walmart Commerce Technologies Store Assist local fulfillment app and Walmart GoLocal local delivery solutions will be available through Salesforce AppExchange to help retailers thrive in today’s rapidly-changing shopping world. Walmart Commerce Technologies and Walmart GoLocal are a part of Walmart’s efforts to bring its leading technology and solutions to other retailers. Customers today expect seamless in-store and online experiences with convenient fulfillment options, but creating and managing these complex in-house, omnichannel solutions can be a challenge for retailers. For over a decade, the world’s largest retailer has pioneered and scaled innovative omnichannel technologies. Walmart’s partnership with Salesforce will provide retailers access to the same scalable technologies that Walmart uses. These solutions will enable personalized and easy commerce experiences with real-time order visibility and reliable local pickup and delivery. Walmart, which leverages its stores as fulfillment centers, is helping retailers use their own stores to fill orders through the Walmart Commerce Technologies Store Assist app. With Store Assist, retailers can optimize in-store fulfillment by increasing picking accuracy, speed and efficiency. The app will provide a seamless handoff experience between employees and customers or third-party delivery drivers. With Walmart GoLocal, retailers of all sizes will have access to white-label, delivery-as-a-service technology to power a frictionless delivery experience for their customers. “Through this partnership, retailers can leverage the same innovative and scalable technologies that power Walmart’s pickup and delivery experiences,” said Anshu Bhardwaj, senior vice president, technology strategy and commercialization, Walmart Global Technology. “The same technology that powers Store Assist has enabled Walmart to fulfill over 830 million orders across over 4,700 Walmart stores. Together with Salesforce, retailers can scale their business and deliver the personalized, convenient experiences shoppers expect.” “Shoppers continue to expect brands to deliver highly connected and frictionless experiences across physical and digital touchpoints. In fact, one in five online orders placed the weekend before Christmas were picked up in store,” said Rob Garf, vice president and general manager of retail, Salesforce. “With the combined power of Walmart and Salesforce, retailers can drive success with best-in-class technology to advance their omnichannel capabilities, drive efficiency, and ensure that every purchase quickly gets into the hands of shoppers – no matter where they are.” With Walmart Store Assist and Walmart GoLocal, retailers using Salesforce will be able to access turnkey fulfillment and local delivery solutions backed by Walmart’s best-in-class technology, logistics expertise, and world class delivery infrastructure. With the Salesforce partnership, Walmart is serving up everything retailers need to manage local fulfillment and delivery. They can simply plug it in and go. Through the partnership, Walmart and Salesforce are providing a cost-effective solution for businesses of all sizes to meet – and exceed – customer expectations. With Walmart and Salesforce, retailers will be able to manage local deliveries through Walmart GoLocal and serve their customers with scalable local delivery solutions that offer reliable, same-day delivery under a white-label experience, which allows them to keep the customer experience under their brand. Salesforce Commerce Cloud and Order Management can help retailers efficiently manage their customers’ omnichannel shopping experience across one platform while leveraging AI and real-time data to give customers connected, personalized experiences while driving efficiency and profitability across the omnichannel shopping journey. “Retailers are looking for ways to improve cost efficiency while meeting their customers’ needs, no matter where or how they choose to shop. Fulfillment from stores is an effective way to achieve these goals and serve customers quickly and reliably through local delivery,” said Harsit Patel, vice president and general manager of Walmart GoLocal. “We look forward to connecting more retailers with the customizable, local delivery solutions they need.” Walmart’s proven technologies improve checkout experiences and quickly improve deployment agility and reduce point of sale complexity. Retailers can enable omni retail tech and power integrated curbside pickup and delivery for employees and customers using customizable technologies. With commerce services, retailers can accelerate their AI efforts by leveraging Walmart’s machine learning models to improve inventory forecasting, pricing and personalize customer shopping experiences. “We're invested in a thriving retail ecosystem,” Walmart’s Commerce Technologies web site says. “From launching one of the first private satellite networks to developing deep learning AI, Walmart has continuously evolved to put the customer first.” 