Basketball great Tamika Catchings certainly knows how to make an assist. Tea’s Me Café, the tea shop brand owned by retired Basketball Hall of Famer, has expanded to higher ed and she’s helped another Indy food entrepreneur get into the space. Tea’s Me opened a location at Ivy Tech Community College in Indianapolis on Jan. 17 along with a café operated by soul food caterer Real Taste Catering. Tea’s Me new grab and go kiosk at Ivy Tech’s Bowen Commons food court, 2535 N. Capitol Ave., serves breakfast, wraps, salads, bagels, muffins, smoothies, desserts, bottled teas, cups of tea, and coffee weekdays from 7:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Also on Jan. 17, Real Taste Catering, known for its soul food, began operating a café serving breakfast, daily specials and vegan offerings. The menu has fried and grilled chicken, burgers, pizza, Friday fish fries, salads and desserts. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Real Taste Café will serve from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday initially; but will eventually be open on weekends. The commons is open to the public, which will be able to indulge weekend breakfast buffets and order pans of fried fish and chicken for pickup, said Mark J. Webster Sr., who started Real Taste with his wife, Deveree Webster, 25 years ago. They'd operated a small restaurant, Real Taste Place, in 2002 before converting to catering and food service to schools. “People are really, really happy to be able to get Real Taste on the streets now,” Webster said. The college had sought dining options that would appeal to students and neighbors in the food desert and approached Tea’s Me about going into the space that had housed a Starbucks kiosk. Tea’s Me, though, wanted to be part of a team and reached out to caterers to join it in the food court to run the kitchen and grill area previously occupied by Sodexo. Tea's Me took names to Ivy Tech administrators and Mark Webster Sr.'s Real Taste got the nod. While Tea’s Me had refreshments, wraps and lighter food options, Real Taste would be able to provide for those looking for more substantive meals, Catchings said. “I felt like if we're going to do this partnership, it's important for it to be well rounded,” she said. “And I felt like that was an important aspect; being able to bring in two vendors to grow this.” Real Taste would work well for the appetites of community neighbors, said Darla Harmon, general manager for Tea’s Me. “We are both very community based. And with this location, it was just the right fit together," Harmon said. “Both of us have a huge passion for youth as well.” Tea’s Me plans to partner with the college for community events. “To be able to serve students and serve that community directly around it was a great opportunity all around," Catchings said. The Ivy Tech location is Tea’s Me’s third. Catchings purchased Tea’s Me at 140 E. 22nd St. in 2017, selling globally-sourced loose-leaf tea and food; but also leaning big into community programming with book readings, open mics and cultural events. The Olympic gold medalist opened a second location inside of Tarkington Park's café building in 2021. More expansion is in the works for the business. “Franchising is the ultimate goal as we continue to build,” Catchings said. “Specifically, when you look at why we got into our second location in the middle of the Butler Tarkington area in the park with the partnership that my sister and our Catch the Stars Foundation, being able to impact underprivileged youth. That park is a big testimony to what we want to do and how we want to continue to build up different communities.” Contact IndyStar reporter Cheryl V. Jackson at cheryl.jackson@indystar.com or 317-444-6264. Follow her on Twitter:@cherylvjackson.