Business Journal Daily | The Youngstown Publishing Company NEW MIDDLETOWN, Ohio – Officials in New Middletown attempting to determine interest and support for construction of a community center are seeking input from those in a 10-mile radius. The survey will be distributed throughout the community during the month of March, seeking to determine what amenities in a community center would best meet the needs of those planning to utilize a community center, including types of uses and costs for the rental. Predicting that people may come to use it within 20 minutes of the village, officials would like those living within the area extending from Campbell and Youngstown to the north, East Palestine to the south, Mount Jackson to the east and North Lima to the west to participate in the survey. “This community center is meant to be a place where we can all come together an engage in conversation, activities and recreation. It is not meant to compete with sister centers, yet complement them,” states Councilwoman Ginner Younger. The village is in the early planning stages of the project. Paper surveys by a committee of interested residents will be distributed, but the survey also is available on the village website, posted on local Facebook pages and available through a QR Code. Surveys should be completed and returned by April 1 to the Village of New Middletown, 10711 Main Street, New Middletown, 44442. Those participating will be entered in a drawing to win one of four $50 Visa gift cards. Copyright 2024 The Business Journal, Youngstown, Ohio. Our Towns August 19 YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – Fire Chief Barry Finley on Monday declared the Realty Tower demolition progress sufficient for surrounding buildings to reopen in phases. “We can see the light at the end of the tunnel following the tragic events of May… Our Towns August 19 By Louis A. Zona YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – I was glad to see that each NBA coach still wears a tie when shouting out plays from the sidelines. It’s just great to see that the tradition of wearing a tie among… Our Towns August 14 YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – The owner and property management company of the Realty Tower said in a statement that the building will be demolished to the fourth floor this weekend, clearing the way for downtown to begin to reopen. A representative… Now Available Check out the latest issue of The Business Journal 
				Just $99/year or $10/month will get you full
				access to all of our articles every month.
			 
				Already a subscriber? Log In
 Stay up to date with all of our latest news, events, and resources All Content © 2024 Business Journal Daily | The Youngstown Publishing Company Flipbooks are available to paid subscribers only. Subscribe now or log in for access.