The community-led housing scheme is one of several taking place across the city Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters A demolition date is yet to be set for a disused community building in Barton Hill, which is set to make way for affordable housing and a new community space. The former home of Barton Hill Tenants Association had become overgrown with weeds and Bristol City Council, which owns the building, said it would cost £1.4 million to restore. The land will be given to the community, with Bristol Somali Resource centre (BSRC) named as the preferred bidder. It will now work with architects and a housing association over the finer details of the new building, which will be constructed on Avonvale Road to replace the crumbling Victorian building.  Barton Hill History Group has welcomed the plan to put the site back into community use, but said they are disappointed it has taken so long. The community-led housing scheme in Barton Hill is one of  several taking place across the city  to make use of disused council buildings and speed up the delivery of affordable housing across the city.  Read more: Tiny plot of land in South Bristol left vacant for decades It is hoped planning permission for the new building in Barton Hill will be approved by the summer of 2024, with the new homes expected to be completed by 2027. The demolition plan emerged in October 2021, after the council secured a government grant of £200,000 towards the project.  According to discussions with residents in community consultation meetings, Bristol Live understands work to pull the building down was due to commence at the start of this year, but the date had been pushed back to April due to the council awaiting the results of bat and bird nest surveys. The council has confirmed it is progressing with the plan, but has not yet confirmed the likely timeline.  A Bristol City Council spokesperson said: "The proposed demolition of the former Tenants’ Hall in Barton Hill will create a blank canvas with potential for a mixed use development, including much-needed new affordable housing and modern, purpose-built community space. “A planning decision on the demolition remains outstanding and no date has yet been set for the demolition of the building." BSRC have been operating out of a small office on Ducie Road for 10 years but demand for their support services has been increasing and there is also a need for an additional community space in Barton Hill. Abdullahi Farah from BSRC said that a new community space will benefit many families in the area who live in overcrowded accommodation and don’t have gardens. Mr Farah said: “We need to partner with a housing association to provide affordable housing for local people. We are going to get the land but not the building but we are trying to work with local people to salvage what we can.” BSRC, a local grassroots organisation which has won numerous awards for the support and advice they offer people with employment, housing difficulties, education and signposting, had been in discussions with the local history group over the possibility of saving the old building. But having been left empty for over a decade, it was shown to be more costly to restore than to demolish and construct a new building on the land. Alexander Smith, a local resident and member of the Barton Hill History Group, said: “Myself and the History Group are sad to learn that the Council will demolish the building in its entirety this year. But we welcome the conversations we had with the lead architects for the redevelopment who have expressed great interest in reclaiming the mixed pendant sandstone in the walls of the existing building to use in the new building that will replace the Tenants Hall. “This will not only pay homage to the history of the site, but also keep building costs down, I would imagine. Fingers crossed we will also get to reclaim the Tenants Association Club signage which still hangs inside and outside of the building, as well as any other items of interest which remain inside. "I also welcome the provision for a community space being included in the new development too, because community space is definitely something Barton Hill is greatly lacking." The local resident is currently compiling a history of the building, which had been popular with the local community before it closed.  The council spokesperson added: “Brownfield sites such as this are essential in addressing local housing needs and demand for community space and facilities as we continue to tackle the housing crisis and invest in our neighbourhoods.  “An independent assessment of the former Tenants’ Hall, commissioned in March 2021, found that repairing and converting the current building would cost over £1.4 million.  “In January the Bristol Somali Resource Centre (BSRC) were named as the preferred bidder to take forward plans to develop the site for affordable Community-Led Housing. Our Housing Delivery team are working with them to help develop their plans and secure funding and a housing association development partner.  “We continue to maintain contact with the Barton Hill History group and welcome their involvement in the project. We have agreed that where possible we will salvage some artefacts and materials from the existing structure and reference the original building in the design of its replacement."  Read next: Save Bristol Zoo campaign announces public meeting this week Document shows council's housing company expects delays to almost half of its projects In pictures - new North Street tower blocks begin to take shape Plans revealed for next phase of Bristol's biggest housing development this century Plans to transform former Pure Gym and Mecca Bingo site into 340 home development 