In this week’s Computer Weekly, we talk to Getty Images about the challenges of balancing human creativity with the risks and opportunities of generative AI. Our latest buyer’s guide examines the latest best practice in desktop IT management in a world of flexible working. And we review the benefits of open source software in the enterprise. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Despite a previous pledge that HMRC’s IR35 online status checker tool will be continually updated as employment cases and tribunals occur, a freedom of information request confirms CEST has not been updated since October 2019 Continue Reading Despite a previous pledge that HMRC’s IR35 online status checker tool will be continually updated as employment cases and tribunals occur, a freedom of information request confirms CEST has not been updated since October 2019 Continue Reading The Department for Science, Innovation and Technology is encouraging people to sign up to digital skills bootcamps as government-funded research reveals huge demand for entry-level and junior tech talent Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, 15 years since we first revealed the plight of subpostmasters, and four years since their High Court victory, the UK public and government are getting behind the victims, thanks to a TV dramatisation of the scandal. We look at government plans to quash convictions, and analyse the role of Horizon IT supplier Fujitsu in how the Post Office scandal developed. Read the issue now. Continue Reading There have been two main trends driving software development this year: artificial intelligence and low-code/no-code tooling Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, we detail the concerns of the BCS and other IT experts about the UK’s Online Safety Bill’s proposals to weaken end-to-end message encryption. Our buyer’s guide continues to look at the issues around integrating software-as-a-service applications, with a particular eye to the proliferation of SaaS during the Covid pandemic. Red Hat’s CEO Matt Hicks retails the company’s efforts to support generative AI. And we discover how immersive technologies can shape a brave new world of training and design. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Berlin-based Hygraph isn’t too busy indulging in the city’s fine doner kebabs (they invented them, remember) to roll out some interesting new technologies in line with its enterprise-grade ... Continue Reading The General Medical Council has dropped an investigation into an NHS whistleblower who exposed widespread clinical harm at Morecambe Bay Trust amid questions over disputed email evidence Continue Reading Netscape Communications Corporation ("Netscape") was a computer services company best known for its web browser, Navigator. Continue Reading A third-party cookie is a cookie that's placed on a user's device -- computer, cellphone or tablet -- by a website from a domain other than the one the user is visiting. Continue Reading CEO of encrypted messaging service Element says Online Safety Bill could pose a risk to the encrypted comms systems used by Ukraine Continue Reading In computers, the Apache Software Foundation is a nonprofit organization dedicated to maintaining many open source software projects. Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, with the UK government becoming the latest administration to ban TikTok, we ask whether the controversial social media app is really a security threat to enterprises. Technology guru Bruce Schneier tells us about the need to take back control of AI and the personal data it relies on. And we look at how firms are trying – and failing – to make AI work for online content moderation. Read the issue now. Continue Reading SAP's Benjamin Stoeckhert reveals the most common types of blockchain applications, explains SAP product offerings and gives tips on how to get started. Continue Reading The use of artificial intelligence for content moderation is likely to become more pronounced with the passage of the Online Safety Bill, but practitioners and experts question the efficacy of this approach Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, with major tech companies announcing thousands of job cuts, we examine what the cost-of-living crisis means for IT leaders and tech professionals. We analyse what you need to consider when reversing systems out of the cloud and back on-premise. And Very Group’s CIO talks about the post-pandemic challenges facing online retailers. Read the issue now. Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, the BBC faces in-depth scrutiny over its digital plans – we take a look at progress. Do you need to keep data forever? We examine the technologies behind infinite storage. And we find out about the digital transformation challenges in vehicle dealerships. Read the issue now. Continue Reading A web stack is the collection of software used for web development that incorporates, at a minimum, an operating system (OS), a programming language, database software and a web server. Continue Reading A dangerous vulnerability in Google Chrome and Chromium-based browsers could have put billions of users’ files at risk of being stolen Continue Reading A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) is the complete address of an internet host or computer. Continue Reading A search string is the combination of text, numbers and sometimes special characters that a user enters into an application's search form to find specific types of information. Continue Reading Adobe Flash is a software platform used to create rich digital content containing animation, graphic effects, streaming video and other interactive elements to deliver engaging user experiences over many platforms, including desktops and mobile devices. Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, our latest buyer’s guide looks at application programming interfaces (APIs) and how they can connect internal and external business processes. We examine the challenges and opportunities of using AI in healthcare. And we find out how retailers are turning to specialist apps to reduce food waste. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Virtual and augmented reality may be changing the game, but such cutting-edge applications run ahead of many regulatory issues. How can the metaverse avoid uncertainties that could slow the adoption of XR and related enabling technologies? Continue Reading Microsoft faces calls for ‘transparency’ over tools in Office 365 that allow employers to read staff emails and monitor their computer use at work Continue Reading NetApp is busily reinventing itself as a cloud services provider, with its competition years behind, according to its public cloud vice-president Continue Reading Leading mobile processor firm inks deal to be systems solutions provider for legendary motor marque in strategic technology collaboration aimed at helping to boost the manufacturer’s digital transformation Continue Reading Among the newer names adding their two-pennyworth to the noise in the low-code space is open source Budibase. Aligned to work in the web software application development space, Budibase (pronounced ... Continue Reading Software researchers from all over Europe are sounding the alarm: to maintain a strong international competitive position, more financial resources must be committed to software research Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, 12 years after we broke the story, victims of the Post Office IT scandal finally have their criminal convictions overturned. We take a virtual tour of a Microsoft datacentre and meet a server called ‘Mega-Godzilla Beast’. And we find out how technology is transforming Nationwide Building Society. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Forrester analysts explore the benefits of combining artificial intelligence with automation Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, the digital chief at Audi UK discusses how the carmaker is tackling the slump in new car sales. One of the largest global malware botnets has been taken down, but how much of a blow will it be for cyber criminals? And we hear how one county council made huge savings on its SAP installation. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Drew Griffiths is Cohesion CEO at Acquia, a company for its cloud based hosting, support and services for Drupal (an open source content management framework). Citing the obvious concerns that have ... Continue Reading When Dominic Cummings wasn’t using his press conference to brag about how many trees his dad has, you can bet he was going on about being into viruses before anyone else. The thing is, deep down, ... Continue Reading Kubernetes persistent container storage that runs from inside the cluster will add application storage profiles for applications such as Apache Kafka, Elasticsearch and Postgres Continue Reading WordPress website builder company Elementor has launched a new people-focused offering (i.e. there’s a human element here, we’re not just talking about users) known as Elementor Experts. This ... Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, after the storms that swept across the UK, we look at the technology behind Weather Source’s meteorological data service. Oracle and SAP are battling over customers to upgrade their ERP systems to the cloud. And we report from the world’s biggest retail tech show. Read the issue now. Continue Reading While the internet existed way before the Worldwide Web (WWW), the web changed everything. Its success has as much to do with the simplicity of using an HTTP web browser, as the fact that it was ... Continue Reading When a report surfaced last month detailing a ‘severe vulnerability’ in Kubernetes, the popular, open-source software for managing Linux applications deployed within containers, many of us will ... Continue Reading The cyber security community has welcomed the improvements in the latest version of the Chrome browser, especially when it comes to generating strong, unique passwords Continue Reading Imperva security researcher urges Google Chrome users to update to the latest version after discovering a vulnerability that could be exploited to uncover private data Continue Reading Cloud security firm Qualys, like every vendor today, is pushing the automation mantra. The company’s Web Application Scanning (WAS) 6.0 now supports Swagger version 2.0 to allow developers to ... Continue Reading The history of cloud computing starts way back in the 1960s, when an “intergalactic computer network” was first suggested, and in recent years the technology has served to shake-up both the enterprise IT and supplier landscape. Continue Reading This is a guest post for the Computer Weekly Developer Network written by Eran Kinsbruner, lead technical evangelist at Perfecto. Kinsbruner wants to uncover the mechanics behind an application ... Continue Reading Containers often need persistent storage, but how do you achieve that? We look at the key options, including Docker volumes versus bind mounts, and Docker Volume Plugins Continue Reading Adobe has announced it is to stop updating and distributing Flash Player in just over three years’ time Continue Reading Blockchain technologies will enable many new and disruptive business models than the internet itself, an expert predicts Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, we hear from Google executives about how the firm builds, tests and secures its global datacentre estate. We analyse the implications for the UK’s broadband infrastructure after the BT and Openreach split. And we find out how artificial intelligence and the internet of things are coming together to deliver new technologies. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Santander bank wants to make its staff more productive through mobile apps, which it will create alongside IBM Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, our latest buyer’s guide examines the emerging innovations and best practice in mobile app development. We find out how Microsoft and Amazon are opening up their artificial intelligence tools to developers to expand take-up of the technology. And GE’s CIO talks about the digital transformation of one of the world’s industrial giants. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Singapore is the top spender on IT for banking of all developed economies in the Apac region, while Indonesia has the fastest growth rate in IT spending Continue Reading We look at how Amazon's voice service, Alexa, can be used to control smart home devices Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, as Ofcom moves to force a split between BT and its Openreach subsidiary, we examine whether the telecoms regulator’s action will improve the roll-out of full-fibre broadband. Our buyer’s guide looks at trends in client access devices and how to support a variety of user preferences. And IT leaders discuss the roadmap to a software-defined infrastructure. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Here is a rundown of Computer Weekly’s most popular ANZ enterprise IT articles for 2016 Continue Reading The UK ranks low in terms of how much it invests in the ICT infrastructure as a proportion of GDP Continue Reading In this quarter’s CW Nordics, we look at the impact of Nokia layoffs on Finland, and in particular the city of Espoo which is home to both Nokia and Microsoft’s Finnish headquarters. We also look at how Denmark’s Bang & Olufsen is taking control of sales data with cloud-based software. We also hear from Google cloud chief Diane Greene, as well as the CIOs of Norwegian bank DNB, Scandinavian Airlines and Swedish municipality Vara. Read the issue now. Continue Reading Coca-Cola European Partners, which bottles 15 billion litres of soft drinks each year, is working with an HR technology supplier to develop flexible rewards packages for its 25,000 employees Continue Reading The biggest barrier to insurance companies adopting digital technology is their heavy reliance on legacy IT systems Continue Reading Australian CIOs must plan digital platforms that can connect to customer and business networks – or risk losing customers Continue Reading Ocado's head of data, Dan Nelson, reveals details of how the online grocer is using machine learning to bolster the responsiveness of its customer service teams Continue Reading In this quarter’s CW Middle East ezine, we feature the IT journeys of three companies in the region with detailed analysis of recent IT projects that were designed to support business transformation in a changing world. We hear how Bahrain-based conglomerate Kanoo Group is dealing with a company-wide digital transformation, Zahid Group’s biggest-ever IT investment, and how Rotana Hotels is centralising security. Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, our exclusive UK salary survey shows that IT leaders are benefiting from generous bonuses as technology becomes part of mainstream business. We find out how the internet of things is transforming the railway industry. And the CIO of the Williams Formula One team explains how data analytics is boosting race performance. Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, we hear from Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella about how the software giant wants to use cloud, machine learning and innovative datacentre technologies to open up access to information. Our new buyer’s guide looks at the emerging trend of network function virtualisation. And we examine the role of blockchain in cloud data security. Read the issue now. Continue Reading It’s been 50 years since Computer Weekly's launch on 22 September 1966. To mark this achievement, we have compiled a special edition of the magazine to reflect on how much the British technology industry has contributed over that time – and, of course, to celebrate our role in keeping IT professionals in touch with those developments – week-in, week-out, for half a century. Read this 100-page anniversary special now. Continue Reading IT spending across four major economic regions will increase by around 4% in 2016, but Europe is the least certain Continue Reading In this month’s CW ASEAN, we look at why companies in Southeast Asia are embracing cloud. Increasingly, companies in the region are using the cloud by putting their applications there. Why is the cloud so compelling? What is the profile of these ASEAN companies? And what is it they are choosing to shift to the cloud? Continue Reading Blockchain technology allows distributed retention of encrypted data and is at the heart of cooperative cloud storage Continue Reading In this issue, we profile Odeon and UCI Cinemas Group’s use of hybrid cloud as part of a digital transformation programme aimed at enhancing customer experience and staving off competition from on-demand streaming. We also look at the summertime game of musical chairs at the Government Digital Service, and at 50 years of business software. Continue Reading The Nordic countries are renowned for being home to thriving tech startup scenes, so it is hardly surprising that IT is a disruptive force in the region. In this quarter’s CW Nordics ezine we look more closely at how the Nordic region is being affected by technology disruption across industry sectors and how organisations are reacting to it. Continue Reading Reports suggest managed cloud company could be sold in a matter of days, ending its time as a publicly listed company Continue Reading In this issue of CW ASEAN, we hear from AIA’s CTO on how tech-savvy ASEAN populations are shaking up enterprise IT. Biswa Misra tells CW ASEAN about his role and the particular challenges he faces in winning customers in the young, urban and tech-savvy ASEAN nations. Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, we find out how one of the UK’s biggest mail order retailers – N Brown, owner of JD Williams and Simply Be – is moving to digital. We examine the growing importance of network function virtualisation and what it means for CIOs. And a year after Microsoft turned Lync into Skype for Business, we assess how the unified communications product is faring. Read the issue now. Continue Reading HMRC has awarded Accenture a contract that will run until 2020 to digitise the UK tax system Continue Reading Following the Brexit vote, Fintech Times editor Bird Lovegod describes how financial services IT startups are getting on with business as usual Continue Reading Software analytics company New Relic will now support web applications built with current and future Single-Page Application (SPA) frameworks and libraries. But what is a SPA anyway? Continue Reading Westminster Magistrates’ Court hears evidence from medical experts that alleged hacker Lauri Love is at risk of suicide if extradited to the US Continue Reading Remote management supplier denies not notifying customers about impending price rises and renewal dates, as end-user complaints mount Continue Reading The Nordics is seen as a pioneer of the latest IT. The populations of the region are keen to try out new IT services and it has a large population of IT startups creating them.
In banking, for example, the region is pushing the tech boundaries. One of the most overt changes digital technology has brought to people’s lives is how they do their day-to-day banking. Most developed economies are seeing the same trends: bank branches closing; people using cashless payments; and mobile phones becoming the most popular banking tools. But the Nordics could be a pioneer.
In this quarter’s issue of CW Nordics, we feature a debate about whether Sweden, the region’s biggest economy, could become the first country in the world to go cashless. Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, the recent global scandal revealed by the Panama Papers relied on graph databases to uncover secrets from huge volumes of data – we look at the business benefits of the technology. Most organisations are failing to take basic IT security measures – we examine why. And we analyse the latest flash storage innovations. Read the issue now. Continue Reading IBM starts the ball rolling on what it would mean to program a universal quantum computer Continue Reading In this week’s Computer Weekly, we look at the key characteristics of successful leaders as digital transformation becomes a business priority. We examine Microsoft’s plans for exploiting the internet of things and the role of its Azure cloud platform. And we look back at British IT history after WW2 as the first part of our new series of articles for Computer Weekly’s 50th anniversary celebrations. Read the issue now. Continue Reading HR IT director Mark Judd explains how engineering and aerospace firm swapped ageing ERP and spreadsheets for a company-wide core HR system Continue Reading SaaS and PaaS combined contributed $583m in third quarter, up 57% in US dollar terms, while IaaS was down 2% in dollars to $152m Continue Reading Streaming firm details the challenges it faced during seven-year push to wind down its datacentres and move everything into the AWS public cloud Continue Reading Independently deployable bits of code can be used to build agile applications. We look at some of the main players Continue Reading Applications built out of independently deployable modules are the future of flexible solution development Continue Reading Failure to update to the latest version of Internet Explorer by 12 January 2016 could put users at risk, Microsoft warns Continue Reading Investigative journalist and documentary maker James Bamford was among the first to uncover the secrets of the US National Security Agency and its global surveillance Continue Reading Networking giant outlines plans to treble the size of the Cisco Meraki team by 2017 Continue Reading Budget retailer has turned to Rackspace to ensure its first foray into online retail can withstand the seasonal rush Continue Reading Lebara was a Europe-centric, single-product telco until the cloud paved the way for it to grow its service portfolio and expand overseas Continue Reading A poll of UK IT decision makers suggests just 37% know exactly where their enterprise data is located Continue Reading Datacentre provider launches private internet connection to Amazon Web Services to help customers build hybrid clouds Continue Reading The Google Cultural Institute has partnered with The British Museum to help make its collections accessible to people around the world Continue Reading The Met Office aims to realise a range of socio-economic benefits to UK industries thanks to improved forecasting with its new Cray supercomputer Continue Reading British American Tobacco uses custom profiling software to cut the number of applications managers have to screen by half, as part of a major re-organisation of its recruitment processes Continue Reading MySQL 5.7 has been released with next-generation hardware in mind, offering greater interoperability with Oracle and NoSQL database technologies Continue Reading Google ups ante in ongoing war to dethrone Microsoft as the enterprise's preferred provider of cloud-based productivity tools Continue Reading Browser company Opera opts for slick internal IT as it competes with Apple and Google for skilled technologists Continue Reading Cloud services company Workday is setting its sights on growth as it expands from cloud HR, to finance, learning and analytics Continue Reading Premier League football clubs are ramping up their digital strategies this season Continue Reading The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... In light of the recent CrowdStrike outage, security teams should ask their vendors 10 key questions to ensure they're prepared ... Product updates announced at Black Hat USA 2024 can help security teams better manage constantly changing attack surfaces and ... The global IT outage caused by an errant CrowdStrike channel file update dominated security news last month. But there were still... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Nutanix and Dell are expanding their partnership with a new appliance out now and a new HCI model that melds Dell PowerFlex with ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
