Have you ever been in a scenario where you lost all your work because of the power cut? Well, to prevent any further similar mishaps, you need a good UPS (Uninterrupted Power Supply). In this article, we have curated an extensive list of the best UPS in India to help you compare and pick the most reliable one as per your budget and requirements. In the end, we have also provided answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about this product. So, keep scrolling! V Guard is a highly valued brand name in India. The Sesto 600 is equipped with ZPD technology to provide adequate power to different devices and its unique design protects it against high voltage. With other features like off-mode battery charging and intelligent no-load shutdown, this product comes with 2 years of warranty. We assure you that this is the best UPS for a home. If you are searching for the best UPS for a computer, the Zeb U725 should be your perfect choice. It is compatible with most generators and extremely stable during voltage fluctuations. It comes with a microcontroller and can charge in its sleep mode. It provides a backup of approximately 1 hour and is available at an affordable price of INR 1,880. The APC Back-UPS BX600C-IN has a perfect cord length of 1.22 meters and is a highly recommended product for your computer and home electronics. It has a uniquely compact design and provides effective surge protection. Its noiseless operation and intelligent battery management make it more efficient. The Zebronics ZEB-U775 takes only 4 hrs to charge completely and is the best UPS for gaming PC, equipped with all the features that you desire from effective backup support. It is priced at an affordable INR 2,499, equipped with various multi-purpose features. Frequent power cuts are a common thing in India. To prevent the risk of losing your essential data from your system, you need a well-suited UPS that can perfectly support your system when it gets disconnected from the primary power supply. It gives your system time to settle every task before it shuts down. Having a suitable UPS is crucial and so is its selection because of the many available options. Therefore, after thoroughly researching the various factors, we have brought you this buying guide that shall help you pick the best UPS in India. We have incorporated all the details that you should be aware of while picking the best UPS from this rank list. With so many options available in the market, we understand how difficult it can be to choose the best UPS from the basket. Therefore, for an easier glance, after considering different factors, we have mentioned below a rank-list of the top 10 UPS available in the Indian market along with their prices. S No. Product Name Price (in INR) 1 Zebronics Zeb-U725 2,299 2 APC Back-UPS BX600C-IN 3,299 3 Zebronics ZEB-U775 2,499 4 iBall Nirantar UPS 622 2,776 5 V Guard UPS Sesto 600 2,893 6 Luminous Pro 600 2,450 7 APC Back-UPS Pro BR1500G-IN 17,299 8 APC 900VA Line Interactive UPS 6,499 9 APC Back-UPS BE700Y-IND 5,879 10 Foxin FPS-755 2,478 Without any further ado, let us move on to an elaboration about these UPS to help you pick the best as per your requirements. The Zebronics Zeb-U725 is among the best UPS purchases you can make to back up your desktop computer. It is completely compatible with most generators, and the output voltage is extremely stable, within a margin of 10%. Its operation is microcontroller-based and can charge in sleep mode. The UPS has a capacity of 600 VA and a typical transfer time of 4-8 ms. Additionally, it takes just 6 hours to recharge up to 90% after a complete discharge. Brand - Zebronics Price - Rs. 2,299 Battery Capacity - 600 VA Warranty - 1 year Wattage - 360 Watts Audio Wattage - 360 Watts Special Features - Microcontroller, Sleep mode charging, LED indicator, Line-interactive UPS, Auto restart, Double Boost, Automatic Voltage Regulation (AVR), Wide Input Range Charging Time - 6 hrs  Ratings and Reviews - 53% 5-star rating followed by a 28% 4-star rating Pros Cons It is a generator compatible product This UPS is not compatible with a router It comes with overload protection to save your connected device from damage cost Battery backup is only for an hour It does not require a connector. It comes with a dedicated plug point. Compact size and lightweight The APC Back-UPS BX600C-IN is the best UPS you can use for your desktop computer and all home electronics. This UPS is compatible with any stand or cabinet in your home or office due to its unique compact design. Additionally, it provides efficient surge protection and 60 VA of backup with an output frequency of 47 - 64 Hz. It has a wide input voltage range of 145 V - 290 V and can provide up to 75 minutes of backup time, depending on the load applied. Brand - APC Price - Rs. 3,299 Battery Capacity - 600 VA Warranty - 2 years Wattage - 360 Watts Audio Wattage - 360 Watts Special Features - Long-lasting battery, Alarm notification facility, Power saving, Cold start capability, Noiseless operation, LED status display, Intelligent battery management Charging Time - 5 to 6 hours Ratings and Reviews - 50% 5-star followed by a 20% 4-star rating Pros Cons Beneficial both for home and office usage The 3 outlets for different pin sockets are too close to each other Gives alerts of the changing utility power and the UPS power conditions Offers only up to 30 minutes of battery backup Equipped with the facility to self-test Compatible on a generator for small loads The Zebronics ZEB-U775 is perhaps the best UPS for gaming PC, equipped with all the features you would desire as effective backup support. The microcontroller-based UPS is line interactive. It has overload protection and is compatible with generators. You can charge the UPS in sleep mode as it has a wide range of compatible input voltages. The output voltage range is 195 V AC - 262 V AC with a frequency of 50/60 Hz. It has a transfer time of 4 ms and is equipped with a flashing LED light to indicate charging mode, sleep mode, or working mode.  Brand - Zebronics Price - Rs. 2,499 Battery Capacity - 650 VA Warranty - 1 year Wattage - 360 Watts Audio Wattage - 360 Watts Special Features - Line-interactive UPS, Micro-controller based, Overload protection, Generator compatible, Boost & Buck AVR, Sleep mode charging, Wide input range, Alarm Battery mode, Double boost  Charging Time - 4 hours Ratings and Reviews - 53% 5-star followed by a 25% 4-star rating Pros Cons The time taken to charge completely is very less No digital display Overload, short circuit, and over-discharge protection Not compatible with a router Automatic Voltage regulator and an auto-restart function when the AC recovers  The iBall Nirantar UPS 622 is a line-interactive UPS with 600 VA capacity. It has a built-in voltage regulator that helps protect against low voltages and overvoltages. It has a single LED indicator that you can use to signify different modes, from charging to sleep to malfunction. It also has a beeping alarm that notifies the user about malfunctions and low charge. The charging of the iBall Nirantar UPS 622 is decently fast, with the capability to charge up to 90% in just 6 hours. Brand - iBall Price - Rs. 2,776 Battery Capacity - 600 VA Warranty - 1 year Wattage - 360 Watts Audio Wattage - 360 Watts Special Features - Line-interactive UPS, Boost and Buck AVR, Multiple LED indications, Beeping alarm notification, Auto restart while AC recovery, Generator compatible Charging Time - 6 hours Ratings and Reviews - 50% 5-star followed by a 25% 4-star rating Pros Cons It is the best UPS for small businesses It is not a good option if you are looking out the best UPS for computer LCD display to provide the UPS status The built material is of a little poor quality Provides connected equipment with protection during power surges The V Guard UPS Sesto 600 can simultaneously power your CPU and monitor and your printer and speakers. The UPS design protects it against high voltage and ensures that usage is entirely safe. The battery has 4400 Watt-hours worth of battery supply, which translates to about 600 VA. The UPS can provide 10 - 15 minutes of battery at full charge when used for multiple concurrent devices. Alongside all these features, the V Guard UPS Sesto 600 also comes with 24 months of warranty. Brand - V Guard Price - Rs. 2,893 Battery Capacity - 600 VA Warranty - 2 years Wattage - 300 Watts Audio Wattage - 300 Watts Special Features - Off-mode battery charging, High voltage protection, Intelligent no-load shutdown, ZPD technology Charging Time - 5 to 6 hours Ratings and Reviews - 49% 5-star followed by a 21% 4-star rating Pros Cons It is the best UPS for home purposes  It provides a poor battery backup capacity It is one of the most trusted brands for Indians  Do not work with a laser printer LED indicator with different modes  The Luminous Pro 600 comes from the house of one of the best UPS brands in India. The Pro 600 is designed thoughtfully for domestic usage with a decent full recharge time of 8 hours. It consumes 220 V voltage in inverter mode and has a battery rated 12 V, 7 Ah. The 600 VA capacity can provide several minutes of backup to whichever electronic device you use the UPS with. It also has an LED indicator that you can use to determine which UPS is playing. Brand - Luminous Price - Rs. 2,450 Battery Capacity - 600 VA Warranty - 2 years Wattage - 360 Watts Audio Wattage - 360 Watts Special Features - Good power support, Safety features, Overload protector Charging Time - 8 hours Ratings and Reviews - 55% 5-star followed by a 22% 4-star rating Pros Cons Features lithium-ion batteries Takes a lot of time to recharge the battery A reliable UPS to prevent sudden power outages that do not need maintenance Comparatively a heavy product of 7 kgs Different modes of LED indications  The APC Back-UPS Pro BR1500G-IN is the best UPS for small businesses, which can power several different devices concurrently. It has a sleek and ergonomic design, making it easy to understand and utilize. Additionally, it has an extensive input voltage range of 170 V - 294 V. It comes with 6 three-pin outlets, of which four have battery backup, and two have surge protection. Depending on the input load, it provides up to 5 hours of battery backup. Brand - APC Price - Rs. 17,299 Battery Capacity - 1500 VA Warranty - 2 years Wattage - 865 Watts Audio Wattage - 865 Watts Special Features - Battery alert notification, Line Interactive UPS, LCD Display, 4 sockets, 2 surge protection outlets, Automatic voltage regulator, Generator compatible, Cold start capability  Charging Time - 7 hours Ratings and Reviews - 57% 5-star followed by a 24% 4-star rating Pros Cons It is the best UPS for a gaming PC or small businesses A highly expensive product Comes with advanced safety measures Takes a lot of time to recharge A very sleek and fancy design Stays quiet during a changeover from mains to generator The APC 900VA Line Interactive UPS is a high-capacity UPS system that is compact to store and features an ergonomic design that makes it easy to use. You can use it with a host of different electronic devices, and its unique selling point is that it features a USB output that you can use to charge your mobile phone, smartwatch, or other devices. Being a line-interactive UPS based on a microcontroller platform, the UPS ensures an uninterrupted power supply. Brand - APC Price - Rs. 6,499 Battery Capacity - 900 VA Warranty - 1 year Wattage - 480 Watts Audio Wattage - 480 Watts Special Features - Line-interactive UPS, Power protection solution, Comprehensive VA range, Generator compatible Charging Time - 6 hours Ratings and Reviews - 45% 5-star followed by a 27% 4-star rating Pros Cons A good battery backup of 3 hrs A little heavy product of 6 kgs Noiseless operation The sockets are located very close to each other Fast charging facility Can handle high fluctuation voltages The APC Back-UPS BE700Y-IND is among the best UPS products that have a capacity of 700 VA. It has one three-pin socket for surge protection and three sockets that are battery-backed and surge protected. It allows you to safely shut down your PC even when the battery runs out and has an AVR built in that ensures that the battery is safely conserved even during overvoltage and under-voltage conditions. It has a simple system of notifications that relies on audio alarms and LED lights.  Brand - APC Price - Rs. 5,879 Battery Capacity - 700 VA Warranty - 2 years Wattage - 390 Watts Audio Wattage - 390 Watts Special Features - 3 battery backed cum surge protected sockets, Built-in AVR, LED interface with audio alarms, User resettable thermal cutoff Charging Time - 5 to 6 hours Ratings and Reviews - 53% 5-star followed by a 21% 4-star rating Pros Cons Highly reliable with a premium built material The battery backup is poor (only for 30 mins) 3 battery backed surge protected sockets The fan is a bit noisy at times There is an option to extend the warranty period The Foxin FPS-755 is a compact UPS capable of providing constant and uninterrupted supply for a significant amount of time. Making is perhaps the best UPS for computers depending on the load applied. It also can protect against battery overloading and voltage fluctuation. Using the AVR technology, the UPS attempts to bring extremely high and low voltages into a compatible range instead of going into battery mode as soon as voltage increases or decreases. Additionally, it comes with an LED indicator as well as an alarm.  Brand - Foxin Price - Rs. 2,478 Battery Capacity - 600 VA Warranty - 2 years Wattage - 360 Watts Audio Wattage - 360 Watts Special Features - Line-interactive UPS, Battery overload protection, Cold-start functionality, Boost & Buck AVR, LED indicator, audible alarm Charging Time - 5 to 6 hours Ratings and Reviews - 43% 5-star followed by a 26% 4-star rating Pros Cons Comes with 3 power outputs with 3 pin plug type Battery backup decreases gradually with time Different modes of alarm for different notifications Extremely light-weight and easy to use Choosing the best UPS for multi-purpose usage can be a tough call without knowing the same. If you have gone through the same struggle, here are some points we consider while curating our list of best options. We hope these considerations shall help you too to choose the best UPS as per your requirements:- Different UPS are compatible with different types and different numbers of devices. This ensures an easy and secure connection. Therefore, checking compatibility becomes very important to prevent limitations on our usage. A UPS should have enough power to offer to the various devices which would be connected to it. The higher the value of the power offered by the UPS, the better its performance and strength will be. The runtime is the time for which the UPS can backup your devices. It varies highly and depends upon the number and the type of devices connected with it. It is the time the UPS takes to get in operation when the system gets disconnected from the primary source of electricity. The lesser the transfer time, the faster the UPS will start to prevent interruptions in your work. The price of a product does not make it good or bad. There are many UPS in the market which are inexpensive and yet deliver the best performance for their users. Don’t overspend on UPS that does not fit your requirements. While some UPS are meant for domestic purposes, others can only be used for office uses. Some can also be used for both. Therefore, it becomes very important to consider the requirements while choosing the best UPS available. A UPS should make no or very minimal noise while working to prevent any sorts of disturbances while working. Here are our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about purchasing a new UPS in India. Our research tells us that the V Guard UPS Sesto 600 is the best UPS for home usage. It is not only budget-friendly but also compact and easy to use. No doubt, you can always rely on the brand services of V Guard. It depends upon the voltage and wattage of the UPS that you are picking. Generally, you can expect a minimum of 25 minutes of battery life. For example, the APC UPS (BR1500G-IN) has a backup time of 8 hours. But, this might differ from brand to brand and features to feature. After going through our top picks in UPS and their features, we hope you can easily find the best UPS in India that will meet your requirements. Our team of experts has done thorough, constructive research to provide viewers with the most appropriate information to help them make the best decision. However, if you decide to purchase one of the above-mentioned UPS, please make sure to cross-check the specifications and be an informed buyer. Hurry, don’t wait! Go, grab the best deal. To contact the Express Deals team, please drop an email to - expressdeal@newindianexpress.comWe will reach out to you in the next 48 business hours. Disclaimer: At Express Deals, we work with subject matter experts to bring you the latest in product innovations and Indian eCommerce trends. Express Deals participates in various affiliate programs, which means we may earn revenue on purchases made through the links to retailer sites. Please note that prices mentioned on the pages can vary based on retailer promotions on any given day. Also, do note that we will not be liable for any claim under applicable laws, including but not limited to the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, with respect to the featured products since they aren't directly sold by us. Follow Us © 2024 The New Indian Express Powered by Quintype