It's giving Wednesday and this time KETV is helping shine a light on hunger. The Food Bank for the Heartland hopes to raise enough money to buy 3 million meals for hungry families. It's giving Wednesday and this time KETV is helping shine a light on hunger. The Food Bank for the Heartland hopes to raise enough money to buy 3 million meals for hungry families. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. It's giving Wednesday and this time KETV is helping shine a light on hunger. The Food Bank for the Heartland hopes to raise enough money to buy 3 million meals for hungry families. It's not your typical lunch break.   "Everybody gets engaged and has a lot of fun doing it. You can really hear it with the team back here," said Paul Maass, chief executive officer at Scoular.  Taking a step away from the computer, Scoular employees stood shoulder to shoulder packing food for those in need. Filling each bag with milk, fruit, beans and boxing it all up to put into 670 backpacks.   "That will be distributed to 250 schools across the 93 counties we serve," said Stephanie Sullivan, communications manager for Food Bank for the Heartland.  These meals go directly to the 1 in 7 children experiencing food insecurity in Omaha and Western Iowa.   "They are helping in ways they probably don't even know and providing hope and nutritious meals to countless families across the heartland," Sullivan said.  She said resources aren't right at their fingertips anymore with the demand growing each day, community partnerships help them to serve 27 million meals this year.   "Because right now it's very challenging for heartland families and individuals who are spending a third of their budget on food right now," Sullivan said.  David Tomlinson with Scoular said with the help of other organizations within the community, they're taking it a step further and matching up to $320,000 in donations to the Food Bank.   "So many great companies, Farm Credit, ConAgra brands, Scoular, Bakers, all are donating to this cause," Tomlinson said. "It really helps us with our mission and that's, you know, feeding nutritious food to all of our community." Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.