The BiHDC (Bosnian Diasporic Conference) initiative announced the successful completion of the eighth Bosnian Diaspora conference, held from May 19 to 21 in Austin (Texas). The conference brought together 130 participants, mostly from North America but also from all over the world, and its main thematic focus was “Dynamic Landscapes: Cultivating Sustainable Change”. At the official opening of the conference, Bosnian-American journalist Riada Asimović Akyol emphasized the importance of free journalism and life experiences in telling stories. She emphasized the importance of authenticity in creating significant conversations within the Bosnian diaspora. Business and investment opportunities The first panel discussion of the conference was devoted to business and investment opportunities for the Bosnian diaspora. Dobrila-Boba Vukmanović from USAID presented the “Diaspora Invest” program, which supports business opportunities for the diaspora. Vukmanović pointed out that the diaspora brings a wealth of experiences and ideas from their destination countries to Bosnia and Herzegovina and emphasized how important these values are for the country’s development. Representatives of the Authority Partners company, Dino Bešlić and Nura Eston, spoke about the potential of the IT sector for stopping the “brain drain” and developing human capital, while Nedžad Lomigora from Falcon Venture Partners spoke about the underdeveloped sector of entrepreneurial capital and opportunities in the creation of startups. Mental health and emotional expression Artists Amina Bajrović and Adis Halilović presented their projects dealing with storytelling and using art to encourage mental health and emotional expression. The conference concluded with a panel on environmental sustainability in the Balkans, where Drilon Gashi from the Deloitte company, Emir Nurkić Kačapor from the Institute for Development Impact and Amir Memić from the Confluent Power company spoke. Conference participant Sabina Fidahić from Washington D.C. and Tuzla stated: “What impressed me the most is the passion our community shows in securing a bright future for Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is extremely important that we continue to have these conversations in order to find solutions that will benefit our country for generations to come. I was delighted to learn about so many outstanding initiatives and opportunities that the diaspora can get involved in, all of which are the result of great passion.” A feeling of isolation One of the organizers of this year’s conference, Azra Jakupović from Denver, Colorado, has supported this conference over the years as a participant, presenter and sponsor. “As a Bosnian in the diaspora, I have always felt a connection with my homeland, but also a sense of isolation. The Bosnian Diaspora Conference was a place where I could connect with other Bosnians from all over the world, find out the latest news and events in Bosnia, and share my own experiences. This conference is a truly special event and I am grateful to be a part of it.” The Bosnian Diaspora Conference in Austin provided an inspiring platform to connect, share ideas and explore opportunities for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This BiHDC initiative continuously strengthens ties within the diaspora, enabling participants to contribute to sustainable changes and positive development of their homeland and diaspora communities, the USAID Diaspora Invest Project announced. You must be logged in to post a comment. © 2012 Sarajevo Times. All Rights Reserved. Removed from reading list Sign in to your account 
Username or Email Address

 
Password

  Remember Me 


