In a report released yesterday, Andrew Lazar from Barclays maintained a Hold rating on TreeHouse Foods (THS – Research Report), with a price target of $57.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $52.77. Lazar covers the Consumer Defensive sector, focusing on stocks such as Conagra Brands, JM Smucker, and TreeHouse Foods. According to TipRanks, Lazar has an average return of 5.6% and a 57.89% success rate on recommended stocks.  TreeHouse Foods has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $59.25, which is a 12.28% upside from current levels. In a report released yesterday, Stifel Nicolaus also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $56.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> THS market cap is currently $2.97B and has a P/E ratio of 638.09.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 40 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of THS in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. TreeHouse Foods, Inc. is a food manufacturer servicing primarily in retail grocery and foodservice channels. Its products include non dairy powdered creamers and sweeteners; condensed, ready to serve, and powdered soups; refrigerated and shelf stable salad dressings and sauces; powdered drink mixes; single serve hot beverages; specialty teas; hot and cold cereals; macaroni and cheese, skillet dinners and other value added side dishes and salads; salsa and Mexican sauces; jams and pie fillings; pickles and related products; aseptic sauces; and liquid non dairy creamer. It operates through the following segments: Baked Goods, Beverages and Meal Solutions. The Baked Goods segment sells bars; candy; cookies; crackers; in-store bakery products; pita chips; pretzels; refrigerated dough; and retail griddle waffles, pancakes, and French toast. The Beverages segment sells broths; liquid non-dairy creamer; non-dairy powdered creamers; powdered drinks; ready-to-drink coffee; single serve hot beverages; specialty teas, and sweeteners. The Meal Solutions segment sells aseptic cheese and pudding products; baking and mix powders; hot cereals; jams, preserves, and jellies; macaroni and cheese; mayonnaise; Mexican, barbeque, and other sauces; pasta; pickles and related products; powdered soups and gravies; refrigerated and shelf stable dressings and sauces; skillet dinners; and table and flavored syrups. The company was founded on January 25, 2005 and is headquartered in Oak Brook, IL.  Read More on THS: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks