The agreement will drive the growth of artificial intelligence, clean tech and smart city technology Masdar City, Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence (MBZUAI), and The Catalyst, which is billed as the region’s first clean technology start-up accelerator, have announced a partnership to drive the growth of artificial intelligence (AI), clean tech, and smart city technology, including autonomous transportation, throughout the region. In a statement, the companies said that the partnership will support the exploration of several new initiatives, including an AI and clean energy centre, learning and business opportunities for students and graduates of MBZUAI, enhanced support for AI and clean energy start-ups, and using advanced data analytics and AI to improve the performance of buildings throughout Masdar City. The agreement was signed by Mohamed Al Breiki, the Executive Director of Sustainable Real Estate Development of Masdar City; Sultan Al Hajji, the Vice President of Public Affairs and Alumni Relations at MBZUAI; and Stephen Severance, Director of Growth of Masdar City for the Catalyst. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed during Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week. In mid October 2022, HPE and MBZUAI said they would build a supercomputer to tackle scientific and engineering challenges.  Al Breiki said, “This agreement will help strengthen Masdar City’s position as a hub for clean tech, AI, and autonomous transport start-ups. It will also build on the already strong connections between these industries and help harness the power of youth and start-up enterprises to make meaningful change.” As part of the agreement, MBZUAI graduates may be eligible for special packages to fast-track their startup enterprises within Masdar City, while current MBZUAI students may be able to participate in paid internships with various companies in the Masdar City Free Zone. The three entities will also explore the development of a new accelerator program focused on AI to encourage more MBZUAI graduates to start successful businesses. “One of the most critical predictors for successful entrepreneurship is access to industry talent, and the partnership between Catalyst, Masdar City, and MBZUAI creates a platform to attract and retain some of the leading authorities in AI to Abu Dhabi. From AI incubation to research capabilities in clean energy and a focus on mentorship for emerging businesses and AI professionals, this collaboration can significantly advance the UAE’s status as a global destination for AI,” remarked Al Hajji. In mid October 2022, Fred Crehan, Area Vice President, Emerging Markets at Confluent said that more integration and data-sharing is likely to occur as confidence grows in smart cities, and as governments’ digital transformation programs reach maturity.  Stephen Severance, Director of Growth for Masdar City added that The Catalyst is looking to empower start-ups who want to change the world through sustainable, clean tech and AI. He concluded, “This agreement will give us access to even more top-tier talent, and provide more opportunities for entrepreneurs to develop ground-breaking tech. We’re looking forward to working together.” In early November 2022, Masdar, Infinity Power and Hassan Allam Utilities signed a MoU to develop a 10GW wind farm in Egypt. MEConstructionNews.com is the central website of leading construction magazines - Big Project Middle East, Construction Machinery Middle East, Middle East Consultant and Truck & Fleet Middle East. A one stop shop updated daily with industry news, interviews, analysis, expert opinion, videos and more. This collaboration combines international infrastructure expertise, facilities management proficiency, and local UAE investment Building on a 78-year track record, Ethiopian operates Africa’s most modern fleet to more... 4,146 transactions were recorded in July 2024, with the market proving increasingly popular with... It was developed in collaboration with various industry members along with those who served... Upcoming auctions to include wind-based clean energy certificates from the UAE Wind Programme © 2024 CPI Trade Media. All rights reserved