Follow Invezz on Telegram, Twitter, and Google News for instant updates > This year, the winter holidays are on weekends. It means that the markets are open more than normal, and next week it will be busy. Are you looking for signals & alerts from pro-traders? Sign-up to Invezz Signals™ for FREE. Takes 2 mins. That is especially true for stock market investors. In particular, investors in Constellation Brands, Walgreens Boots Alliance, and ConAgra Foods are on the lookout as the three companies report their quarterly earnings in the first week of 2023.   Constellation Brands (NYSE:STZ) is a company active in the consumer staples sector. It is one of the largest distillers and vintners companies in the world, selling its products in countries such as the United States, Canada, Italy, or New Zealand. On January 5th, Constellation Brands will report its FQ3 2023 earnings. Investors expect the company to report EPS of $2.90 in the quarter. If it reports higher EPS, it would be the fifth consecutive quarter when Constellation Brands beats the estimates. The stock price declined by a little over 8% in 2022, and the company has operated with a gross profit margin in the past twelve months of 52.35%. Walgreens Boots Alliance (NASDAQ:WBA) operates in the drug retail industry. More specifically, it is a consumer staples company operating as an integrated healthcare, pharmacy, and retailer in the US. Founded in 1901, it employs over 250,000 people. Next week, it will report its FQ1 2023 earnings and the market expects $1.14/share. The stock price declined by more than -28% in 2022. ConAgra Foods (NYSE:CAG) is one of the few stocks delivering a positive return this year. The stock price gained +14.56% YTD as the company benefited from rising food prices. Asa leader in the American packaged foods and meats industry, ConAgra Foods also pays a dividend. The dividend payout ratio is 51.95%, and the 5-year growth rate is 9.75%. Next week, investors expect the company to report EPS of $0.66 for the FQ2 2023. Want easy-to-follow crypto, forex & stock trading signals? Make trading simple by copying our team of pro-traders. Consistent results. Sign-up today at Invezz Signals™.    Use Invezz APP Get a better user experience Allow notifications? Allow us to send you updates You must agree to the privacy policy.