Menü öffnen OneFootball's Homepage Suche Einstellungen Einloggen In partnership with caughtoffside ·25. August 2023 This time next week most teams across Europe will have executed their transfer deals and know who’s in and who’s out, including Newcastle. Eddie Howe has ensured that the Magpies have had another good window, with no reckless spending and the hire of players to specifically fit into the particular system that the manager wants to use. It would be easier for Howe to chuck money around like confetti but that’s been shown not to work elsewhere and, arguably, only causes more problems. Newcastle fans should be delighted that they have a manager who knows exactly what he wants on the pitch and who he believes are the right players to bring the club the success everyone desires. As important is the financial backing from the Saudi Public Investment Fund (PIF), who have backed their man to the hilt. More Stories / Latest News Man City line up last-minute move to sign Leicester City midfielder Aug 25 2023, 16:10 Title winner set to be last minute signing at Newcastle United Aug 25 2023, 15:52 Tim Steidten heading back to London to complete medical of next West Ham signing Aug 25 2023, 15:38 Unfortunately for those who are surplus to requirements, the next week is likely to see them depart St. James’ Park, with Ryan Fraser having one foot out of the door already. “There may be something with Ryan happen regarding Southampton. Apart from that, that’s all I know at the minute,” Howe was quoted as saying by the Shields Gazette. That shouldn’t come as a surprise to anyone given that Fraser has barely been involved with the first team since a falling out with the manager last year over his attitude. A move away therefore makes sense for all parties. I have to agree with Graeme Souness on this Newcastle United viewpoint – No, honestly The Mag Newcastle United official announcement – Sixth Sky Sports match confirmed The Mag Harry Redknapp explains why he’s picked out this particular Newcastle United star The Mag Former top referee rules on this controversial Newcastle v Southampton incident The Mag Newcastle chasing deal for Barcelona defender - report 90min Kein Durchbruch: Bayern-Zukunft von Kimmich weiter offen Die Zukunft von Joshua Kimmich beim FC Bayern bleibt ein großes Thema. Obwohl der 29-Jährige bereits seine zehnte Saison bei den Münchnern bestreitet, gibt es nach wie vor keine Klarheit... DFB-Pokal: Topp-Dreierpack lässt Bremen jubeln, Offenbach wirft Magdeburg raus! Drei Spiele fanden am frühen Montagabend in der 1. Hauptrunde im DFB-Pokal statt. Unter anderem musste Werder Bremen auswärts bei Energie Cottbus ran. 
DFB-Pokal: Offenbach wirft Magdeburg raus!
Dreimal DFB-Pokal hieß es... „Hervorragender Kapitän, feiner Fuß“: Nagelsmann reagiert auf Gündogan-Rücktritt Ilkay Gündogan wird Julian Nagelsmann nicht mehr zur Verfügung stehen und beendet seine Nationalmannschaftskarriere – das gab er am Montagnachmittag bekannt. Der Bundestrainer selbst reagierte schnell öffentlich auf die Meldung... Live Live Live In partnership with OneFootball is proud to partner with Yahoo! Sports to deliver quality football content to fans in USA and Canada. OneFootball's Homepage © 2024 OneFootball