News News | May 26, 2023  amaciejewski@summitdaily.com Graduating seniors from across Summit County celebrated the end of their high school careers on Thursday, May 25, with a parade filled with confetti, smiles, laughter and water — lots of water.  Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Summit County seniors spray water and smile at the crowd gathered on Main Street in Breckenridge during a parade for all graduating seniors in Summit County on Thursday, May 25, 2023.   participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023. The parade was filled with confetti cannons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. See more photos from the parade on Page 22 and online at SummitDaily.com. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Graduating seniors from across Summit County participated in a parade on Thursday, May 25, 2023, filled with confetti canons, water guns, decorated vehicles and tons of signs. Andrew Maciejewski/Summit Daily News Show CaptionsHide Captions  
Aug 7, 2024
  
Aug 7, 2024
 
Aug 5, 2024
 
Aug 2, 2024
 
Jul 29, 2024
 
Aug 10, 2024
  
Aug 10, 2024
 
Aug 9, 2024
 
Aug 9, 2024
 
Aug 13, 2024
 As a Summit Daily News reader, you make our work possible. Summit Daily is embarking on a multiyear project to digitize its archives going back to 1989 and make them available to the public in partnership with the Colorado Historic Newspapers Collection. The full project is expected to cost about $165,000. All donations made in 2023 will go directly toward this project. Every contribution, no matter the size, will make a difference. 
Keystone Symposia Job Description Job Title: Attendee Services Senior Specialist Summary of Position: Keystone Symposia develops and produces conferences fo...
 
Facility Maintenance Technician Copper Mountain, Colorado is a vibrant mountain community renowned for its exceptional skiing, biking, hiking, and fly-fishing...
 
Pool & Hot Tub Service Technician Job - Kaupas Water, Silverthorne Kaupas Water, a leading pool and spa and water…
 
Utility Plant Operator or Operator-in-Training Copper Mountain, Colorado is a vibrant mountain community renowned for its exceptional skiing, biking, hiking,…
 
  Administrative and Technology Coordinator Administrative and Technology Coordinator handles administrative and organizational tasks to support the Fat...
 
Employment Opportunities Summit County Government is an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer. To view a list of our employment opportunities, review…
 
Attendee Services Senior Specialist Summary of Position: Keystone Symposia develops and produces conferences for the top biology researchers in the…
 
Stan Miller Inc. in Breckenridge is hiring drivers with a CDL Class A License. 401k, Health/Dental Insurance offered. Founded in…
 
Get ready for the season by joining our team and deliver cravable experiences. Work nights and enjoy Summit County offerings…
 
Do you have a natural ability to build relationships? Do you get satisfaction from helping others succeed? Are you a…
  Sign up for daily and breaking news headlines.
Manage Subscriptions 
Jobs
 
Classifieds
 
Place Legal Ad
 
Search Legal Ads
 
Autos
 
Real Estate
 
Rentals
 
Service Directory
 
Pets
 
Merchandise
 
Legals
 
Farm and Ranch
 
Recreation
 
Announcements
 
Contact us
 
About us
 
Submissions
 
Submit an Obituary
 
Submit an event
 
Submit a request to update a crime story
 
Summit Daily archive
 
Magazines
 
Newsletters
 
Summit Daily E-Edition
 
Summit County Journal
 
AP News
 
Cookie List
 
Do not sell my personal information
 
Commercial Print Sales
 
RSS
 
Work for us
 
Aspen – Snowmass
 
Craig – Moffat County
 
Glenwood Springs - Rifle
 
Steamboat Springs - Routt County
 
Vail - Eagle County
 
Winter Park - Granby - Grand County
 
Printing Press Jobs
 ©2005 - 2024 Swift Communications, Inc.