Americans on TikTok are sharing stories about realizing they are instinctively scared about potential guns. While traveling abroad, users reported flinching at loud noises, even in countries where gun crime is rare. Several users said these encounters made them realize how gun violence in the US has impacted them. American TikTokers are sharing stories about thinking they heard gunshots while traveling abroad in countries with stricter gun control laws, due to paranoia about gun violence that they say they've developed from living in the US. The stories sprouted from a viral TikTok posted in March, where a user said his friend momentarily thought she heard gunshots while they were partying in Paris. The clip showed the user filming his friend screaming and flinching the moment a confetti cannon went off in a club, calming down a few moments later and beginning to dance again when it became clear that she wasn't in danger. "POV: you thought someone was shooting but forgot you're not in the US," read the caption on the video, which received 18 million views. Thousands of American commenters said the video was extremely relatable to them and that unexpected loud noises consistently make them feel fearful due to concerns about public shootings and gun violence. "I'm a former American public school teacher. Any loud sound puts me in 'run, hide, fight' mode," one user wrote. The video sparked a number of stitches over the following months. Users from the US have been sharing similar stories about mistakenly hearing gunshots while they were traveling abroad, leading them to a realization that people around them who aren't from the US seemed nowhere near as fearful as they were. One user recalled a trip he took to London with his mother last year, saying he mistook the sound of a car running over an object on the road with a gunshot. "My breath was heavy, I was shaky, my heartbeat was going fast. I literally grabbed my mom in survival mode and started hauling ass across the square," he said. When he arrived back in the US after his trip, he said he heard actual gunshots not too far from his home as he was unloading his luggage from his car, but did not feel shocked at all. He explained that he was not expecting to hear anything that sounded like gunshots in London, but that in the US, hearing them was typical. "That's when it really fully clicked with me. This is not fucking normal," he said, describing the fear of gun violence which he said many Americans have been subjected to. Another user said that when her family was traveling in Japan in 2019, they went to watch a movie and heard a realistic gunshot sound effect during one of the trailers. The user said her friend instinctively ducked to shield herself and her husband started looking around for the nearest exit, but no one else in the theatre was fazed and some people laughed at their reaction. "That was the time that I realized that gun violence in this country, while it is out of hand, it is incredibly out of hand," she said. There have been at least 328 mass shootings across the USA so far this year, according to the gun violence archive. Guns are now the leading cause of death for American children, and doctors and medical associations are now calling for policy changes to curb gun deaths, Insider previously reported. Countries like Japan and Switzerland have managed to drastically reduce mass shootings and gun violence in part thanks to tight gun-control regulations. The impact of gun violence on American culture has become a hugely popular topic of discussion on TikTok. Earlier this year, American expats took part in a trend on the app that involved sharing stories about how living in America "messed" them up. Many users said that moving out of the US made them realize that they were much more suspicious of strangers they encountered than locals in their new countries were, due to their fear that people could be carrying guns. One such creator, Ilana Buhl, said that when a man approached her car to ask for help in Copenhagen, Denmark, she instinctively felt fear and assumed he had a gun. "My gut instinct is not to help someone because I could get hurt," she said. For more stories like this, check out coverage from Insider's Digital Culture team here. Read the original article on Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.