Beachgoers jumped chains to get on the beach in Ocean Grove during a protest over Sunday morning beach access at the end of the summer.Alexandra Pais | For NJ Advance Media A Jersey Shore landowners association is asking a state judge to intervene and allow it to continue restricting beach access in Ocean Grove on Sunday mornings in a summer tradition tied to the community’s Christian roots. The lawsuit filed by the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association is the latest development in a fight between the group, which oversees the community’s boardwalk, and critics over the influence of religion in public spaces in the Ocean Grove section of Neptune Township. The state Department of Environmental Protection issued the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association a violation notice three weeks ago for using chains and padlocked barriers to block access to the Monmouth County beach from the boardwalk on summer Sundays between 9 a.m. and noon. The lawsuit filed by the association does not name the state as a defendant. Instead, the suit lists two opponents of the beach access rules by name and up to 100 others who allegedly entered the beach on Sunday this summer after being told of the association’s prohibition. The Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association asked the judge to rule that preventing public access on Sunday mornings from Memorial Day weekend to Labor Day weekend is “a valid and lawful practice that satisfies the public interest of reasonable access to the sea and a lawful accommodation of the interests” of the camp meeting association. The court papers signed by the association’s attorney, James M. McGovern, were filed Oct. 2 in Superior Court in Monmouth County. The lawsuit was first reported by the Asbury Park Press. Access to the beach via the privately-owned boardwalk is available during all but 45 hours during the year, McGovern said in the court filing. “The slight limitation on physical presence on the beachfront on the Lord’s Day is consistent with the Plaintiff’s Mission to build and maintain a beautiful seaside community to serve as a place for meditation, reflection and renewal during the Summer months,” the lawsuit said. “The ability to reflect upon an empty and quiet beachfront during this limited time is at the core of Plaintiff’s very creation, existence and uninterrupted private ownership of the Ocean Grove Beach front and adjoining lands.” Limited access to the beach on Sunday mornings benefits the community, according to the lawsuit. “Regardless of one’s beliefs, spending the morning hours in an unhurried morning stroll on a less crowded boardwalk has emotional, spiritual, and bodily health benefits,” the lawsuit said. Shane Martins, one of the two defendants named in the lawsuit, declined to comment when contacted Friday by NJ Advance Media. Martins is a founder of Neptune United, a community group that has opposed the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association’s construction of a cross-shaped pier and the beach access restrictions. He is accused in the lawsuit of attempting to direct Neptune police officers to “circumvent” the Sunday morning restrictions. The state Department of Environmental Protection did not specify any penalties in its Sept. 14 violation notice letter to the camp meeting association. The letter cited the state’s Coastal Area Facility Review Act in demanding the association take corrective action within 10 days, including agreeing to no longer use chain and pad lock barriers to block beach access from the boardwalk. A state Department of Environmental Protection spokesperson declined comment on the lawsuit. Ocean Grove is a seaside community of roughly 3,000 residents. It is not its own municipality, but a small section of Neptune Township set aside with a unique charter tied to its roots as a Methodist beach resort. Founded more than 150 years ago as a summertime, tent-revival religious retreat, it was governed by the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association as a religious enclave for 100 years until the New Jersey Supreme Court declared its original charter unconstitutional after a series of lawsuits. However, the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association still owns all the land and helps oversee the beachfront community. The lawsuit seeks a judgment “declaring that the public’s right of access to its beachfront is not unlimited and that as a private property owner, (Ocean Grove) has complied with its legal obligation to provide reasonable access to the public.” While the nine “step entrances” — access points from the Ocean Grove Boardwalk onto the sand — have been closed on Sunday mornings, the lawsuit stated that all have unrestricted access to the Ocean Grove beach if they pass through the high tide line from Asbury Park to the north and Bradley Beach to the south. “Anyone, regardless of race, creed, religion or orientation is welcome onto this private property 99.5% of the year,” the court papers say, adding, “no other private owner of beachfront property extends such openness and hospitality.” Please subscribe now and support the local journalism you rely on and trust. Rob Jennings may be reached at rjennings@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices