Traffic measures will return on the bridge linking Anglesey and the mainland Sign up to our weekly Anglesey newsletter We have more newsletters Sign up to our weekly Anglesey newsletter We have more newsletters A timeline for the repair and revamp of Menai Bridge has been announced. The 200-year-old suspension bridge - known in Welsh as Pont y Borth - was closed last October amid "serious" public safety concerns. It reopened in February after initial repairs but another period of major work will start next week. This will see new permanent hangers installed as well as extensive paint work to the exterior of the bridge that links Anglesey and Gwynedd.  The work will be carried out by Spencer Group and overseen by UK Highways A55 Limited and the Welsh Government. The work is being paid for by UK Highways A55. This week Ynys Môn MP Virginia Crosbie was given an update on the timeline for the works.  READ MORE: Flexi-bus service extended to North Wales valley communities left stranded by cuts Ynys Môn MP Virginia Crosbie said: "I thank everyone for a comprehensive update on what will happen and I know islanders and those who travel regularly to Anglesey will want to know what will happen over the next two years. There is going to be disruption really until 2025 to ensure the bridge is safe and fit for purpose ahead of its 200th anniversary. This is something for the island to celebrate but it also very much highlights how we are relying on a structure built in the early 19th century to connect us. “This needs to change and it’s why I support a third Menai crossing. I urge Labour in Cardiff to think again about its ridiculous ban on road building, listen to islanders and get a third crossing built.” The Welsh Government minister leading on transport says he has an "open mind" about a third Menai crossing but that it was not an option they could even afford to pursue right now. Welsh Government had previously backed a third crossing over the Menai Strait with the previous first minster Carwyn Jones naming a preferred route in 2018. Progress continued to be made until all road projects were placed on hold when the Welsh Government announced the roads review into every highways scheme in Wales in 2021. When the report was published the plan for an additional crossing was put on ice - although the Government has said it has not completely written off a third bridge. Sign up for the North Wales Live newsletter sent twice daily to your inbox   Find out what's going on near you 