
  CAIRN Energy has won a big vote of confidence from a US industry giant over its decision to expand its hunt for oil and gas to Senegal.
 
  Edinburgh-based Cairn Energy said ConocoPhillips has agreed to buy a 25% stake in the exploration acreage off the west African country that the company acquired in March.
 
  The value of the deal was not disclosed.
 
  However, Cairn said ConocoPhillips will pay it a share of the costs already incurred on the blocks concerned and cover a share of future exploration expenditure.
 
  With Cairn some months away from starting drilling its first well off Senegal, ConocoPhillips' decision to farm into the acreage signals faith in its potential.
 
  Analysts at UBS told clients of the securities business: "Attracting Conoco is a significant coup for Cairn in our opinion.
 
  "One of the industry's major players, it seems, has given a 'thumbs-up' to Cairn's geological model and determined Senegal a worthy risk-adjusted investment."
 
  They said the involvement of ConocoPhillips would allow the venture partners to accelerate work in a relatively under-explored area in which Cairn believes there is the potential to make huge finds.
 
  The partners will be able to firm up plans to drill two wells.
 
  Only one had been confirmed previously.
 
  Cairn Energy's chief executive Simon Thomson said: "This strategic farm-out means Cairn is able to intensify its plans to explore its acreage offshore Senegal, where the gross prospective block wide resource potential is estimated to be in excess of 1.5 billion barrels."
 
  He said the transaction fitted Cairn's strategy of maintaining a big exposure to areas it believes have big exploration potential while limiting financial commitment to sustainable levels.
 
  Renowned for making huge finds in India, Cairn moved into Senegal as part of Mr Thomson's efforts to build a balanced portfolio.
 
  This combines potentially transformational exploration in areas in which there has been little activity, such as Greenland, with lower risk assets in the North Sea.
 
  Exploration experts at Cairn believe the Atlantic Margin area running from Greenland to West Africa could contain huge amounts of oil and gas.
 
  In March Cairn agreed to acquire a 65% stake in three blocks off Senegal from Australia's Far Limited in exchange for funding a well and paying $10m associated costs.
 
  The deal with ConocoPhillips is subject to Government of Senegal approval.
 
  Cairn will retain operatorship and 40% interest in the exploration blocks. Petrosen of Senegal will retain a 10% interest.
 
  It should have been a safe space for informed debate, somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day, but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse. 
 
  heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment.
 
  We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers, who occasionally find their way onto our site, to abuse our journalists and readers. We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland's conversation with itself.
 
  We are lucky at The Herald. We are read by an informed, educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories. 
 
  That is invaluable. 
 
  We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers, who tell us they don't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments, untruths and abuse.
 
  In the past, the journalist’s job was to collect and distribute information to the audience. Technology means that readers can shape a discussion. We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com
 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of  any comments you upload to this website,  so please act responsibly. We do not  pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to  our attention.  You can make  a  complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link .  We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 Comments are closed on this article 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.