Atlanta’s Mercedes-Benz Stadium was swarming with Georgia Tech students recently. It wasn’t for a Yellow Jackets game or a Taylor Swift concert. It was for the College of Computing’s 2023 Fall Career Fair. More than 3,900 students­ – a new one-day attendance record for the annual event – turned up at the stadium on Sept. 14 to meet with representatives from Google, PwC, Chick-fil-A, and other top companies. Booths from more than 120 companies filled the field shared by the Atlanta Falcons and Atlanta United FC. Hundreds of students from across campus joined computer science and computational media students at the career fair. These students represented each of Georgia Tech’s six colleges and academic programs ranging from aerospace engineering to urban analytics. Dara Hudson, College of Computing events manager and co-organizer, thinks students’ determination to achieve their goals is driving record attendance at Computing’s career fair. “Students from all majors are attracted to our career fair because the current job market requires most applicants to have a background in computer science,” said Hudson. For those who could not attend the event at Mercedes-Benz Stadium, the College hosted a virtual career fair on Sept. 20. Nearly 1,000 students participated in the online event. Several companies participating in the virtual and in-person career fairs are part of the College of Computing's Corporate Affiliates Program (CAP). The College currently has 50 CAP partners. Along with career fairs, these companies support students by sponsoring hackathons, conference travel scholarships, and professional development opportunities.  This year marks the tenth year that the College of Computing has hosted bi-annual career fairs for students and recent alums. The College will hold its 2024 Spring Career Fair at McCamish Pavilion. Tuesday, August 13, 2024
 Monday, August 12, 2024
 Thursday, August 8, 2024
 We are thrilled to announce Vivek Sarkar as the new Dean of the College of Computing at Georgia Tech! With a distinguished career spanning academia and industry, Sarkar's leadership promises to elevate our community to new heights. https://t.co/2mX5D46cJz pic.twitter.com/LxpLTCXWZV — Georgia Tech Computing (@gtcomputing) April 12, 2024 @GeorgiaTech's dedication to excellence in computer science (CS) has been recognized once again, with the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings unveiling the institution at 7th place overall for graduate CS studies.https://t.co/qavNUSTb7n pic.twitter.com/BcGyGBQld8 — Georgia Tech Computing (@gtcomputing) April 10, 2024 Resources For three days, a cybercriminal unleashed a crippling ransomware attack… Outside the walls of DEF CON 32, a group of hackers prepared for the… Thanks to a global fellowship program, two Ph.D. students from the… North AvenueAtlanta, GA 30332
                    
+1 404.894.2000

Campus Map
 © 2024 Georgia Institute of
      Technology 
GT LOGIN
 GT LOGIN