The climate impact of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico’s oil and gas production could be higher than government inventories indicate. This discrepancy emerged from a new study that calculated the carbon intensity of the Gulf offshore oil and gas production via atmospheric observations of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4). “What we found is that a certain type of shallow water platform had large methane emissions that elevated total greenhouse gas emissions for the entire Gulf of Mexico,” said Eric Kort, an associate professor of climate and space sciences and engineering at the University of Michigan and the paper’s corresponding author. Methane is a hydrocarbon and a greenhouse gas (GHG) and the chief component of natural gas. Like other greenhouse gases, methane influences the planet’s temperature and is the second most significant GHG contributor to climate change. Methane’s warming potential is 28 times that of the main GHG contributor to climate change, carbon dioxide, on a 100-year time scale. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA)’s Global Methane Tracker 2023, 40 percent of the anthropogenic emissions of this greenhouse gas are generated by the energy sector. This includes the 40m of emissions from the coal, oil, and natural gas sectors.  Researchers at the University of Michigan focused on offshore oil and gas emissions found higher methane emissions from shallow water platforms. These findings indicate that Gulf oil platforms emit more methane than previously thought. Read more here: https://t.co/WEmMUfMkdl pic.twitter.com/5wiOvJ6mQg The study “Excess methane emissions from shallow water platforms elevate the carbon intensity of U.S. Gulf of Mexico oil and gas production” was published on Monday, April 3, 2023, in the U.S. peer-reviewed journal the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS). Conducted by researchers from the University of Michigan, Stanford University, Scientific Aviation, the Environmental Defense Fund, the University of Arizona, and the University of Wisconsin, the study is the result of the F3UEL (Flaring & Fossil Fuels: Uncovering Emissions & Losses) project. The Gulf of Mexico (GOM) is the United States’ largest offshore fossil fuel production basin. On Wednesday, March 29, 2023, through Lease Sale 259, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) put up for auction about 73 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico to fossil fuel companies. This auction occurred shortly after the administration approved ConocoPhillips’s Willow project. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, around one-quarter of United States carbon emissions come from public lands- extracted fossil fuels. To analyze the Gulf of Mexico’s fossil fuel production’s climate impact, the researchers working on the study used a combination of airborne in situ observations and antecedent field surveys and inventories. Their research found that the basin’s climate impact is over twice that reported in the inventories. This discrepancy in climate impact is linked to the excess methane emissions generated from offshore platforms located in shallow waters, particularly central hubs.  Oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico is belching out significantly higher levels of potent, planet-heating gas than previously thought, according to new research that found the climate effects of the operations are twice that of official estimates https://t.co/OI5XJgXoid “We have presented the climate impact of both oil and gas production as an observation-based carbon intensity,” said Alan Gorchov Negron, the study’s first author and a graduate student research assistant at the University of Michigan.   
Siamo anche su WhatsApp.
 Segui il canale ufficiale LifeGate per restare aggiornata, aggiornato sulle ultime notizie e sulle nostre attività.

 Quest'opera è distribuita con Licenza Creative Commons Attribuzione - Non commerciale - Non opere derivate 4.0 Internazionale. Read more on these topics: United States of America (USA) The US government has approved ConocoPhillips’s controversial Willow Project to drill for oil in Alaska’s National Petroleum Reserve. The city of Los Angeles has banned the drilling of new fossil fuel wells, a decision that has been hailed as a victory for underprivileged communities. At Beijing 2022 politics and superpower rivalry are dominating the headlines. Nowhere is this more evident than in the treatment of Eileen Gu, the US-born Chinese freestyle skier that is taking the sport by storm. The United States follow the European Union’s example in banning the chlorpyrifos pesticide, a hazardous chemical for the development of children. Sharon Lavigne, one of the six winners of the 2021 Goldman Environmental Prize, is fighting to protect her community from plastics corporations. The ban on drilling for oil has been welcomed by activists, but comes after a series of controversial decisions in Alaska and beyond. The deforestation of the Brazilian Amazon is returning to the abysmal levels of the early 2000s. And it’s not just Bolsonaro’s fault. Plastic pollution is airborne too. Microplastics are being carried across continents by the wind, as a recent study reveals. Considered useless, billions of male chicks are killed every year by the egg industry using cruel methods. But consumers can demand more humane practices.