 Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.  Americas+1 212 318 2000  EMEA+44 20 7330 7500  Asia Pacific+65 6212 1000   Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.  Americas+1 212 318 2000  EMEA+44 20 7330 7500  Asia Pacific+65 6212 1000  By Bobby Magill The White House’s plan to cancel Alaska’s oil leases in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and block oil and gas development across a vast swath of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska is expected to amp up an already protracted legal fight over fossil fuels in the Arctic.  The outcome of the legal battle will determine the trajectory of oil and gas development on Alaska’s Arctic coast, which is warming faster than the rest of North America but is also a highly treasured storehouse of the fossil fuels causing climate change.  Interior Secretary Deb Haaland announced Wednesday her agency is motivated by the climate crisis to cancel the seven Arctic refuge leases from a sale the department determined was illegal. The sale was mandated by Congress in the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which required the department to hold two lease sales before the end of 2024. The Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority purchased the leases in the 2021 sale the Interior Department held in the final days of former President Donald Trump’s administration, which eagerly supported drilling in the Arctic.  The state’s reaction to Haaland’s move was immediate. Alaska Gov. Mike Dunleavy (R) said Wednesday that the agency bought the leases within the refuge legally and “will be turning to the courts to correct the Biden administration’s wrong.” “Biden needs a refresher on the Constitution’s separation of powers doctrine,” Dunleavy said. “Federal agencies don’t get to rewrite laws, and that is exactly what the Department of Interior is trying to do here.”  AIDEA didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment about how quickly it might take legal action against the cancellations.  A coalition of Alaska industry groups, including the Alaska Chamber and the Alaska Oil and Gas Association, said they are “deeply disturbed” by the Interior’s “dangerous precedent” because it undoes legally obtained leases.  “When legally obtained contracts are abruptly terminated, for political reasons, it destroys the fundamental principles of fairness and predictability essential” for a functioning economy, the coalition said in a statement.  Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) on Thursday accused Haaland of harming Alaska’s Indigenous communities that depend in part on oil and gas industry jobs that have increased life expectancy on the state’s North Slope by as much as 13 years. Haaland “is trying to make my constituents live less longer,” Sullivan said during a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on water infrastructure. “Deb Haaland—shocking—she’s Native American. She attacks Alaska Natives every time she opens her mouth.” But the state’s prospects for fighting the lease cancellation are uncertain. In August, AIDEA lost a legal fight over the leases when US District Judge Sharon Gleason ruled that President Joe Biden’s administration, shortly after taking office in 2021, properly placed a moratorium on any activity related to the leases in order to take another look at the environmental consequences of drilling in the refuge. The case is AIDEA v. Biden in US District Court for the District of Alaska.  AIDEA claimed that the tax act precluded the moratorium. Gleason ruled that the law didn’t prohibit the temporary halt on activity related to the leases.  But the Interior Department may have now violated the tax act by canceling the leases, which were purchased in a Congressionally required lease sale, said Jon Katchen, partner at Holland & Hart LLP in Anchorage, Alaska, who represents industry and government clients.  “The cancellation of the leases arguably violates this statutory mandate by nullifying the first lease sale,” Katchen said. “The cancellation may also be deemed arbitrary and capricious, particularly in light of the 180-degree reversal from Interior’s prior position.”  Katchen called Haaland’s move jarring, because Interior had said in AIDEA v. Biden that it was merely suspending the leases in order to conduct further studies.  Other legal experts say Interior’s lease cancellations are on solid legal ground.  The agency has “legal flexibility” to determine whether the Trump administration’s environmental review of the lease sale violated the National Environmental Policy Act and other laws, said Sam Kalen, a natural resources law professor at the University of Wyoming.  “It has done so and concluded that the leases would be illegal,” Kalen said. “It must have the flexibility to make that judgment otherwise our laws such as NEPA are rendered perfunctory.”  The lease cancellations show that the Biden administration found that the Trump administration’s environmental analysis of the 2021 lease sale was flawed and the leases never should have been issued, said Kate Glover, a senior attorney for Earthjustice in Juneau, Alaska.  “Canceling the leases clears the path to ensure that any future leasing program provides the strongest possible protection for the coastal plain of the Arctic Refuge,” Glover said.  Interior officials told reporters Wednesday the agency will follow the tax act and hold another lease sale within the refuge by the end of 2024, but declined to provide details.  Haaland also announced proposed new regulations for the 23 million-acre NPR-A on Alaska’s northwest Arctic coast that would prohibit drilling on 13 million environmentally sensitive acres—an area twice the size of Maryland.  The move follows the Biden administration’s approval of ConocoPhillips’ Willow oil and gas development project within the NPR-A in March. That project, which is not expected to be affected by the proposed regulations, could produce more than 600 million barrels of oil over 30 years.  The new regulations, if finalized, would protect five large “special areas” known to be especially ecologically fragile.  The move could run afoul of the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production Act, which created the NPR-A, Katchen said.  The act “clearly empowers the secretary to protect sensitive habitat and subsistence, but federal courts have repeatedly stated that the primary purpose of the act is to facilitate oil development,” Katchen said.  The proposal’s “overwhelming focus on preservation seems to upset the careful balance struck by Congress,” he said.  But Kalen said Interior’s proposal “seems to reflect an unassailable interpretation of its authority,” to protect special areas.  Chris Wood, CEO of the conservation group Trout Unlimited, said the NPR-A hosts an ecosystem as valuable or even more so than the Arctic refuge, and protecting it with proposed regulations would be a “remarkable achievement.”  “It’s hard to protect millions of acres in one fell swoop anymore,” he said. “This is a big deal.” To contact the reporter on this story: Bobby Magill at bmagill@bloombergindustry.com To contact the editors responsible for this story: Zachary Sherwood at zsherwood@bloombergindustry.com; JoVona Taylor at jtaylor@bloombergindustry.com  AI-powered legal analytics, workflow tools and premium legal & business news.   Log in to keep reading or access research tools. 