Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  WTI Sheds Nearly 3% as China Demand Dulls 
Find us on:







  China admits its ship damaged… China's construction of a massive… Julianne Geiger Julianne Geiger is a veteran editor, writer and researcher for Oilprice.com, and a member of the Creative Professionals Networking Group. More Info When adjusted for inflation, the oil and gas industry’s spend on lobbying the federal government last year dipped slightly. In actual terms, oil and gas industry spent $124.4 million on federal lobbying, according to an OpenSecrets’ analysis that was released on Thursday.  Of that $124.4 million, Koch Industries spend $11.29 million—more than any other oil and gas industry, the records show.


 In real terms, the 2022 spend is up slightly from 2021—but 2021 lobbying spend was still depressed from the Covid-19 pandemic.  Oxy, Exxon, Conoco, and Chevron spent a combined $44.3 million on federal lobbying. The API, unsurprisingly, also spent a big chunk on lobbying—about $4.4 million. Overall, just ten oil and gas companies accounted for more than half of the spending on lobbying from the industry.


 Also not surprisngly, the most-lobbied congressional bill, according to OpenSecrets, was the massive Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. Other lobbying agendas include regulatory approvals for large projects, like Conoco’s Willow project in the Alaskan Arctic and Enterprise Products Partners deepwater oil export terminal offshore Texas. Last year, 636 oil and gas lobbyists registered to attend COP27 in Egypt, 25% more than oil and gas lobbyist registrants in COP26—and more than the combined delegates of the ten countries most impacted by climate change. The oil and gas lobby attending the event exceeded any single national delegation apart from the UAE. The oil and gas lobby has increased the calls on the Biden Administration to increase access to domestic oil and gas resources, reform the permitting process, and reverse the hostile rhetoric toward the industry—changes that could help to bolster America’s energy security. “If America doesn’t lead, others will,” API President and CEO Mike Sommers said last month. By Julianne Geiger for Oilprice.com More Top Reads From Oilprice.com: Join the discussion | Back to homepage Previous Post Oil Price Cap Is Working: Yellen Next Post Oil Gains Over 2% As Gasoline Stocks Show Second Weekly Decline 
	            Julianne Geiger is a veteran editor, writer and researcher for Oilprice.com, and a member of the Creative Professionals Networking Group.	           More Info SunPower Declares Bankruptcy Nigeria Loses $1,000 per Barrel of Crude Oil It Exports U.S. Crude Oil Inventories Continue to Fall U.S. Gasoline Prices Continue to Drop U.S. To Buy 4.65 Million Barrels for The SPR, But There’s A Problem ADVERTISEMENT Oil Prices Tank on Fears China’s Rate Cuts Herald Demand Weakness Texas Earthquakes: Uncovering the Link to Oil and Gas Extraction Chevron Ditches California for Texas Global Demand for Renewable Energy Is Set to Surge 





 © OilPrice.com The materials provided on this Web site are for informational and educational purposes only and are not intended to provide tax, legal, or investment advice. Nothing contained on the Web site shall be considered a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to buy or sell a security to any person in any jurisdiction. Merchant of Record: A Media Solutions trading as Oilprice.com