Mastercard Highlights Economic Growth at Tanzania Forum Simplifying Wealth Management with DocFusion’s Advanced Document and Report Tool United Front is Crucial as Businesses Combat Financial Crime Payments Firm Secures Enhanced License from Bank of Ghana UNDERSTANDING CREDIT: A BEGINNER’S GUIDE FOR SOUTH AFRICANS How Can SA Enterprises Enhance their Cyber Defense? Armata Cyber Security Introduces an All-in-One Cybersecurity Bundle 8 Reasons Hackers Might Choose Your Business as a Target Assessing the Cost of Major Network or Application Failures How to Differentiate Between Real and Fake Apps? What Role Does AI Play in Modernizing Agriculture? 5 AI Applications to Boost Your Productivity and Output “Walmart Leverages Gen AI for Enhanced Efficiency,” says CEO Mimecast Acquires Aware for Advanced AI Security 8 Cutting-Edge Tech Innovations Revolutionizing Healthcare Safaricom is currently Kenya’s Largest 5G Network Human Touch and Tech Expertise into E-commerce Intelligent Demand Programme Generates $768 Million Fiorano Expands African Presence with New Office in Nairobi “Walmart Leverages Gen AI for Enhanced Efficiency,” says CEO Google Launches Feature to Limit School Hours Distractions Mastercard Highlights Economic Growth at Tanzania Forum 8 Cutting-Edge Tech Innovations Revolutionizing Healthcare What Role Does AI Play in Modernizing Agriculture? FNB Appoints New Chief Information Officer (CIO) 5 AI Applications to Boost Your Productivity and Output Diagnostic Radiological Services Inc , a healthcare organisation that delivers high-quality diagnostic and therapeutic services to patients, installed GE HealthCare PET/CT at the MediMix Newmarket in Alberton, Johannesburg. This new device , represents a significant advancement in molecular imaging technology, specifically designed and built to produce high-resolution images, allowing for precise therapy monitoring. This Discovery IQ 5 ring PET/CT technology enables fast and efficient personalised care. The device is a breakthrough in diagnostics, offering the potential to identify disease in their earliest stages, providing medical practitioners with crucial information that would typically require more invasive diagnostic tests or surgery. Conditions such as skeletal scintigraphy (bone scans) and thyroid cancer treatment are just two examples of the myriad conditions that can be diagnosed and treated through nuclear medicine. The GE HealthCare PET/CT scanner will support in enhancing access to precision healthcare and enabling high-value care models for patients. This technology is poised to address a longstanding challenge in South Africa.  Dr. Albert van Niekerk, Director at Diagnostic Radiological Services Inc stated: “The impact of having this advanced diagnostic technology cannot be overstated for the people in the area who require the diagnostic services that his technology can provide.” To echo Dr van Niekerk’s sentiments, Dr. Zanele Mlotshwa, Director at Diagnostic Radiological Services Inc stated that, “The GE HealthCare PET/CT scanner represents a game-changer for healthcare. It is not just a machine; it is a life-changer. Its arrival signifies a major step forward in improving healthcare access, early disease detection, and enhanced treatment planning options for patients across the region.” © IT News Africa | All rights reserved.