Processing.... The Defense Logistics Agency has begun seeking bids for a follow-on information technology contract vehicle worth potentially $12 billion over 10 years. DLA’s J6 Enterprise Technology Services 2.0 acquisition program will support applications, infrastructure, software, hardware and research and development projects across the DLA Information Operations enterprise, according to a notice posted Wednesday on SAM.gov. Task orders will include network and telecommunication services, enterprise service delivery, cybersecurity, program and project management, cloud hosting, data and information governance analytics, and application hosting environment modernization. DLA awarded 142 companies positions on the eight-year, $6 billion JETS contract in December 2016. Vendors have until May 24 to submit offers for the forthcoming procurement vehicle. The Defense Logistics Agency has awarded seven small businesses positions on a potential $7 billion contract to provide fire and emergency equipment and related logistics support for U.S. military services. The Department of Defense said Thursday DLA launched a competitive acquisition process and received 14 offers for the indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract, which will support the U.S. ASRC Federal will help the Defense Logistics Agency maintain, repair and operate multiple military facilities under a potential $90 million indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract. The company's facilities logistics business will deliver MRO supplies to the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard through Feb. 6, 2025. Northrop Grumman (NYSE: NOC) has received an approximately $121.5 million performance-based-logistics requirements contract from the Defense Logistics Agency for B-1 Bomber AN/APQ-164 offensive radar low observable antennas. Requirements will be delivered to the U.S. Air Force through Dec. 31, 2028, the Department of Defense said Wednesday. The firm‐fixed‐price, sole-source contract has a five-year base period The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here