Epic Books is publishing Ethereum for Business, a straightforward guide to doing business on the world's largest public blockchain, by leading blockchain expert Paul Brody.  Epic Books, a book imprint of the Sam M. Walton College of Business, will soon publish Ethereum for Business by leading blockchain expert Paul Brody.  Ethereum for Business is a straightforward guide to doing business on the world’s largest public blockchain. The book is scheduled for publication in summer 2023.   Brody provides an overview of Ethereum, business applications on Ethereum and various advanced, technical topics. Ethereum for Business fills a much-needed gap in a market crowded with technical guides and investing manuals by focusing on how enterprises can create value on the platform.  As Vitalik Buterin, co-founder and inventor of Ethereum, states, “If you want to read about how to apply Ethereum for business usage, you won’t find a source with more first-hand experience.”  Through engaging case studies and implementation strategies, Ethereum for Business demonstrates both the potential of blockchain to solve a wide range of real-world business problems and the current problems enterprises are solving with blockchain-based solutions.   Brody is a prominent advocate for public blockchains and privacy technology and has served as the Global Blockchain Leader at Ernst & Young (EY) since 2015. He has overseen the firm’s blockchain strategy and global solutions platforms, including EY OpsChain and EY Blockchain Analyzer. He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance (EEA), taking part in guiding the organization’s vision, driving member engagement and building new advocacy, careers and education initiatives to advance the Ethereum business ecosystem.  Ethereum for Business is currently available for preorder ($19.95) at Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Walmart, Epic Books and wherever books are sold.   About Epic Books: Epic Books is an imprint of the U of A’s Sam M. Walton College of Business that focuses on emerging technologies, leadership, business narratives and entrepreneurship titles. See how Epic Books captures the expertise and insights of its faculty and stakeholder network and transforms it into pragmatic, action-oriented ideas at Epic Books.  About the University of Arkansas: As Arkansas' flagship institution, the U of A provides an internationally competitive education in more than 200 academic programs. Founded in 1871, the U of A contributes more than $2.2 billion to Arkansas’ economy through the teaching of new knowledge and skills, entrepreneurship and job development, discovery through research and creative activity while also providing training for professional disciplines. The Carnegie Foundation classifies the U of A among the few U.S. colleges and universities with the highest level of research activity. U.S. News & World Report ranks the U of A among the top public universities in the nation. See how the U of A works to build a better world at Arkansas Research and Economic Development News. 
                                            Ryan Sheets, director of the Business Communication Lab
                                            
                                            Sam M. Walton College of Business
                                            
                                            479-575-5211,
                                                rsheets@walton.uark.edu
 
                                        Lori McLemore, assistant director of PR and media relations
                                        
                                        Sam M. Walton College of Business
                                        
                                        479-575-5021,
                                            mclemore@uark.edu
 Fayetteville Mayor Lioneld Jordan has proclaimed Aug. 19 "WE CARE Day" in honor of the College of Education and Health Professions, and the college is celebrating all week. Here's the deep dive into making your way around campus and beyond, helpful venues for getting started, best options for staying hearty and healthy, basics for staying safe and how to stay connected to campus news. The Sam M. Walton College of Business is honoring the remarkable career of Professor Paul Cronan on Thursday, Aug. 22. Selom Ametepe, an international doctoral candidate in the Cell and Molecular Biology Program, recently received the DeLill Nasser Travel Award for Professional Development in Genetics. Allie Primm Blackford, Peter Perry, Todd Walters, Katie Winkler and Nigel York were selected as the five outstanding employees as the Employees of the 4th Quarter for the 2024-25 academic year.