ConsenSys, the company behind the popular MetaMask crypto wallet, has denied claims that it collects taxes on crypto transactions.  The Ethereum blockchain software firm says that the allegations are “false” and that it has not made any changes to its terms of service to reflect this. The uproar appears to have stemmed from a section of MetaMask’s terms of service that states that the wallet retains “the right to withhold taxes as necessary.” However, in a Twitter thread clarifying the T&Cs, ConsenSys says that the section only applies to specific products and paid plans that the company offers. It does not apply to MetaMask. 
 📢 We are aware of tweets circulating with inaccurate information about ConsenSys' terms of service.  Let's clarify one thing upfront: MetaMask does NOT collect taxes on crypto transactions and we have not made any changes to our terms to do so.  This claim is false. — Consensys (@Consensys) May 21, 2023  “The tax section in our terms of service falls under the “fees and payment” section, and it exclusively pertains to products and paid plans offered by ConsenSys. For example, Infura has credit card developer subscriptions which include sales tax,” the statement noted. Adding that it believed in transparency and accuracy of information shared with users, the company added: “Legal terminology can be complex, but it’s crucial to emphasize that this section DOES NOT apply to MetaMask or any other products that don’t involve sales tax.” According to ConsenSys, no user assets are withheld on the premise that the user failed to pay taxes. Compliance with all applicable tax laws when it comes to customer’s assets is that user’s responsibility, the firm clarified. Questions about MetaMask’s tax policies began to swirl as some Twitter users voiced concerns that the wallet service was working with law enforcement.  The claims have been that the wallet is helping tax authorities to track down those deemed not to have paid taxes on their crypto holdings. In 2022, ConsenSys came under criticism over its collection of the IP addresses and other details of users’ personal data. But pointing to its privacy policy, ConsenSys said the issue only affected those using its API-based tool Infura. Using the tool as the default remote procedure call (RPC) in MetaMask would see it collect the user’s IP address as well as their Ethereum wallet address. However, using another RPC provider or Ethereum node in MetaMask meant no such data collection. Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
