Armed with some data from our friends at CrunchBase, I broke down the largest global startup funding rounds for Q4 2022. I have included some additional information such as industry, round type, a brief description of the company, investors in the round, company location, and total equity funding raised for the company to further the analysis. Interested in the top NYC Startup Fundings?  – The Largest NYC Startup Funding Rounds of Q4 2022
Interested in the top LA Startup Fundings? – The Largest LA Startup Funding Rounds for Q4 2022
Interested in the top London Startup Funding? – The Largest London Startups Funding Rounds of Q4 2022
Interested in the top US Startup Funding? – The Largest US Startups Funding Rounds of Q4 2022  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Westborough-based Ascend Elements manufactures sustainable battery materials using elements from discarded lithium-ion batteries. Founded by Diran Apelian, Eric Gratz, and Yan Wang in 2015, Ascend Elements has now raised a total of $340.0M in total equity funding and is backed by US Department of Energy, Lithium Americas, SK ecoplant, Fifth Wall, and MassVentures.
Investors in the round: At One Ventures, Doral Energy-Tech Ventures, Fifth Wall, Gly Capital Management, Hitachi Ventures, InMotion Ventures, Lithium Americas, Mirae Asset Capital, Oman Investment Fund, Orbia Ventures, Shinhan GIB, SK ecoplant, TDK Ventures, TRUMPF Venture
Industry: Advanced Materials, Battery, Energy Storage, Manufacturing, Sustainability
Founders: Diran Apelian, Eric Gratz, Yan Wang
Founding year: 2015
Location: Westborough
Total equity funding raised: $340.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Berlin-based Matter Labs is scaling Ethereum with zero-knowledge proofs to accelerate public blockchain adoption. Founded by Alex Gluchowski and Alexandr Vlasov in 2018, Matter Labs has now raised a total of $258.0M in total equity funding and is backed by ConsenSys, Blockchain Capital, Andreessen Horowitz, Gnosis, and Wintermute Trading.
Investors in the round: Andreessen Horowitz, Blockchain Capital, Dragonfly, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Variant
Industry: Blockchain, Ethereum, Internet, Software
Founders: Alex Gluchowski, Alexandr Vlasov
Founding year: 2018
Location: Berlin
Total equity funding raised: $258.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: San Diego-based Drata is a compliance and security SaaS platform that automates the compliance workflows on a company’s security controls. Founded by Adam Markowitz, Daniel Marashlian, and Troy Markowitz in 2020, Drata has now raised a total of $328.2M in total equity funding and is backed by Blake Darche, SentinelOne, GGV Capital, ICONIQ Growth, and Salesforce Ventures.
Investors in the round: Alkeon Capital, Amit Agarwal, Cowboy Ventures, FOG Ventures, Frank Slootman, GGV Capital, ICONIQ Growth, Jeff Weiner, Jennifer Tejada, Jonathan Rubinstein, Olivier Pomel, Salesforce Ventures, Satya Nadella, SentinelOne, Silicon Valley CISO Investments
Industry: Compliance, SaaS, Security
Founders: Adam Markowitz, Daniel Marashlian, Troy Markowitz
Founding year: 2020
Location: San Diego
Total equity funding raised: $328.2M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series F
Description: New York-based Dataiku operates as an enterprise artificial intelligence and machine-learning platform. Founded by Clement Stenac, Florian Douetteau, Marc Batty, and Thomas Cabrol in 2013, Dataiku has now raised a total of $846.8M in total equity funding and is backed by Eurazeo, Insight Partners, Tiger Global Management, Wellington Management, and Alven.
Investors in the round: Eurazeo, Insight Partners, Olivier Pomel, Wellington Management
Industry: Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, Data Integration, Enterprise Software
Founders: Clement Stenac, Florian Douetteau, Marc Batty, Thomas Cabrol
Founding year: 2013
Location: New York
Total equity funding raised: $846.8M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: San Francisco-based Komodo Health develops computer software that brings transparency and market intelligence to healthcare and life sciences. Founded by Arif Nathoo and Web Sun in 2014, Komodo Health has now raised a total of $514.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Andreessen Horowitz, Tiger Global Management, Coatue, ICONIQ Growth, and Oak HC/FT.
Investors in the round: Coatue, Dragoneer Investment Group
Industry: Health Care, Information Technology, Predictive Analytics, Software
Founders: Arif Nathoo, Web Sun
Founding year: 2014
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $514.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: San Francisco-based Redaptive is an Energy-as-a-Service provider that funds and installs energy-saving and energy-generating equipment. Founded by John Rhow and Ryan Martineau in 2013, Redaptive has now raised a total of $376.5M in total equity funding and is backed by CBRE Group, Engie, ACE & Company, Linse Capital, and CarVal Investors.
Investors in the round: Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, CBRE Group, Linse Capital
Industry: Energy, Energy Efficiency, Real Estate, Renewable Energy, Smart Building
Founders: John Rhow, Ryan Martineau
Founding year: 2013
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $376.5M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Bangalore-based BigBasket is an online grocery shopping and supermarket that delivers personal and household needs to the customer’s doorstep. Founded by Abhinay Choudhari, Hari Menon, Vipul Parekh, VS Ramesh, and VS Sudhakar in 2011, BigBasket has now raised a total of $1.4B in total equity funding and is backed by Alibaba Group, Paytm Mall, International Finance Corporation, Bessemer Venture Partners, and Mirae Asset Venture Investment.
Investors in the round: Tata Digital
Industry: Delivery, E-Commerce, Grocery, Retail, Shopping
Founders: Abhinay Choudhari, Hari Menon, Vipul Parekh, VS Ramesh, VS Sudhakar
Founding year: 2011
Location: Bangalore
Total equity funding raised: $1.4B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Jakarta-based Akulaku is a banking and digital finance platform that provides a variety of virtual payment services. Founded by Gordon Hu and William LI in 2016, Akulaku has now raised a total of $638.1M in total equity funding and is backed by Ant Group, Legend Capital, Shunwei Capital, Eight Roads Ventures, and Sequoia Capital India.
Investors in the round: Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Industry: Banking, Financial Services, FinTech, Insurance, Wealth Management
Founders: Gordon Hu, William LI
Founding year: 2016
Location: Jakarta
Total equity funding raised: $638.1M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series D
Description: Beijing-based Beijing Weilan New Energy Technology is an enterprise company focusing on the development of next-generation all-solid-state batteries. Founded by Chen liquan in 2016, Beijing Weilan New Energy Technology has now raised a total of $302.7M in total equity funding and is backed by Geely, Shunwei Capital, China Merchants Capital, Hermitage Capital, and Hidden Hill Capital.
Investors in the round: Bureau Capital,, China Merchants Capital, China State-owned Enterprise Mixed Ownership Reform Fund, CITIC Construction Investment, Dyee Capital, Fangyuan Capital, Hermitage Capital, Hexuan Capital, Hidden Hill Capital, Huzhou Economic Development, SDIC Chuangyi, Yinshan Capital, Zibo Jingneng
Industry: Battery, Electronics, Energy, Manufacturing
Founders: Chen liquan
Founding year: 2016
Location: Beijing
Total equity funding raised: $302.7M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Woodinville-based Group14 Technologies is a battery storage technology company that develops silicon-carbon composite materials for lithium-ion markets. Founded by Aaron Feaver, Rick Costantino, and Rick Luebbe in 2015, Group14 Technologies has now raised a total of $649.0M in total equity funding and is backed by US Department of Energy, Porsche, Lightrock, OMERS Ventures, and Vsquared Ventures.
Investors in the round: E-One Moli Energy, Lightrock, Microsoft Climate Innovation Fund, Moore Strategic Ventures, Oman Investment Fund
Industry: Battery, Chemical Engineering, Electric Vehicle, Energy Storage, Nanotechnology
Founders: Aaron Feaver, Rick Costantino, Rick Luebbe
Founding year: 2015
Location: Woodinville
Total equity funding raised: $649.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series B
Description: Haidian-based Moore Threads providing graphics processing unit technology and services to corporate clients. Founded by Yubo Zhang in 2020, Moore Threads has now raised a total of $528.5M in total equity funding and is backed by Tencent, ByteDance, GGV Capital, Sequoia Capital China, and China Merchants Capital.
Investors in the round: China Mobile Innovation Industry Fund, Dianshi Zichan, Hexie Health Insurance
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Gaming, Hardware, Semiconductor
Founders: Yubo Zhang
Founding year: 2020
Location: Haidian
Total equity funding raised: $528.5M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Singapore-based Amber Group is a one-stop crypto finance service provider that provides liquidity provision, trading and asset management services 24/7. Founded by Luke Li, Michael Wu, Thomas Zhu, Tiantian Kullander, Tony He, and Wayne Huo in 2017, Amber Group has now raised a total of $628.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Temasek Holdings, Polychain, Tiger Global Management, Dragonfly, and Coinbase Ventures.
Investors in the round: Fenbushi Capital
Industry: Cryptocurrency, Finance, Financial Services, FinTech, Information Technology, Trading Platform
Founders: Luke Li, Michael Wu, Thomas Zhu, Tiantian Kullander, Tony He, Wayne Huo
Founding year: 2017
Location: Singapore
Total equity funding raised: $628.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series E
Description: Burnaby-based Svante offers a carbon capture technology to capture CO2 directly at its sources. Founded by Andre Boulet, Brett Henkel, Darryl Wolanski, and Soheil Khiavi in 2007, Svante has now raised a total of $471.6M in total equity funding and is backed by Hesta AG, Temasek Holdings, Carbon Direct, Suncor Energy, and Chrysalix Venture Capital.
Investors in the round: 3M New Ventures, Chavron New Energies, Delek US Holdings, Inc., Full Circle Capital, GE Vernova, Hesta AG, Japan Energy Fund, Liberty Media, M&G Investments, OGCI Climate Investments, Samsung Ventures, TechEnergy Ventures, Temasek Holdings, United Airlines Ventures
Industry: Clean Energy, CleanTech, Environmental Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Renewable Energy
Founders: Andre Boulet, Brett Henkel, Darryl Wolanski, Soheil Khiavi
Founding year: 2007
Location: Burnaby
Total equity funding raised: $471.6M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series E
Description: Denver-based DispatchHealth is a provider of mobile and virtual healthcare for people of all ages in the comfort of their own homes. Founded by Kevin Riddleberger and Mark Prather in 2013, DispatchHealth has now raised a total of $733.2M in total equity funding and is backed by Humana, Tiger Global Management, US Acute Care Solutions, Silicon Valley Bank, and Oak HC/FT.
Investors in the round: Adams Street Partners, Blue Shield of California, Echo Health Ventures, Humana, Oak HC/FT, Optum Ventures, Pegasus Tech Ventures, Questa Capital Management, Silicon Valley Bank, The Olayan Group
Industry: Health Care, Home Health Care, Medical, mHealth
Founders: Kevin Riddleberger, Mark Prather
Founding year: 2013
Location: Denver
Total equity funding raised: $733.2M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Dubai-based Yellow Door Energy is a UAE-based leading solar developer. Founded by Jeremy Crane in 2015, Yellow Door Energy has now raised a total of $465.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Ischyros New York, International Finance Corporation, Mitsui & Co, Actis, and Equinor.
Investors in the round: Actis, Arab Petroleum Investments Corporation, International Finance Corporation, Ischyros New York, Mitsui & Co., Ltd.
Industry: Energy, Renewable Energy
Founders: Jeremy Crane
Founding year: 2015
Location: Dubai
Total equity funding raised: $465.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series G
Description: Seoul-based Toss is a mobile financial management platform. Founded by Seunggun Lee in 2011, Toss has now raised a total of $1.4B in total equity funding and is backed by Alameda Research, Bessemer Venture Partners, FJ Labs, Qualcomm Ventures, and Goodwater Capital.
Investors in the round: Altos Ventures, Aspex Management, Bond Capital, DUMAC, Goodwater Capital, Greyhound Capital, Korea Development Bank, KOREA INVESTMENT & SECURITIES, Tonic Private Equity
Industry: Financial Services, FinTech, Mobile Apps, Mobile Payments, Personal Finance
Founders: Seunggun Lee
Founding year: 2011
Location: Seoul
Total equity funding raised: $1.4B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series E
Description: Somerville-based Form Energy develops and commercializes a low-cost battery system that can store wind and solar energy for a long duration. Founded by Marco Ferrara, Mateo Jaramillo, Ted Wiley, William Woodford, and Yet-Ming Chiang in 2017, Form Energy has now raised a total of $815.0M in total equity funding and is backed by ArcelorMittal, Temasek Holdings, VamosVentures, Ischyros New York, and Energy Impact Partners.
Investors in the round: ArcelorMittal, Breakthrough Energy Ventures, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Capricorn Investment Group, Coatue, Energy Impact Partners, GIC, Ischyros New York, NGP Energy Technology Partners, Prelude Ventures, Temasek Holdings, The Engine, The Rise Fund, TPG Rise Climate Fund, VamosVentures
Industry: Battery, Energy, Energy Storage, Environmental Engineering, Renewable Energy
Founders: Marco Ferrara, Mateo Jaramillo, Ted Wiley, William Woodford, Yet-Ming Chiang
Founding year: 2017
Location: Somerville
Total equity funding raised: $815.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Beijing-based Eswin Computing develops integrated chips and solutions focused on displays and videos, AI data processing, and wireless connection. Founded by Wang Dongsheng in 2016, Eswin has now raised a total of $1.7B in total equity funding and is backed by Hongsheng Capital, Legend Capital, Source Code Capital, IDG Capital, and Shang Qi Capital.
Investors in the round: Beijing Financial Street Investment (Group), China Development Bank Capital, China Life Investment Holding, China National Building Material, Chongqing Yufu Holding Group, GF Venture Capital, Hongsheng Capital, SDIC Unity Capital, Shang Qi Capital, Source Code Capital, Zhongji Investment
Industry: Communication Hardware, Hardware, Semiconductor, Wearables
Founders: Wang Dongsheng
Founding year: 2016
Location: Beijing
Total equity funding raised: $1.7B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series E
Description: Irvine-based Anduril Industries is a defense product company that builds technology for military agencies and border surveillance. Founded by Brian Schimpf, Joseph Chen, Matt Grimm, Palmer Luckey, and Trae Stephens in 2017, Anduril Industries has now raised a total of $2.2B in total equity funding and is backed by Andreessen Horowitz, General Catalyst, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Valor Equity Partners, and Elad Gil.
Investors in the round: 8VC, Andreessen Horowitz, DFJ Growth, Elad Gil, FJ Labs, Founders Fund, General Catalyst, Human Capital, Lachy Groom, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Lux Capital, Marlinspike Capital, Modern Venture Partners, Palumni VC, Thrive Capital, Valor Equity Partners, WCM Investment Management
Industry: Aerospace, Augmented Reality, Government, National Security, Virtual Reality
Founders: Brian Schimpf, Joseph Chen, Matt Grimm, Palmer Luckey, Trae Stephens
Founding year: 2017
Location: Irvine
Total equity funding raised: $2.2B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here. ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
EDITORIAL GUIDELINES
LEGAL
PRIVACY
TERMS OF USE CONTACT US
ADVERTISE
TIPS
WRITE FOR US NYC VC
NYC TECH EVENTS
NYC TECH NEWS
NYC STARTUPS
NYC COWORKING
TECH DIRECTORY  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC Join the millions and keep up with the stories shaping entrepreneurship. Sign up today. 