Name: Emily Duhaney School: Ursuline Sport: Softball Class: Senior Con Edison Athlete of the Week: Rye Neck softball's Katie Blanch Con Edison Athlete of the Week: Horace Greeley girls lacrosse's Erica Rosendorf Con Edison Athlete of the Week: Byram Hills boys lacrosse's Gavin Javorsky Athletics: Tuesday, Duhaney improved her season record to 8-3 with a two-hitter and struck out 13 in the Koalas 8-1 win over New Rochelle. ... Last week, she pitched three-straight no-hitters which is a first in program history. ... Since the Arlington tournament on April 22, she's allowed only run run and struck out 55 batters. ... Duhaney has garnered All section Honors three times, two-time pitcher of the league, three-time Ursuline MVP and has been a starter on varsity since she was in eighth-grade. Extracurriculars: Duhaney volunteers her time at school events such as Theater performances, Art shows and fall sports. ... She's been a Camp counselor at Lifetime Fitness in West Harrison. Twitter: @LoHud_Debbie This article originally appeared on Rockland/Westchester Journal News: Con Edison Athlete of the Week: Ursuline softball's Emily Duhaney Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.