Amsterdam News has been reporting the news of the day from a Black perspective for 113 years. Donors who choose to give monthly or annually will receive Amsterdam News’ Weekly E-Edition and acclaimed weekday newsletter Editorially Black to their inbox! 
			Thanks for your contribution!		 New York Amsterdam News 
					The New Black View				 Get the top Racial Equity stories of the day from America’s most influential oldest continuously published Black newspaper, serving the nation’s largest Black and brown community.  Sign up to stay connected. Sign up for our acclaimed free newsletter Editorially Black with the top Racial Equity stories of the day to your inbox! Con Edison is celebrating its 200th anniversary of energizing New York City, marking two centuries of powering one of the most iconic cities in the world. Known for their skyline and the bright lights of Times Square, New York City wouldn’t be the global destination spot to the millions of homes, restaurants, hotels, and other businesses that it is today without Con Edison lighting up the city.  The company aims to build on its track record of constant innovation by creating historic investments in clean energy technologies to help New York meet climate goals and deliver 100 percent clean energy by 2040.    Con Edison has grown into one of the largest U.S. energy companies, supplying energy to more than 10 million people in the New York City region while serving as an anchor for the local economy. Con Edison’s main focus today is building a climate-resilient energy system that will maneuver primarily on renewables, while maintaining the reliability that New Yorkers count on. Amsterdam News is renowned for its reporting of the news of the day from a Black perspective for 113 years. Donors who choose to give monthly or annually will receive Amsterdam News’ Weekly E-Edition and acclaimed free weekday newsletter Editorially Black delivered by email. 
			Thanks for your contribution!		 Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ Amsterdam News
2340 Frederick Douglass Blvd.
New York, NY 10027
Phone: 212-932-7400 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 Subscribe to our newsletters: 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions.																	
