Tides of Charleston during a torrential downpour, Tuesday, July 25, 2023. (Owen Reiter for the Staten Island Advance) STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. -- A storm with downpours, wind and lightning hit the New York City area Tuesday afternoon, flooding borough roads and leaving more than 1,000 residents without power. AccuWeather forecasters issued a severe thunderstorm warning for Staten Island along with others parts of the city and Long Island just after 3 p.m., expiring at 4:15 p.m. Conditions included wind gusts upwards of 60 mph and penny sized hail. The service warned damage to trees and power lines could occur. The threat for rain in the area is expected to last through the evening. - The Zimmer Club at the corner of Androvette Street and Arthur Kill Road was completely flooded during the teeming downpour on Tuesday, July 25, 2023 (Owen Reiter for the Staten Island Advance) FLOODING Staten Island drivers caught in the heavy downpours found themselves on flooded roads as the rain quickly pooled. On the West Shore Expressway, drivers pulled over as visibility was severely limited by the rain. One driver reported flooding on side streets off Arthur Kill Road, while another encountered ponding on Jewett Avenue and Victory Boulevard. On the East Shore, relentless rain flooded the sections of Guyon Avenue just above and below Hylan Boulevard. The waters reached about half the height of the wheels of one car parked below the boulevard. Motorists either proceeded with extreme caution or turned around to avoid the risk. Further down Hylan, near Chesterton Avenue, flooding briefly reduced South Shore-bound traffic to a single lane at around 3:50 p.m., but 10 minutes later, it was flowing normally. At about 3 p.m., the National Weather Service issued a flood advisory for the entire NYC area, with 1-2 inches of rain expected. The alert said heavy rainfall could cause flooding of small creeks and streams, urban areas, highways, streets and underpasses as well as other poor drainage areas and low lying spots. Residents are advised not to drive your vehicle or walk into areas where water covers the roadway as the water depth may be too great to allow you to cross safely. Flooding on Grimsby Street and Mapleton Avenue., Midland Beach, Tuesday, July 25, 2023. (Staten island Advance/Luke Peteley) A monitor placed on Grimsby Street as part of the city’s Floodnet program showed that the flood-prone street had 10 inches of water by 4:15 p.m. RUSH HOUR WOES At 4:12 p.m. the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey issued an alert that the Goethals Bridge headed into Staten Island had a delay due to flooding in the area of Victory Blvd on the Staten Island Expressway. Meanwhile, by 4:30 p.m., the New Jersey-bound Expressway was backed up nearly its entire length, from the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge to South Avenue, where a crash was reported. - Ellis Road in Charleston during a torrential downpour, Tuesday, July 25, 2023 (Owen Reiter for the Staten Island Advance) Owen Reiter POWER OUTAGES More than 1,000 Con Edison customers, mostly on the North Shore, lost power during the storm, according to the utility’s outage map. More than 900 of those were located in Tompkinsville. Other outages were reported in Castleton Corners and Clifton. A second set of outages on the South Shore, in Great Kills, were reported by 4 p.m. FORECAST FOR REST OF THE DAY According to the NWS, showers and thunderstorms will again occur sometime before 8pm. Weather could be severe, with high gusty winds. Mostly cloudy, with a low temperature around 67. is expected Chance of precipitation is 60%. New precipitation amounts between a quarter and half of an inch possible. - When completed, the storm sewer project on Kreischer Street in Charleston should alleviate flooding like this, which resulted from the torrential downpour on Tuesday, July 25, 2023 (Owen Reiter for the Staten Island Advance) Owen Reiter If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices