EASTAMPTON - A real estate developer has sold a newly finished warehouse here for $83 million. The new owner, Glendale Warehouse and Distribution of Edison, has consolidated much of its warehouse operation from Edison in Middlesex County to the new warehouse on Route 206 in Eastampton. The building covers 345,600 square feet − comparable in size to half a dozen NFL football fields (including end zones) and was approved by the local land use planning board as a permitted use. New York City-based Rockefeller Group, the owner of Rockefeller Center in New York and builder of the Eastampton warehouse as a speculative project, announced the sale in a statement by Zac Csik, vice president of New Jersey and Pennsylvania development. The building, whose construction began in 2021, occupies a nearly 28-acre property on the south side of Route 206 between Woodlane−North Pemberton and Juliustown roads. Behind it is the Powell Run stream and back farther the Venue at Smithville Greene with single homes for those 55 and older along Smithville Road. The warehouse also is eight miles east of Exit 7 of the New Jersey Turnpike in Bordentown Township, which the company says trucks will use to travel to and from the shipping ports of Elizabeth and Newark. The distribution center is in "one of New Jersey’s fastest growing industrial markets – Burlington County," according to Csik. Glendale is a major distributor for the spice industry and also stores and transports other food products. The building had to meet stringent food safety and operational requirements because of its commodities, the developer said.  The warehouse will employ 30 workers, many of whom will be transferred from Edison, Glendale said. More:Lawsuit opposes warehouse on Chesterfield golf course The site also has 4,000 square feet of speculative office space available. The warehouse has these exterior features: “Glendale is excited to be moving into our new, state-of-the art distribution center in Eastampton as we continue to expand our business in New Jersey,” said company president Frank Collette. By consolidating operations from multiple buildings in Edison to a single site in Eastampton, Collete said, Glendale "will be able to better serve our customers and utilize multiple ports of entry for our imported products.” Carol Comegno loves telling stories about South Jersey life, history and military veterans for the Courier Post, Burlington County Times and The Daily Journal. If you have a story to share, call her at 856-486-2473 or email  ccomegno@gannettnj.com. Support local journalism with a subscription.