Recognized for its powerful innovation in digital experience analytics that helps brands deliver valuable online experiences NEW YORK, March 2, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Contentsquare, the global leader in digital experience analytics, today announced it has been named to a number of G2's 2023 Best Software Awards, most notably placing #19 on the Best Marketing and Digital Advertising Products list and #24 on the Best Products for the Enterprise list. As the world's largest and most trusted software marketplace, G2 is visited by 80 million software buyers each year. Its annual Best Software Awards rank the world's best software companies and products based on authentic, timely reviews from real users. This is Contentsquare's second time receiving a G2's Best Software Award recognition, earning its place this year thanks to its mission to help brands create and deliver more human experiences with its Digital Experience Analytics Platform. Based on recent findings from its annual customer trends Benchmark report, brands are leveraging Contentsquare software to combat the challenges of diminishing customer engagement online due to poor website performance, with one in three online sessions being frustrating. Contentsquare customers that apply digital analytics data insights are able to deliver experiences that are relevant, intent-driven, and higher-value, resulting in boosts to online session depth, time-spend, and revenue. Within three years of implementation, brands achieve a ROI of 602%, according to a 2023 Forrester Total Economic Impact study on Contentsquare Digital Experience Analytics software.     "We're honored to be recognized for our investments and commitment to developing software solutions that provide real value to our customers," said Lucie Buisson, Chief Product Officer at Contentsquare. "Our product strategy reflects our mission to make online experiences as good as real-life ones, if not better. G2 Awards are a great recognition of the meaningful work carried out by our product and engineering teams to raise the standards of customer experience so that everyone can enjoy experiences they seek, love and deserve." "While G2 publishes the Best Software Awards each year, they're really awards from customers," said Sara Rossio, Chief Product Officer at G2. "Representing a vote of confidence from real software users, these awards also spotlight those that have risen to the top among thousands of companies. With 2 million+ verified software reviews, the most in a single destination, our marketplace features more than 145,000 products and services across 2,100 different categories. Congratulations to all those named, as buyers will continue to lean on these awards as a trusted source to inform their software decisions in the year ahead." The top 100 companies are ranked based on a combination of Satisfaction and Market Presence scores for each vendor, and the top 100 products are ranked based on reviews across all categories they are a part of. To be recognized as a Best Software Award winner, a software company or product must receive at least 50 approved and published reviews during the 2022 calendar year. Scores reflect only data from reviews submitted during this evaluation period. To learn more, view G2's 2023 Best Software Awards and read more about G2's methodology. About G2 G2 is the world's largest and most trusted software marketplace. More than 80 million people annually ? including employees at all Fortune 500 companies ? use G2 to make smarter software decisions based on authentic peer reviews. Thousands of software and services companies of all sizes partner with G2 to build their reputation, manage their software spend, and grow their business ? including Salesforce, HubSpot, Zoom, and Adobe. To learn more about where you go for software, visit http://www.g2.com and follow us on Twitter and LinkedIn. About Contentsquare Contentsquare delivers the power to make the digital world more human. Its AI-powered platform provides rich and contextual insight into customer behaviors, feelings and intent ? at every touchpoint in their journey ? enabling businesses to build empathy and create lasting impact. The global leader in digital experience analytics, Contentsquare helps brands everywhere transform the way they do business, allowing them to take action at enterprise scale and build customer trust with security, privacy and accessibility. More than 1,000 leading brands use Contentsquare to grow their business, deliver more customer happiness and move with greater agility in a constantly changing world. Its insights power the customer experience on over 1 million websites worldwide. Founded in Paris and with offices around the world, Contentsquare has raised $810m in investment funding from leading investors, including Softbank, BlackRock and others. For more information, visit http://www.contentsquare.com. Media Contact Gaetane Roche, Contentsquare, (646) 590-6974, [email protected] Jenny Gardynski, G2, (847) 748-7559, [email protected]   SOURCE  Contentsquare