New York, Jan.  27, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- According to The Insight Partners, "Debt Collection Software Market Growth Drivers, Opportunities, Size, Share and Global Forecast to 2028 - COVID-19 Impact and Global Analysis by Component (Software and Service), Deployment Type (On-Premise and Cloud), Organization Size (Large Enterprises and SMEs), and Industry Vertical (IT & Telecom, BFSI, Retail, Manufacturing, and Others)"; the global debt collection software market growth is impelled by increase in need for automation in the accounts receivable process, growing adoption of debt collection software in the healthcare industry and rising adoption of self-service payment models.  Get Sample Brochure at https://www.theinsightpartners.com/sample/TIPTE00002447   Global Debt Collection Software Market – Report Scope:   Global Debt Collection Software Market: Competitive Landscape and Key Developments Chetu Inc.; FICO; CSS, Inc.; Experian Information Solutions Inc.; EXUS; Loxon Solutions; FIS; Pegasystems; Quantrax Corporation, Inc.; and CGI Inc. are a few of the key debt collection software market players profiled during this study. Several other important players were studied and analyzed during the course of this market study to get a holistic view of the market and its ecosystem.   Inquiry Before Purchase: https://www.theinsightpartners.com/inquiry/TIPTE00002447   Global Debt Collection Software Market – Growth Drivers:  Factors such as rising omnichannel collection models, increasing need to minimize bad debt and improve cash flow, and growing adoption of automation in the accounts receivable process are driving the debt collection software market in Asia Pacific. In April 2021, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) implemented commonwealth consumer protection laws, including laws relevant to debt collection. The ACCC and ASIC have jointly produced this guideline which aims to assist creditors, collectors, and debtors in understanding their rights and obligations and ensure that debt collection activity is undertaken consistently while complying with consumer protection laws. Moreover, debt collection software market players are investing significantly to set up their infrastructure. FinTech, Micro Finance Companies (MFCs), and digital lending firms are providing digital-first and analytics-based approaches for debt collections. Businesses in Asia Pacific are more open to various debt collection methods than other regions, as massive export trading is conducted, and dealers are concerned about the complexity of payment procedures and debt collections. Therefore, companies are willing to buy debt collection software to recover their amount. Global Debt Collection Software Market – Industry Insights:  The debt collection software market is broadly segmented into five major regions—North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA), and South America. North America is pioneering digital transformation, and the growing debt consumption has made it even more crucial for lending institutions to implement an efficient debt recovery system. The advent of AI and ML technology helped banks and the financial sector automate almost all of their business processes. Also, the development of customer self-service platforms automates and accelerates the debt collection process, further aiding the debt collection software market growth. In January 2022, Prodigal, a leading software company, announced that its customer, CCMR3, a premier debt collection agency, achieved 100% coverage on call audits and compliance automation using its machine learning platform. Thus, the growing adoption of advanced technologies in the debt recovery process helps enhance the debt recovery across the region.  Speak to Research Expert: https://www.theinsightpartners.com/speak-to-analyst/TIPTE00002447   Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on Global Debt Collection Software Market Growth:  The COVID-19 pandemic increased patient costs and bad debts in the healthcare sector, driving the demand for debt collection software. Debt collection software sales are expected to increase during the forecast period as the adoption of debt collection software to address internal medical debt collection by major healthcare organizations will become significant. Several state agencies and regulators took the following steps to ease financial restrictions imposed on consumers within their jurisdictions due to the pandemic. Due to this factor, developers of debt collection software experienced a temporary setback that also affected debt collection software sales. Deviations in enforcement and dunning procedures during the COVID-19 pandemic and severe economic impacts, such as an increase in the unemployment rate, have impeded the growth of the debt collection software market growth. Debt Collection Software Market Analysis: Industry Vertical Overview Based on industry vertical, the debt collection software market is segmented into IT & telecom, BFSI, retail, manufacturing, and others. The BFSI segment dominated the debt collection software market with the highest share in 2021. Banks and financial institutions traditionally relied on mail and phone calls to derive customer payments. These methods are intrusive and tend to harm consumers. Hence, the solution lies in the practice of deploying alternative channels of communication. Banks and financial institutions have shifted to mobile apps, online portals, social media platforms, and automated chatbots to communicate with customers. Furthermore, the rise in credit losses compels the BFSI industries to adopt digital means for debt recovery. The debt collection software market growth is attributed to a significant shift toward digital methods for debt collection and other collection activities across BFSI industries.   Buy Premium Copy of Debt Collection Software Market Growth Report (2022-2028) at: https://www.theinsightpartners.com/buy/TIPTE00002447    Browse other research published by The Insight Partners: Debt Settlement Solution Market - Growth of debt settlement solution market is directly proportional to the scope and size of consumer debt on a global level.  Credit Insurance Market - The global credit insurance market size was valued at US$ 8.64 billion in 2017 and is projected to reach US$ 10.77 billion by 2025. The Credit insurance market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 2.9% during the forecast period of 2017 to 2025. Budgeting Software Market - Budgeting software is a computer program that helps design, manage, monitor, and alter the budget of a particular individual or business. Credit Insurance Software Market - Credit insurance software is a full end-to-end software solution comprising an online portal for brokers and policy holders. Credit Management Software Market - Credit management software is used to streamline and prioritize the workflow associated with credit management. E-commerce Payment Market - The global e-commerce payment market size is expected to grow from US$ 24.26 Bn in 2017 to US$ 64.69 Bn by 2025 at a CAGR of 13.1% between 2018 and 2025. Payment as a Service Market - The Payment as a Service is a service provided by a company that offers shops online services for accepting electronic payments by different payments method which include bank-based payments such as direct debit, credit card, real-time bank transfer and bank transfer based on online banking. Digital Payment Market - The global digital payment market size is expected to grow from US$ 89,045.67 million in 2021 to US$ 243,426.71 million by 2028; it is estimated to grow at a CAGR of 15.4% from 2021 to 2028. Mobile Payment Technologies Market - The global Mobile payment technologies market size is expected to grow from US$ 45.36 billion in 2021 to US$ 323.03 billion by 2028 with an estimated CAGR of 32.8% from 2022 to 2028. Payment Gateway Market - The global payment gateway market size is expected to grow from US$ 30.6 Bn in 2016 to US$ 86.9 Bn by 2025 at a CAGR of 12.4% between 2017 and 2025.   About Us: The Insight Partners is a one stop industry research provider of actionable intelligence. We help our clients in getting solutions to their research requirements through our syndicated and consulting research services. We specialize in industries such as Semiconductor and Electronics, Aerospace and Defense, Automotive and Transportation, Biotechnology, Healthcare IT, Manufacturing and Construction, Medical Device, Technology, Media and Telecommunications, Chemicals and Materials. Contact Us: If you have any queries about this report or if you would like further information, please contact us: Contact Person: Sameer Joshi E-mail: sales@theinsightpartners.com  Phone: +1-646-491-9876 Press Release: https://www.theinsightpartners.com/pr/debt-collection-software-market   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.