Company commits to reaching net-zero carbon emissions a decade ahead of the 2050 Paris Agreement goal NEW YORK, March 16, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Contentsquare, the global leader in digital experience analytics, today announced it has signed The Climate Pledge, committing to reach net-zero carbon by 2040. Co-founded in 2019 by Amazon and Global Optimism, The Climate Pledge is a commitment by companies to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 — a decade ahead of the Paris Agreement's goal of 2050. By signing The Climate Pledge, Contentsquare agrees to: According to the International Energy Agency, digital technology accounts for 2.5% of electricity consumption worldwide. Moreover, a report published by Paris-based think tank The Shift Project estimates that digital technology is responsible for 3.7% of global greenhouse gas emissions — a figure that is rising rapidly. Contentsquare has been tracking its emissions and has started to implement solutions to lower its carbon footprint. Some of the initiatives launched in the past year include: "As a committed SaaS company, we are constantly looking for ways to optimize our products," said Patrick Chatain, Contentsquare's Chief Technology Officer. "Signing The Climate Pledge cements our commitment to helping tackle climate change through solution-based innovation." "As we have scaled and developed our product and market leadership, we have also embraced our responsibility to lower our environmental impact as much as possible. We are committed to leveraging our position to promote a more sustainable Web, and The Climate Pledge offers a unique opportunity to fuel collective action," said Jonathan Cherki, CEO and founder of Contentsquare. About Contentsquare Contentsquare moves beyond traditional analytics to enable an unprecedented understanding of the customer experience that transforms business. With intuitive technology that reveals the behavior, intent and feelings of any and every user, Contentsquare allows businesses to deliver more human experiences quickly, while ensuring privacy and accessibility. About The Climate Pledge In 2019, Amazon and Global Optimism co-founded The Climate Pledge, a commitment to reach the Paris Agreement 10 years early and be net-zero carbon by 2040. Over 400 organizations have now signed The Climate Pledge, sending an important signal that there will be rapid growth in demand for products and services that help reduce carbon emissions. For more information visit https://www.theclimatepledge.com. Media Contact Gaetane Roche, Contentsquare, (646) 590-6974, gaetane.roche@contentsquare.com   SOURCE  Contentsquare © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.