Mumbai (Maharashtra) (India), January 25: ‘Opportunities are created by you, not by chance”, as the adage goes. There are many people in the world whose success is solely the result of their talent. They adhere to the principles of effort, commitment, and continuous improvement. Always keep learning and working hard. Never begin a project with pessimism; always be upbeat. As you accomplish one objective, set another one. A select few experts worked tirelessly till they were bone-tired to eventually achieve their desired position and achievement in life, and Jyotsana Haldkar is one of them. By creating her success through the means of social media platforms, she demonstrated to everyone that if you are determined to your goal, then no one can create obstacles in your way of success. She is well-known as a social media personality, influencer, lifestyle blogger, fashion model, and developer of digital content. Her work is well appreciated by people. She enjoys a large following on social media, particularly on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, and other platforms for short videos. She posts contentful videos on all social media platforms. Apart from working on all the social media platforms, she loves travelling, Photoshoots, Shopping, Video Making & Dancing. She believes that if you want to create your niche or want to achieve success in your life, then don’t bother about obstacles in your life because they are destined to be in your way of success. Take every obstacle as a new chapter of life and take a lesson from it. This will build a new version of yourself every time you face an obstacle. She wants to serve as a role model for young aspirants. She is a brilliant young woman who now has 16k subscribers to her YouTube channel, 5k fans on Facebook, and 845k followers on her official Instagram account. If you have any objection to this press release content, kindly contact pr.error.rectification[at]gmail.com to notify us. We will respond and rectify the situation in the next 24 hours. Disclaimer: This post has been auto-published from an agency feed without any modifications to the text and has not been reviewed by an editor. 