Explore. Learn. Thrive. Fastlane Media Network … …
 …
 …  Today’s episode is brought to you by Mesa, the only ecommerce automation platform exclusive to Shopify and Shopify Plus. In today’s Shopify ecommerce podcast, my guest is Steven van Vessum, the Co-Founder and VP of Community for ContentKing. They’re a real-time SEO auditing and monitoring platform that helps prevent SEO disasters from happening on your Shopify store. Being the natural choice in Google Search for your products is the holy grail of marketing. This is a great conversation around the importance of quality assurance in eCommerce SEO. Our North Star is to inspire founders and marketers to accelerate growth through podcasts and strategic insights. Each week Steve Hutt and his Shopify Expert guest discuss the latest marketing strategies and current marketing tactics to accelerate growth and scale in 2022. You’ll learn how to improve efficiencies, profitably grow revenue, and build lifetime customer loyalty for your Shopify-powered online store. Today’s episode gets you one step closer to learning from those who are winning in e-commerce! [click_to_tweet tweet=”ContentKing is the first, real-time, intelligent SEO auditing and alerting platform to improve and protect the organic growth of your Shopify brand. ” quote=”ContentKing is the first, real-time, intelligent SEO auditing and alerting platform to improve and protect the organic growth of your Shopify brand. “] [click_to_tweet tweet=”Your store traffic impacts your organization’s bottom line. Two things should be on your radar at all times: 1. Grow traffic and revenue. 2. Ensure technical problems don’t go unnoticed and resolve them before competitors overtake you.” quote=”Your store traffic impacts your organization’s bottom line. Two things should be on your radar at all times: 1. Grow traffic and revenue. 2. Ensure technical problems don’t go unnoticed and resolve them before competitors overtake you.”] “I love how Steve chats with interesting ecommerce partners to help Shopify entrepreneurs like me.” < If that sounds like you, please consider rating and reviewing my show! This helps us support more people — just like you — get one step closer to the business growth that they desire. Click here, scroll to the bottom, tap to rate with five stars, and select “Write a Review.” Then be sure to let me know what you loved most about the episode! Also, if you haven’t done so already, follow the podcast. I’m adding a bunch of bonus episodes to the feed and, if you’re not following, there’s a good chance you’ll miss out. Follow now! Subscribe to the eCommerce Fastlane Podcast and get an instant notification when a new episode is released. We’re available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher, Google Play, or wherever you get your podcasts.      
Today’s episode is brought to you by Mesa, the only ecommerce automation platform exclusive to Shopify and Shopify Plus. Mesa is the easiest way to integrate any top ecommerce app or service with your online store. Designed exclusively for Shopify and Shopify Plus; Mesa’s automated workflows can get back your time spent on repetitive tasks while growing your business at the same time. Mesa’s no-code approach to building workflows allows you to create new ways to improve customer engagement, encourage repeat purchases without lifting a finger, reduce manual data entry, and more through a simple point-and-click interface. Search for “Mesa” in the Shopify App Store and download the app today. Pricing starts at less than $10 a month and comes with a 14-day free trial backed 24/7 by their Customer Success Team.   
		10+ Best Wholesale Suppliers In The USA For 2024	 
		How To Evaluate The Worth Of An eCommerce Business 2024	 
		Unlocking The Potential Of Walmart Marketplace: Updated Review (2024)	 
		11 Applications Of Artificial Intelligence (AI) In eCommerce	 
		The Next Big Digital Marketing Trends For 2024	 
		Axiom Prep Center Review 2024: Focus On Selling, They Take Care Of Returns	