This week’s event list includes two large multi-day art, film, and music events as well as Portland’s wacky Adult Soap Box Derby, Multnomah Days, and Gaston’s Good Ol’ Days festival. There’s something for nearly everyone. So get out there and enjoy. “Celebrating Our Differences Together” The Pacific Northwest Multi Cultural Readers Series and Film Festival boasts more than 45 emerging artists of color from across the nation who will share their newest scripts and films during the three-day festival. The event also offers wall-to-wall readings, screenings, masterclasses, and panel discussions addressing the issues of the day. Celebrity co-hosts include Javon Johnson (“The Oval,” “Boo! Madea Halloween”), Bobby Yan (“Stalker,” “K Love”), Regina Taylor, Rose Bianco, Rhavynn Drummer, Ted Lange (of “The Love Boat) and many others. A careful perusal of the schedule on the website is recommended to get the full scope of this event. Various hours Thursday-Sunday, Aug. 17-20, DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel, 1000 N.E. Multnomah St. In-person passes start at $140. Virtual pass $100; pnmcfestival.org/pricing. “Big Fish” Broadway Rose Theatre Company’s teen workshop presents the musical and magical tale of a traveling salesman with an incredible imagination and thirst for adventure. The play is based on the popular novel by Daniel Wallace and the 2004 film directed by Tim Burton. 2 and 6 p.m. Thursday-Friday, Aug. 17-18, 2 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 19, Broadway Rose New Stage, 12850 S.W. Grant Ave., Tigard; tickets $12-$15; broadwayrose.org. Gaston Good Ol’ Days Each summer around mid-August the town of Gaston comes alive with an annual parade (6:30 p.m. Friday), cornhole tournament, car show, live music, a beer garden and steak feed. Proceeds from the event benefit local children’s charities and other nonprofit agencies. 5-10 p.m. Thursday, 5-10:30 p.m. Friday, 8 a.m.-10:30 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 17-19, Brown Park, 105 S.W. Gaston Road, Gaston; free admission; wapatoshowdown.show. PDX Adult Soap Box Derby This is certainly among the top five of Portland’s most wacky summer traditions. Adults, on their own accord, race down Mount Tabor in wheeled contraptions of their own making. And hundreds gather along the route to cheer them on (or watch the carnage). The organizers remind us that it takes more than 150 volunteers to make the race happen. If you want to donate some of your time, you get a 2023 Volunteer t-shirt and entrance to the after party. Contact Derby officials via the website. 10 a.m. Saturday, Aug. 19, Mount Tabor, Southeast 60th Avenue and Salmon Street; free to spectate; soapboxracer.com. PDX Yard Share PDX Yard Share is partnering with Portland Fruit Tree Project and Urban Gleaners to gather unneeded seasonal backyard, homegrown, and personal orchard produce to share with their neighbors. The offerings can be anything from tree fruit, vegetables, flowers, eggs, or seeds and will be placed outside in a box or on a table for folks to gather. PDX Yard Share hopes to reduce food waste by distributing unneeded items to those who can use them. Check the website for an interactive map that shows where the produce will be offered. 10 a.m.-3 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 19, across Portland; free. See locations here beginning Aug. 17: pdxyardshare.org/gather. Multnomah Days 2023 One of Portland’s oldest street fairs, Multnomah Days, fires up again this weekend offering an open-air family event that includes a community parade, live music, street entertainers, art show, food and beverage carts, and a Kids Zone at the Multnomah Arts Center. It’s been three years since Multnomah Village has hosted this normally annual event. Come out and celebrate its return. 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 19, mostly on Southwest Capitol Highway between the bridge and Southwest 31st Avenue; free admission; multnomahvillage.org/multnomahdays. Albany Scottish Festival Albany’s annual Scottish Festival and Highland Games event returns this summer with a full day of live music, Pipes and Drums competitions, clan tents, caber toss and other traditional athletic events. Stroll around the park grounds and “Gie it laldy!” 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 19, Timber Linn Memorial Park, 900 Price Road, S.E. Albany; free admission; fireandicecelticevents.voog.com/albany-scottish-festival. Experimental Art and Music opening Albina Music Trust hosts a collaboration between the band Roman Norfleet & Be Present Art Group and experimental video artists Spoiler Room. The evening includes a performance of “Their Cowries,” a love story poem interpreted through song and movement. Along with the performance, Alberta House gallery will be showing “Wall To Wall Soul” an exhibit of photography, newsprint, and poster art depicting the legacy of Black music in Portland. 8 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 19, Historic Alberta House, 5131 N.E. 23rd Ave.; admission by donation; eventbrite.com/e/be-present-art-group. “Mount Immigration” SoundsTruck NW’s next stop is at the summit of Mount Tabor, where it will host Illegal Son featuring trombonist and composer Denzel Mendoza opening for violinist and storyteller Joe Kye with Cory Limuaco. The SoundsTruck series started earlier in the summer and will finish with one more show on Sept. 1. Check out the schedule here: soundstrucknw.org/summer-series 1 p.m. Sunday, Aug. 20, at the summit of Mount Tabor, entrance at Southeast 60th Avenue and Salmon Street; free. Opera Picnic Villa Catalana Cellars and Ping and Woof Opera present excerpts from Puchini’s “La Boheme” opera in the gardens at Villa Catalana. Bring a picnic and blanket or folding chairs and enjoy the music in the amphitheater overlooking a pond. Wine will be available for purchase by the bottle. No outside alcohol. 6 p.m. Sunday, Aug. 20, Villa Catalana, 11900 S. Criteser Road, Oregon City; admission by reservation $20; villacatalanacellars.com. “The Pirates of Penzance” Anonymous Theatre presents the Gilbert and Sullivan classic directed by Sarah Jane Hardy. This comedic operetta tells the story of an upstanding young man who has been accidentally apprenticed to a band of tender-hearted pirates. Once his apprenticed time is through, he leaves them and vows to rid the world of them. That is until he falls in love. One performance only 7 p.m. Monday, Aug. 21, Gerding Theatre at The Armory, 128 N.W. 11th Ave.; tickets are general admission $40; brownpapertickets.com/event. Converge 45 Contemporary Arts Biennial – Opening Weekend (this entry was corrected 8/16) What may end up being the biggest free art event of the summer kicks off Thursday, Aug. 24 starting a 3-day citywide wave of art exhibitions, housed at more than 15 venues. More than 50 artists show work on the theme of “Social Forms: Art as Global Citizenship.” The curated show includes “Broken Spectre,” a film by Richard Mosse, and the debut of pieces shown for the first time anywhere including a new public artwork for Portland “Chords to Other Chords (Relative)” by Marie Watt, and a sculptural installation by Malcom Peacock. The exhibits and other events are free and welcome community members, families, tourists, and collectors. Venues include galleries in the Pearl, campus buildings, The Portland Japanese Garden, and public spaces like Eastbank Commerce Center, and the Patricia Reser Center for the Arts Plaza in Beaverton. Opening weekend various times Thursday-Sunday, Aug. 24-27, across the city. See website for complete schedule; converge45.org/opening-weekend. - If you have events you’d like to see highlighted at OregonLive.com or in the weekly printed A&E section of The Oregonian, please email submissions to events@oregonian.com at least three weeks prior to the start of your event. Digital images or links to videos are helpful. — Rosemarie Stein 503-221-4376, events@oregonian.com; @trafficportland Our journalism needs your support. Please become a subscriber today at OregonLive.com/subscribe If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.