A young Michigan boy's eyes were bigger than his stomach when he inadvertently spent $1,000 on his dad's GrubHub app over the weekend. Keith Stonehouse told "Good Morning America" that his 6-year-old son Mason was "playing" on his cell phone on Saturday night before bed when he placed the order of his dreams. Shortly after Mason's bedtime, GrubHub delivery drivers arrived to the surprise of both parents and dropped off multiple bags with food orders from Leo's Coney Island, Happy's Pizza and a local shawarma spot. "I looked at my phone and all of a sudden I see 'Grubhub, Grubhub, Grubhub' and in that same second all these cars and all these lights and the doorbells going off," Stonehouse told "GMA" in a Zoom interview. "They kept coming and they kept coming." Mason's meal mishap included "giant orders of jumbo shrimp, five different orders, endless chili cheese fries, shawarma sandwiches, rice, grape leaves [and] endless ice cream," according to his parents. Stonehouse explained that he also got an alert that another order "was flagged for fraud for $439 worth of pizzas." "That would've been on top of the thousand dollars worth of food that was piling in my kitchen," he said. As the parents pieced the culinary conundrum together, they realized Mason must have used the GrubHub app on his phone. "While all of the food was being delivered and I figured out what happened, I went to talk to Mason about what he did and this is the only part that makes me laugh. I was trying to explain to him that this wasn’t good and he puts his hand up and stops me and says, 'Dad, did the pepperoni pizzas come yet?'" Stonehouse recounted, speaking with MLive.com this week. The food didn't go to waste. Stonehouse told MLive.com that the GrubHub orders were shared with the family's neighbors and stored as leftovers. At the end of the day, not all was lost. A representative for GrubHub told "GMA" that they eventually reached out to Stonehouse "once we heard about the unexpected spending spree his son went on." "We wanted to make things better for him and his family, so have offered to send him $1,000 worth of Grubhub gift cards," the rep said. GrubHub offers $1,000 in gift cards to parents after son's late-night spending spree originally appeared on goodmorningamerica.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.