Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account   All products featured on Architectural Digest are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. All the best countertop ovens combine the best of both worlds. They can cook food as well as any conventional oven, and they also prepare meals much quicker, are more energy efficient, and take up less space. Greg Frey Jr.—a chef at Golden Door in San Marcos, California, which was rated the number one spa in the world by Condé Nast Traveler—tells us that the countertop oven in his home gets used quite often. “It’s more efficient to use the countertop unit for needs like reheating dishes, roasting small portions, roasting vegetable sides, even air frying, versus the energy needed to heat up the wall oven,” he says. Some countertop ovens can roast a whole chicken or a 14-pound turkey, cook two 12-inch pizzas, or even be used to bake cookies, bread, and cakes while using less energy than a regular oven. However, Greg has some tips for choosing the best countertop oven. “Avoid small toaster ovens, unless that’s all you plan to use it for.” He also recommends a countertop oven with a bottom tray that easily slides in and out, and covers the entire bottom of the oven. “You will want to clean this tray routinely to keep it from creating a foul odor—or worse, a fire hazard—from dangerous buildup.” Since you’re getting a countertop oven for convenience, it’s natural to want one that has as many functions as possible. However, Greg offers this warning: “Added features are nice, but be wary of models with lots of dials and function switches,” he says. “I find these selectors are the cheap parts in these units, and they are the first to fail.” Interior lights vary by model. Some have an interior light that only comes on when the door is opened. Other models let you turn the interior light on while the food is cooking. And there are also countertop ovens that provide a digital view (on the control panel or via your smartphone) of the appliance’s contents. When looking at larger countertop convection oven models, determine how much counter space you need in total, making sure to account for more than just the countertop toaster oven’s measurements. Keep in mind that you’ll need adequate clearance on the top and sides. As a general rule, there should be at least four to six inches of space on each side, and six inches on the top. We tested an assortment of countertop ovens—from high-end to economical, some with air fryers, steamers, and even models you can control from your smartphone or Alexa—to bring you our top picks.  Williams Sonoma I’ve had the Wolf Gourmet Countertop Oven Elite since the beginning of 2020, and it’s the reason why I rarely use my full-size oven. The countertop convection oven can broil, roast, bake, toast, warm, or proof—and even has a bagel setting to toast one side and warm the other side. When baking or roasting, I can use the optional convection button for forced hot air, which speeds up the cooking process by 25% while also providing a more even cooking experience. (Note: when using the convection button, either reduce the temperature by 25 degrees or reduce the cooking time by 25% to avoid burning the food). I can also insert the included probe when roasting or baking to gauge the internal temperature of my food. The temperature control settings are also easy to navigate. But since I’m lazy when it comes to cooking, I usually select the "Broil" setting for salmon or lamb chops so I won’t have to preheat the oven (although I’ll occasionally roast beef and chicken). The Wolf Gourmet Countertop Oven Elite is heavy, weighing 38 pounds, and made of quality components, including the stainless-steel exterior. Its dimensions are 22 ½ x 16 ¾ x 12½, and it has a 1.1 cubic feet interior, and can hold 9” x 13” dishes and quarter sheet pans. This model includes two oven racks that can be put in the three positions, slide-out crumb/drip tray, baking pan, with broil rack. The Wolf doesn’t have as many features as many countertop ovens on the list. However, it's my top pick because it does each of its functions exceptionally well, and I love the ease of use. And since this kitchen appliance and it’s components—including the five heating elements—are so well-made, I don’t even hear it working until the ready buzzer chimes. I also love those signature knobs (found on all of the Wolf Gourmet appliances). Mine are red, but the iconic knobs are swappable, and available in red, black, and brush silver. The Wolf Gourmet Elite Countertop Oven has a five year limited warranty. Pros: Cons:  Breville We already love the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro, but the Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro takes this love to another level. It has some of the same features as its predecessor, but the Joule Oven App and Joule Autopilot make it even more versatile. Since it’s a Wi-Fi–enabled countertop oven, I can choose to pair it with my iPhone using the Joule Oven App. The app lets me remotely monitor progress and even turn the oven off via my phone. In addition, the app has lots of recipes—along with photos and info on the serving size and cooking time. The oven’s Element iQ system decides how much heat to use depending on what’s being cooked, and the Joule Autopilot can easily transition from one cooking feature to the next. You can also use voice activation, although I haven’t tried that feature. (Note: The smart functions are optional, so you can still operate the oven without them.) Like the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro, this brushed stainless steel countertop oven includes an air fryer among its 13 functions and also presets for toast (five browning settings/four slices of bread), bagel, broil, bake, roast, warm, pizza, proof, reheat, cookies, slow cook, and dehydrate. It weighs 23 pounds and has a 0.83-cubic-foot interior (total dimensions: 17.3"L x 12.8"H x 21.5"W). There’s enough room inside the appliance to hold a 14-pound turkey, nine slices of bread, and even a five-quart Dutch oven. One of my favorite features is the magnetic auto-eject rack: If the rack is on third or fourth position when I open the door, the wire rack will automatically slide halfway out of the oven, making it easier to remove the food. The Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro includes a crumb tray, a 13-inch pizza pan, two wire racks, a broiling rack, an enamel roasting pan, and a steel mesh/air fry/dehydrate basket. It has a two-year limited product warranty. Pros: Cons:  Brava If you’re willing to really splurge on a countertop oven, consider The Brava Oven, which uses high-powered light bulbs to cook food and doesn’t require pre-heating for any of its functions. The Brava provides more heat than a regular oven, delivering crispy wood-fire crusts and the type of browning you’d expect from cast-iron skillets. The oven can cook, sear, toast, bake, dehydrate, slow cook, and reheat. One of my favorite features is that it can distinguish between different zones so I can cook several types of foods on the same tray at the same time. But my absolute favorite feature is that The Brava Oven has a library of recipes that I can scroll through on the oven’s interface (via Wi-Fi) or on my iPhone. For example, I selected the Filet Mignon, with Potatoes and Baby Broccoli, and received detailed instructions on how to prep the meal and which zones to place the meat and veggies in. Or, for breakfast, I can cook another combo, using the egg tray to cook eggs in one zone, while also cooking frozen waffles in the metal tray in another zone. The Brava Oven doesn't have a glass door, but it does have a camera. And while the meals are cooking, I can view a digital image on top of the oven (and also on my phone) to see the food inside and also see the remaining cooking time. The Brava oven has over 7,000 recipes to choose from, categorized by breakfast, lunch, dinner, sweets, pizza, sandwiches, snacks, and even by dairy free, vegetarian, or keto. I can also choose recipes based on ingredients (chicken, bread, seafood, nuts, eggs). The Brava Oven weighs 34.4 pounds and has the following dimensions: 11.3 x 16.4 x 17.3. The cooking chamber is 6.4 x 13 x 12.5 inches. The Starter Set includes the TempSensor, a glass tray and a metal tray. The Brava Bake and Breakfast Package includes the TempSensor, two glass trays, two metal trays, muffin tin, square pan, loaf pan, and egg tray. The oven has a one-year limited warranty. Pros: Cons:  Tovala One thing that sets the Tovala Gen 2 Smart Oven apart from other countertop ovens is its ability to scan the barcode of several types of frozen made-for oven meals from a variety of brands—including Trader Joe’s, Pillsbury, Amy’s, and Totino’s—and the oven will automatically set the temperature and time. However, I was more impressed with Tovala’s own scan-and-cook meals, which were delivered to my door. I tried the BBQ Chicken Breast with Mac & Cheese. It arrived in one container for the large, marinated chicken breast, and a separate container for the mac and cheese, in addition to a small container of sweet BBQ sauce, and a small container of cheddar cheese. (I love that I don’t have to find seasonings or extra ingredients, because everything is included in the box.) The meal even includes the nutritional information (calories, cholesterol, sodium, etc.). Tovala also offers other types of meals—for example, Classic Italian Meatballs with Roasted Fingerling Potatoes, Smoky Coffee-Rubbed Salmon with Southwestern Salad, Backyard BBQ Pulled Pork with Freshly Baked Biscuits, and Herb Truffle Butter Steak with Mashed Potatoes & Bacon Sour Cream. The menu changes often, but the meals have an average cost of $11.99, and the smallest purchase quantity is three meals a week. I can also cook my own food in the Tovala Gen 2 Smart Oven. In addition to the baking and roasting, I can steam, reheat, and also toast bread. The oven weighs 20.9 pounds. Its interior dimensions are 12.75 x 11 x 8 inches (total dimensions: 18.5 x 12.32 x 11.75 inches), so it doesn’t take up much space in a small kitchen. Tovala provides a limited one-year warranty. Pros: Cons:  June Oven The June Oven is like a smart oven on steroids, due in part to the June App and HD camera inside of the oven. The live video lets me check in on how my food looks as it is cooking via my iPhone. I can also view and select smart recipes, and then watch the videos to see exactly how to prepare them. I have many talents, but cooking is not one of them, so this feature alone is worth the price of the June Oven. I tried a simple recipe: BBQ Chicken Thighs with Mini Corn on the Cob, and Potatoes, and followed the instructional video. The ingredients included 19 items, and I skipped several, including the smoked paprika, celery salt, ground cumin, and chopped cilantro. However, my meal (which took around 33 minutes to cook) was still delicious. The June Oven also sent alerts to let me know how much cooking time was left. There’s also an option to preheat the oven remotely and also set the time and temperature remotely (although I’ve never used that feature). The oven is also compatible with Alexa, so voice commands can be used to preheat the oven as well. Since becoming more familiar with the appliance, I love how the heating elements work, and I’ve been able to perfectly cook everything from steak to French Toast, as well as frozen pizza and (partially) made from scratch pizza. Since smartphone use is optional, I usually select from the presets on the control panel. Be advised that when using specific presets where the exact type of food is selected (for example, sirloin steak, chicken thighs, salmon, lamp chops), it’s necessary to use the thermometer and sometimes (I’m sure it’s user error) it signals that my food is done when it’s not. My workaround is to skip the presets and just choose the general cooking function presets (bake, broil, roast, etc.). I also tested the June Oven Premium, which is $400 more, but includes air fry, stone-fire, roast, convection bake, toast, broil, reheat, slow cook and hydrate (compared to the six cooking functions on the regular June Oven). The June Oven Premium also includes numerous accessories, including three air baskets, enameled grill/griddle, pizza peel, two roasting racks, two nonstick pans, wire shelf, crumb tray, food thermometer, and pro food thermometer. Its dimensions are 19.8 x 12.75 x 19.2 inches. The June oven has a one year warranty, and the June Premium and Plus oven bundles have a two year warranty. Pros: Cons:  Amazon The Ninja Foodi 10-in-1 XL Pro Air Fry Oven is large: 17.09 x 20.22 x 13.34 inches and weighs 33.6 pounds. It has plenty of room for a five-pound chicken along with a pan of vegetables on another rack at the same time. It can even hold a 12-pound turkey. The XL stainless steel kitchen appliance has 10 cooking functions: air fry, air roast, whole roast, bake, dehydrate, broil, reheat, pizza, toast, and bagel. When cooking two foods at one time, my favorite feature is that the true surround convection means I don’t have to swap out the food. For example, when air frying chicken fingers and French fries, I place one on level two and the other on level four, and I don’t need to stop halfway to adjust the rack positions, since the large capacity Ninja Foodi cooks evenly. This also means that I don’t have to flip food over at the halfway point. The Ninja Foodi XL Pro Air Oven includes two sheet pans, two wire racks, an air fry basket, roast tray, and crumb tray. Pros: Cons:  De'Longhi Another excellent choice to replace your full-size oven is the De’Longhi Livenza 9-in-1 Digital Air Fry Convection Toaster Oven. In addition to having a convection fan, it can bake, toast, broil/grill, defrost, reheat, keep food warm, and has dedicated functions for cookies and pizza. The oven has four oven positions, and includes a crumb tray, two wire racks, a bake pan, and a pizza pan. The controls are simple and easy to use, and the countertop oven also has one of the best air fryer features, producing fries and shrimp that are crunchy without being oily. The De’Longhi Livenza uses a heat lock system that locks the heat inside, which helps to keep the glass door cooler. However, I really love using the bake function with power convection for lasagna (store bought, because, again, I don’t cook when given a choice). In addition, when making pizza, I can choose between fresh pizza and frozen pizza, and regardless of which type I’m baking, the final product rivals one of my favorite pizza restaurants. Chocolate chip cookies also bake to perfection. That’s why this is definitely one of my picks for the best countertop convection ovens as well as one of the best toaster ovens. It has a relatively compact size, with the total dimensions of the stainless-steel oven coming in at 19 x 17.5 x 12 inches. It also has an 0.8 cubic foot interior and weighs 24.94 pounds. The De’Longhi Livenza 9-in-1 Digital Air Fry Convection Toaster Oven comes with a one year warranty. Pros: Cons:  Amazon Although countertop ovens don’t generate nearly as much heat as a full-size oven, they can still get pretty hot—and that can pose a problem if you have small kids running around the kitchen. However, the Calphalon Performance Cool Touch Toaster Oven with Turbo Convection has a cool-touch exterior that keeps the appliance up to 75% cooler. The top, sides, and the front of the appliance all remain cool during the cooking process. (However, it’s still recommended to leave an eight-inch clearance on the side and the back.) The Calphalon Performance Cool Touch Toaster Oven with Turbo Convection has 12 cooking functions: broil, roast, bake, bagel, toast, pizza, cookies, reheat, dehydrate, keep warm, defrost, and bread proof. The countertop oven’s dimensions are 19.25 inches long by 12.1 inches high by 16.8 inches deep, and it weighs 31.8 pounds. This kitchen appliance can hold a 12-inch pizza and also a whole chicken. The step cook feature allows me to program back-to-back cooking cycles. So, for example, I can set it to defrost a steak, and then start the broil cycle. Or I can set it to bake chicken, and then automatically go into keep warm mode if I know I’m going to be busy when it has finished cooking. The Calphalon countertop oven includes a crumb tray, a wire rack, a nonstick baking pan, and a 12-inch pizza pan. It has a three-year warranty. Pros: Cons:  Amazon The Cosori Smart Air Fryer Toaster Oven is an economical option that punches above its price range—it’s unusual to find a smart countertop oven at this price range. After downloading the VeSync App, I had access to over 100 recipes designed by chefs and step-by-step instructions. There’s even an option to add my own custom recipes. The device can be controlled by either the app or voice control using Alexa or Google Assistant. The Cosori has 12 cooking functions: air fry, roast, bake, pizza, bagel, toast, broil, cookies, rotisserie, dehydrate, ferment, and warm. The large capacity interior can hold a five-pound roasted chicken. I’ve used it to make pizzas, air fry chicken wings, bake cookies, and roast corn on the cob. The countertop oven weighs 19.60 pounds, and its dimensions are 20.1 inches long, 12.5 inches high, and 16.5 inches deep. The nonstick coating also makes it easy to clean. The accessories included are a fry basket, a crumb tray, a food tray, a wire rack, a rotisserie shaft, and a rotisserie handle. The Cosori Smart Air Fryer Toaster Oven has a two-year warranty. Pros: Cons:  Amazon Galanz may be better known for its retro-style refrigerators and freezers. However, the Galanz 4-in-1 ToastWave with Total Fry 360 proves that the company also makes great countertop ovens. And this sleek and thoughtfully designed appliance can be used as a toaster, microwave, convection oven, and air fryer—in fact, it has 12 total cooking functions. The microwave functions include microwave, sensor cook, sensor reheat, and defrost. The toaster oven functions include broil, air fry, bake, pizza, warm, toast, bagel, and convection cook. With a 1.2-cubic-foot capacity and dimensions of 22.25 inches long, 12.56 inches high, and 21.25 inches deep, the appliance (which weighs 40 pounds) has plenty of room for cooking large meals, and that’s even easier with the auto programs. For example, to broil a pork chop I press AR-1, and to air fry french fries I merely press AF-7. The Sensor Cook and Sensor Reheat features are powered by a humidity sensor that automatically stops the cooking or reheating process when the food is done so it won’t be overcooked. The Galanz 4-in-1 includes a nonstick turntable, a silicone cooking mat, and an air fry kit. It has a one-year limited warranty. Pros: Cons:  Fotile Fotile makes cooktops, gas ranges, and ovens, so it knows something about kitchen appliances. The Fotile ChefCubii 4-in-1 Steam-Combi Oven can air fry, dehydrate, and convection bake. However, my favorite feature is the steam function, which provides steam on low, medium, and high settings (ranging from 86-230 degrees). There’s also a pretty good-sized removable water tank. The countertop oven has 40 presets for the various cooking modes, and I’ve used several when steaming food. For example, P05 is the preset to steam shrimp, P08 is the preset to steam rice, and P13 is the steam corn preset. There are also a variety of other presets. For example, I’ve used P21 to roast pork chops, and the P16 preset is for baking cookies. In addition, there are presets for baking other types of food, in addition to air frying, dehydrating, and using the combi steam and convection function. I’ve also used the steam function to help clean the countertop oven by filling the appliance with water and then putting the appliance in Steam Clean Mode. This helps to remove any built-in grime. The Fotile ChefCubii is a sleek white appliance with a black glass door that has a capacity of one cubic foot. The exterior dimensions are 17 13/16 x 18 7/8 x 14 inches. Accessories include a grill rack, bake tray, steam tray, and humidity-controlled chip (for dehydration). Sometimes, the door is hard to open, but when I reached out to the company, it informed me this was done on purpose to ensure that the door is properly sealed when steaming food. The Fotile ChefCubii 4-in-1 has a one year limited warranty. Pros: Cons:  Amazon The Chefman XL Air Fryer Toaster Oven is one of the most economically-priced options on the list. However, it is also one of the best values for people on a budget, and the large capacity (it can hold up to a 5.5 pound chicken) makes it convenient for family meals. The stainless steel kitchen appliance’s dimensions are 15.5 x 16.75 x 14 inches and it weighs 15.20 pounds. The convection toaster oven actually has presets for seven cooking modes, including broil, bake, convection bake, air fry, toast, slow cook, and warm. I’ve used the broil function to make steak and have also baked pork chops, and was pleased with both. The air fry mode also works well and made my French fries crunchy and tasty; not having to use oil also made them healthier and made cleanup a lot easier. The nonstick, countertop toaster oven includes a removable crumb tray, air fry basket, broil pan, and baking rack. It comes with a one-year warranty. Pros: Cons:  Williams Sonoma The Café Couture Oven With Air Fry is a work of art, but thankfully it’s functional art! The lightweight toaster oven has 14 cooking presets: air fry, bake, broil, roast, keep warm, reheat, toast, bagel, pizza, cookies, slow cook, dehydrate, proof, and crisp finish. I’ve used it to air fry salmon, bake pizza, air fry chocolate chip cookies, and broil chicken thighs, and everything has come out completely delicious. I use the crisp finish feature to melt the pizza topping and brown or crisp chicken thighs. The oven, which weighs 28 pounds, is 18.5 inches long, 14 inches high, and 17 inches deep. It has an internal capacity of 0.8 cubic feet—which isn’t as large as some selections on our list, but it can hold a 12-inch pizza or a 9-by-12-inch pan. It’s a smart oven, with the option to use the controls on the display panel (my preference) or download the SmartHQ App to control it. Accessories include a baking rack, a 12-inch pizza pan, an air fry/dehydrate basket, a wire rack, and a crumb tray. The oven is made of cast-iron aluminum with a choice of three finishes—stainless steel, matte black, or matte white—and each has polished copper and brushed copper accents. Pros: Cons:  Amazon One interesting feature on the Cuisinart Digital Air Fryer Toaster Oven is the dual cook feature. It allows me to combine two cooking functions or two temperatures to run consecutively. I tested it with one of the recommended recipes: ultimate nachos (which includes tortilla chips, beans, and tomatoes). I baked the meal for five minutes and then broiled it for another five so the cheese could melt and brown. Dual cook can be used with the bake, broil, roast, pizza, low, warm, and air fry functions. The countertop oven actually has 12 functions: toast, bagel, bake, broil, pizza, roast, dehydrate, proof, low, air fry, reheat, and warm. I’ve made pizza, broiled pork chops, and air-fried shrimp and french fries with equal success. The oven’s dimensions are 21.73 inches long, 15.75 inches high, and 17 inches deep, and it weighs 20.3 pounds. The lightweight and nonstick oven also uses touch controls and a dial. Accessories include an oven rack, a baking pan, and an air fry basket. The oven’s interiors are nonstick, but the baking pan isn’t. The appliance has a three-year limited warranty. Pros: Cons:  Amazon Fortunately, you don’t need a lot of room for a countertop oven. The Ninja Foodi 9-in-1 Digital Air Fry Oven is only 19.7 inches long, 15 inches high, and 7.6 inches deep and weighs 18.57 pounds. However, Ninja doesn’t skimp on features with this appliance. It has nine cooking functions: air fry, air roast, air broil, bake, toast, bagel, dehydrate, keep warm, and reheat. Also the digital air fry oven has the ability to actually flip away when not in use, so you can save up to 50% more space. This also makes it easy to clean underneath and around the appliance. In addition, the back panel can be easily accessed, making cleaning even easier and more thorough. I’ve used it to air fry french fries and chicken wings, air roast veggies, air broil salmon and steak, and bake pizzas and chocolate chip cookies—all with fantastic results. Accessories include a removable crumb tray, an air fry basket, a wire rack, and a sheet pan. The countertop oven has a one-year limited warranty. Pros: Cons:  Amazon If you would prefer not to have several small appliances in your kitchen, the Toshiba 7-in-1 Countertop Microwave Oven With Air Fryer Combo can do it all. First, it’s a microwave, but it also has an air fry, broil, convection, pro defrost, sensor cook, and combi function. The combi function can be used for convection plus microwave, and also broil plus microwave. In addition, there are preset shortcuts, for example, H01 for frozen french fries and A06 for cookies. I’ve used the convection function (with 360-degree rapid heat circulation) to make chicken thighs, bake cookies, and cook Swedish meatballs, and the helpful instructions in the recipe book let me know if the air fry tray should be on the low rack or the high rack for best results. Using the combi modes, which combine grilling and convection, I can also prepare meals faster. The combo countertop oven is 20.6 inches long, 11.8 inches high, and 16.3 inches deep (with an interior of one cubic feet) and weighs 36.9 pounds. Accessories include a glass turntable, an air fry tray, an air fry basket, a lower wire rack, and a higher wire rack. The microwave oven has a one-year warranty. Pros: Cons: Subscriptions Connect with AD © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Architectural Digest may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices