Search CSP Daily News The parent company of convenience-store distributor Core-Mark launched an additional effort to expand its "diversity, inclusion and belonging" efforts.  Performance Food Group Co. recently launched a second enterprise associate resource group (ARG), the Black Inclusion Group (BIG). Led by co-chairs Tameka McCoy, regional director of human resources, and Scott Cosby, sales director of convenience and foodservice, BIG’s purpose is to advocate for the inclusion, advancement and empowerment of Black/African American associates at Performance Food Group (PFG), the company said. “PFG has long valued a workforce that is representative of the communities that we serve,” said Scott McPherson, executive vice president, president and CEO of convenience, and executive sponsor for BIG. “The introduction of our newest ARG, BIG, allows us to continue our work to provide equitable development and growth opportunities for all PFG associates. We are excited to see the work that will come from this group of talented individuals and looking forward to the growth that it brings our entire organization.” Introduced to the company in late December 2022, BIG is focused on helping PFG create awareness and opportunities to increase Black/African American representation, increase success with diversity recruiting strategies, and build a sense of community for Black/African American associates and their allies. “I’m excited about BIG and our progress,” said Claudia B. Mills, vice president of diversity, inclusion and belonging for PFG. “With more than 30,000 associates across the U.S., Canada and Mexico, ARGs are part of a broader enterprise strategy that focuses on ensuring our associates feel supported and valued regardless of their level, role, location, ethnicity, race or background.” ARGs are company-sponsored, associate-led networks that foster diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) and build community, enhance career and personal development and promote cultural awareness. BIG is the second of eight ARGs that will help lead and direct PFG into the future. PFG launched the Women of PFG ARG in 2022. Richmond, Virginia-based Performance Food Group is one of the largest food and foodservice distribution companies in North America with more than 150 locations in the U.S. and parts of Canada. Its companies market and deliver food and related products to more than 300,000 locations including independent and chain restaurants; businesses, schools and healthcare facilities; vending and office coffee service distributors; and big box retailers, theaters and convenience stores. Members help make our journalism possible. Become a CSP member today and unlock exclusive benefits, including unlimited access to all of our content. Sign up here. Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. The Latest Related More on this Topic In latest store plan, convenience retailer condensing combustible cigarette section ‘more and more’ Protein, portion control and fresh fruit are increasingly at home alongside chips and candy Convenience retailers are increasingly making shelf space for local favorites Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. CSP’s Top 202 details the largest chains in the convenience-store industry and the biggest M&A stories of the past year. Welcome to a deep dive into the c-store landscape. Category sales performance in Beverages, Candy, General Merchandise, Packaged Food/Foodservice and Snacks. The industry’s largest distributors by sales volume Corporate retail news affecting the convenience-store industry The latest information on products and trends in the convenience-store and foodservice industries. Peek inside new convenience stores to uncover the best in retail store design across North America. Do not sell my personal infoPrivacy PolicyCode of ConductContact UsRSS Copyright © Informa Connect 2024