or Remember me or New club opening in La Vergne, Tennessee will mark the retailer’s expansion into its 19th state BJ's Wholesale Club (NYSE: BJ), a leading operator of membership warehouse clubs, announced today that it will continue its expansion of new club locations in the upcoming months, including opening its very first club in the state of Tennessee by the first half of the year.   Tennessee’s first-ever BJ’s Wholesale Club will be located 20 miles southeast of downtown Nashville in La Vergne, a city within Rutherford County.   In addition to the La Vergne opening, BJ’s plans to open clubs in Davenport, Florida and McDonough, Georgia, later this month.   “Our club openings in Davenport and McDonough are part of our continued growth within the Orlando and Atlanta markets, respectively,” said Bill Werner, Executive Vice President, Strategy and Development, BJ’s Wholesale Club. “Additionally, the opening of our club in La Vergne represents the first of what will be multiple locations in the greater Nashville market. We can’t wait to welcome our newest BJ’s members this year and help provide these local communities with unbeatable value and incredible savings.”   As with every club, the new locations will allow members to shop their way, with a variety of digital shopping options like in-club shopping, curbside pickup, in-club pickup, same-day delivery*, and standard delivery from BJs.com. When shopping in-club, members can access ExpressPay through the BJ’s mobile app and scan products as they shop to avoid the checkout line. BJ’s Wholesale Club offers a convenient one-stop shopping experience that includes a vast selection of fresh foods, produce, a full-service deli, household essentials, pet supplies, exclusive offerings, and much more. The new clubs will also delight shoppers with a treasure-hunt experience by providing an assortment of both local and seasonal items, as well as home décor, apparel, toys, the latest in tech, and much more.   Members will also find:   Each new BJ’s Wholesale Club location is expected to create approximately 150 jobs for its respective community, totaling approximately 450 employments for the first half of the year within BJ’s newest club openings.   BJ’s is currently hiring for all locations. Those looking to learn more about becoming a BJ’s team member can visit BJs.com/careers.   Shoppers can learn more about BJ’s Wholesale Club by visiting BJs.com.  *BJ’s Same-Day Delivery is not available in all ZIP codes. Log in to your account to confirm availability.  About BJ's Wholesale Club Holdings, Inc.  Headquartered in Marlborough, Massachusetts, BJ’s Wholesale Club Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: BJ) is a leading operator of membership warehouse clubs in the Eastern United States focused on delivering significant value to its members. The company provides a curated assortment of grocery, general merchandise, gasoline and ancillary services to offer a differentiated shopping experience that is further enhanced by its omnichannel capabilities. Since pioneering the warehouse club model in New England in 1984, the company currently operates 235 clubs and 164 BJ’s Gas® locations in 18 states. For more information, please visit us at www.BJs.com or on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.   View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230209005230/en/ Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today