The service's training for a European conflict comes while a real conflict unfolds in Eastern Europe. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The United States Space Force is training to prepare for a hypothetical European conflict. Space Force Guardians from the 392nd Combat Training Squadron recently completed Space Flag 23-1, the branch's first program to "exercise combat tactics in a U.S. European Command scenario," according to a statement released by Space Training and Readiness Command, or STAR Command, the service's education, training and testing component. The two-day exercise saw Space Force personnel plan mock missions and simulate space combat operations that could be used in a real conflict. During the training exercise at Schriever Space Force Base, Colorado, Space Force personnel trained alongside counterparts from Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom, offering the chance to increase cooperation among the service's allies. "Nowhere else can U.S. and Coalition forces train together with the specificity needed to improve space combat tactics," Schramm said in the statement. "We will fight in space as a Coalition, and these opportunities are invaluable to building the team that will fight together should the need arise."  Related: US Space Force conducts 'simulated on-orbit combat' training The simulated European conflict of Space Flag 23-1 comes while a real conflict unfolds in Eastern Europe as Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues. Throughout the war, space has played a key role as satellites operated by the United States and its commercial partners continue to provide intelligence and communications for Ukrainian forces. While it's unknown exactly what types of "space combat tactics" were practiced in the Space Flag 23-1, previous U.S. Space Force training exercises have been conducted in recent months to build expertise in "space domain awareness, intelligence, warning and surveillance, navigation warfare, orbital warfare and satellite communications."   SpaceX's Starlink satellites have been front and center in this effort, providing internet vital for communications for Ukrainian forces after Russian attacks destroyed most of the nation's existing infrastructure.  Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more!  —  War in Ukraine highlights the growing strategic importance of private satellite companies — especially in times of conflict  —  1,300 SpaceX Starlink terminals with Ukraine's military went offline due to funding shortfall: report  — US Space Force conducts 'simulated on-orbit combat' training In response to the widespread use of Starlink satellites, Russia has stated that commercial satellites may become a "legitimate target" for its forces in military conflicts. The White House, in return, stated that  "any attack on U.S. infrastructure will be met with a response [...] in a time and manner of our choosing." Russia has even been conducting signal jamming and cyber attacks on Starlink satellites  —  exactly the type of event Space Force Guardians may one day have to respond to in the event of a military conflict. Space Force's mission is becoming more vital to the U.S. military's operations as anti-satellite capabilities proliferate worldwide. These span a wide range of concepts including destructive anti-satellite missiles, laser "dazzlers" that can blind satellite optics and a variety of methods to jam satellites' transmissions.  Follow Brett on Twitter at @bretttingley. Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom or on Facebook.  Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Brett is curious about emerging aerospace technologies, alternative launch concepts, military space developments and uncrewed aircraft systems. Brett's work has appeared on Scientific American, The War Zone, Popular Science, the History Channel, Science Discovery and more. Brett has English degrees from Clemson University and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. In his free time, Brett enjoys skywatching throughout the dark skies of the Appalachian mountains. Para-astronaut John McFall hopes to see an ISS astronaut with a disability fly by 2030 (exclusive, video) Robotic Russian Progress 89 cargo ship docks at ISS with tons of fresh supplies (video) Nikon Trailblazer 8x25 ATB compact binoculars review Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 