Ludvig Aberg began 2023 as an amateur and was ranked 3,073rd in the world - victory in Switzerland lifted him to number 90 Newly turned professional Ludvig Aberg will make his Ryder Cup bow for Europe after being named in captain Luke Donald's six wildcard picks on Monday. The 23-year-old, who only turned professional in June, won the European Masters in Switzerland on Sunday. "I have faith in Ludvig - I think he'll be a generational player," said Donald. Tommy Fleetwood, Sepp Straka, Justin Rose, Shane Lowry and Nicolai Hojgaard have also been picked for the 12-man team to face the United States in Rome. They join Rory McIlroy, Jon Rahm, Viktor Hovland, Tyrrell Hatton, Matt Fitzpatrick and Robert MacIntyre - who claimed the six automatic qualification spots - in the team for the biennial match at Marco Simone from 29 September to 1 October. Along with MacIntyre, Denmark's Hojgaard and Austria's Straka will also be making their debuts in the Ryder Cup, while 2019 Open champion Lowry will be playing his first in Europe.  Europe will attempt to regain the Ryder Cup from the United States following a record 19-9 defeat at Whistling Straits in 2021. Prior to Monday's announcement the possible inclusion of Aberg had been a significant and exciting talking point given his lack of experience.  Shooting 65 and 67 alongside Donald in the first two rounds of the Rocket Mortgage Classic earlier this year was an excellent early audition for a spot. And the former world number one amateur, who finished first in the PGA Tour University rankings to earn his card, underlined his rich potential at Crans-sur-Sierre in the final qualifying event to make the quickest transition from the amateur ranks to the Ryder Cup in the contest's history. "He's going to be around a long time and do amazing things," Donald added. "If he wasn't going to play this one, he was going to play the next eight. That's how good I think he is.  "He hits some of the most amazing shots. If you look at his statistics this year he would be the number one driver in the world ahead of Rory McIlroy and Scottie Scheffler, and those are pretty high standards for someone just coming out of college.  "We obviously knew what he was doing in the college scene. You look at what he did in those four years and the only comparable players really were Viktor Hovland and Jon Rahm. He is that good. I played with him in Detroit and was blown away by his game." Poland's Adrian Meronk, 30, has not been selected, despite winning the Italian Open on the Ryder Cup course in May and sitting third in the DP World Tour rankings.  "There were a number of players that you could make a good argument to be on that team that aren't. Those are difficult decisions," Donald added. "I've been in that position myself - I know what it feels like and it's gut-wrenching. I spoke to them all and it's never easy but they handled it with class." PGA Tour DP World Tour LPGA Tour Ladies European Tour Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser Sinner cleared after testing positive twice for banned substance  'Pope and England's chance to prepare for life without Stokes' Women's T20 World Cup moved from Bangladesh to UAE Messy, tender comedy from Kyla Harris Tetraplegic artist Freya asks her chaotic best friend Jo to be her carer in her new home What do you do when your daughter marries an idiot? Greg Davies, Andy Samberg and Taylor Lautner bring a piece of Hollywood to Lichfield A host of stars bid to become Celebrity MasterChef 2024 Celebrities whip up culinary triumphs in the MasterChef kitchen An absorbing mystery in a beautiful Swedish setting Haunted by the past, grief therapist Vera believes her missing brother is still alive 'Pope and England's chance to prepare for life without Stokes' 'Hull overcomes Olympics setback for Women's Open bid' PFL turns to boxing's blueprint – gimmick or genius? 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.