To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. Learn more. Samsung has three new flagship smartphones to mark 2023—the Galaxy S23, S23+, and S23 Ultra. They're officially on sale, but should you upgrade? If you need a new phone, which Galaxy S23 model is best for you? We break down what's different between each of the three, what's new, and we suggest the right one for you. We've also featured a few of the best Galaxy S23 promotions from Samsung and mobile carriers so you can get the most out of your purchase. Be sure to check out our Best Samsung Galaxy S23 Cases and Accessories guide to round out your new phone. If you're snagging last year's Galaxy S22 instead for cheap, well, we've got accessory recommendations as well. Read our Best Android Phones and Best Cheap Phones guides for more picks.  Updated March 2023: We've added our impressions on the devices and refreshed links and promotions. Special offer for Gear readers: Get a __1-year subscription to __WIRED for $5 ($25 off)**. This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day. If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism. Learn more. Galaxy S23 Series All three devices in the Galaxy S23 series have a similar design philosophy, though the Ultra stands out for its squared edges. They all have the same bright AMOLED screens, feature 120-Hz screen refresh rates, and have the basics like wireless charging, robust 5G and Wi-Fi 6E support, in-display fingerprint sensors, and IP68 water resistance. They're made of aluminum, and the glass protecting the screen and the rear is Corning's latest Gorilla Glass Victus 2. You can get them all in Phantom Black, Cream, Green, and Lavender, and you'll find Lime, Graphite, Sky Blue, and Red color options if you buy them directly at Samsung.com. These phones are powered by Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy chip with 8 GB of RAM—not just in the US, but globally. The “for Galaxy” moniker indicates that the chips have a slightly higher clock speed than the base Snapdragon chips, so they're a bit faster, and there are additional optimizations to make them more efficient. The lineup also has a redesigned cooling chamber that's two times larger, which should keep the phone cooler when gaming for extended sessions. Camera-wise, all three models share the same 12-megapixel ultrawide, a similar 3X optical telephoto camera, and a new 12-megapixel selfie cam.   All S23 phones will receive five years of security updates and four Android OS upgrades (they launch with Android 13), which is the best software policy you'll find with Android phones. That's just about where the similarities end. Here's how they're all different.  Galaxy S23 The Galaxy S23 (9/10, WIRED Recommends) is the smallest of the lineup with its 6.1-inch screen, so if you're after a phone you can comfortably use in one hand, this one's the way to go. It's also the cheapest, though by no means is it “cheap.” It's the only S23 model that starts with 128 GB of internal storage—the other two now start at 256 GB—but Samsung has upped the battery capacity by 200 mAh over the Galaxy S22 to 3,900 mAh, and it comfortably lasts a day with average use. This phone is the only one in the group that's limited to 25-watt charging speeds, so it's not as fast at recharging when you plug it in. (Remember, there's no more charging adapter in the box, so you'll have to supply one yourself.) The big change is the primary camera, which uses a new 50-megapixel sensor for improved dynamic color range. It's a minuscule update over the S22.  Galaxy S23+ The S23+ is the awkward middle child that's not as feature-filled as the Ultra, but not as different from the standard S23 to warrant a $200 bump in price. Still, this phone is larger at 6.6 inches and has a bigger 4,700-mAh battery capacity than its predecessor. We haven't tested this model, but it should easily stretch for more than a day of use. The internal storage starts at 256 GB, which is important, since Samsung stopped including microSD card slots in its high-end phones in 2021.  Since the S23+ has the same exact camera setup as the S23, the only difference outside of size is charging speed—it supports 45-watt charging (charger not included), so it will juice up a little faster than the S23. In our prior experience, the charging speed isn't drastically different, so this really shouldn't factor into your decision. Get it if you want more battery or a slightly bigger screen, but we think you're better off spending a bit extra for the feature-rich S23 Ultra. Galaxy S23 Ultra The Galaxy S23 Ultra (9/10, WIRED Recommends) is the crème de la crème of Samsung's lineup. It retains the same great 10X optical zoom camera as its predecessor that lets you take sharp photos of subjects far away. It also has a 3X optical zoom, and who doesn't love options? If you're an S Pen fan, this is the only Samsung phone with a built-in stylus that's accessible from the bottom edge of the device. It's the largest phone of the trio at 6.8 inches (and the heaviest), and while it has an adaptive refresh rate like the other two, it can shift between 1 and 120 Hz when needed, meaning it's a little more battery-efficient. It has a 5,000-mAh battery, and in our testing, it frequently lasted well into a second day on a single charge.  Like the S23+, it features 45-watt charging, and the base model comes with 256 GB of internal storage, but the big change here is the primary 200-megapixel camera. It's the highest megapixel count we've ever seen on a Samsung phone, offering higher-resolution photos, more details, and brighter low-light images than its predecessor.  There are other great phones. If you're alarmed at these prices, well, you should be. Phones are unnecessarily expensive these days. You absolutely don't need to spend anywhere near $800 to get a great smartphone. Check out our Best Android Phones and Best Cheap Phones guides for additional recommendations at stomachable prices.  Should you upgrade? If you have the Galaxy S22 or S21 series, there's no reason to upgrade. The phones are quite similar, so unless you're having issues with your phone and you can't get it fixed, save your cash and wait another year or two. Anyone with an older Samsung phone should feel welcome to upgrade; just know that these are not your only options. You can wait a few weeks to grab a Galaxy S22 at a killer price (ideally for around $600) or go for a cheaper phone. Samsung phones also routinely go on sale, so it's worth waiting for the next big holiday event to see how low prices drop for the S23 range.  Galaxy S23 Series We recommend unlocked smartphones over buying a phone directly from a wireless carrier. Why? Carriers sell locked phones, meaning if you suddenly want to switch from AT&T to Verizon, you'll have to jump through hoops to unlock the device and access it on the new network. (There are also certain restrictions on how long you'll need to be on a plan before you can unlock a device.) You can easily use unlocked phones in other countries without having to pay exorbitant prices for international data, and unlocked phones are less likely to include bloatware apps. They often also receive software updates faster.  Samsung has some exclusive color options for these phones when you buy directly from its site, whether you go for the Galaxy S23 or Galaxy S23+, though the Galaxy S23 Ultra only comes in the four main colors. In the Exclusive Offers section, you can currently get a discount if you bundle your phone purchase with the Galaxy Watch5 Pro smartwatch and Galaxy Buds2 Pro earbuds. Samsung is also throwing in $100 in instant Samsung.com store credit, which you can use for accessories like cases and chargers.  Amazon is offering the Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23+, and Galaxy S23 Ultra for the same prices as Samsung, though it doesn't include any special offers. If you're waiting for a discount, you'll most likely see it here first.  Best Buy has the Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23+, and Galaxy S23 Ultra for the same prices, but you can save up to $600 by trading in a similar device. You can use its tool to see an estimate of how much you'll knock off the retail price. It's worth noting that you can likely get more money for your current phone by selling it yourself, depending on the condition it's in. Best Buy is also offering three months of Google One's 100-GB plan and a four-month free trial of Amazon Music for new subscribers only.   These models will likely come to the wireless carriers locked, so it will be a hassle to use them on other networks. Purchasing on a payment plan can also quickly add up to much higher recurring expenses. In your inbox: Our biggest stories, handpicked for you each day How one bad CrowdStrike update crashed the world’s computers The Big Story: How soon might the Atlantic Ocean break? Welcome to the internet's hyper-consumption era Turbo Tax Live Assisted - 10% off H&R Block Coupons & Offers Enjoy $15 Off Your Orders With Instacart Coupon Dyson Airwrap deal: Free $60 Case + $40 Gift Get Up To An Extra 45% Off August Sale Vista Print Coupon Code: 20% Off Select Signage More From WIRED Reviews and Guides © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices