We are at a point in time when everything from TVs to watches, speakers, lights and more is being labelled as 'smart'. Buildings and cities are no exception and it's easy to see why smart cities are becoming the norm, especially when you consider the potential economic benefits at stake. Glasgow's Future City project, for example, reported an impressive return of £144 million on an initial investment of £24 million after just four years. There's a host of other UK cities investing in smart projects too, including Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, Hull, Manchester and London. But what exactly makes a smart building smart? At its core, 'smart' refers to technology that can automate functions, collect data and analyse it, all in the name of running a more efficient building. It comes under IoT – or Internet of Things – and is generally connected to other devices or networks. According to Statista, the market for smart homes is projected to reach almost £10bn by 2026. This is largely attributed to the customer desire for interconnectivity and their increased awareness around the various benefits of smart tech such as remote monitoring, improved security and supporting sustainability efforts. In fact, sustainability is one of the key drivers for the increased adoption of smart buildings and cities.  The Telecommunications Industry Association and UL recently launched SPIRE, an online self-assessment and rating programme that evaluates building intelligence. As a relatively new and ambitious assessment matrix, it is advantageous for stakeholders to fully understand the programme, and how it can benefit their operations and the communities in which they do business. The Corning Optical Communications headquarters building in Charlotte, North Carolina, actually served as a pilot for SPIRE. The tool evaluates building intelligence and performance across a number of key criteria. It isn't mandatory, but understanding what these measures are does provide planners, developers, engineers or IT managers with valuable insight into what they should consider when designing or constructing smart buildings. This is becoming increasingly important as the demand for interconnectivity increases, and incorporates five fundamental elements. Reliable connectivity is a must for any building today. It is now considered the Fourth Utility, as crucial as electricity, water and gas. For a smart building running multiple applications, having the right network in place is essential. Traditional copper networks have their limitations, but fibre-optic networks can deliver the bandwidth needed to support the data demands needed for new technology, like upgraded Wi-Fi or 5G cellular coverage. In a post-Covid world, technology has become ever more integrated into environments from office spaces and schools to hospitals and airports. Sensors and other tools have been implemented to monitor spaces for overcrowding, check temperatures upon building entry, monitor air quality and more. These emerging digital health tools have been added to smart building networks at a fast pace to help ensure the safety of those inside. Keeping building occupants safe is a top priority for owners. From fire safety to emergency response, a clear plan is necessary. Smart technology plays an important role in monitoring system performance, detecting problems like a fire and deploying emergency communications when needed. Smart buildings' monitoring technology also serves other purposes, like sustainability. When you think about things like heating, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC), lighting and the many electronics that occupy a building, it's easy to understand why energy is one of the biggest expenses—and one that building owners want to minimise. Smart buildings monitor and analyse consumption so that areas where there is wasteful energy spending can be identified and reduced, if not eliminated. The data collected can help identify trends so that demand spikes can be managed or maintenance can be scheduled during low-demand hours. SPIRE recognises many programmes and certifications dedicated to this effort. LEED, Fitwel and the WELL Building Standard are just a few of the programmes. Another area where building intelligence is vital is in detecting cyber threats. As smart cities are built and new internet-connected technologies are adopted, the possibility of a cyber attack increases drastically. Cyber attacks can be crippling to governments, businesses and consumers, including their physical building infrastructure. Being able to identify threats and effectively respond is mandatory given today's threat landscape and this can be integrated into the infrastructure of smart buildings as part of SPIRE measurements. With a strong network as the foundation, UK smart buildings can continue to be equipped for the needs of tomorrow; enabling all organisations to operate efficiently and sustainably without missing a beat. Piers Benjamin is in-building networks marketing manager at Corning Optical Communications. 
Image credit:
Melinda Nagy/Dreamstime.
       Siemens has announced a collaboration with US-based 80 Acres Farms and its technology subsidiary, Infinite Acres, to help grow the indoor farming industry and meet global food supply demands. Continued investment in fossil fuels could cause over 40 per cent of the glacial mass to disappear by 2100, a new projection has shown. Five projects that aim to turn household rubbish into fuel for “guilt-free flying” on jets have been awarded a share of a £165m fund. The North Sea Transition Authority (NSTA) has fined three oil companies a total of £265,000 for risking "the industry’s drive to cut emissions and bolster the UK’s energy security." The airline has secured £1m of government funding to fly a Boeing 787 jet from London Heathrow to New York JFK in 2023 using sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). The UK government is consulting on new plans to mandate that all new boilers can generate heat from hydrogen instead of gas from 2026. Iceland has pitched itself as providing the most sustainable and cost-efficient data centres in the world. E&T took a tour of some of the most notable to find out if this is the case. Technology can help make cities more resilient to the extreme weather events associated with climate change, but action needs to be taken now. What does it take to retrofit a typical modern office for Net Zero? E&T got a tour of BGEN's HQ in Warrington from its chief digital officer Simon Clarkson. The English planning system is currently not “fit for purpose” for building the necessary amount of low-carbon infrastructure needed for the country to meet its climate change obligations, a report has claimed. National governments should consider mandating real-time indoor air quality monitoring in at least all public buildings, researchers have said. From December 2024, all new housing in Scotland will be built to the highest energy efficiency standards: a Scottish Passivhaus equivalent. Right now, no one knows exactly what that means. Poorer households are being left behind in the 'broadband slow lane' despite relying more heavily on the internet at a time of rising prices, a report has found. Travel chaos could arise as the Biden administration has rejected airlines' request to extend the deadline to retrofit aircraft altimeters and avoid 5G wireless interference. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the New Parliament House on 28 May. Loaded with high-tech features, the Parliament House is a smart one. The National Grid’s Demand Flexibility Service (DFS), which was introduced last winter to help the UK cope with tight energy supplies, saved over 3,300MWh of electricity. Smartness, the drive towards ubiquitous computing, has gone beyond technological horizon-scanning to shaping the way we live today, says Orit Halpern. ExtraCare is bringing the latest home automation devices into its retirement villages to help the over-55s enjoy longer, healthier and happier lives. 
View the discussion thread.
  In print  E-newsletters About us Newsletters Contact us Advertise with us E+T Jobs Facebook Instagram X (Twitter) YouTube Accessibility policy Anti-slavery policy Cookies Privacy policy © 2024 The Institution of Engineering and Technology. The Institution of Engineering and Technology is registered as a Charity in England & Wales (no 211014) and Scotland (no SC038698). For the latest updates and more