Optiemus Infracom and Corning International Corporation, one of the world’s leading innovators in glass and glass-ceramic materials for mobile consumer electronics applications, has announced a joint venture to set up India’s first manufacturing facility for producing high-quality finished cover glass parts for the mobile consumer electronics industry. The joint venture between Optiemus Infracom and Corning will help expand India’s electronics manufacturing eco-system, as the Indian government strengthens its Make in India initiative.  As a part of the joint venture, the companies strategically aim to set up a world-class manufacturing facility in India, powered by cutting-edge technologies and processes. This collaboration will pave the way for the manufacturing of “Made in India” finished cover glass parts for use in mobile consumer electronic devices, and other cover glass applications, to meet the needs of next-generation mobile consumer electronic devices. The joint venture signifies a powerful synergy between Optiemus ’s deep domestic industry and manufacturing knowledge of electronics and telecom market and Corning’s globally acclaimed expertise in advanced glass technology. By combining these strengths, the joint venture aspires to not only establish cover glass manufacturing capabilities and capacity in India, but also to contribute significantly to the creation of jobs and skill development within India’s thriving technology sector. Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta, Chairman, Optiemus Infracom Limited, said, “It is a matter of great pride for us to actively contribute to the growing manufacturing ecosystem in the country. With this joint venture, initiated in line with the vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister of India of ‘Make in India’ programme and the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” initiative, we are committed to make available world-class high-quality products for global and local brands. Embarking on this new journey, we intend to emerge as one of the top manufacturers of finished cover glass parts for use in mobile consumer electronic devices in the next five years. Our collective expertise in innovation, design, and manufacturing, will provide holistic solutions for the brands.” 

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
  Notify me of follow-up comments by email.  

  Δ