Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account   All products featured on Architectural Digest are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. Working in real estate has its perks: flexible workdays, career mobility, high income potential. Or as in the case of Carrie McCue, the opportunity to clinch a hot property before anyone else. “Well, I wouldn’t exactly call it hot,” the Massachusetts native says. “It was on the market for more than a year.” When she stumbled upon the Brooklyn Heights prewar co-op online, the blurry cell phone photos did nothing to deter her. Having seen thousands of homes in the city, she had trained her eye to know when a space has “good bones.” And the bones in this one, she deemed, were particularly good.  BEFORE: In its previous iteration, the living room was small, congested, and hardly ideal for entertaining.  AFTER: The living room is a sun-loving haven that shines at golden hour. The artwork, furniture, and decor were personally handpicked by Carrie. On one side, a built-in bookshelf stands sentinel, while an eye-popping textile collage by Carrie’s aunt and textile artist, Sarah Stroud, enlivens the central wall. “Sarah and I collaborated on the design and color story, and I think it ended up being the perfect addition to the space. It’s also sweet that it’s by my aunt—a nice daily reminder of the importance of family,” Carrie says. The room is anchored by an Anthropologie Inlay coffee table and a stone side table picked up from a vintage shop in upstate New York. The Cynthia Petite accent chair (now discontinued) is also an Anthropologie find, while the area rug was thrifted from AptDeco. A pair of Quadriedri Murano chandeliers from Etsy overarches the setting. The block was idyllic, the layout efficient, and Carrie was captivated by the bay window nook, with original Tiffany stained glass, overlooking the street. That said, the home was in desperate need of some TLC. And she couldn’t think of anyone better to deliver it than Erica Padgett of Decorum Design Build, who was recommended to her by past clients. Not only was Erica a talented designer with great attention to detail, but she was also a fellow woman entrepreneur (and one of very few general contractors in New York). To Carrie, she immediately felt like a kindred spirit. AFTER: In the foyer, the ceiling, doors, baseboard, and trim all wear charcoal tones. The walls and archway are highlighted by a fantastical floral wallpaper by Rebel Walls. The brooding space is at odds with the bright and airy living room, making for a moody and dramatic transition. Given the home’s petite footprint, it made sense for form to follow function—well, for the most part. For Carrie (who really is the host with the most), it also had to be ideal for entertaining, and the original layout was anything but. The old kitchen, for example, had a two-burner stove, no oven, and a giant wall separating it from the living space. The solution was obvious: The wall had to go. Erica replaced it with a peninsula with half-round moldings to integrate the kitchen into the main space. “The flow is perfect now,” Carrie says. “I can have friends on the window seat, lounged out on the couch, sitting at the island, and cooking with me in the kitchen, all engaged in the same conversation.” BEFORE: The kitchen wasn’t outfitted to its fullest potential. It lacked cabinetry, and the storage was next to nothing. AFTER: The wall between the kitchen and the living area was knocked down to create a light and airy layout. Erica specified a peninsula countertop that lets Carrie entertain guests as she preps, cooks, or pours cocktails from the kitchen. Floating shelves and sage custom cabinets (with double uppers, thanks to the 10-foot-high ceilings) provide ample storage, and the backsplash exudes a handmade quality (the tiles are factory-made). Most of the vintage glassware on display is from Carrie’s grandmother’s collection, while many of the ceramics are creations by her younger sister, Becca. “She’s super talented at pottery on the wheel, and it’s such a treat to have functional and beautiful elements that I can use on an everyday basis,” Carrie says. She sourced the table lamp from Artemide and the stools from Rejuvenation. Neither the kitchen nor the bathroom had been updated in over 30 years, and the fixtures and finishes felt worn and outdated. Since it wasn’t a full gut renovation, Erica had to be thoughtful about parlaying the design into some of the apartment’s older and more classical architectural details. With this in mind, both spaces were designed with material selections that didn’t appear perfectly manicured against their updated backdrops.  BEFORE: The bathroom design was riddled with challenges, mainly because of its peculiar shape. The original bathtub took up way too much space, leaving little room for much else. But the main challenge, Erica says, was that there were no accessible shutoff valves, which meant they needed to coordinate waterline shutdowns with the neighbors.  AFTER: Erica replaced the bathtub with a shower and angled the entrance to carve out space for the vanity. “We really leaned into Carrie’s desire to create a space that felt grounded and earthy,” Erica notes. The contractor kept a check on the budget by sourcing terrazzo-inspired porcelain floor tiles in lieu of costly natural terrazzo tiles, and turned to an Etsy maker to fabricate the floating concrete sink. She and Carrie went bold with the wall tile—a handmade ceramic design with a glossy and wave-like surface.  Interestingly, a lot of the imagery that Carrie was drawn to initially trended towards muted neutrals, clean lines, and Scandinavian-inspired simplicity. However, as she and Erica continued to work together, Carrie’s bright, energetic, and charismatic personality shone through and began to reveal itself through images she would send Erica from time to time. “I think that the end result landed midway between her initial imagery and her colorful personality,” Erica shares. BEFORE: Before the makeover, the bedroom was a plain vanilla space that was, frankly, a little underwhelming. AFTER: The bedroom is steeped in jewel tones and velvety textures. Badlands by Benjamin Moore defines the walls and serves as a dazzling backdrop for the jeweled nightstands by Roar and Rabbit x West Elm. The bed is a true labor of love, with the bedframe and headboard personally upholstered by Carrie and her friend, Grace. The fabric was sourced from B&J Fabrics. By the same token, the bedroom is a mauve, moody, and monochromatic jewel box, with a bed that blends into the color story. “I wanted a textured velvet look for the bed, but all the good ones were way out of budget,” Carrie says. “Luckily, I found the perfect shade of mauve at B&J Fabrics and attempted a DIY job with one of my good friends, Grace.” (It paid off, and Grace was rewarded with an Indian feast for dinner.) AFTER: Original stained glass clerestory windows, circa 1900, wrap around the curved bay window in the dining room (which also serves as a work-from-home nook). Carrie added a leather window seat, which she had custom-made by Hearth and Home via Etsy. West Elm was the store of choice for the marble dining table and dining chairs. For Carrie, most mornings start out the same. In the dining room, usually on the leather window seat, always with a blonde vanilla latte. “It’s really special to wake up, throw on a robe, and look at my own little vignette of Brooklyn,” she says. “It’s a sanctuary that mutes out the chaotic, overwhelming, bustling city, if only for a moment.” Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the best of design in your inbox A 430-Square-Foot Minimalist Apartment in Barcelona Full of Functionality 5 Savvy Suitcases Living In My Head Rent-Free Bikini Bottomcore Is the Funky Aesthetic for the SpongeBob SquarePants Generation 16 Best Bed Frames of 2024, Tested and Reviewed In Coastal Maine, a Writer-Carpenter’s Restored Home Is a Vision in Yellow 28 Best Wedding Gifts (From Hyper Lux to Super Functional) That You Probably Haven’t Thought of Yet Not a subscriber? Join AD for print and digital access now. Subscriptions Connect with AD © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Architectural Digest may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices