NBA Generally speaking, an NBA player’s current team wields financial advantages when it comes time for them to hit free agency. From the potential ability to negotiate an extension beforehand to Bird rights, the league’s collective bargaining agreement deliberately (and properly, in my opinion) establishes ways for teams to keep talent around while preserving the ability for other teams to get involved. Advertisement That said, this summer has a prominent case featuring one of the more interesting wrinkles in that dynamic: the Gilbert Arenas provision. While the rest of this breakdown also applies to Chicago’s Ayo Dosunmu, Austin Reaves is the more exciting example as of now. As Reaves has been on the Lakers for two seasons, the team possesses early Bird rights on him as his contract expires. That gives Rob Pelinka and the front office a few different avenues to re-sign Reaves, which may or may not be available in this specific circumstance: Taking these together, the richest contract the Lakers can reasonably offer Reaves is that four-year, $50.8 million deal via early Bird rights, though it is important to note that cap-space caveat. GO DEEPER 'Made all sense in the world': Austin Reaves' move into starting lineup sparks Lakers A short break for a history lesson: Back in 2003, Arenas broke out with the Warriors and scored 18.3 points per game as a full-time starter in just his second season. As the first pick of the second round, Arenas originally signed a two-year contract, so he was hitting restricted free agency with early Bird rights at a very opportune moment for him. At the time, the Warriors were capped out and had the same basic tools to retain Arenas that the Lakers wield now with Reaves but in a much lower cap environment. That created an opportunity for the Wizards to swoop in and extend a six-year, $65 million offer sheet that the Warriors did not have the realistic capacity to match, so Washington signed the eventual three-time All-Star. The owners and players responded to that situation by creating a new concept in the next CBA commonly called the Arenas provision where (in a simplified, abridged description) other teams are not allowed to sign early Bird restricted free agents to an offer sheet their current teams cannot match. A logical response to that would be, “Is Reaves limited to that four-year, $50.8 million contract?” And, fortunately for him, the answer is no. Advertisement When owners and players created the Arenas provision, they also opened up a path for the affected restricted free agents through the offer sheet process. While offer sheets in this situation cannot go over the nontaxpayer MLE amount for the first two seasons (with up to a 5 percent bump in Year 2), they are allowed to push the third season of the offer sheet as far as the player in question’s full maximum salary for that year had the signing restriction not been in place for the first two seasons, though it can be lower than that, too, of course. For Reaves, that means another franchise could sign him to an offer sheet looking like this: That is a whole lot more than $50.8 million. If this contract structure looks familiar, you might recall the last time these offer sheets made a huge splash, in 2012, when then-Rockets GM Daryl Morey signed Jeremy Lin and Ömer Aşık to offer sheets like this that the Knicks and Bulls, respectively, chose not to match. It is important to remember the last part of that: Even though these offer sheets were richer than new contracts the Knicks and Bulls could have offered themselves, both still had the power to match, so the Lakers could make different choices. Something else to consider: Typically, a team only needs to have the financial flexibility to fit in a player’s actual first-year salary via cap space or exception. However, since the CBA creates such a big difference between where the contract starts and ends in these cases, a maximum allowable Reaves offer sheet like this requires $24.7 million in cap space: the average value of the entire contract rather than the first-year salary. This same calculation applies for an offer sheet that jumps more than a “normal” 5 percent in the third year but not all the way to Reaves’ max should that happen instead, so that narrows the pool of teams that can credibly make the offer in the first place. Also, the Lakers cannot sign-and-trade Reaves to a contract like this because, as discussed above, they do not have the ability to sign him to it in the first place. That makes it an all-or-nothing proposition for both the Lakers and potential suitors, and the Arenas provision creates a fascinating dynamic because there is a scenario in which the Lakers can pay Reaves more than they can sign him to themselves but only if another team actually makes the bid and is willing to tie up its cap space as the Lakers decide whether or not to match. Is there a team willing to roll those dice? Possibly, but not definitely. I project the Rockets, Jazz, Spurs, Magic, Thunder, Pacers and maybe the Hornets to wield the requisite cap space for an offer meaningfully over the nontaxpayer MLE whether it is the maximum allowable offer sheet or something lower than that. But prioritizing Reaves presents a huge risk since the Lakers can match and have a reasonably high chance of doing so, as losing another valued contributor without the ability to replace him would be incredibly damaging. (Photo of Austin Reaves: Kirby Lee / USA Today) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us.