Mosquito bites are an inconvenience in the summer and spring – a nice night by the bonfire or a day spent in the sun can leave you with red, painful bite marks. And though they occur naturally outside, you may be encouraging them to lay eggs near your home if you aren’t taking proper preventative measures.  Wondering why you’re spending so much time itching and scratching as the weather gets warmer? We asked a public health expert and dermatologist about everything you need to know when it comes to mosquito bites.  Only female mosquitoes bite, and they use our blood as protein for their eggs. Mosquitoes use their proboscis, or part of their mouth, to cut the skin and get to the capillaries or veins to fill up with blood. According to Elmer Gray, a public health extension specialist at the University of Georgia, mosquitoes inject saliva as they bite, which acts as an anesthetic so you don’t feel anything.  Mosquito saliva triggers histamine production, which causes itchiness, inflammation and swelling, says dermatologist Dr. Elizabeth Houshmand.  “The proteins from the bite can trigger the body’s immune system,” Dr. Houshmand says. “To help, the body’s immune system releases histamine which helps the white blood cells get to the affected area.” Mosquitoes are considered the world’s most deadly animal – they can transmit life-threatening diseases like malaria, zika virus and dengue. According to the World Health Organization, mosquitoes that carry diseases kill about 725,000 people per year.  But the U.S. is not an active transmission area for mosquito-borne diseases, so we don’t need to be too concerned about getting sick from mosquito bites, Gray says. Mosquitoes thrive in warm areas with standing water, so tropical climates or countries with less access to running water may be at risk for malaria, dengue or other diseases. If you’re planning to travel to a high-risk area, familiarize yourself with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s guide to mosquito bite prevention, which includes vaccines, using repellant and wearing appropriate clothing. “People really don’t appreciate how much benefit (running water has to) the quality of life here in the United States, how fortunate we are,” Gray says.  It may feel tempting to relive an itchy mosquito bite with a scratch, but Dr. Houshmand recommends using another solution, like ice cubes or creams. Scratching causes inflammation and gives you a greater chance to break the skin barrier.  “You want to maintain your skin barrier to prevent infection,” Dr. Houshmand says.  It’s true – mosquitoes do bite some people more than others. Mosquitoes are attracted to the carbon dioxide we breathe out. The more carbon dioxide you’re breathing (especially when running, moving your hands about or jumping), the more mosquito bites you’ll likely end up with. Pregnant people also attract more mosquito bites because of the increased biological activity going on in their bodies, Gray says.  There’s also some evidence to suggest our body odor (both natural and artificial) can either attract mosquitoes or keep them away. Floral-scented soaps tend to be more attractive to mosquitoes, according to a study by Virginia Tech researchers funded in part by the United States Department of Agriculture and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture. How to get rid of mosquito bites:Home remedies to soothe the itch USA TODAY is exploring the questions you and others ask every day. From "How long do mosquitoes live?" to "How much do F1 drivers make?" to "How to avoid mosquito bites?", we're striving to find answers to the most common questions you ask every day. Head to our Just Curious section to see what else we can answer for you. 