The Copenhagen Post – your Danish Connection  Your next savoury snack? Chilli larvae Stand back, crisps. Move over, peanuts. Insect snacks are set to be the next big thing. The Danish company Enorm is looking to change the way people think about snack foods. Owner Lasse Hinrichsen recently presented some of his new ideas at his company’s ‘vision day’ at Agro Food Park in Skejby. One of the items on the menu? Chilli larvae… “They come in two varieties,” Hinrichsen told DR Nyheder. “Chilli, and sour cream and onion. They go really well with wine or a good beer.” Worming their way in
Hinrichsen larvae are a source of protein and sustainable alternative to the way we eat today. “There are more and more people on the planet, and if we are to continue to produce animal proteins to feed the whole world, we must begin to look in new directions – and insects can be a new source.” READ MORE: Out and About: Happier eating insects? We learned more at TEDx Agro Food Park director Bjarne Riis Lansdale said part of his mission is to support those small businesses with unique ideas. TOP STORIES The hiring process for internationally trained health professionals in Denmark has accelerated, as the Agency for Patient Safety clears a backlog of applications. As many as 4000 foreign health professionals were waiting for approval in 2021, despite Denmark’s repeated calls for hands on deck amid the spiralling labour shortage. Lolland Municipality, home to Denmark’s largest infrastructure project – the Fehmarnbelt tunnel connection to Germany – has launched a new jobseeker support package for the accompanying partners of international employees in the area. The job-to-partner package offers free tailored sessions on finding a job and starting a personal business. Copenhagen Cooking & Food Festival will take place in the capital from August 16 to 25, featuring over 100 culinary events including long-table dinners, tastings, show kitchens and food markets. Residents of Skærbæk, a town in Jylland with a population of a little over 7000, turned out in large numbers at a public forum to address several recent disturbances in the town involving residents of the local asylum centre. In the first part of an analysis of internationals coming to Denmark, statistician Sa’ar Karp Gershon shares insights on how the Danish population has changed over the last 30 years. Did the policies regarding foreign residency and acquiring Danish citizenship affect those changes? Temu has risen in popularity despite warnings from the Danish consumer council and Environment Minister that its goods do noy comply with EU quality and safety standards. Norway and France have also taken steps to dissuade shoppers from using Chinese fast-fashion and mass-product marketplaces. Connect club Connect Club is your gateway to a vibrant programme of events and an international community in Denmark. Career Lolland Municipality, home to Denmark’s largest infrastructure project – the Fehmarnbelt tunnel connection to Germany – has launched a new jobseeker support package for the accompanying partners of international employees in the area. The job-to-partner package offers free tailored sessions on finding a job and starting a personal business. The social enterprise and rooftop restaurant Do More focuses especially on helping long-term unemployed citizens who struggle to enter the Danish labor market due to a lack of experience from their home country, language barriers, and other factors. Being part of a trade union is a long-established norm for Danes. But many internationals do not join unions – instead enduring workers’ rights violations. Find out how joining a union could benefit you, and how to go about it. Jobs The Copenhagen Post / The Post ApS Ryesgade 106, 2. th 2100 København Ø  CVR: 43916181 Email: support@cphpost.dk Phone: +45 7174 3199 We are responsible for the content and are registered with The Danish Press Council. © 1997- The Copenhagen Post