Some of the hottest real estate in Costa Rica is in the lesser-known northwestern Guanacaste region that borders the Pacific Ocean. Costa Elena is a master-planned resort community and ocean club adjacent to the Area de Conservación Guanacaste, a UNESCO World Heritage site comprised of 147,000 hectares of protected bio-diverse land that harbors many threatened species. A private villa on the hillside overlooking the Pacific at Costa Eleena. Costa Elena has 3,000 acres of land and and 10 miles of some of the most secluded coastline in the country, and its focus is sustainable luxury. The project was developed by Nicaraguan billionaire Don Carlos Pellas. Poolside at Costa RIca's Costa Elena. The property launched with Bay Villas in 2022, with sold out quickly, and phase two is Sunset Villas, with homesites available from $550K and four- and five-bedroom turnkey villas from $2.35M. Residents will have access to a unique Ocean Club experience with a range of exclusive amenities, including shops, restaurants, a café, fitness and wellness facilities, hiking and biking trails, three beach clubs and a nature preserve. The first private beach club just opened on the white-sand beach, canopied by lush jungle plants with a tranquil infinity pool, several private lounge spaces, thatched roof palapas, and a beach restaurant. Costa Elena's style is tropical-casual, with lots of outdoor dining options. Each home comes with property management, concierge services and a rental program managed by Inspirato. Rental guests, as well as owners, have access to all property amenities, including the restaurants, pools, spa and gym. From supporting local artisans to creating a potable water system that feeds 10,000 inhabitants, Costa Elena is a community founded on sustainable principles. Costa Elena created the first program that supports the development of artisans and artists through a joint partnership with the Instituto Tecnologico de Costa Rica, and the community’s design playbook includes dark sky policy, both to protect sea turtles from becoming disoriented during hatching season and to ensure access to stargazing. Homes are powered via solar panels for power, and the design of the community preserves more than 60% of its 3,000 acres as open land, lending further to the feeling of seclusion and remoteness. The master bedroom in a Sunset Villa at Costa Elena. The property’s tropical style was designed by Texas-based  FAB Studio, and the lush landscaping and pool areas were locally conceived by VIDA Design Studio. Spare modern interiors, minimalist and luxe, were curated by DesignAgency in Toronto. Costa Elena is a place where you can be immersed in nature and surrounded by creature comforts, and the property’s commitment to sustainability sweetens the deal. There are miles of hiking trails through bio-diverse forests that are home to 500 bird species, including the endangered mangrove hummingbird and great green Macaw, as well as several species of sea turtles, including the critically endangered leatherback. Costa Elena is just 45 miles from the Guanacaste airport. For more information, visit www.costaelena.com.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.