This video can not be played Highlights: Scotland 4-0 Costa Rica Scotland swept aside World Cup-bound Costa Rica as 17-year-old Emma Watson scored her first international goals after earning only her second cap.  Watson, handed her first start in Friday's win over Australia, got the ball rolling after five minutes as she pounced on a Caroline Weir free-kick. Claire Emslie helped steer in a Weir corner before the roles were reversed for the third - all before the break. Watson completed the rout with a stunning strike.  It was a welcome hint of a brighter future on a night when Scotland were given a reminder of what might have been with a second victory in five days over a side who will be competing at this summer's World Cup finals. Scotland showed why they are 13 places above Costa Rica in the world rankings as the visitors head to Australia and New Zealand without a victory in seven outings.  Reaction & as it happened It was a tale of two captains and an emerging teenage star at Hampden Park. Scotland started nervously on a slippery surface, but they were soon to settle, helped in part by the visitors conceding a couple of free-kicks deep inside their own half as they slid dangerously into challenges on the sodden turf. Weir, handed the captaincy in the absence of Rachel Corsie, took advantage to curl a delivery to the back post and, when Katherine Alvarado failed to clear, Watson was on hand to volley her first Scotland goal from close range. An iconic moment in only her second Scotland appearance as the side debuted their 150th anniversary shirt.  It had been Emslie who had been handed the captaincy for Friday's win over Australia in London to mark the winger's 50th cap. Any disappointment she might have felt by handing the armband to her joint vice-captain was dissipated as she stooped to reach Weir's corner at the front post just short of the half hour. The final touch may have gone off Katherine Alvarado, but Emslie took the plaudits. Emslie soon returned the favour with a clip behind the visiting defence for Weir to deftly steer past goalkeeper Daniela Solera after a dip of the shoulder took the Real Madrid midfielder past her marker. Weir came close to adding another shortly after the break with a low drive across the face of goal and off the far post, while centre-half Sophie Howard had a diving header cleared off the line. There was no surprise when Scotland increased their lead and what a stunner it was - Watson finding the far corner from 18 yards. Costa Rica had wilted late on in losing in Poland on Thursday, but they showed some belated fight as goalkeeper Lee Gibson saved from Catalina Estrada and Cristin Granados long-ranger struck the top of the bar. Nothing, though, could prevent a Hampden ovation for a convincing victory and an emerging young star.  Emma Watson (centre) beat Claire Emslie to score the opener, added the fourth and belied her 17 years by bullying experienced opponents aside in midfield From being perceived as another sign of underachievement, the World Cup play-off defeat by Republic of Ireland is looking more like the blip amid general progress Scotland head coach Pedro Martinez Losa touted it as. The high-press game that subdued Australia worked again to a treat, they proved they can still compete without two of their top players - captain Corsie and playmaker Erin Cuthbert - and Friday's win over the World Cup hosts became more admirable by the Matildas' subsequent 2-0 win over England in London. Scotland might just have found the cutting edge up front that his been their recent downfall and unearthed the country's next superstar player in young Watson, so they can now look on at events in Australia and New Zealand with renewed hope rather than despondency. Scotland head coach Pedro Martinez Losa: "Perfectly to plan. We didn't concede a goal, won the two matches and the performances were good. "In some moments we could see how Costa Rica can find the spaces and, with momentum, they could be dangerous, but I have to give credit to my players - they executed fantastically the game plan.  "We ticked a lot of boxes of what a world-class team is, but we want to master all of them. Missing the World Cup is the pain we are going to use to not miss the next opportunity." As Costa Rica head for World Cup Group C, where they face Spain in New Zealand on 21 July before games against Japan and Zambia, Scotland will have to resign themselves to yet-to-be-arranged friendlies before the inaugural Nations League starts in September. 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.