Costco Wholesale Corp. is spending $4.3 million to remodel the bakery and other areas of its busy Kennewick store. The city of Kennewick issued two permits this month authorizing the Issaquah-based membership warehouse giant to make some big changes. They will build a new bakery, rotisserie, dairy cooler, produce cooler, meat prep area and deli. The work also includes demolishing the “freshline” area and building a new mechanical room above the bakery. A new grease interceptor will be installed outside the store, 8505 W. Gage Blvd. The project involves nearly 10,400 square feet of space, according to Kennewick building permits. Lydig Construction Inc. of Spokane is the contractor for the project. The Kennewick store is the only Costco in the Tri-Cities. The city of Pasco along with the developers of the Broadmoor Development remain hopeful that Costco will ultimately site a larger store in their development, though the company may have cooled to the idea. Pasco recently broke ground on a $40 million infrastructure project to install roads and utilities in the area in anticipation of new retail, office, recreational and residential development west of Broadmoor Boulevard and Road 100. In February, Costco reported $54.24 billion in sales for the second quarter, which ended on Feb. 12, an increase of 6.5% over the prior year. First half sales rose 7.3% to $107.7 billion. Costco operates 848 warehouses, including 584 in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.