Plus, Sharon Chuter and Pull Up For Change re-launch 'Make It Black' campaign. Photo: Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images These are the stories making headlines in fashion on Friday. How Sarah Burton became McQueenFor The Cut, Cathy Horyn profiles Sarah Burton, creative director of Alexander McQueen. Burton's "quiet ascendance" to the role began with an internship, for which she was recommended by one of her teachers at Central Saint Martins. After McQueen's tragic death, the brand soon realized Burton was "his only possible successor." Fast forward 13 years, Burton has built the label to be one of Kering's biggest financial achievements. "This is just the beginnings of something," Burton says. {The Cut} Kering creates new beauty divisionThe French luxury group Kering has announced new beauty division, Kering Beauté. The division is set to help develop beauty categories for brands including Bottega Veneta, Balenciaga and Alexander McQueen. Previously, Kering licensed many of its brands to Coty for beauty expansion, including Gucci, whose beauty line is still operated by Coty. The conglomerate has tapped former Estée Lauder executive Raffaella Cornaggia to be chief executive offer of the new unit. {Business of Fashion} Photo: Courtesy of Make It Black The 'Make It Black' campaign relaunchesOn Feb. 3, Sharon Chuter and Pull Up for Change relaunched the 'Make It Black' campaign, which aims to raise funds for emerging Black beauty brand founders. The campaign is teaming up with four brands, including ColourPop Cosmetics, E.l.f Cosmetics, Neutrogena and Uoma Beauty, to repackage some of their most popular products. One hundred percent of the profits from these limited-edition products will go toward the Pull Up For Change Impact Fund. Neutrogena will also make an additional $100,000 donation to the fund. {Fashionista inbox} Nicholas Kirkwood closes luxury business in search of a more sustainable approach to footwearNicholas Kirkwood has closed his luxury shoe brand after 18 years. In a statement on the brand's website, the designer said, "I think, in many ways, the brand has run its course, for now. This coupled with my die-hard passion and pursuit to find viable planet-positive solutions for the intensely un-planet-positive footwear industry, has led me to [this decision]." Kirkwood is turning his attention to a search for a more sustainable approach to footwear. {WWD} Want the latest fashion industry news first? Sign up for our daily newsletter. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.