View Our Print IssuesBack to Main Site  See Our Newsletters Share As someone who experienced adolescence in the early aughts, I’ll be the first to admit that I love a celebrity-owned beauty line. In 2002, JLo launched Glow—a skin-like fragrance housed in curvy frosted glass—and I practically begged my mother to buy me a bottle. She eventually caved, and I was thrilled to own such a grown-up scent. Two years later, Britney Spears dropped Curious and you couldn’t walk past a group of teenage girls without inhaling its unmistakable fruity notes. Ads for Jessica Simpson’s edible bodycare line Dessert Beauty were splashed across every tween glossy in North America, and those bubblegum pink images remained seared in my memory to this day. To no one’s surprise, these celebrity-endorsed beauty lines were wildly successful. They were girly, and they were glorious. Now, it seems like every famous person on the planet has their own beauty brand. And while the market is definitely oversaturated, I’m here to argue that we’ve reached the golden era of celebrity lifestyle products. We’ve evolved past the cloyingly sweet fragrances and have access to a range of makeup, skincare and beauty lines that often truly reflect the celebrities repping them and have genuine thought and research put into their creation. And while there will always be a few duds in the mix—Jared Leto’s hair and skincare brand 29 Palms recently folded, less than a year after its high-profile launch—quite a few are worth your coin. Here, the best of the best celebrity beauty lines. Victoria Beckham Following the success of Victoria Beckham’s eponymous fashion label, the former Spice Girl launched her own cosmetics line in 2019 and it was equally well-received. The super-stylish makeup and skincare products include shimmering one-pot shadows, bronzing bricks, silky tip tints and a luxe priming moisturizer developed in partnership with cult skincare brand Augustinus Bader. The goal was to deliver “a keenly curated range that only includes items that genuinely add to the best already out there,” and so far, it has delivered on all counts.  The majority of VB’s beauty products are highly rated online, but the brand’s Satin Kajal Liner stands out from the pack. In fact, the pencil even has its own category on the website. With its silky smudge-free formula and buffing sponge attachment, it’s *the* go-to product for creating a sexy-lived-in eye look. It’s available in classic black and brown shades, but there are also plenty of rich shimmering jewel tones (think gold, green, quartz and grey) that up the ante.  Hailey Bieber Few celeb beauty lines have received as much hype as Hailey Bieber’s Rhode Beauty—and it’s warranted. From glazed donut skin to strawberry girl makeup and cinnamon cookie butter hair, Bieber (née Baldwin) has been the face of virtually every internet-led beauty trend his year. With Rhode’s pared-back skincare range—including several flavoured lip tints—the brand manages to lean into the star’s effortless “clean girl” aesthetic, making her signature dewy glow feel both aspirational and attainable. Marketing genius? Yes. But do the products hold up? Also yes.  While the Peptide Lip Treatment is excellent and has received plenty of buzz thanks to a viral collaboration with Krispy Kreme, it’s Rhode’s Peptide Glazing Fluid that hits it out of the park. Made with peptides, marula oil and niacinamide, this lightweight gel-serum illuminates and hydrates skin and can also be mixed with foundation for an extra juicy complexion.  Rihanna In 2017 Rihanna all but broke the internet with the launch of Fenty Beauty and its 40-shade foundation range. Several cosmetic brands took note and quickly followed suit, creating a domino effect that led to more inclusive complexion makeup across the board. But Fenty Beauty didn’t stop there: the brand has created not just one but several bestselling launches, including its long-wear Stunna Lip Paint, a Barbados cherry-infused Fenty Skin range including a refillable SPF, and even a Fenty Beauty fragrance that sold out a day after its release.     Leave it to Rihanna to create a lip gloss that *actually* flatters everyone. The Gloss Bomb Universal Lip Luminizer in the OG rose-peach shade Fenty Glow makes lips look shiny and plump with just shimmer to catch the light without feeling over-the-top. You can now snag the formula in several shades including Hot Choclit, a rich brown, and Glass Slipper, a non-sticky clear gloss. Millie Bobby Brown A brand marketed to tweens that also appeals to adults has entered the chat. Millie Bobby Brown named Florence By Mills after her grandmother, “a woman who embraced herself and did things that made her happy all her life.” From fun animal-shaped acne and under-eye patches to pH-adjusting cheek balms and crayon-like eye pencils, every product is meant to spark joy.  Fun colours and shapes aside, when it comes to formulas, Florence By Mills No Drama Leave-In Detangling Spray ticks all the boxes: It treats split ends, conditions hair and also functions as a heat protectant. Alicia Keys Developed in partnership with dermatologists, Alicia Keys’ line Keys Soulcare combines self-care and skincare like none other. With a range of sumptuous products that emphasize the beauty of the ritual—including a melting body butter, fragrant toning “aura mist”and sage-and-oat-milk-scented candle—the singer infuses a feeling of relaxation and wellness into every product. Though all the products mentioned above are great picks, the Daily Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 30 is an exceptional product. It’s a lightweight SPF that includes ingredients like squalane and niacinamide to hydrate and brighten the skin. Plus, every bottle includes a tiny affirmation to be recited while applying the product.  Pharrell Williams Producer and designer Pharrell Williams might seem like an unlikely person to launch a skincare line, but the man hasn’t aged a day since he first came on the scene. So naturally, the people (us) demanded he spill his routine. Williams delivered with the arrival of Humanrace skincare, an inclusive, fragrance-free and refillable lineup of three products developed in collaboration with his long-time dermatologist Dr. Elena Jones. Featuring glycolic acid, fruit AHAs and micronized rice particles, the Humanrace Lotus Enzyme Exfoliator gently buffs away dirt and dead skin cells to keep the skin fresh and prepped for hydration. Follow up with the Humidifying Cream, which is meant to mimic the moisture-enhancing effects of tropical climates and deliver a glow that rivals Pharrell’s own.  Ariana Grande Celebrity beauty may have branched out beyond fragrance launches, but that doesn’t mean that great celeb scents aren’t still being produced. Not to be confused with Ariana Grande’s makeup line R.E.M. Beauty, the singer’s self-named fragrance label includes dozens of affordably priced and sweetly scented perfumes, body mists, lotions and scrubs. The most talked-about scent in Ariana Grande’s fragrance range is undoubtedly Cloud, which was launched in 2018 and is still getting plenty of buzz thanks to its similarity to a certain luxury perfume. It may be slightly sweeter than Baccarat Rouge 540, but the warm musky notes are as cozy as a cashmere sweater.  Kylie Jenner Before Kylie Cosmetics came Kylie Lip Kits: a set of three liquid lipsticks and liners in neutral brown shades that promised to help the wearer achieve the TV star’s famous pillowy pout. Even though Jenner eventually came to admit that her signature lips were the result of fillers (surprise, surprise) the line was so wildly successful that it led to her contentious status as a “self-made billionaire.” The line eventually rebranded to Kylie Cosmetics and now includes hundreds of products including skincare (Kylie Skin), body care and even baby care products (Kylie Baby.) Fan or not, there’s no denying Jenner’s star power, and Kylie Cosmetics continues to grow to this day.  Jenner’s Lip Kits may have started it all, but the brand’s latest launches have impressed beyond her fan base. Take the latest Power Plush Longwear Concealer, which has a hydrating, crease-proof formula that stays put for 12 hours. It’s also available in 40 shades, making it likely that you’ll find your perfect match. Selena Gomez Rare Beauty was created by Selena Gomez in order to encourage conversation around self-love, and the line has been applauded by fans and beauty enthusiasts alike. The line was announced alongside the Rare Impact Fund, a mental health-focused initiative with a goal to raise $100 million over the next decade, with one percent of annual Rare Beauty sales contributing to the fund.  You can’t talk about Rare Beauty without mentioning the Soft Pinch Liquid Blush formula. Available in matte and dewy formulas, this weightless, easy-to-blend blush was so popular that Gomez recently launched a matching lip oil that’s equally as lovely. But remember: A tiny dot is enough to give the entire cheek area a flushed look, so start small and work your way up. Lady Gaga Haus Laboratories initially started out as a fragrance venture in collaboration with beauty conglomerate Coty, turning out releases like Lady Gaga’s Fame and Eau de Gaga. Then, in 2019 Lady Gaga partnered with Amazon to re-launch Haus Laboratories. But it was only in 2022 when Haus Labs finally hit its stride after its relaunch with Sephora. The vegan and cruelty-free cosmetics line focuses on high-tech formulas including a shine-enhancing lip stain and gel-to-powder highlighter, and they deliver. Gaga’s Triclone Skin Tech Medium Coverage Foundation is the definition of a makeup-skincare hybrid, with over 20 ingredients like fermented arnica, ginseng and chamomile to calm the skin and reduce redness. Plus it’s available in 51 shades, in cool to neutral to warm undertones.  This article contains affiliate links, which means The Kit may earn a small commission if a reader clicks through and makes a purchase. All our journalism is independent and is in no way influenced by advertising. By clicking on an affiliate link, you accept that third-party cookies will be set. More information.   SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERSGet the latest beauty and fashion news, trends, contests and more - straight to your inbox
		 
 
 Thank you for signing up!
		 
 Δ Share Sitting in front of a small stage in Malmesbury, England, the mysterious little black box under my chair seems to have its own gravitational pull. I’m at Dyson Research and Innovation Campus, a destination on every beauty editor's bucket list. Peeking out from the Cotswolds’ rural landscape, the sharp glass buildings—complete with a Harrier jet in the parking lot—are where the brand announced its previous game-changing devices, including 2016’s Supersonic blow dryer… The Kit joined stylish Torontonians at an exclusive preview of the Canadian retailer’s latest size-inclusive collection The Vancouver designers behind Left on Friday gave us the lowdown on the suits from Paris From spicy rom-coms to family sagas, the Kit team picked our fave novels of summer 2024 From "I want to break up" to "the terms of that job offer don't work for me," experts give us their best tips and scripts    SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERSGet the latest beauty and fashion news, trends, contests and more - straight to your inbox
		 
 Thank you for signing up!
		 
 Δ © The Kit 2024, The Kit, a division of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited 8 Spadina Ave, 10th floor The Well, Bldg G, Toronto, ON, M5V 0S8, 416-945-8700