Coty has named Caroline Andreotti its new chief commercial officer for prestige. Andreotti most recently served as executive vice president, global travel retail at Coty; she succeeds Isabelle Bonfanti in her new role. Jordan Searle, most recently The Body Shop’s vice president, omnichannel North America, has been promoted. Now general manager for the brand in North America, Searle oversees retail, wholesale, distribution, marketing, e-commerce and activism in the region. More from WWD Inside the Piver Perfume Sample Album 2023 Oscar Beauty Weird and Wonderful Beauty Trend for Fall 2023 Kimberly Villatoro has a new gig, as chief executive officer of Patrick Ta Beauty. She hails from Smashbox, where she most recently worked as vice president of North America marketing. Frank Small is the new chief financial officer and chief operating officer of Wella Company. He joins from Boston Beer Company, and is the first COO of Wella to date. Shiseido alum Jessie Dawes has been tapped by Diptyque as the French perfumery brand’s first chief marketing officer, Americas. Allison Ginsberg is now vice president of people at New York facial studio, Glowbar. Equipped with talent acquisition and human resources experience at Prada, Tiffany & Co., and most recently Kate Spade, Ginsberg aims to retain and develop talent. Hair care brand Ceremonia has announced Dana Onyewu its new chief commercial officer. Most recently, Onyewu served as vice president of North American sales and education at Tatcha. Unilever alum Erin Keating has joined Maesa as chief customer officer, effective May 8. In her new role, Keating will lead the incubator’s sales team in order to amplify growth. Oshiya Savur has also joined Maesa, as chief brand officer. Previously, Savur occupied brand marketing and management roles at Charlotte Tilbury, Revlon and Unilever. Mad Rabbit has appointed its first SVP of sales: Marta Rubenstein Harmon. She joins the tattoo skin care brand from hair care brand Reuzel, where she served as senior vice president of global business development. Beacon Wellness Brands’ new CEO is Lisa Tanzer, who joins from Katie Couric Media Marketplace and will oversee the company’s portfolio of sexual wellness, personal care and beauty brands. Tricoci Salon and Spa has also tapped a new CEO: Elizabeth Allison. Allison was most recently president of Milan Laser Hair Removal, and before that was chief transformation officer at Neiman Marcus Group. Certified sex coach Dr. Sophia Murphy has joined sexual healthcare provider, TBD Health. In her new role as director of wellness for the company, Murphy will help pave a more comprehensive approach to sexual wellbeing by training trauma-aware clinicians and expanding TBD’s offerings. Marie Mignon has been promoted to chief scientific officer at Prose, where she previously served as vice president of research and development for over two years. Best of WWD Year in Review: Beauty M&A Recap 2021 Beiersdorf to Acquire Chantecaille One Year Post-Acquisition, Seed Phytonutrients Plots Phase Two Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.