
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 

                                                                                        U.S. EV Sales Surge in June, Outpacing Overall Auto Market Growth: Report                                         

                                                                                        Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout                                         

                                                                                        U.S. Junk Loan Funds Hit by Largest Outflows Since 2020 Amid Recession Fears                                         

                                                                                        Philly schools are in disrepair − the municipal bond market is 1 big reason                                         

                                                                                        Indonesia Targets Lower Budget Deficit in 2025 Amid Increased Spending on Social Programs                                         

                                                                                        Intel to Launch Arrow Lake-S 'Core Ultra 200' Desktop CPUs on October 10                                         

                                                                                        Japanese Firms Grow Less Optimistic About Economy Amid Weak Yen and Inflation Concerns                                         

                                                                                        Gold Surges Past $2,500 as Analysts Predict Further Gains Amid Fed Rate Cuts                                         

                                                                                        Raising revenue from land: what African cities might learn from Hong Kong’s unique land-lease system                                         

                                                                                        Egg Prices Soar Again as Bird Flu Outbreaks Disrupt Supply Chains Nationwide                                         

                                                                                        Cybertruck Armed With Machine Gun by Chechen Leader Kadyrov: A Game-Changer in Russia-Ukraine Conflict?                                         

                                                                                        Cameroon spends 90% of Chinese development loans on its French region: this could deepen the country’s divisions                                         

                                                                                        Japan Stocks Surge Over 2%, Leading Mixed Asia-Pacific Markets Amid Global Economic Uncertainty                                         

                                                                                        Panasonic to End Fluorescent Lamp Production by 2027, Marking an Era’s Close                                         

                                                                                        McDonald's to Launch Yu-Gi-Oh Happy Meal in August as Pokemon Announces New Toy Line                                         

                                                                                        McDonald’s Brings Back the Beloved Pumpkin and Creme Pie Just in Time for Fall                                         

                                                                                        Checkers Marks 10 Years in Buffalo with Special Deals and Community Events                                                 Photo by: charlesdeluvio/Unsplash Netflix lowers subscription fees in over 30 countries Netflix, Tving, and Wavve are some of the video streaming service providers in South Korea, and they are said to have been negatively affected by illegal streaming in the country. Coupang Play and other over-the-top (OTT) video streaming service providers are impacted as well. According to The Korea Times, the local video streaming platforms are in distress because of Noonoo TV, which is said to be an unauthorized site that streams programs and shows from the leading OTT streaming platforms. Netflix, Tving and the others are subscription-based, where customers pay to view content; however, NooNoo TV is reportedly allowing people to view the same content for free. As a result, the OTT video streaming service providers in the country are losing revenues. Officials in this line of business said that the illegal streaming of content is definitely a big stumbling block to the growing media industry in South Korea. OTT streaming platforms said they had lost KRW4.9 trillion or about $3.7 billion because of the illegal site. Now to stop the unlawful practice, broadcasters, streaming service providers, and other media organizations have come together and formed an alliance. On March 9, they collectively filed a criminal complaint against Noonoo TV. The Busan Metropolitan Police Agency acted fast after receiving the complaint and immediately launched an investigation. The BMPA is now looking into the copyright infringer. Moreover, an official in the OTT industry said that they are also cooperating with broadcasters, companies, and related government agencies to stamp out the illegal website. "The illegal site is known to be serviced in the Dominican Republic. Even if telecom companies block the address of this service, their servers do not disappear, which means they can continue to provide this illegal service by simply changing their address," the spokesperson of one OTT company said. "The operators of this illegal service have to be arrested through a police investigation, so we are currently watching the progress of the investigation." Meanwhile, EToday reported that the issue with illegal sites is a hot topic in the country today, and this is because OTT companies can’t block access to the sites as they often change their domain address to avoid crackdowns. In any case, Noonoo TV was estimated to have more than 10 million monthly active users now, and it closely follows Netflix with 12.57 million users.   Photo by: charlesdeluvio/Unsplash Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Krispy Kreme Expands Nationwide with McDonald’s, Modernizes Operations for Massive Rollout  
                                                                                                The Secret Behind McDonald’s Perfect Fries: The Four Potato Varieties They Use  
                                                                                                Donald Trump's Nephew Sparks Concern, Suggests Ex-President Shows Early Signs of Dementia: 'It Runs In The Family'  
                                                                                                Russia-Ukraine war spills into west Africa: Mali attacks signal dangerous times ahead  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Sparks Mental Fitness Concerns After Mistaking Pennsylvania for North Carolina at Rally  
                                                                                                Tesla Marks 400 Superchargers in Hong Kong with Specially Wrapped Stall, Celebrating a Decade of Growth  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked as Supporter Falls Asleep During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Call Him 'Boring AF'  
                                                                                                Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout  
                                                                                                Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals  
                                                                                                SpaceX Prepares for Risky Tower Capture in Upcoming Starship Flight 5 Test 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 