Photo courtesy NFA Post website  Guwahati: Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati is launching an online Bachelor of Science degree course in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence on a leading learning platform, a release said Tuesday. The online degree on the learning platform, Coursera, will prepare learners for high-paying and fast-growing careers in data science and artificial intelligence (AI), it said. The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 emphasises the need for training and preparing professionals in cutting-edge areas that are fast gaining prominence, such as machine learning, AI, and big data analysis for enhancing the employability of the youth. According to the World Economic Forum’s Future of Jobs Report 2023, tech roles, including AI and machine learning specialists, data analysts, and data scientists, are expected to grow by more than 30 per cent by 2028. To meet this demand and implement NEP 2020 recommendations, IIT Guwahati is opening up access to the complete online degree programme through multiple admissions pathways, the release said. Anyone after Class 12 or its equivalent, with mathematics as a compulsory subject, can apply and applications for the course will open July 19. Classes are scheduled to start in October this year. Those eligible and registered for JEE Advanced (in any year) will get direct admission, while those without it can complete an online course and gain entry based on their performance, it added. The course also offers multiple exit options. Students will receive job placement support from IIT-Guwahati and access to  skill-based recruitment platform, Coursera Hiring Solutions, the release said. “This programme teaches students the digital skills they need to thrive in the modern workforce. They graduate knowing how to implement the latest AI and data science techniques in any field, setting them up for success in their careers,” said Prof. Parameswar K Iyer, officiating director of IIT Guwahati. Marni Baker Stein, the chief content officer of Coursera, said, “We are honoured to expand our partnership with IIT-Guwahati, enabling learners across the globe to earn a degree from one of India’s best institutions that prepares them for high-demand roles.” Coursera partners with over 300 leading university and industry partners. PTI 
Enter your email to get our daily news in your inbox.
 

 

    Click Here: Plastic Free Odisha                                                             It has to be seen to be believed how the poorest of the poor in a third country are used... Assembly elections are going to be held in Jammu & Kashmir after ten long years and five years after the... Several Union Ministers in the Modi 3.0 era are reportedly caught in a tricky situation regarding the appointment of their... The world’s richest and possibly, in near future, it’s most powerful man featured in a rare interview that had not...  © 2024 All rights Reserved by OrissaPOST  © 2024 All rights Reserved by OrissaPOST   Your Name (required)
 
  Your Email (required)
 
  Phone (required)
 
  Your Message
 
 
 Δ © 2024 All rights Reserved by OrissaPOST