Curated By:  Education and Careers Desk Edited By: Sukanya Nandy News18.com Last Updated: December 28, 2022, 13:21 IST New Delhi, India Google's 'Foundations: Data, Data, Everywhere' was the most popular course this year (Representative image) Data science has been the most preferred online course in 2022, as per a survey by Coursera. Google’s ‘Foundations: Data, Data, Everywhere’ was the most popular course this year followed by Python courses by University of Michigan and Google. Among other top online courses include machine learning, web development, English learning and financial marketing, as per the survey. As per the official website, the Google data analytics certificate course equips students with skills they need to apply to introductory-level data analyst jobs. It covers key data analytics topics including data cleaning, data analysis, data visualisation and tools such as spreadsheets, SQL, R programming, tableau, among others. Also read| Want to Learn Computer Programming? Here are 10 Free Online Courses Offered by Harvard University Foundations: Data, Data, Everywhere — Google Programming for Everybody (Getting Started with Python) — University of Michigan Crash Course on Python — Google Machine Learning — Stanford University Foundations of Project Management — Google Foundations of User Experience (UX) Design — Google HTML, CSS, and Javascript for Web Developers — Johns Hopkins University English for Career Development — University of Pennsylvania Financial Markets — Yale University Ask Questions to Make Data-Driven Decisions — Google Foundations: Data, Data, Everywhere — Google Machine Learning — Stanford University Ask Questions to Make Data-Driven Decisions — Google What is Data Science? — IBM Skills Network Prepare Data for Exploration — Google Supervised Machine Learning: Regression and Classification — Stanford University Supervised Machine Learning: Regression and Classification — DeepLearning.AI Python for Data Science, AI & Development — IBM Skills Network Process Data from Dirty to Clean — Google Data Analysis with R Programming — Google Read| Front-End, Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, DevOps Highest Paying Tech Sectors in India: Survey Meanwhile, as Coursera’s Global Skills Report (GSR) 2022 released earlier this year, despite a series of courses being launched in online and offline modes in data science, Indians are not deemed to be skilled in the domain. India has shown poorer performance as compared to previous years and had fallen four places to be ranked at the 68th position globally in data science proficiency. Considered a hub for tech skills, India’s technology proficiency levels have gone up from 38 per cent to 46 per cent, with the country strengthening its position by six spots. On the other hand, proficiency in data science has dipped from 38 per cent in 2021 to 26 per cent in 2022, leading to a 12-rank drop, according to the report. Read all the Latest Education News here