   Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to continue reading. Please purchase a subscription to continue reading. Your current subscription does not provide access to this content. Some clouds this evening will give way to mainly clear skies overnight. Low 49F. Winds light and variable..
                                 Some clouds this evening will give way to mainly clear skies overnight. Low 49F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 8:56 pm   Trine University biomedical engineering students, faculty and alumni enjoy food from a crawfish boil inside the Steel Dynamics Inc. Center for Engineering and Computing on Friday. ANGOLA — The senior design projects were almost done, and it was time to celebrate with some good food. Trine University’s Bock Department of Biomedical Engineering hosted its second annual BME Senior Design Celebration & Alumni Mixer, which included a crawfish boil, on Friday. Fifty-two faculty, students and alumni attended. In addition to biomedical engineering students, the event included several design engineering technology students who collaborated with BME students on design projects. Melanie G. Watson, associate professor of biomedical engineering, hails from Louisiana, where crawfish boils are popular. She provided the inspiration for the event and did the cooking. She said the crawfish boil is intended to celebrate the accomplishments and hard work of Trine biomedical engineering students, and to bring alumni back to campus to keep them engaged with the program. “Most of our students have never tried crawfish,” she said. “John Patton (Ph.D., associate professor of biomedical engineering) and I wanted to create memorable experiences and build a social community for our students.”     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on! Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: