Solutions to Nigeria’s newborn mortality rate might lie in existing innovations Research into more efficient AI hardware and software supported by AMD donation Imperial and Vietnamese partners explore UK and Vietnam's pathways to net zero    Welcome to the UK's leading Bioengineering department Our research themes are highly interdisciplinary and involve collaborations with departments from all faculties in the College, London hospitals, and international universities and research centres.  
Find out more about our research
 The Department of Bioengineering is committed to the highest quality teaching in and outside the lecture theatre. We offer opportunities to study at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. 
Find out more about our courses
 
          Caption: Vasiliki Vardakastani, Research Associate in the Biomechanics Lab
           
          Caption: Admiring the cortical and trabecular structure of bone
           
          Caption: Rehabilitation engineering student project demonstrated at project day
           
          Caption: The Musculoskeletal Mechanics research team in action in the Royal British Legion Centre for Blast Injury Studies (CBIS). 
           
          Caption: Professor Anthony Bull welcomes The Duke of Sussex during his visit to Day 1 of the Blast Injury Conference 2019. 
           
          Caption: Second year Engineering Design Project students showcasing their Smart Baby Buggy project at the Bioengineering Demonstration Day.  
           
          Caption: Professor James (Jimmy) Moore, The Bagrit & RAEng Chair in Medical Device Design. He researches fluid flow in the vascular and lymph systems of the human body
           
          Caption: UROP project students with Dr Ian Radcliffe, Senior Teaching Fellow. 
           
          Caption: Arianna Rech an MRes student, working on her micro-fluidic device. 
           
          Caption: MEng Biomedical Engineering students from the Animal Locomotion and Bio-Inspired Robotics module compete in an autonomous robot race. Students use small pixy-cameras and Raspberry Pi computers to build and code an autonomous robot that navigates around a track and avoid obstacles.
           
          Caption: In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, experts from the Departments of Bioengineering and Surgery and Cancer at Imperial College London designed a simple, low-cost emergency ventilator that can be built to meet MHRA requirements using generic parts.
           
          Caption: Researchers in a lab at the newly built Sir Michael Uren Biomedical Engineering Research Hub (BmE Hub). The Hub will comprise state-of-the-art laboratory and office facilities for the next generation of biomedical engineering research across technology and application themes. 
           Discover the undergraduate startups tackling global challenges 20 May 2024 Microscopic heart vessels imaged in super-resolution for first time at Imperial 06 May 2024 04 September 2024, 17.30–18.30 The 2024 Annual Bioengineering Lecture: Engineering Efficient Intravital Imaging to Better Eavesdrop on Biology South Kensington CampusLondon SW7 2AZ 
Imperial College LondonSouth Kensington CampusLondon SW7 2AZ, UKtel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111


                Campuses & maps
                
