This page is having a slideshow that uses Javascript. Your browser either doesn't support Javascript or you have it turned off. To see this page as it is meant to appear please use a Javascript enabled browser. Have you heard of this new craft brewery and eatery in historic Downtown Clermont? It’s called the Clermont Brewing Company – the place for Craft Beer, Cocktails, Artisanal Food, and Live Music when you are in Clermont.  Voted the Best Place to Have Drinks in the 2022 Best of South Lake, Clermont Brewing Company has an on-site brewery and guests can taste exquisite seasonally changing craft beers, thin crust Neapolitan pizzas cooked in their 800 degree imported pizza oven and gourmet salads while listening live to Central Florida’s finest musicians and entertainers.  The wings here are marinated 24 hours in Brewmaster Eric’s Hazy IPA, dusted with Chef Damien’s special dry rub with a touch of heat, smoked in our house smoker, and then finished off in their 800-degree oven.  There’s a neighborhood, backyard barn, block party feel to the place – it’s somewhere fun to go for sure in the historic Downtown Clermont area, especially to try fantastic craft beer and pizza.     A post shared by Orlando Food & Travel Guide (@tastychomps)  We recently spoke with co-founder Darren Johnson about Clermont Brewing Company – read on below!  Smoked Chicken Dip
House smoked chicken tossed with buffalo sauce, cream cheese, sour cream, blended cheeses, house smoked bacon, green onions, pickled jalapeños for garnish. Served with corn tortilla chips. $12  Nach-Yo Average Nachos
Choice of marinated house smoked pork or Korean BBQ chicken, with CBC beer cheese, shredded cheese, tomatoes, avocado, sour cream, pickled jalapeños, green onions and sriracha drizzle. Served with corn tortilla chips. $15  “Dream On” Sushi Roll
Shrimp tempura and cream cheese, topped with krab, avocado, eel sauce, tempura flakes and spicy mayo. $18  The CBC Pizza
House smoked chicken, bacon, cheddar and jack cheeses, green onions, and a cilantro-chipotle ranch drizzle. $18  Diablo Pizza
Spicy tomato sauce, mozzarella, hand cut sopressa salami and pepperoni, peppadews and basil. $17 The CBC is such an awesome place – from the brewery to the 400 (800) degree pizza oven to the backyard live music – what was your vision for CBC when you first started? To create a fun experience where you could share communal food, drinks and listen to live music. Downtown Clermont really needed more hospitality establishments to kick-off the redevelopment engine.  Loved that peanut butter beer – what are some special things about the brewery that people should know? We brew 10-16 beers including many seasonal and even a seltzer. Our head brewer loves coming up with new creative beers. This week he is releasing a new white chocolate stout.  What are your most popular items right now at CBC? Beer is the Mexican Lager, Hazy IPA, Sangria & Margaritas on tap, food- pizza is king followed by our smoked chicken dip, dream on sushi roll and our Korean BBQ tacos. We strive for artisanal food and craft cocktails. Tell us about your background – from event production industry to food industry – what made you decide to go into the food world? Having a 40 year career in hospitality creating a killer guest experience is first and foremost for all of my clients and events. I parlayed that expertise and knowledge into more permanent venues like CBC, The Southern on 8th and our other hospitality related ventures. It’s really all about the experience and that includes the look, feel, the lighting, the décor, music, seating, menu, beverage options, safety and cleanliness. All of those things combined is what creates the ultimate guests experience. Now doing that every second you are open is the ultimate challenge and its hard, very hard, especially today!  What are some of your favorite memories around food growing up? Growing up in the 60’s/70’s my memories included Swansons TV dinners, fried baloney sandwiches, chicken pot pie and other various frozen meals, nothing that tripped any culinary switches. My 4 years in Marines taught me to eat anything there was and that really broaden my pallet. It wasn’t until my event planning career that I started to visit the top resorts in the world and got to experience some of the greatest chefs and cuisines. Your wife is multigenerational in the Clermont area – what are some of her memories of Clermont growing up and the food scene? The most exciting food memories for her was when Burger King and Wendy’s arrived in Clermont. There was still dirt roads back in the 70’s/80s. The Crown Restaurant, Rusty Fox and RJ Grunts were the top places to eat.  What are your upcoming plans for the menu? What are some new dishes guests will likely see and when will they be available? New dishes are in the works and hope to release the new menu in February. We’re looking at adding some Asian influences like a fried Pork/Shrimp burger, a BADASS burger with brisket, pulled pork, Texas sausage, and onion straws for the real carnivores, 4 new killer sushi rolls and 3 new killer salads. HAPPY HOUR SPECIALS
3:00pm – 6:00pm, Monday – Friday Happy Hour Beers, Wines & Cocktails Craft Beers $3, House Wine $3, Cocktails $4 SMOKIN’ WING WEDNESDAY & DUELING PIANOS
Wings available from 3 p.m. until they’re gone. Stick around for Dueling Pianos starting at 7 p.m. Live Music – Wednesday thru Sunday
Wednesday Wings  Holiday & Special Events
Bring the whole family while enjoying our air-conditioned taproom, covered patio or our beautiful backyard beer garden at the Clermont Brewing Company. HOURS
TUESDAY – THURSDAY: 3:00PM – 10:00PM
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY: 11:30AM – 12:00AM (MIDNIGHT)
SUNDAY: 11:30AM – 10:00PM CLERMONT BREWING COMPANY 750 W. DESOTO STREET
CLERMONT, FL 34711 Home  This page is having a slideshow that uses Javascript. Your browser either doesn't support Javascript or you have it turned off. To see this page as it is meant to appear please use a Javascript enabled browser. This page is having a slideshow that uses Javascript. Your browser either doesn't support Javascript or you have it turned off. To see this page as it is meant to appear please use a Javascript enabled browser. This page is having a slideshow that uses Javascript. Your browser either doesn't support Javascript or you have it turned off. To see this page as it is meant to appear please use a Javascript enabled browser. Log in to leave a comment A Local's Culinary Guide © 2022 tagDiv. All Rights Reserved. Made with Newspaper Theme.