MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS The state court legal research and analytics platform noted that it plans to leverage this funding round for its “next phase of growth” which will see new generative AI features and product releases. August 31, 2023 at 12:21 PM  3 minute read Private Equity and Venture Capital On Wednesday, state court legal research and analytics provider Trellis told Legaltech News that it raised $15 million in a series B funding round led by Top Tier Capital Partners with participation from Headline, Okapi Venture Capital, Calibrate Ventures, Craft Ventures, Revel Partners, and Sky Dayton, founder of internet service provider Earthlink. Trellis did not disclose the closing date for this round at time of press. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Isha Marathe | Rhys Dipshan By Brian Lee By Jay Madheswaran, Eve By Rhys Dipshan Special Report 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Simpson Thacher to Face UK Tribunal Over Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Allegations International Edition Simpson Partner Heads to Paul Hastings, as Firm Plots Growth in Banking, Finance The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. Consulting Magazine identifies the best firms to work for in the consulting profession. 
                                        SALARY/STEP INCREASES 3% Annual Across the Board Salary Increases on February 2025/2026 (Salary Increases contingent upon assessed values fo...
                                 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Legaltech News now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.