Amazon cleaning products you didn't know you needed, from $7  Sections Shows More Follow today More Brands As the Fourth of July approaches, it's time to deck your home in all things red, white, and blue. Whether you plan to host a barbecue, have a picnic, watch the parade, or stay home and enjoy the fireworks, you'll want to have plenty of patriotic decorations on hand for the holiday. Americans of all ages can participate in these DIY Fourth of July crafts. Using materials from around the house, you can make a festive wreath for your front door, or hang some red, white, and blue bunting on your porch. Younger kids will love putting together goodie bags for your Fourth of July gathering, and adults will enjoy grabbing a drink with your star-spangled wine glasses.  While you work on your crafts, cue up a patriotic playlist to keep your energy high as you prepare for the big day.  Beyond the dazzling decorations, take a moment to reflect on the meaning of the holiday and the importance of our country's freedom.  Share some wise words from famous Americans and former presidents with your friends and family to remind them of the meaning of the holiday. And of course, be sure to post a few photos of your Fourth of July fête on Instagram so that everyone can join in the fun. These fun and easy Fourth of July crafts will make your house as dazzling as the holiday fireworks. With the words “Sweet Land of Liberty” beautifully presented in calligraphy, you can’t help but feel a sense of patriotism when seeing this handmade sign. Get the tutorial at Amy Latta Creations. Even your garden can get all gussied up for the 4th of July! Place these stakes in your potted plants or all around your beds. Get the tutorial at First Day of Home. Craft your own American flag using a blue bandana, strips of red fabric and pretty white lace. Get the tutorial at Scratch and Stitch. For a fresh take on 4th of July decorations that can stay up through the summer, make this breezy bunting for your front entrance. Get the tutorial at Boxwood Avenue. Invite some friends over for a few festive cocktails, and to make it an even more magical summer night, serve them up in some glasses dressed up with bursting fireworks.  Get the tutorial at The Decorated Cookie. Are your kids throwing a 4th of July party? Make the bash even more fun by making these decorated goodie bags. Include red, white and blue sweets or small toys. Get the tutorial at Tell Love and Party. Every bit of your house — your front door, porch railing or living room wall, to name a few — could use a few of these spirited rosettes. Get the tutorial at Jordan’s Easy Entertaining. Setting up a 4th of July picnic or a big shindig? Make your table look even better with these handmade placemats. Get the tutorial at The House That Lars Built. A 4th of July table just isn’t complete without a few zippy centerpieces. These table accents, which are made to look like real fireworks, are just the ticket. Get the tutorial at Design Improvised. Greet your party guests in style. Construct stars out of red, white and blue paper, then assemble 'em until they resemble a wreath. Get the tutorial at The House That Lars Built. Add a bit of extra glow to a fireworks-watching party with these hurricane candles, complete with stars and stripes. Get the tutorial at A Kailo Chic Life. Even your napkins should be fit for the occasion. Draw custom designs on paper towels, then dot them with rubbing alcohol for a tie-dye effect.   Get the tutorial at Tikkido. With vintage scenes and tinsel “sparklers,” these charming faux firecrackers can fill a basket or dot a table. Get the tutorial at Sadie Seasongoods. If you’re making a cake for America’s birthday, don’t forget to dress it to the nines with bunting in the country's colors.  Get the tutorial at The House That Lars Built. Make your guests feel like the “stars” that they are by including these patriotic napkin rings at each place setting. Get the tutorial at Jordan’s Easy Entertaining. Go for the unexpected by swapping fabric stars and stripes bunting for this one made of — yep, you read that right — mini balloons.  Get the tutorial at The House That Lars Built. Nervous about little ones handling sparklers? Instead, hand them these homemade star wands that promise to be just as fun. Get the tutorial at Hello, Wonderful. In addition to wearing red, white and blue from head to toe, don’t miss dressing up their hair, too! Get the tutorial at A Girl and a Glue Gun. Use red, white and blue ribbons to craft this wreath, guaranteed to instantly make your front door a lot more patriotic. Get the tutorial at A Beautiful Mess. With stars, sparkling fireworks and the letters “USA,” no one will miss the fact that you’re celebrating the 4th of July. Get the tutorial at Design Improvised. Sometimes the humblest materials make the coolest crafts. Raid your recycling bin to create these stunning fireworks. Get the tutorial at The Best Ideas for Kids. These festive lanterns are the perfect decorations for your backyard barbecue. Get the tutorial at The Crafting Chicks. A colorful banner is sure to brighten up your holiday, and kids will love trying out this creative painting technique. Get the tutorial at The Best Ideas for Kids. With a little bit of extra ribbon, you can create some show-stopping streamers. This fun windsock will add flair to your porch as it flutters in the July breeze. Get the tutorial at Hey! Let's Make Stuff! This craft is fun and educational — the best of both worlds! Get the tutorial at The Best Ideas for Kids. Shelby Deering is a freelance lifestyle writer living in Madison, Wisconsin. She specializes in writing about home design and decor, wellness and mental health, and other lifestyle topics, contributing to national publications like Good Housekeeping, AARP The Magazine, USA Today, and more. When she’s not writing, you can find her shopping flea markets and exploring local trails with her husband and corgi, Dolly. Associate Lifestyle Reporter © 2024 NBC UNIVERSAL