Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter The broadcast of Queen Elizabeth's state funeral and Netflix's doc feature 'The Tinder Swindler' were also among the winners.  
							By 

	Alex Ritman
 U.K. Correspondent 
	HBO’s Game of Thrones prequel House of the Dragon and the BBC/AMC medical comedy-drama This is Going to Hurt emerged with the most honors following the 2023 BAFTA Television Craft Awards ceremony, celebrating the best behind-the-scenes TV talent of 2022.  
	Held on Sunday in London, the event saw House of the Dragon win for make-up & hair design, sound: fiction and special, visual & graphic effect. Also landing three honors, This Is Going to Hurt won writer: drama for Adam Kay — who adapted his own bestselling memoir about his time as a junior doctor — plus editing: fiction and scripted casting. 

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	












	
	Movies
			



	
		
					Sarajevo Film Festival Putting the Spotlight on Cinema, Not Politics, in a Conflict-Ridden Region		
			














	
	TV
			



	
		
					Jasmila Zbanic's 'I Know Your Soul' Big Winner at Sarajevo Festival TV Awards		
			






 
The State Funeral of Queen Elizabeth was a two-time winner — for sound: factual and director: multi-camera. 
	In a night that featured a great number of first-time BAFTA winners, other honorees included The Tinder Swindler‘s Felicity Morris for director: factual; Top Boy‘s William Stefan Smith for director: fiction; Lisa McGee, writer: comedy for Derry Girls; Jane Petrie, costume design for The Essex Serpent; Jessica Jones, original music: factual for Jimmy Savile: A British Horror Story; Nicôle Lecky, Bryan Senti and Kwame ‘KZ’ Kwei-Armah JR, original music: fiction for Mood; Chas Appeti, photography & lighting: fiction for jungle; and Becky Sloan and Joe Pelling, production design for Don’t Hug Me I’m Scared.
 
	The Television Craft Special Award was presented by actor Adrian Lester to Alison Barnett, currently head of production at Kudos, in recognition of her pioneering role as one of the very first female heads of production in the U.K. television industry.  
	The BAFTA TV Awards ceremony, which shifts the focus to in front of the camera, will take place on May 14.  Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Send us a tip using our anonymous form.