Closures & Delays Local News | Lyon Co: One School, Two City Councils To Have Contested Races In November, Plus One Bond Issue Rock Rapids, Iowa — Several people will be on the Lyon County ballots in November. For school board positions: At Central Lyon, four people will be running for three at-large positions. They are incumbent Amy Harter, along with Jordan Menning, Shelly Berg, and Scott Stuerman. For George/Little Rock, incumbents Andrew Sprock, Jason Fugitt, and Matt Mitchell are all running again, unopposed. They’ll be joined by Austin Lloyd who is running for an at-large position. He’s also unopposed. George/Little Rock voters will also be voting whether to accept a revenue purpose statement, the text of which follows: In the George-Little Rock Community School District, the following Revenue Purpose Statement which specifies the use of revenues the George-Little Rock Community School District will receive from the State of Iowa Secure an Advanced Vision for Education Fund shall be adopted.
To provide funds to acquire or install information technology infrastructure (including improving buildings or sites for the purpose of accessing broadband digital telecommunications) and school safety and security infrastructure.
To provide funds to build and furnish a new school building or buildings; to build and furnish addition(s) to school buildings in the District; to remodel, reconstruct, repair, expand, and improve the school buildings in the District; to purchase and improve grounds; for demolition work; to furnish and equip district facilities.
To provide funds for the purchase, lease or lease-purchase of buildings, equipment (including transportation and recreation equipment), or technology and to repair transportation equipment for transporting students as authorized by law, to implement energy conservation measures, sharing or rental of facilities including a joint infrastructure project for the purposes of offering classes under district-to-community college programs as authorized in Iowa Code Section 423F.3(3)(c), procuring or acquisition of libraries, or opening roads to schoolhouses or buildings.
To provide funds to purchase land as part of start-up costs for new student construction program or if the sale of the previous student construction was insufficient to purchase land, and to purchase construction materials and supplies for a student-constructed building or shed intended to be retained by and used by the District.
To provide funds to make payments to a municipality or other entity as required under Iowa Code Section 403.19(2).
To provide funds for demolition, cleanup, and other costs if such costs are necessitated by, and incurred within two years of, a disaster. At West Lyon, two incumbents are running for their school board seats, unopposed. They are Justin Metzger in District 3 and Derek Knobloch in District 4. West Lyon voters will also be voting on a $19.8 million bond issue for remodeling and improvements to the school. The text is below: Shall the Board of Directors of the West Lyon Community School District in the Counties of Lyon and Sioux, State of Iowa, be authorized to contract indebtedness and issue General Obligation Bonds in an amount not to exceed $19,800,000 to provide funds to be used together with sales tax bond proceeds to provide funds to build, furnish, and equip additions to its educational facility, including an auditorium / fine arts addition and a wellness / weight room / wrestling addition and an elementary and secondary classroom addition, with related remodeling and improvements; to remodel, repair, improve, furnish and equip the existing educational facility; to build, furnish, and equip a new bus barn; and to make related site improvements? For mayor and council positions: In Alvord, incumbent Mayor Mark Nagel is running again, unopposed, as is Kristin Van Middendorp for the council. There’s another council position for which no one filed papers, so the winner will be a write-in. In Doon, Mayor Timothy Glen Mantel is running for re-election, unopposed. Two people are running for two council seats too, they are incumbent Nathan Van Beek and Mitchell Van Engen. George Mayor Billy Sprock is running again, unopposed, and two people are running for three available positions on the city council. They are Robin Kruger and Lucius Johnson. Another winner will be a write-in. Two people are vying for the Inwood Mayor position. They are Allen Hassebroek and Rebecca Bixler. Four people are running for two available council positions there. They are incumbent Chad Evans, and Shannon Faber, Jordan Halma, and Jordan Huyser. Incumbent Dean Snyders is running unopposed to continue to be Larchwood’s Mayor. Four people are running for three available council positions there. They are incumbents Tanner Tracy and Candice Medema, along with Zachariah Davis and Ned Hodgson. Lester Mayor Daniel R. Gerber is unopposed, and three people are running for three positions on the Lester City Council. They are incumbents Curtis Joe Doorneweerd and Jeffrey Hoogeveen. Joining them will be Kurtis Myrlie. In Little Rock, Robert L. Wiertzema is running unopposed for Mayor, and five people are running for three available council positions. They are incumbents Amy Kruse and Joe Schilling, along with Rod Borer, Marcus Minter, and Austin Kannegieter. And in Rock Rapids, Jason Chase is again unopposed in his quest to continue to be the Mayor of Rock Rapids, and JP Poppinga is the lone candidate who filed for the three city council positions that will open up. Tami Murray, Steve Wells, and Rollie Vander Lee did not file. George, IA – A Sheldon women was taken to a hospital after an accident on Saturday at 4100 block of 210th Sioux Rapids, IA – The Iowa Economic Development Authority Board Friday approved award money for a Sioux Rapids business to replace Regional – Over 40 cats from northwest Iowa were flown to New Jersey to find homes due to increased flooding here Sheldon, Iowa — The Sheldon Area Unity Meal has been going on for several years. Barb Hibma, with Honor God Ministries, On today’s Talk of the Town Podcast, we talk to State Farm Insurance Agent Nicholas Keen of Sheldon. You can hear 411 9th St. | Sheldon, IA 51201 | Fax: 712-324-2340 Office: 712-324-2597 | Text: 712-324-2597 | Studio: 712-324-5377 Contact us:  newstips@kiwaradio.com