NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT Sir Elton John is living his best life after retiring from decades of touring. The Your Song hitmaker, 76, has been topping up his tan in St Tropez with his husband David Furnish, 60, after closing his Farewell Yellow Brick Road Tour in July. His final concert in Sweden was seriously emotional for the music legend, as he wrapped up 300 dates and over 50 years of performing. So, it’s no surprise he wants to chill out now, and where better place to do so than a coastal town on the French Riviera?  Photographed with his long-time partner, Sir Elton flashed a smile and a wave as they took in the sights. The couple were spotted cruising around on a yacht before heading for some posh grub at Loulou restaurant. Continuing to splash the cash, Sir Elton made a trip to the Gucci store, most likely adding to his already very snazzy wardrobe. Speaking of snazzy, both Sir Elton and David sported very vibrant ensembles for their summer getaway. David – with whom Sir Elton shares children Zachary and Elijah – looked very cool in a black polka dot set with butterfly prints. Meanwhile, never one to shy away from colour, Sir Elton donned a loud floral shirt with red Gucci shorts. Of course, he also wore his signature sunnies. The couple’s holiday comes after they both spoke openly about the musician’s hectic schedule taking him away from his family. Over five decades, the I’m Still Standing vocalist has put on 4,000 performances in over 80 countries, having launched his first tour in 1970. Announcing the end of his touring five years ago, Sir Elton said his ‘priorities have changed’. He vowed not to do ‘a Cher’, adding: ‘This is the end.’ Meanwhile, Canadian filmmaker David has been frank about missing his other half. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web
							browser that
							supports HTML5
								video 

										Read the full story »									
 Admitting they were both ‘jubilant’ at the thought of no more long stints on planes, trains, and automobiles, he told Metro.co.uk: ‘It’s always hard saying goodbye.  ‘You’re saying goodbye to a long commitment of time because it’s a bunch of shows that are planned six months, 12 months in advance.  Brits desperate for legendary singer to save the UK at Eurovision 2025 James Bond star, 84, frail and walking with frame after retiring from showbiz Sharon Osbourne makes bold statement at Taylor Swift's Wembley concert Molly-Mae Hague's mum comes to the rescue after Tommy Fury split and cheating denial ‘It’s hard. I really miss him. The boys really miss him. He really misses us. He’s had enough of that. We’ve had enough of that. Now it’s time to spend more time together as a family.  ‘We could not be happier and more excited about it, and a lot of people would say like, “Oh, you must be really emotional”, but at the end of the tour, he and I both sit at the table and go, “We can’t wait to be a family”.’ He added: ‘Elton says, “I’ve done this my whole life. I have loved every minute of it”. He loves his time on stage. He’s super grateful but he doesn’t need any more. Our boys are 10 and 12, they really need us more and more. ‘To be able to do that is more satisfying, more joyful, more fulfilling and having that opportunity to co-parent those children brings us endless happiness, joy and satisfaction.’ Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. 

	MORE : Stacey Solomon absolutely furious with Joe Swash on family holiday: ‘Why is this my husband?’

 

	MORE : Lizzo denies split from long-term boyfriend as team scrambles to ‘save sinking ship’ career

 



  Get us in your feed