ENTERTAINMENT Soon after his departure from the DCEU, Henry Cavill has a new project. Working with both Amazon and Games Workshop, a British tabletop game company, Cavill will produce and star in a Warhammer 40,000 TV series before crafting future entries. In a statement on Friday, the British actor said, “I have loved Warhammer since I was a boy, making this moment truly special for me. The opportunity to shepherd this cinematic universe from its inception is quite the honour and the responsibility.” Cavill made clear his support for the game on his Instagram as well as on talkshows. A post shared by Henry Cavill (@henrycavill) Immediately after the announcement stock in Games Workshop leapt 20%. Many people will be asking what the game is and why Cavill wants to be involved so much. Let’s fill you in. Created by Games Workshop back in 1986, the board game is set 38,000 years in the future where a crumbling space-faring human empire is wracked by internal division, alien attack, as well as a galaxy-wide siege by the forces of Chaos. These are humans and space marines, the icons of the setting, that have been turned to worshipping the Chaos gods in their bid to conquer the galaxy. The setting provides ample opportunities for storytelling that forms a key part of the game. For many people the key fun of the game is the hobby aspect. All the models are supplied unbuilt and unpainted, giving players chances to convert and customised their army to their own taste and desire. A post shared by Darren Latham (@darrenlatham) The game itself has gone through nine editions with the tenth expected to be release in 2023. The rules are myriad and take a lot of learning and the game is far more in-depth compared to monopoly or other board games. There are more than 20 factions to choose from with endless army compositions. With such a rich setting and lore it is perhaps a surprise it has taken so long for the game to be adapted. ENTERTAINMENT Celebrity Fans will be hoping the Amazon launch will bring plenty of new people into the hobby. “It’s great news and we’re absolutely thrilled; we’re working with a fantastic triumvirate in Henry, Vertigo, and Amazon. Henry’s well-known love of Warhammer 40,000—and his passion as a world-builder and storyteller—will serve us all well in the coming years. Finally, Warhammer will make it to the screen as the fans have hoped, and as they deserve. Exciting times!” said Andy Smillie, creative director of Games Workshop. About the author Oliver Povey Oli joined the Latest News team in 2021, taking an interest in economics, world news, and articles that build from his study of history. He also dabbles in sports writing, joining the coverage of the last soccer World Cup as well as European Champions League games. He enjoys playing football, electronic music, and painting miniatures. POLITICS FINANCE LOTTERY DAZN Enjoy live and on-demand online sports on DAZN. Activate your account NBA Pass League Now you can watch the entire NBA season or your favorite teams on streaming.