{{pageTitle}} 
, {{gameSystem}}
 
Starting from: 
{{regularPrice}}{{lowestPrice}}
 How about... Visit us on Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem amiibo @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons NintendoUK NintendoLaboUK NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope RingFitAdventureUK NintendoUK Visit us on LinkedIn 
 Everyone’s in—including you. Lead your nation against the best and challenge for international glory as champions from across The World’s Game go head-to-head to become Champions of Europe. Live every twist and thrill of the authentic UEFA EURO 2024™ experience and write a new chapter in this iconic competition’s history as the full tournament comes to EA SPORTS FC™ 24 as a post-launch update at no extra cost.* EA SPORTS FC™ 24 is a new era for The World’s Game: 19,000+ fully licensed players, 700+ teams, and 30+ leagues playing together in the most authentic football experience ever created. Feel closer to the game with two cutting-edge technologies delivering unparalleled realism in every match: PlayStyles optimised by Opta, and an enhanced Frostbite™ Engine powering EA SPORTS FC™ 24 on Nintendo Switch™ for the first time in EA SPORTS™ history. PlayStyles dimensionalise athletes, interpreting data from Opta and other sources into signature abilities which heighten the realism and individuality of each player. The revolutionised Frostbite™ Engine delivers The World’s Game in lifelike detail, bringing a new level of immersion to each match. EA SPORTS FC™ 24 also introduces a full Football Ultimate Team™ experience to Nintendo Switch™: develop club legends with the new Ultimate Team™ Evolutions and welcome women’s footballers to the pitch. Game requires a download of at least 31 GB via an Internet connection. You may also be required to create or link a Nintendo Account. MicroSD card (sold separately) may be required depending on your storage. Storage requirements may change, visit x.ea.com/ea/FC-Switch for details. This game includes optional in-game purchases of virtual currency that can be used to acquire virtual in-game items, including a random selection of virtual in-game items. FC Points not available in Belgium. Conditions and restrictions apply. See https://www.ea.com/games/ea-sports-fc/fc-24/game-offer-and-disclaimers for details. Acceptance of EA User Agreement (terms.ea.com) & Privacy and Cookie Policy (privacy.ea.com) required to play. EA & applicable platform accounts may be required for online features (internet required). Age restrictions apply, see o.ea.com/ea/child-access & applicable platform account for details. EA may provide certain free incremental content &/or updates. Mandatory updates may be downloaded automatically, incur broadband fees & require additional storage or purchase to access. Product collects data for in-game advertising. EA may retire online features after 30 days notice at ea.com/service-updates. This description was provided by the publisher. What you need to know This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE. The payment will be made with Nintendo eShop funds usable through the Nintendo Account used to complete the purchase. This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE, payable with Nintendo eShop funds usable through your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content. This content may be purchased by users who have registered a Nintendo Account and accepted the respective legal terms. To be able to purchase content for Wii U or Nintendo 3DS family systems, a Nintendo Network ID is also required and your funds usable through the Nintendo Account must be merged with the funds tied to your Nintendo Network ID. If the funds have not yet been merged, you will have the option to do so during the purchase process. To start the purchasing process, it is necessary to sign in with the Nintendo Account and the Nintendo Network ID. After signing in it will be possible to review the details and complete the purchase. To be able to purchase content for Wii U or Nintendo 3DS family systems, your funds usable through the Nintendo Account must be merged with the funds tied to your Nintendo Network ID. If the funds have not yet been merged, you will have the option to do so during the purchase process. You will be able to review the details and complete the purchase on the next screen. The details of this offer apply to users who sign in using a Nintendo Account with the country setting corresponding to the country setting of this website. If the country setting of a Nintendo Account is different, the details of this offer may be adjusted (for example, the price will be displayed in the respective local currency). After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information. In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded. Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download. After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information. In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded. Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download. The details of the offer are displayed based on the country settings of your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content. About pre-ordering The use of an unauthorised device or software that enables technical modification of the Nintendo console or software may render this game unplayable. This product contains technological protection measures. Content not playable before the release date:  {{releaseDate}} . For pre-orders, payments will be taken automatically starting from 7 days before the release date. If you pre-order less than 7 days before the release date, payment will be taken immediately upon purchase. To be able to purchase download games or download demos and free software from Nintendo eShop on the official website, you'll need to have a Nintendo Account which is linked to your Nintendo Switch console. You'll need to have your console registered as the active console for downloads for your Nintendo Account by visiting Nintendo eShop on the device you wish to download on at least once. For automatic download, your system must be updated and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. To find out more, visit our Support section. Purchases made or demo downloads activated through the Nintendo website are processed via Nintendo eShop. This software includes modes or features for which an internet connection and a paid membership to Nintendo Switch Online are required. Any online play modes require a paid membership to Nintendo Switch Online. To use online services, you must create a Nintendo Account and accept the related agreement. The Nintendo Account Privacy Policy applies. Some online services may not be available in all countries. Find out more about paid Nintendo Switch Online memberships. Please note: this software does not support the Nintendo Switch Online paid membership’s Save Data Cloud backup feature. Multiplayer requires one compatible controller per player. Additional controllers (sold separately) may be required. © 2023 Electronic Arts Inc. Electronic Arts, EA, EA SPORTS, the EA SPORTS logo, EA SPORTS FC, the EA SPORTS FC logo, Frostbite, the Frostbite logo, Ultimate Team, and VOLTA FOOTBALL are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. {{result.title}} Starting from £{{result.price_lowest_f.toFixed(2)}}*£{{result.price_regular_f.toFixed(2)}}£{{result.price_lowest_f.toFixed(2)}}* Categories Simulation, Sports Players 
							Single System (1-4), Local Wireless (2), Online (2-22)
						 Publisher Electronic Arts Features Downloadable content, Handheld mode, Tabletop mode, TV mode Nintendo Switch Online features Play online, enjoy a growing library of classic NES & Super NES games, and more with a Nintendo Switch Online membership. Find out more. Online play Age rating System Nintendo Switch Release date 29/09/2023 Age rating PEGI 3 Compatible controllers Languages Japanese, English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Russian, Korean, Chinese Download size 31764.00 MB System Nintendo Switch Release date 29/09/2023 Age rating PEGI 3 Compatible controllers Languages Japanese, English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Russian, Korean, Chinese Change country © Nintendo. 2024  Change country Attention! You are about to leave the Nintendo of Europe site. Nintendo of Europe is not responsible for the content or security of the site you are about to visit. Survey Dear visitor, Thank you for visiting the Nintendo website! You have been randomly chosen to take part in a brief survey. By taking a few minutes to share your thoughts and opinions, you will be helping us to improve our website. Naturally, any information provided by you in this survey will be treated in confidence. Your Nintendo of Europe Team Facebook Visit us on Facebook: Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem amiibo X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons YouTube NintendoUK NintendoLaboUK Instagram Join us on Instagram: NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope RingFitAdventureUK Twitch Visit us on Twitch: NintendoUK LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn  