Now, if you've spent more than five minutes perusing the classified ads, Gumtree, Craigslist, or Facebook Marketplace, you'll have undoubtedly come across a multitude of free piano listings. On the surface, these freebie pianos look like one hell of a deal and the ideal solution for beginner players looking to get started without shelling out thousands on a state-of-the-art acoustic piano. However, they often say there's no such thing as a free lunch, and well, that certainly applies to pianos as well. We believe a lot of novice players would get quite a shock at the true cost of a free piano.  Before we go any further, we first have to make it clear that not all free pianos are born equal. Some of these instruments are simply being moved on due to personal circumstance and are in perfect working order - and if you find one of them, it can feel like you've won the lottery. That said, the majority of them are being donated due to the fact that there are major issues with the instrument, stopping them from being sold for cash. So, to make sure you bag the piano of your dreams and not an 88-key nightmare, we're going to break down the common issues we've seen with free pianos, problems to look out for, and what you may want to consider purchasing instead. Okay, let's get the obvious one out of the way first. Typically pianos that are being donated free of charge are in a state of disrepair. Whether it's faulty keys, broken strings or something a little more sinister, there is usually an issue that will require fixing before you can start making music. It should come as no surprise that repairing a piano can be a costly and time-consuming process, and even with repairs completed, your free piano may not sound or function as well as a new or well-maintained instrument. At the very least, the piano will need to be tuned and you will require a professional to ensure that it's done correctly. Prices can vary for this service and be as low as £90 but as high as a few hundred. Head to head Digital piano vs acoustic piano: what’s the difference? We take a deep dive into the many differences between digital and traditional pianos. Of course, the age and condition of the instrument play a large role in determining the price of the tuning, with older instruments requiring a little more work to get them up and running. Now, unfortunately, there's no guarantee that once the piano is brought up to pitch that the strings will stay there. One of the biggest reasons pianos are given away is because they simply won't hold their tuning and this is something you'll only find out once you've got it home and had it tuned.  So to avoid shelling out hundreds - if not thousands - of pounds on costly repairs, you'll want to take a thorough look at the piano. If you don't know enough about pianos yourself, then take someone who does, and inspect the instrument to see what needs to be done to make it playable. Does it require a simple tune-up, or are there broken hammers that need replacing? Once you've determined the state of the damage, you can make the decision as to whether or not you want to take on the project of restoring it. The instrument you learn on can really affect your progress. Start with a high-quality piano and you give yourself the best possible chance at sticking with it and becoming the pianist you've always wanted to be. And as you'd expect, a poor-quality instrument will result in a less-than-desirable playing experience and may even expedite the development of bad habits.  The truth is many free pianos are low-quality instruments that, while they were once brilliant, fully functional pianos in their heyday, are now shadows of their former selves. These once-beloved instruments often suffer from issues with sound quality, durability, and stability, which can impact the overall playing experience. Okay, you don't need us to tell you that pianos are heavy, but this is something you really need to consider when thinking about picking up a free piano. Pianos are large and bulky instruments that can be very difficult to move and transport, requiring specialist equipment to move them safely. We'd always recommend utilising the skills and expertise of a professional piano mover, as you don't want to damage the piano while getting from A to B - especially if the instrument is already in a fragile state. Now, the cost of this service does vary wildly, as the price is determined by the size and weight of the instrument, the distance travelled and if it needs to be carried upstairs. So, before you agree to take a piano, get a quote from your local piano movers so you know how much it will cost you. Overall, while a free piano may seem like a great opportunity, it is important to consider the potential costs and drawbacks before deciding to pick one up. It may be more worthwhile to invest in a higher quality, well-maintained instrument that will provide a better playing experience. So, on that note, here are a few of our favourite pianos, covering everything from low-cost stage pianos to the best digital pianos available right now and even high-end acoustic showstoppers. Best budget stage piano 1. Yamaha P-45 Stage Piano Piano type: Stage Piano Keys: 88 Dimensions (mm): 1326 x 154 x 295 Weight (kg): 11.5 + Affordable + Reliable - Some may prefer the look of the YDP When it comes to an affordable, lightweight, and dependable instrument, the Yamaha P-45 has to be one of the best digital pianos for beginners out there. With ten highly usable voices and 88 fully weighted keys, this piano is ideal for those looking to learn with a quality instrument without spending a fortune. Best for beginners 2. Casio Privia PX-S1100 Piano type: Stage Piano  Keys: 88  Dimensions (mm): 1322 x 232 x 102 Weight (kg): 11.4 + Great action + Bluetooth Audio/MIDI - Some may prefer the feel of Yamaha  The eagerly awaited upgrade of the S1000, the new PX-S1100 builds on its predecessor by adding the modern features today’s budding pianists demand.  This 88-note fully weighted keys piano is perfect for aspiring players looking for an affordable instrument that doesn’t scrimp on quality. Best action at this price 3. Roland FP-10 Stage Piano Piano type: Stage Piano Keys: 88 Dimensions (mm): 1284 x 258 x 140 Weight (kg): 12.3 + Bluetooth MIDI + PHA-4 keybed - The speakers could be better  The FP-10 features Roland's class-leading PHA-4 keyboard. All 88 keys are individually weighted, just like an acoustic piano, delivering one of the most authentic-feeling keybeds in this price bracket. This piano is insanely responsive and feels just like the real deal. Best slimline digital 4. Yamaha Arius YDP-145 Piano type: Digital Piano Keys: 88 Dimensions (mm): 1357 x 815 x 422 Weight (kg): 38 + Comfortable key action + Slimline build   - Not as many sounds as others The YDP range is ideal for those longing to play the piano, but don't have space for a full-sized upright. In our opinion, the Yamaha Arius YDP-145 is one of the best playing and sounding slimline options on the market. Designed to fit in almost any home, this stylish instrument boasts 88 notes, weighted keys and three pedals.  Best value digital upright 5. Kawai CN301 Digital Piano Piano type: Digital Piano Keys: 88 Dimensions (mm): 870 x 1410 x 435 Weight (kg): 54 + Great value + Robust build - Extra sounds that you won’t use With 90 years of experience building first-rate instruments, it's safe to assume Kawai knows a thing or two about pianos. The popular CN series certainly proves this with an authentic feeling touch, warm, rich tone, and a range of modern features. The sounds found in the CN301 are some of the best we've heard. It's warm, rich, and full of depth. Best acoustic option 6. Yamaha b1 acoustic piano Piano type: Acoustic Piano Keys: 88 Dimensions (mm): 1480 x 540 x 1090 Weight (kg): 174kg + Compact and affordable + Solid build quality - Acoustic isn't for everyone Now, we all know that acoustic pianos are expensive items. That said, piano master Yamaha does offer a relatively affordable entry point with their beloved b1 model. Like all Yamaha instruments, this piano is reliable, well-built and fantastic sounding. Equally suitable for home, education or for studio recording duties this is a fabulous option if you want to go acoustic. Digital piano FAQ: we answer common digital piano queries The best online piano lessons: top software, apps and websites Our pick of the best electronic keyboards for every budget Don't forget about these essential piano accessories Sit comfortably with one of the best piano benches Get started with our pick of the best keyboards for beginners We round up the best electronic keyboards for all budgets New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace.