To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. Since the September 2021 shows in New York, meaning the spring 2022 season, there’s been much chatter about the state of fashion in the city. From fellow writers and editors, to buyers, influencers, and publicists, I keep hearing a version of the same chant: “New York is back!” When we talk about New York being back, we’re talking about designers like Carly Mark of Puppets and Puppets, Christopher John Rogers, Theophilio, and Elena Velez. But what about the hands behind their most fabulous looks? Per usual, hidden in plain sight. Such is the story of Bryan Datinguinoo and Clarissa Arocena of the garment development studio HIPS, but not if I can do something about it. Before becoming romantic and business partners, this North Carolina-born, Filipino-American duo were high school friends with a shared mutual interest in fashion. “We would talk obsessively about Marc Jacobs or Yves Saint Laurent,” Datinguinoo told me one rainy morning at the Long Island City studio they moved into a year ago. “Then we just liked each other, and…” As he trails off, their one year old baby Ayanni giggles in the background, finishing the sentence for him.  After high-school, Arocena studied Art and Design and Textile Technology in North Carolina, while Datinguinoo became a barber. In 2015, Arocena decided to take the leap and moved to New York, landing a pattern-making internship at Assembly New York. “That was the first time I saw an industry pattern,” she remembers. “What you learn in school, what’s in the books, or even the McCall patterns—the annotations are just not the same.” But the role was unpaid—aren’t they always?—so she found a part-time job as an activewear designer.  Work in progress: Christopher John Rogers, pre-fall 2023. Christopher John Rogers, pre-fall 2023. A fitting of a Christopher John Rogers resort 2023 skirt. Christopher John Rogers, resort 2022. Datinguinoo followed her, moving to the city in 2016. He was still working as a barber and Arocena was at the activewear company when they started a short-lived, makeshift clothing resale business. It lasted a year. They didn’t know how to sustain it or expand it, but it was, Arocena says, a good introduction to how they’d work together as business partners.  It was 2017 that Arocena quit her job to become a full-time freelance pattern-maker and design developer, though HIPS didn’t formally start until 2018. Their first client, which they landed via Craigslist, was a menswear brand. “He was doing pretty basic stuff, but it was helpful because, without that, we’d never be able to now do these wild silhouettes.” They continued picking up clients and projects, and by 2019 Datinguinoo was able to drop his barber gig and devote himself to HIPS full time. So why HIPS? It’s an acronym for Hidden In Plain Sight. “This is from way back when people still used Snapchat.” Datinguinoo recalls, “At the barbershop, there was this random pink door I would always take a selfie in front of, but it wasn’t me, it was just my shadow, and I kept captioning it as ‘hidden in plain sight.’ Eventually, it stuck as the name. And if you think about it, it makes sense because we are the pattern makers that build the design, not the designers. You don’t need to know us unless you really need to know us.” Work in progress: a drape of an Elena Velez spring 2023 look. The look on the runway. How did HIPS go from advertising on Craigslist to making patterns for the violet Christopher John Rogers suit Vice President Kamala Harris wore to the inauguration, or the red dress, also by Rogers, that Beyoncé wore in the November 2020 issue of British Vogue? Instagram.  “I became aware of HIPS a few years ago when I noticed they were following the brand on Instagram,” Rogers wrote me via email, “there were beautiful images of muslin, toiles, and patterning paper and I became increasingly curious about who was behind the profile. I went to their website, discovered they were working in garment development, and voilà!” They’ve been working together since Rogers’s Collection 006 for fall 2020, the first one he produced after winning the CFDA/Vogue Fashion Fund. Puppets and Puppets, spring 2023 ready-to-wear. Fitting of a Puppets and Puppets spring 2023 look. Puppets and Puppets, spring 2023 ready-to-wear. HIPS’s Instagram pitch is always the same: “It’s about how we can make the crazier piece, the finale look—and it hasn’t backfired yet,” Datinguinoo says with a grin. Arocena adds: “We don’t deem ourselves the best, because there are pattern-makers who are much older and experienced, but give us a shot and we’ll learn it.”  The first fitting they had with Rogers was a nerve racking moment for the pair. “Clarissa stayed up to make the skirt until the wee hours of the morning, and when the model tried it on, Chris goes oh, this is a little fucked up,” Datinguinoo recalls, remembering how worried they were they had made a mistake. “But two seconds later he says, I love it.” Rogers, for his part, says, “Clarissa and Bryan are able to distill the idiosyncrasies of our brand into toiles and patterns.” Which is another way of saying that Arocena and Datinguinoo just get it.  “It’s not always so seamless relaying your vision to a pattern maker and receiving exactly what you had in mind,” Carly Mark of Puppets and Puppets offers, “I always end up with what I pictured when I work with HIPS.” By now, HIPS has worked with three CFDA Award winners: Rogers, Elena Velez, and Theophilio, in addition to Puppets and Puppets, The Academy NY, and 5000 Studio. The key seems to be that their willingness and eagerness to experiment matches that of the designers they collaborate with. There is nothing that isn’t worth trying, nothing too scary to tackle.  Elena Velez, spring 2023 reay-to-wear. Christopher John Rogers, resort 2023. The Academy NY, fall 2022. Having found their niche in New York’s design vanguard, Datinguinoo and Arocena have witnessed the aforementioned shift in energy firsthand. “There’s been a renaissance of people wanting to do more for themselves,” says Arocena. “DIY culture has become very popular, and emerging designers are deciding they don’t just want to make sellable items, but create fantasies.” The pair agree that this reached its apex in September of 2021, the first season back at live shows “after” the pandemic. “They’re unafraid, they just want what they want and know what they want to show,” she adds. HIPS’s approach to pattern-making is as playfully exploratory as it is meticulous. “Flat patterning is not something we’re really fond of here,” Arocena says. “We start on the body and plan out proportions on the mannequin as we drape, then we transfer to paper and continue adjusting as we fit.” Reason being that the shapes HIPS often works with—an exaggerated bubble hem for Dauphinette, or unconventional corsetry for Elena Velez—often turn out better when they’re resolved on the body. “On the body you find out in real time if something works or not. It’s less about perfection and more about finding the solution for us. There’s no pattern blocks for stuff like this.” A fitting for Dauphinette, spring 2023 ready-to-wear. Theophilio, spring 2022 ready-to-wear. A fitting for Theophilio, spring 2023 ready-to-wear. Though they are not based in the Garment District in Manhattan, and their approach is less strict than that studios there, HIPS still feels like a part of this mostly immigrant community. “America is a land of immigrants,” Datinguinoo says, “but then a lot of times the immigrant, the family members that immigrated here, they will take a job, whether it’s sewing, taxi driving, whatever, so then their kids won’t have to do a labor job. So their kids would be doctors and lawyers. They don’t really instill craft when you’re an immigrant because to them it isn’t the American dream, because it’s not craft, it’s labor.” Arocena continues, “t was a default for generations in the past, but it’s a choice for us to be here.” For the upcoming fall 2023 season, HIPS is working with Puppets and Puppets and Dauphinette, as well as Christopher John Rogers, who shows on the pre-collection schedule. “It feels surreal, and we never want to claim anything because they’re not our designs,” Arocena says. “These designers would still succeed without us, because they have brilliant stories and visions that are undeniable, which is why we pick them. But it’s an honor to be trusted with their fantasy, and to do some of the biggest things that define who they are.” More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty