
By Caleb Jacobs
 Updated on Feb 28, 2023 4:27 PM EST 3 minute read I’ve never watched NBC’s The Highwayman, and there’s a good chance you haven’t either. It was a short-lived TV series in the ’80s that supposedly mixed Knight Rider vibes with Mad Max that ran for just nine episodes before being canceled. In turn, it didn’t leave a lasting impression on the world of Sci-Fi television, but it did bring us this strange 1982 Peterbilt that’s listed on Craigslist in North Hollywood for $65,000. Update (Feb. 28): This Dystopian Craigslist special is back again, this time at an inflation-adjusted price of $75,000 since it was last up for sale in December. The owner reports that it needs to be sold, “Lost the lease” although it’s unclear what that means. We’ve reached out to the seller for more info, but haven’t yet heard back. We’ll update this space if we do.   The truck had a starring role in the show alongside Sam J. Jones. IMDB says the semi was one “high-tech 18-wheeler” meant to carry cargo while also serving as a helipad when needed. That’s the kind of versatility you want in a truck, but in its current state, it’s not exactly ready for showtime. It’s almost like the big rig has gone to bed every night for the past 35 years without taking off its makeup. Even still, the seller claims it runs and drives with a 700-horsepower Detroit Diesel engine that has just 5,000 miles on it. They claim it’s a six-cylinder, though there’s no indication if it’s a 6V71, a 6V92, or something else. Either way, I’d bet that it’s turbocharged, and you can briefly hear the trademark two-stroke buzz in this clip: It has an automatic transmission, so just about anyone can drive it, and the low ride height means it’ll fit in any McDonald’s drive-thru—at least vertically. It’s got to be tricky to maneuver with that huge front overhang, though. The cabin is way out ahead of the front axle, meaning you’ll enter any intersection about a half-second before anything else on the truck does. The listing says it’s roadworthy and registered, though the registration has been lost. I have no idea what it’d be like to get this sucker road legal in your state, but if you could make it happen, it’d be a great motorhome or traveling sideshow. There’s no mention of the trailer, but photos of it are included. There’s some rust at the front driver’s side corner, but if you’re taking on the rest of this project, that’s likely to be the least of your worries. I’m not exactly a sound voice when it comes to giving project car advice, but if you’ve got $65,000 burning a hole in your pocket, not many rigs come close to this on the coolness scale. Got a tip or question for the author? Contact them directly: caleb@thedrive.com Caleb Jacobs is The Drive’s senior editor. When he’s not searching for stories or poring over copy, he’s usually driving his dump truck or wishing it was running so he could drive it. He was born and raised in the Missouri Ozarks, and he lives there today with his family. The chronicle of car culture, delivered to your inbox. By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. © 2024 Recurrent Ventures. All Rights Reserved. Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made. Some benefits of our Car Shopping program may not be available in your area. Please see terms for details. 