Video Gamer is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Prices subject to change. Learn more The best XP map codes in Fortnite are: Finding the best XP maps in Fortnite can be quite tricky. These maps constantly change are are often patched within 24 to 48 hours. This comes as no surprise considering that many players choose them to level up instead of playing other game modes. In the past, it was possible to get XP from Creative maps made with the classic editor. However, Epic Games now allows players to gain XP from UEFN maps as well, which is very useful. Not only are UEFN maps better, but many of them are more effective for earning XP. This article will list some of the best Fortnite XP maps you can use to boost your Battle Pass level and level up fast. Fortnite XP maps keep changing, which is why many of them are not viable for a long time. While using these maps in the video game is not a bannable offense, Epic Games frowns upon them, which is why many of them are patched shortly after they become popular. You can use the map codes below to earn Creative XP in Fortnite Chapter 5 Season 4. We tested these maps and can guarantee that they will help you with levels. However, make sure to use them quickly before they are patched. These are the best XP maps in Fortnite right now: Map Code: 7664-4585-8324 Creator: dw-e Cars Mega Ramp is arguably the most amazing Fortnite map for gaining quick levels. On top of that, the map is entertaining, and if you’re a fan of reckless driving, you may end up spending a few hours on it! As soon as you join the map, you will begin receiving XP. In fact, you will receive XP every 10 seconds, while bonus XP will be granted to your Fortnite account every 10 minutes. You simply need to get into the Creative map, get into any vehicle you see in the starting zone, and drive it down the ramp. Whether or not you achieve a great result, you will receive XP, which will help you finish the Battle Pass. Map Code: 6065-6015-9293 Creator: Poka The Cool Red vs. Blue map is currently the best for earning quick XP in Fortnite. Activating the map takes only a few steps, yet you can earn more than 10 levels from it. If you’re interested in trying out this map, these are the steps you need to take: Epic Games usually patches Fortnite XP maps within 24 hours. Due to this, you should visit our page for new and updated XP map codes every day. Map Code: 0528-5858-1317 Creator: Gul One of the best Fortnite XP map codes is 1V1 FFA Build Fights 0528-5858-1317. This is a 1v1 build fight you can play with your friends, but it also allows you to earn hundreds of thousands of XP. If you stay on this map long enough, you can earn at least six Battle Pass levels per day, which is more than enough to unlock all the rewards. These are the steps you need to follow to earn XP from the map: You can also perform a few more actions to earn an even bigger XP boost, such as eliminating wildlife with the Explosive Goo Gun. Once you complete all the steps, you can simply sit back and enjoy all the Battle Pass levels you receive from the map. In 30 minutes spent on the map, we were able to gain approximately 350,000 XP, which is equal to more than four levels. Map Code: 8036-8881-9965 Creator: Itrizz If you’re looking for another great map that will boost your Battle Pass level, Ranked Red vs Blue is a great choice. This is one of the best Fortnite XP maps, but it’s also amazing for practicing your skills. Due to this, you can level up either by following our guide or by simply having fun with your friends. To level up quickly and passively, these are the steps you need to take: Once again, you will enter a secret tunnel that has gold coins you can pick up for a massive XP boost. Map Code: 0079-0155-9164 Creator: Wolfi On the surface, Default Easy Deathrun looks like just your regular deathrun map, but it does have a great method of earning some massive XP. To do it, you’ll need to perform a specific set of steps, however, so here is everything you need to do to earn XP from this map: Map Code: 9369-6922-8408 Creator: Goodgamerslegacy Zombieland is a classic game mode and has a big advantage over other modes in that you can play it completely solo. Jump in and you’ll be up against waves of zombies, with each wave more challenging than the last. The longer you last, the more XP you earn, and you can get a huge amount pretty quickly from playing this game mode. Unlike the previous maps, you also don’t need to do anything in particular, just play the game and watch the XP roll in! Map Code: 4590-4493-7113 Creator: Geerzy The Pit – Free For All is another one of Fortnite Creative’s most popular maps, and always has plenty of players on it. It’s a deathmatch game mode where you and a bunch of other players have access to whatever weapons you want. It’s a great way to practise your aim, and gives you the chance to earn a huge amount of XP while you do it – a win-win! Map Code: 3729-0643-9775 Creator: PrettyBoy The Tilted Zone Wars map has been around for years, and is still as popular now as it ever was. It’s like a miniature version of Fortnite, with a battle royale between just 16 players. With so many players, it’s easy to get a quick match, and as rounds go so quickly, you’ll be racking up plenty of XP in no time. Map Code: 3305-1551-7747 Creator: The Boy Dilly Go Goated! Zone Wars map is also a kind of miniature version of Fortnite, except in a different way. Instead of 16 individuals pitted against each other, in this map you’ll be split into four different teams. It’s a great way to level up with friends as with some good communication you’ll have a much better chance of beating all the other teams fairly quickly. And if you’re playing alone, keep an eye out for which players are doing the best, and try your best to get on a team with them. It will get you more wins over time and that means even more XP. Map Code: 5112-1759-8096 Creator: Zerobuild Aim, Edit, Piece Control is a pretty standard map used to help train your Fortnite skills, with a massive 125 drills to help you practise your aim, editing, building and more. As well as helping you hugely improve your skills and making you a better player, once you finish the drills, you’ll be rewarded with a massive amount of XP. Map Code: 6822-2409-8890 Creator: THEGHASTS109 If you haven’t been a fan of some of the new maps in recent seasons and want a throwback to Chapters of old, then Stark Zone Wars is the map for you. The loot pool comes straight out of Chapter 2 Season 4, and features a choice of 109 different maps so you can choose exactly what map you want to use. If you’re a Tilted Towers fanatic sick of not having it in your games, then get yourself into this map ASAP. Map Code: 5253-8468-3364 Creator: goodgamers Murder Mystery is a pretty classic game, having made its way to Fortnite from its original variation in Garry’s Mod. You play as either a Civilian, Murderer or Detective. As the Murderer, you need to kill all the Civilians while trying to avoid being found out and killed by the Detective. If you’re a fan of games like Among Us, this is one to check out. Map Code: 9539-2705-4616 Creator: hyperbit Billionaire Tycoon is a pretty hot map right now, letting players earn money over time and spend it on upgrading a house, buy new weapons to take on zombies and bosses and more. But beyond all the XP you can earn from playing the game, there are also 10 briefcases hidden around the island that give you a huge XP reward for finding, so it’s definitely worth spending some time on it – just make sure to check out the vault code while you’re there! Map Code: 6917-9324-4545 Creator: zze Talisca Party Royale is one of the easiest and most efficient ways to earn XP in Fortnite Creative right now. You’re not going to have fun with this method like you might with some other maps, but you’ll earn so much XP you won’t even care. Simply load in and start buying items repeatedly from tthe vendors to receive XP. Once you stop receiving XP, return to lobby, load back in and repeat until you reach your daily cap. You don’t even need to earn anything to buy – just load in and get buying, simple!  While classic Fortnite Creative maps get patched quite often, this is not the case with UEFN maps. While UEFN maps don’t give out as much XP as classic ones, they generally last for longer periods, with some of them being active for a couple of months. UEFN maps are certainly among the best maps due to their long-lasting nature. However, it’s important to note that you will not see XP gains on your screen while you’re playing. Instead, you will receive it after you leave the game after at least 60 minutes. Hundreds of UEFN maps are currently eligible for XP, and here are some island codes: To earn XP from these Fortnite maps, you simply need to spend time on them. Most maps reward you for playtime, but you’ll also get bonus XP for getting eliminations and performing a few other in-game actions. Playing UEFN maps is not only perfect for XP farming, but you’ll also have a lot of fun, whether you do build fights or avoid obstacles in deathruns. Connecting to Fortnite Creative maps is very simple. The easiest way to do it is by interacting with the magnifier/search button in the main menu. Once you do this, a new window will open, allowing you to enter a Creative map code. Additionally, you may enter the map’s name. Once you find a map you like, you can press the star button to add it to your favorites for quick access. Asmir is a gaming writer at Video Gamer and has over a decade's experience. In his spare time, Asmir loves playing Fortnite and Overwatch, while basketball is also one of his hobbies. 
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy and may receive occasional deal communications; you can unsubscribe anytime.
