e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
Please email obits@times-standard.com or call 530-896-7718. Please include your name, mailing address, and phone number along with the copy and photo.
  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Lucky from Erin Hunter’s book “Survivors: The Empty City,” Dragon from “Wings of Fire” by Tui T. Sutherland and other animals featured within the pages of books come to life in Friends of the Redwood Libraries’ annual edition of the “Children’s Art Calendar.”The colorful calendar features images created by local kids inspired by animals from their favorite stories.“This year we had 88 entries. It’s great. We’ve had as many as 70 entries, but this year, with 88 entries, it’s a record. It means that children are reading and wanting to participate in the project,” said Marilyn Tucker, past president of Friends of the Redwood Libraries and a current member of the board of directors. She also serves as liaison to the Humboldt County Children’s Author Festival.“I am so happy to have the calendar completed, and I think it is beautiful because of the children’s artwork,” Tucker said.Children ages 5 to 12 are invited every year to submit artwork via email or regular mail for the calendar. A Friends of the Redwood Librairies committee selects the winning 12 images plus honorable mentions, though all entries — as well as calendar sponsors — appear within the calendar pages.“Our committee is made up of five FRL members, and they all help with planning, judging, mailing and proofreading,” Tucker said.This is Ivan Tokarev’s Pegusus from “Greek Myths 2” by Robert Graves. (Submitted)“I love receiving pictures from the children, and parents often send emails telling how much it means to their children to do this. As a retired elementary school teacher, this means a great deal to me,” said Tucker, 90, who has been putting the calendar together from her computer for several years now.

Every child who submits a calendar entry receives a gift certificate for free books and merchandise from the Serendipity Book Store, a Friends of the Redwood Libraries volunteer-run store, located upstairs in the Eureka Main Library, 1313 Third St.The cover art for the calendar is drawing of a ruby-throated hummingbird by Gabriel Dieme, 7. It’s from “The Atlas of Amazing Birds” by Matt Sewell. (Submitted)“I love the fact that all of the children who enter can receive free books,” Tucker said. “These books have been gently used and donated to the wonderful Serendipity Book Store.”All sponsors and the 12-month winners also receive a free calendar. The winning calendar pictures, plus 24 honorable mentions, are also framed and on display upstairs in the Hagopian Gallery upstairs in the Eureka Main Library until Jan. 2.The calendar fundraiser began back in 2011, Tucker said.“It was started with an idea from the late Roger Cinnamond, a member of  the FRL board and retired art teacher,” she said. “… Other members have been responsible for putting this calendar together, including Ray King and Madeleine Ferguson. I have been doing it for a few years.”The calendars can be purchased at the Circulation Desk in the Eureka Main Library, the Serendipity Book Store in the Eureka Main Library or by mail, postage paid. To download an order form for mailing, go to the Friends of the Redwood Libraries website at eurekafrl.org. The cost for calendars is $10.“Sponsors have been so generous that all printing and mailing costs have been covered,” Tucker said. “Therefore, all money paid for the calendars goes to the Humboldt County Libraries … for the purchase of books or to help with other needs of the libraries.” The colorful calendar features images created by local kids inspired by animals from their favorite stories. “This year we had 88 entries. It’s great. We’ve had as many as 70 entries, but this year, with 88 entries, it’s a record. It means that children are reading and wanting to participate in the project,” said Marilyn Tucker, past president of Friends of the Redwood Libraries and a current member of the board of directors. She also serves as liaison to the Humboldt County Children’s Author Festival. “I am so happy to have the calendar completed, and I think it is beautiful because of the children’s artwork,” Tucker said.  Children ages 5 to 12 are invited every year to submit artwork via email or regular mail for the calendar. A Friends of the Redwood Librairies committee selects the winning 12 images plus honorable mentions, though all entries — as well as calendar sponsors — appear within the calendar pages. “Our committee is made up of five FRL members, and they all help with planning, judging, mailing and proofreading,” Tucker said. “I love receiving pictures from the children, and parents often send emails telling how much it means to their children to do this. As a retired elementary school teacher, this means a great deal to me,” said Tucker, 90, who has been putting the calendar together from her computer for several years now. Every child who submits a calendar entry receives a gift certificate for free books and merchandise from the Serendipity Book Store, a Friends of the Redwood Libraries volunteer-run store, located upstairs in the Eureka Main Library, 1313 Third St. “I love the fact that all of the children who enter can receive free books,” Tucker said. “These books have been gently used and donated to the wonderful Serendipity Book Store.” All sponsors and the 12-month winners also receive a free calendar. The winning calendar pictures, plus 24 honorable mentions, are also framed and on display upstairs in the Hagopian Gallery upstairs in the Eureka Main Library until Jan. 2. The calendar fundraiser began back in 2011, Tucker said. “It was started with an idea from the late Roger Cinnamond, a member of  the FRL board and retired art teacher,” she said. “… Other members have been responsible for putting this calendar together, including Ray King and Madeleine Ferguson. I have been doing it for a few years.” The calendars can be purchased at the Circulation Desk in the Eureka Main Library, the Serendipity Book Store in the Eureka Main Library or by mail, postage paid. To download an order form for mailing, go to the Friends of the Redwood Libraries website at eurekafrl.org. The cost for calendars is $10. “Sponsors have been so generous that all printing and mailing costs have been covered,” Tucker said. “Therefore, all money paid for the calendars goes to the Humboldt County Libraries … for the purchase of books or to help with other needs of the libraries.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group