A ThinkTAP company Every year, Adobe researches within Creative Cloud’s global network for insights into creative trends for the coming year. They discovered these four key creative themes to be trending for 2023. Prioritizing mental health continues to be a topic of interest. It’s all about finding new ways to explore spirituality, nature and wellness, including moving beyond the physical world. Adobe stock states, “Get on a new wavelength and ride through these dimensions of mesmerizing gradients and rich visual storytelling.” This is being interpreted as adding ‘trippy’ elements and post-processing to your images. Or, set up psychedelic portrait sessions. Create a spiritual, calm vibe through eye-catching videos. Capture nature’s wonders using stunning images. Diversity is still an important focus. Also included here is recording reality. Express a goofy, behind-the-scenes moment through video or photos. Capture someone’s authentic style. Get personal with emotion-filled, close-up images.  “Whether it be a real-life furry friend or a charming anime avatar, charismatic creatures have proven themselves to be powerful tools that attract and retain consumer interest and engagement. As a result, they have become a dominating presence in brand messaging, proliferating across sectors in the form of anime, illustrations, photography and 3D renders.” “Unlike other short-lived trends, the boom in the aesthetic that references the 90s and Y2K extends far beyond fashion. From old-school flip phones to a rise in the Y2K design aesthetic, get ready for a nostalgia revival.” The film photography trend continues, along with point-and-shoot cameras, 90s references and fashion from past eras. If you are good at keeping up with trends, then you’ll know that using these in your own work can make it more relevant. It depends on your clients or audience, of course. Social media posts and promotions with any of these will be attention-grabbing for sure.  Check here for more details and examples of Adobe Stock’s 2023 creative trends. Tell your story with the second annual Visual Storytelling Conference! Experience four days of interactive, online training sessions featuring a range of educational content with experienced photographers and content creators. This free event kicks off with a series of technical boot camps to build essential skills, followed by live, online sessions on photography, video, business and social media. Join live from March 10-13, 2022! By shopping with our partners and affiliates, you help keep content on Photofocus free. Click here to learn more. Lauri Novak is an award-winning fine art photographer, mentor and author based outside of Chicago. She has an eye for photographing architecture, traveling as much as possible and just wandering in nature with her camera. You can find her galleries, mentorship programs and photo tours here:  Δ  Δ Radiant Photo – Radiant Photo superior quality finished photos with perfect color rendition, delivered in record time. Your photos — simply RADIANT. The way they are meant to be. Mylio Photos – Access your photos from anywhere, without the cloud! Easily showcase your photos on-the-go, resolve duplicates, find faces and look for those stunning locations. B&H – B&H is a world renowned supplier of all the gear photographers, videographers, and cinematographers need and want to create their very best work. MPB – Grab used but perfectly working cameras and lenses for less, or turn your old gear into cash by trading and selling them on MPB! Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest from Photofocus delivered each week. Copyright 2022, ThinkTAP. All rights reserved. Photofocus.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. Photofocus.com is also a participant in the B&H Photo and KEH Camera affiliate programs. Photo Video Software Reviews Mobile Community Inspiration Drones Business Podcasts Webinars News Guides Opinion Quick Tips Deals All stories Copyright 2022, ThinkTAP