The water levels are being monitored Never miss Somerset's latest and breaking news again by signing up to our Daily Newsletter We have more newsletters Never miss Somerset's latest and breaking news again by signing up to our Daily Newsletter We have more newsletters A leading Somerset tourist attraction has been forced to partially close due to flooding. Operators of Cheddar Gorge and Cave have been forced to close Gough’s Cave to visitors after it was submerged in water. The cave, which is believed to be 500,000 years old, first flooded on Thursday after days of heavy rain battered the region. Waters continued to rise over Friday and Saturday before they started to recede yesterday (Sunday). At the height of the flood the water in part of the cave was several feet deep. It has now dropped to around 3ft. Once the water ha subsided, the cave will have to be cleaned of any debris brought in with the floodwater. READ MORE: Appeal to identify body of woman discovered on a Somerset beach It is hoped Gough’s Cave, regarded as one of the finest in the country, will re-open again later this week. Staff at the attraction are continuing to monitor the water levels. A spokesman for Cheddar Gorge and Caves said: “Gough's Cave is flooded and remains closed. The flood waters have started to retreat, but the attraction will be closed today (Monday, January 16). “We will be reviewing the situation day by day. It is difficult to predict how long it will take the floodwater to recede." River levels across Somerset have risen over the last few days due to the heavy rain, which many fields several feet underwater on the levels and roads closed. The Blind Yeo river which tracks across The Mendips runs under Gough’s Cave. The Horse Hunters of Cheddar Gorge, lived in Gough’s Cave 14,700 years ago, at the end of the last Ice Age. Archaeological evidence suggests they may have been cannibals, killing and eating their enemies. Cheddar Man, a hunter-gatherer who lived around 10,000 years ago, is the oldest complete skeleton ever found in Britain. It’s thought that his tribe buried him in a special area of the cave to prevent his spirit passing to the land of the ancestors. READ MORE:Police crackdown on illegal bikers at Somerset beauty spot Despite the closure of Gough’s Cave, the rest of the attractions, including the Museum of Pre-History, Cox’s Cave, Lookout Tower, Cliff-Top Walk and Beyond the View, remain open. Visitors are being offered a £7 discount on the price of a day ticket to compensate visitors for the closure of Gough’s Cave. Those already with tickets will be refunded on site. Those with tickets pre booked for the coming days can also change the date of their visit. READ NEXT: Night buses to return to towns across Somerset 