Advertising  |  About us  |  My account  |  Meet the team  |  Privacy The Plant Base is the go to B2B news platform for the plant-based food and beverage industry. Refreshment is your ultimate resource for staying informed and up-to-date on the water cooler, vending, and office coffee sectors. The Cell Base provides insights for professionals to stay informed, exchange ideas and explore new cell-based opportunities. Sign up to FoodBev and unlock more insights from the international food and beverage industry. Subscribers have access to webinars, newsletters, publications and more... FoodBev Media 1 February 2023 Calbee expands its Harvest Snaps range with new flavour Calbee has introduced a cheesy addition to its Harvest Snaps range of veggie snacks: white cheddar baked green pea snacks.

The new offering provides a taste of white cheddar with farm-picked green peas. The baked snack is packed with 5g of plant protein and is a good source of fibre, as well as being free of artificial flavours and preservatives.

The pea pod-shaped snack is said to be made with 40% less fat than regular potato chips and is free from common allergies, such as gluten, wheat, soy, nuts, peanuts, and eggs.

Said Sandra Payer, head of marketing at Calbee America, said: "White cheddar is a key flavour in the US snacking market and highly demanded among shoppers of all ages. Through focus groups and data research, we're listening to consumers, and it's their wants that drive our innovations. We couldn't be more excited to bring this must-have flavour to our core Harvest Snaps lineup."

The white cheddar baked green pea snacks will be available exclusively at Target stores nationwide. FoodBev Media Ltd.
8 Kingsmead Square
Bath, BA1 2AB
United Kingdom ​ © FoodBev Media Ltd 2024 Would you like to be interviewed by FoodBev Media or share a recent innovation with us?  Click here to contact us. News About us Publications Company directory More Advertising  |  About us  |  Reports & papers   |  Webinars  |  Privacy  |  Companies