By Ed Magnus For Thisismoney.co.uk    Updated:  06:54 EDT, 13 January 2023      104 View  comments  Increasing numbers of Britons are relying on unsecured borrowing in a bid to keep themselves afloat amid rising living costs. Over 12 million people are now borrowing money for food or essential bills, and half of them are doing so for the first time in their lives, according to analysis by The Money and Pensions Service. It found that almost a quarter of Britons have relied on credit or money from family and friends to buy food in the last three months, while a similar number have done so for electricity and gas. Around half of them said they'd never had to do this before. Millions borrowing to pay for food, utility bills and rent or mortgage payments, with half of those doing so for the first time, according to The Money and Pensions Service >> Find out the best credit cards for clearing debt Almost one in five said they were relying on borrowing to meet the cost of their rent or mortgage, healthcare costs like prescriptions and dental treatment and paying off other forms of credit. Once again roughly half of the people surveyed said that they'd never had to do this in the past. This chimes with separate research by credit score app, Credit Karma, which found that two thirds of households resorted to credit cards, loans and overdrafts to cover Christmas costs this year. It said that one in five Britons were pushed into debt for the first time in the last year due to the cost of living crisis as the nation's average credit balance hit just over £900. Over the past 12 months, roughly a third of Britons said they had to change their lifestyle to make it more affordable, with roughly a third saying their earnings don't go as far as they used to. The two studies appear to ring true with what is being seen across the banking sector. Vanquis Bank, which provides credit cards for Britons with a limited or uneven credit history, says that demand for its services is surging. Fiona Anderson, managing director of cards at Vanquis says: 'At Vanquis, we have seen a significant 42 per cent increase in annual credit card enquiries from 2021 to 2022, which indicates people are borrowing to cover day-to-day living costs.' One in five Britons were pushed into debt for the first time in the last year due to the cost of living crisis, according to Credit Karma, with the nation’s average credit balance above £900 Meanwhile, Starling Bank has found that almost 15 per cent of people aged under 35 are using credit cards to help them during the cost of living crisis. Helen Bierton, chief banking officer at Starling Bank said: 'Our research found that people of all ages are affected by the cost of living crisis, but that younger adults have been hardest hit and are twice as likely to use credit than people aged over 55. Before you think about signing up for a new card to use for spending, you should make sure that your existing debts are in order.  If you've racked up a load of debt and have decided to make a fresh start on tackling it, zero per cent balance transfer cards could be the way to go. Moving your debt to an interest-free card means that you can freeze the size of your debt, rather than continually playing catch-up as interest piles up. Make sure you stick to the rules and clear your debt within the time period, otherwise you could be hit with high interest rates.  The reason credit card firms offer interest-free periods is because they manage to catch so many people out.  'The younger group is also delaying life milestones as a result, such as buying a house or starting a family.' The rising levels of borrowing coincide with higher household expenses for necessities, from groceries to heating and electricity. One in 20 Britons are now facing unaffordable repayments, according to Credit Karma, and this could be set to worsen with the cost of living still going up across the board, while interest rates on credit cards are at a 16 year high. Akansha Nath, head of partnerships at Credit Karma UK, said: 'Borrowing has become a reality for many households trying to keep up with rising prices over the past year. 'As our research shows, this has been unavoidable even for those who have made a concerted effort to cut back and reduce spending where possible. 'This can be understandably worrying and disheartening, as expenses look set to rise further in 2023. 'For those looking to borrow, or faced with large repayments, I'd advise keeping an eye for competitive rates, only spending what you can afford to pay off, and ensuring your credit score is as strong as it can be, which can ultimately reduce the interest you end up paying back.' >> Get debt-free in 2023: Five steps to pay off what you owe  The cost-of-living crisis is also shifting shopping habits and encouraging the use of buy now, pay later (BNPL) schemes. BNPL allows shoppers to spread the cost of retail purchases over a number of weeks or months, often with no additional interest. More than 4 million people used BNPL in 2024, according to the latest study by Equifax, one of the UK's big three credit reference agencies. It found that over a third of UK shoppers have now used BNPL services to spread the cost of purchases, and thousands chose to use BNPL for the first time over the 2022 festive season. The research also found that one in three Britons have now used BNPL services, up from 26 per cent in November 2021. This suggests that roughly 4.1 million people chose to use the payment method for the first time in 2022. On the rise: The research found that 34% of Britons have now used BNPL services, up from 26% in November 2021 Jayadeep Nair, chief product and marketing officer at Equifax UK, said: 'Buy now pay later has become a pervasive part of the shopping experience. 'As with any form of credit, when shoppers use it responsibly it can be a great budgeting tool to help manage extra spending over the festive period. 'As BNPL is a form of credit, it now appears within consumer credit reports, which can be viewed by lenders. This may impact lending decisions, therefore BNPL should be used with this in mind. Shoppers do need to be wary of using BNPL to overstretch themselves especially if spending is being driven by wider social pressures.' There are also indications that BNPL is increasingly being used for lower value everyday items, which could be a sign of irresponsible use. There are indications that BNPL is increasingly being used for lower-value everyday items, which could be a sign of irresponsible use One in eight BNPL users have now used it to pay for a meal or takeaway, and a similar number have used it to spread the cost of everyday items such as groceries or toiletries. The BNPL sector has invited scrutiny from the Treasury and FCA this year, but Equifax says it has not yet seen evidence of a significant increase in the average amount borrowed per individual. Nair adds: There's little in our research to suggest that BNPL does more harm than good for UK consumers, but with more than four million people using it for the first time this year, it's important that new users are aware of the risks of mismanaging their repayments.' 'Almost half of users report missing at least one payment in the past, and half of this population report being hit with extra fees as a result. 'Consumers will find missed BNPL payments appearing in their credit reports next year, so it's vital that anyone using it sees it as the credit product that it is.' Some links in this article may be affiliate links. If you click on them we may earn a small commission. That helps us fund This Is Money, and keep it free to use. We do not write articles to promote products. We do not allow any commercial relationship to affect our editorial independence. MORE HEADLINES Find out what monthly payments would be on a loan and the total cost over its lifetime, where interest is charged monthly. Visit our special Cards and loans section Warning: This calculator does not factor in the time it would take to repay a credit card debt where the minimum payment is calculated as a percentage. This calculator will show you just how long it's going to take you to clear your credit card balance if you don't wake up, face reality, stop paying the bare minimum and start clearing this punitive form of debt. Average rates are around 26.2% - many much higher. Best for spending, holidays, rewards or clearing your debts This is Money is part of the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday & Metro media group