Erika Rasure is globally-recognized as a leading consumer economics subject matter expert, researcher, and educator. She is a financial therapist and transformational coach, with a special interest in helping women learn how to invest. Morsa Images / Getty Images  If you’re checking your credit score or credit report, Credit Karma and Experian are two names you’ll likely come across.
  Experian is one of the three major credit reporting bureaus, along with Equifax and TransUnion. Credit Karma is a an online service that provides credit scores and reports to its members, along with financial articles and advice. Credit Karma provides information for free if you sign up for its membership.
  Credit Karma is not a credit bureau, it is an online financial platform that makes credit bureaus’ information available to consumers. Members can check and monitor their credit scores and credit reports for free. The site also offers various financial and educational tools to help you improve your credit rating. Founded in 2007 by CEO Kenneth Lin, the company was privately held until late February 2020 when Intuit announced it was buying the company for $7.1 billion.
  Credit Karma is a fully online platform, so everything happens at CreditKarma.com. That’s where you’ll register as a member to gain access to your credit scores and reports, which you can print or save as PDFs. Members can also register bank and credit card accounts to get a full financial picture. And you can access your account online or via a mobile app for iPhone or Android.
  Credit Karma offers Vantage 3.0 scores from TransUnion and Equifax. Vantage is a collaboration of the three major credit bureaus, including Experian. Scores are updated once a week, plus members can sign up for credit monitoring alerts, so they’ll be notified whenever their score changes.
  Outside of Credit Karma, many of the best credit monitoring services also provide these types of alerts, in addition to identity monitoring and/or protection tools.
 Credit Karma offers full credit reports from TransUnion and Equifax, updated weekly. You cannot get your FICO scores via Credit Karma.  Experian provides the FICO Score 8. It is one of the three major credit reporting bureaus in the U.S. along with TransUnion and Equifax. A global company, Experian is headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, and listed on the London Stock Exchange (EXPN).
  Experian has 27,000 employees, and operates in 30 countries. It has four main business lines: credit services, marketing services, decision analytics, and consumer services. Experian offers consumers options for free credit reports through its website and options for free credit scores.
 Experian owns the for-profit FreeCreditReport.com (not to be confused with AnnualCreditReport.com, the Federal Trade Commission-authorized website for free credit reports).  For credit questions, the Experian credit hotline leads to a real person who can answer questions about your credit, and offer you a step-by-step walkthrough of your credit report. Like Credit Karma, the site provides financial advice articles and videos.
  Credit Karma provides information for free, including free credit scores, free credit reports, and free credit monitoring and alerts. You won't be asked to register a credit card, as you do for most “free trials.”
  Credit Karma recommends credit cards that will save you money and for which you’re likely to be approved. Its website is oriented not just to giving you access to your credit ratings but to improving them.
  It has various financial calculators and lists of credit factors that go into your credit score—with a personalized grade for each and suggestions for how various actions will affect those factors. In addition, you can file your federal taxes and certain state returns for free via Credit Karma.
  Experian provides a list of various free options and packages for purchase, such as the 3-Bureau Credit report and FICO score for $39.99. This includes scores from Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion, plus what credit factors raise or lower your scores.
 Experian provides a one-time pull of your reports; although the information won't be updated after your first access, the initial reports remain available for you to refer to for 180 days.   Other options include Experian CreditWorks Basic and Experian CreditWorks Premium. Experian CreditWorks Basic offers the following for free:
  You can upgrade to Experian CreditWorks Premium for $24.99 a month after a free seven-day trial. The upgrade includes these additional features:
  Similarly, Experian's IdentityWorks Plus or Experian IdentityWorks Premium plans offer joint credit and identity theft monitoring services for those who want more comprehensive security coverage. The Plus plan is $9.99 per month after a free 30-day trial, and the Premium plan is $19.99 per month after the free 30-day trial.
  Lastly, Experian offers a service called Experian Boost, which allows consumers to add positive payment history for telecom and utility payments to their Experian credit reports to instantly boost their credit scores.
  If you're looking for an additional way to boost your credit score, consider working with one of the best credit repair companies currently on the market.
 Credit Karma is service that provides your credit score for free. You can use Credit Karma to check your credit score online as part of monitoring your credit. A credit score above 700 is considered a "good" credit score. A credit score of 740 is considered "very good" and will likely get you better rates than a "good" credit score. Credit scores over 800 are considered "exceptional." Credit scores from the three main bureaus (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) are considered accurate. The accuracy of the scores depends on the accuracy of the information provided to them by lenders and creditors. You can check your credit report to ensure the information is accurate.  You can use both Credit Karma or Experian to track your credit score for free. If you want to improve your credit score, you can take steps like paying your bills on time, making more than the minimum credit, and avoid opening new lines of credit. For a detailed credit report, visit AnnualCreditReport.com. You are entitled to one free credit report per year.
 Intuit. "Intuit to Acquire Credit Karma." Credit Karma. "About." Android. "Credit Karma - Free Credit Scores & Reports." Apple. "Credit Karma." Credit Karma. "VantageScore vs. FICO: What’s the difference?" London Stock Exchange. "EXPN EXPERIAN PLC ORD USD0.10" Experian. "About Experian." Credit Karma. "Tax." Experian. "3-Bureau Credit Report and FICO® Scores*." Experian. "Experian CreditLock." Experian. "Choose the Right Plan for You." Experian. "Who Are You Protecting?" Experian. "What Is a Good Credit Score?"