The American Hospital Association Certification Center (AHA-CC) designs and administers certification programs to recognize mastery of well-defined bodies of knowledge within health care management disciplines. Navigate to your certification below to learn more about the renewal process or visit the certification portal to ensure you’re on track for your renewal. Not sure where to start? Access a step-by-step guide if you're recertifying with continuing education credits. Both clinical and non-clinical staff greatly impact the safety and quality of care patients receive. Earning a certification from the American Hospital Association demonstrates to patients, health care organizations, and the public, that the health care professional has met national performance standards specific to their role. Risk management covers multiple areas of expertise, that’s why risk professionals have their own specific certification. This certification covers finance, patient safety, health care operations and claims and litigation. Professionals who earn the CPHRM credential have demonstrated their expertise in minimizing risk in a health care setting through proven knowledge of clinical and patient safety programs, risk financing, and compliance with federal regulations. Non-clinical staff play a big part in ensuring the safety and quality of care patients receive while in a health care facility. Competent environmental services and infection prevention professionals help ensure facilities are clean, comfortable and free of pathogens. These professionals have demonstrated advanced knowledge of maintaining the environment of care. They possess knowledge of the physical environment including design, construction, sanitation, waste and textile management. Health care facilities are specialized and complex structures. Dedicated health care engineers, designers and architects are tasked with ensuring life-saving systems work smoothly and efficiently. These professionals have a detailed understanding of completing construction and renovation projects in a nuanced health care setting. The complex field of health care supply chain is charged with ensuring vital medication and medical devices reach the right place as efficiently as possible. These professionals carry the mark of supply chain excellence with proven knowledge of effectively managing the quality and affordability of patient care. Non-clinical staff still play a big part in ensuring the safety and quality of care patients receive while in a health care facility. Competent facility managers and infection prevention professionals help ensure facilities are up to code and free of pathogens. These professionals have proven expertise in optimizing the health care physical environment to keep patients safe and building operations running efficiently. These health care mechanics document their skills and gain professional recognition for their valuable work in the health care environment. The vendor the American Hospital Certification Center uses for its testing now offers a live-remote proctoring option. Learn more about this option and find out if your computer system is compatible. If you qualify for VA benefits, you can get the cost of the certification exam covered! After you register and pay for the exam of your choice, fill out an Application for Reimbursement of Licensing or Certification Test Fees (VA Form 22-0803). Send the completed application and proof of payment to your Regional Processing Office. If you need help, visit the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or call toll-free at 1-888-422-4551. The American Hospital Association Professional Membership Groups offer several micro-credentialing programs and certification programs (not administered by the AHA-CC). There certifications are administered by the American Hospital Association Certification Center for nursing leaders. * The AHA-CC provides contracted services to the American Organization for Nursing Leadership (AONL) in support of its Certified in Executive Nursing Practice (CENP) and Certified Nurse Manager and Leader (CNML) programs. Noncommercial use of original content on www.aha.org is granted to AHA Institutional Members, their employees and State, Regional and Metro Hospital Associations unless otherwise indicated. AHA does not claim ownership of any content, including content incorporated by permission into AHA produced materials, created by any third party and cannot grant permission to use, distribute or otherwise reproduce such third party content. Request permission to reproduce AHA content.