This card offers a straightforward way to grow your credit score -- but comes with a low credit line and potential annual fee. Dori Zinn Contributing Writer Dori Zinn loves helping people learn and understand money. She's been covering personal finance for a decade and her writing has appeared in Wirecutter, Credit Karma, Huffington Post and more. Courtney Johnston Senior Editor Courtney Johnston is a senior editor leading the CNET Money team. Passionate about financial literacy and inclusion, she has a decade of experience as a freelance journalist covering policy, financial news, real estate and investing. A New Jersey native, she graduated with an M.A. in English Literature and Professional Writing from the University of Indianapolis, where she also worked as a graduate writing instructor. Dori Zinn Contributing Writer Dori Zinn loves helping people learn and understand money. She's been covering personal finance for a decade and her writing has appeared in Wirecutter, Credit Karma, Huffington Post and more. Courtney Johnston Senior Editor Courtney Johnston is a senior editor leading the CNET Money team. Passionate about financial literacy and inclusion, she has a decade of experience as a freelance journalist covering policy, financial news, real estate and investing. A New Jersey native, she graduated with an M.A. in English Literature and Professional Writing from the University of Indianapolis, where she also worked as a graduate writing instructor. 
    The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners.

   Dori Zinn Contributing Writer Dori Zinn loves helping people learn and understand money. She's been covering personal finance for a decade and her writing has appeared in Wirecutter, Credit Karma, Huffington Post and more. Courtney Johnston Senior Editor Courtney Johnston is a senior editor leading the CNET Money team. Passionate about financial literacy and inclusion, she has a decade of experience as a freelance journalist covering policy, financial news, real estate and investing. A New Jersey native, she graduated with an M.A. in English Literature and Professional Writing from the University of Indianapolis, where she also worked as a graduate writing instructor. 
    The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners.

    We rate credit cards using our credit-building methodology for cards designed to help grow your credit score. Student credit cards, secured credit cards and credit cards with low or no credit requirements fall into this category. We rank them based on how easy they are to qualify for, credit-building features and how much they cost. Credit card issuers have no say or influence in our ratings. How we rate credit cards   CNET rates credit cards by comparing their offers to those of their categorical competitors. Each card is individually evaluated through a formula which reflects the standards and expectations of the contemporary market. Credit card issuers have no say or influence in our ratings. How we rate credit cards  We rate credit cards using our credit-building methodology for cards designed to help grow your credit score. Student credit cards, secured credit cards and credit cards with low or no credit requirements fall into this category. We rank them based on how easy they are to qualify for, credit-building features and how much they cost. Credit card issuers have no say or influence in our ratings. How we rate credit cards   We rate credit cards using our credit-building methodology for cards designed to help grow your credit score. Student credit cards, secured credit cards and credit cards with low or no credit requirements fall into this category. We rank them based on how easy they are to qualify for, credit-building features and how much they cost. Credit card issuers have no say or influence in our ratings. How we rate credit cards  If you’re just starting your credit journey, you probably don’t have many credit card options. But there are some credit cards designed specifically for beginners -- and the Indigo® Mastercard®* is one of them. The Indigo Mastercard can be a helpful first credit card if you want to grow your credit score. It’s also worth considering if you’re rebuilding your score and want a credit card without a security deposit. Here’s what to know about the Indigo Mastercard, how it works and other alternative cards to explore.  The Indigo Mastercard has few perks because its focus is more about building credit and less about earning rewards. You won’t earn rewards with this card, but it also isn’t secured, which means it doesn’t require a security deposit like other credit-building secured credit cards. You can also see if you’re eligible through prequalification -- this lets you know if you’re eligible for the card but doesn’t cause a hard credit check on your credit score. It’s definitely a perk if you’re shopping around for a card and don’t want to risk completing an application, getting denied and dinging your credit. This card also reports to the three major credit bureaus -- Equifax, Experian and Transunion. For newbie credit users, this is important because that’s the only way to show how responsible you are with credit. Since this card focuses more on credit-building and not necessarily perks are rewards, there are some limitations with the Indigo Mastercard, including: Your annual fee depends on your credit score, and you won’t know your annual fee until after you complete an application. To compare, the Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express charges a $0 intro annual fee the first year, then $95 thereafter, but you earn a slew of rewards, like 6% cash back at U.S. supermarkets (up to $6,000 per year, then 1%) and on select U.S. streaming subscriptions. You don’t get any rewards from the Indigo Mastercard.  Many non-travel cards have a standard 3% foreign transaction fee, so we do like that the Indigo Mastercard’s fee is lower. This may be helpful if you’re traveling outside the country and need to use this card. Terms apply to American Express benefits and offers. Enrollment may be required for select American Express benefits and offers. Visit americanexpress.com to learn more. This Capital One card is a secured card, but you get some bonus options even for low-entry deposits. For instance, you could make an initial deposit of $49 but still get the $200 credit line. You can increase your credit limit when you increase your deposit. After six months of proving credit responsibility, you may be able to convert to an unsecured line, and your deposit gets refunded.  Read our full review of the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card. Like the Indigo Mastercard, you can see if you prequalify for this card without completing a full application. It’s still a secured card, which means your credit limit is based on your security deposit. After seven months, Discover will begin automatic monthly account reviews to see if you qualify to upgrade to an unsecured card get your deposit back. It’s one of the few secured cards that offer rewards: 2% cash back at restaurants and gas stations (up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter) plus 1% cash back on all other purchases. Read our full review of the Discover it Secured Credit Card*. The best credit card to repair your credit will depend on your credit score, history and financial situation. While secured cards can help you boost your credit with responsible use, they do require an upfront security deposit to serve as your credit line. A no-annual-fee card can also be helpful when rebuilding your credit, so you don’t have to worry about maximizing rewards to offset this fee. If you are at least 18, have a valid Social Security number, and can complete an income and debt review, you might be eligible for an Indigo Mastercard. Remember that you can check your chances of approval first through prequalification, which doesn’t trigger a hard credit inquiry on your report. So even if you aren’t sure if you’d get approved, prequalifying will let you know if you’re a good candidate to complete a full application. A secured card isn’t required to start building up credit, but it can be easier to get approved for than other cards. If you can find an issuer willing to take a chance on you -- say, with a lower credit limit than other borrowers -- then you may not need a secured card to start (or restart) your credit journey. But for some credit card users, a secured card might be the only option available. *All information about the Indigo Mastercard, Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card, and the Discover it Secured Credit Card has been collected independently by CNET and has not been reviewed by the issuer.  The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners. CNET editors independently choose every product and service we cover. Though we can’t review every available financial company or offer, we strive to make comprehensive, rigorous comparisons in order to highlight the best of them. For many of these products and services, we earn a commission. The compensation we receive may impact how products and links appear on our site.