Consolidate multiple high-interest debt accounts into one loan with a single monthly payment Investopedia / Michela Buttignol  A debt consolidation loan is a type of personal loan that can be used to pay off multiple debts, often at a lower interest rate. It can simplify your finances, save you money, and help you become debt-free more quickly. When you’re in the market for a debt consolidation loan, make sure to shop around and find the best loan and interest rate for your situation.
  A debt consolidation loan can help to ease the financial burden of debt. It’s a fairly straightforward process and, depending on your lender, could be completed in just a couple of days. Here’s a step-by-step guide to help you get a debt consolidation loan:
 Applying for a debt consolidation loan is likely to have a temporary negative impact on your credit. However, if you’re applying for multiple loans in a short amount of time to rate-shop, such as 30 days, they should appear as just one hard inquiry in your credit, which limits the impact.  A debt consolidation loan may be a good idea if your debt has become overwhelming, and you’re having a difficult time making progress on it. You may have multiple monthly debt payments and cannot keep up with your payments and due dates.
  Debt consolidation is also well-suited to borrowers with high-interest debt like credit card debt. According to the Federal Reserve, the average credit card interest rate in May 2023 was 20.68%. Meanwhile, the average rate on a 24-month personal loan was 11.48% for the same year. Additionally, because credit cards have compounding interest while debt consolidation loans have simple interest, your interest will accrue much more slowly on a loan.
  However, debt consolidation isn’t right for everyone. If you don't have the best credit and won’t qualify for a competitive interest rate, debt consolidation may not save you much—if any—money. Additionally, debt consolidation may not be appropriate for secured loans, which are backed by an asset.
  If you aren’t sure whether debt consolidation is right for you, run the numbers. Online calculators can help you compare your monthly payments and total interest costs before debt consolidation versus after to see whether it will be cost-effective.
  When you apply for a debt consolidation loan, most lenders will require the following:
  When you’re considering applying for a personal loan, it’s important to shop around and find one that best fits your needs. There are several factors you should consider when comparing loan offers from multiple lenders:
 Look beyond the interest rate when comparing loan offers. Make sure to also look at the annual percentage rate (APR), which is the total loan cost, including both interest and fees.  If you aren’t sure a debt consolidation loan is right for you, consider one of these alternatives to reducing your debt:
 In most cases, it’s not difficult to get a debt consolidation loan. Some lenders offer loans to borrowers with fair credit—or even poor credit—so most people could qualify. However, if you have a very low credit score or a history of late or missed payments, you may struggle to qualify. The credit score you’ll need to get a debt consolidation loan depends on your lender. Some lenders require good or excellent credit, while others lend to borrowers with much lower credit scores. However, you’ll only have access to the best interest rates with good or excellent credit.  Debt consolidation may hurt your credit in the short term since it results in a new hard inquiry and adds a new debt account to your credit report. However, the long-term impact is likely to be positive as long as you make your loan payments on time and don’t rack up additional credit card debt. Many traditional banks offer personal loans that you can use for debt consolidation. If you already have accounts at a bank, you can start there when you’re shopping around. You can also get a debt consolidation loan from a credit union or online lender. You can be denied a debt consolidation loan if you don’t meet the lender’s criteria. You may be denied if you have a poor credit score, too many negative marks on your credit report, or not enough income. You may also be denied if you have a debt-to-income ratio that’s too high. Many lenders allow you to pre-qualify for a loan so you can see whether you are likely to be approved without a hard inquiry. MyFICO. “Credit Check. What Are Credit Inquiries and How Do They Affect Your Credit Score?” Federal Reserve Board. “Consumer Credit.” Pentagon Federal Credit Union. “How to Read a Personal Loan Agreement and Its Fees.” Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “How to Reduce Your Debt.” Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “What Is a Home Equity Loan?” Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “What Is a Debt Relief Program and How Do I Know If I Should Use One?”