 By James Hercher Shopify Audiences, the ecommerce platform’s ad tech integration product, doubled its partner roster on Monday and announced new ad targeting and analytics features. Shopify Audiences debuted last year with only Google and Meta. In January, Pinterest was added to the mix. Now TikTok, Snap and, notably, Criteo will be able to plug into Shopify for modeled data. The introduction of Criteo to Shopify Audiences may not make waves, but it’s a potential big win for programmatic companies, if more independent ad tech partners follow suit. “The open web is a huge untapped opportunity for Shopify merchants that’s often overlooked,” Shopify VP of product David Wurtz told AdExchanger. 



 



 The Shopportunity Google and Meta were obvious starting points, with Pinterest, TikTok and Snapchat as similarly obvious next steps. But there was no guarantee that Shopify would add a true programmatic partner to the Audiences product. Shopify Audiences doesn’t take in or provide user-level data. It’s a data modeling hub that provides custom audiences that may be in market for a certain product based on Shopify’s view across its merchant base. Which means that Shopify Audiences has less privacy exposure than other payment-based advertising products. The Walmart DSP on The Trade Desk, for instance, does true closed-loop attribution. Shopify doesn’t do that, but Criteo’s addition shows that Shopify is comfortable adding third-party programmatic. The “Why?” For Shopify Get our editors’ roundup delivered to your inbox every weekday. Shopify Audiences is part of the Shopify Plus package, a higher subscription tier for its ecommerce software. Shopify doesn’t earn part of the CPM and doesn’t get a share of sales or a high CPM tied to those sales, like retail media networks would. The means Shopify Audiences isn’t necessarily a major revenue driver. Instead, it recoups value when Shopify adds merchants to the Plus tier. And greater merchant sales overall help, since Shopify gets a payment processing fee. If Shopify wanted to crank up its Audience revenue, it could simply enter the media category and attach its data to the CPM. Meta would pay a lot to recreate its sales attribution network for ecommerce sellers – and Shopify is the only way to get there. “There’s potentially an opportunity to monetize this directly, but we aren’t,” Wurtz said. For Shopify, the value instead comes from getting more merchants over the hump to commercial viability, Wurtz said. “A lot of the inventory on the open web is underappreciated and underpriced,” he said. With the addition of Criteo, Shopify can drive “a lot of volume” of ads to the web and improve customer acquisition costs for its merchants, just like the big social platforms have for particular brands or categories. Shopify is also improving Audiences, he added. Along with the three new partners, Audiences just released Benchmarks, a new insights dashboard that gives advertisers directional information about where they’re spending more or less than similar brands. As more merchants sign up, he said, the value of the data cooperative increases. And Shopify is getting better at targeting and delivering analytics back to the platforms. Criteo’s Coup While Shopify Audiences doesn’t enable closed-loop attribution for Criteo or any partners, it does have huge second-order benefits for the partner. Meta, for instance, must love Shopify because Audiences enables modeled attribution – which is pretty sound when both companies have such strong first-party data sets – and doesn’t take a cut of the media or performance. Meta, on the other hand, does earn a cut of those sales it’s driving and is charging more for the improved targeting. Criteo, likewise, has a huge growth opportunity with no Shopify rev share. Aside from access to Shopify custom audiences, Criteo “can then show the power of our platform, which allows a Shopify merchant to think about things like onboarding their first-party data to our platform for retention or retargeting campaigns,” said Rory Mitchell, the company’s GM of global growth. It’s a “natural progression,” he added, from the modeled approach to Criteo’s shopper graph products, which do use onboarded first-party data. Shopify, he said, is focused on the value-add for Plus customers. “And we know how to get performance for these customers in a way that is really scalable across the open internet.” History can be a burden for a brand, if it means that company is too set in its ways to pivot and try new things. Just consider e.l.f. Cosmetics, the digitial-first, social-native brand that made good.  Digital-native brands need to figure out how to win in retail shelves. They’re finding it difficult, to say the least.  A group of 20 web app developers sent a letter to the CMA claiming the regulator’s proposed remedies for increasing competition among mobile browsers do not address barriers to entry for mobile web extensions on iOS and Android. “There are billions of additional screens outside of mobile phones,” says Dan Page, TikTok’s global head of partnerships and new screens. “We want to be in all of them.” The Trade Desk delivered another smash earnings report. Meanwhile, Unified ID 2.0, the open-source identity initiative, has “reached a critical mass of adoption,” CEO Jeff Green told investors. Many of Publicis’ fastest-growing and most strategic business units – including CitrusAd, Profitero, Epsilon and Conversant – earn a large chunk of their revenue from other agencies. Is that a problem? Sensodyne wanted to do more than just get a sense of whether people were paying attention to its TV ads – it also wanted to optimize for attention. Social commerce is already huge in the Asia-Pacific market, and it’s poised to blow up worldwide. Here’s how the success of TikTok Shop forecasts the future development trends of ecommerce and social commerce in the US. Until last year, video was a largely untapped revenue opportunity for Advance Local, a media group that operates local news sites. And then 2023 happened. Meta is working on AI-powered optimization updates to its ads system so advertisers can customize business objectives, measure incrementality and have direct integrations with third-party analytics tools. Instead of erasing the idea of brand safety, we should be developing smarter, more nuanced solutions that protect both news publishers and advertisers. Join the AdExchanger Community AdExchanger is where marketers, agencies, publishers and tech companies go for the latest information on the trends that are transforming digital media and marketing, from data, privacy, identity and AI to commerce, CTV, measurement and mobile. Programmatic I/O New York September 24-25, 2024Marriott MarquisNew York, NY Learn More © 2024 Access Intelligence, LLC - All Rights Reserved