A massive snapping turtle nicknamed "Chonkasaurus" spotted by a Windy City resident sunbathing in the Chicago River is gaining internet popularity. "Great to see this beast thriving here on what was once such a toxic river, but is slowly getting cleaned up & restored," Joey Santore, who shared video of Chonkasaurus on Twitter, wrote in the post. "Somebody planted a bunch of native plants up the river from here, too. I can only wonder this thing's been eating." In his Wednesday post, Santore included hilarious commentary about the surprise sighting as he kayaked along the river and chatted with another person about the giant reptile. "That's a massive turtle...look at that beast," Santore is heard saying in the post as the turtle rests on rocks. "Hey how ya doing guy? You look good, your healthy. "You ever heard of liquid salad? That's a scene if there ever was one." Interactive mapTop 5 most common invasive animal and insect in every US state According to Friends of the Chicago River, people should avoid getting close to the common snapping turtle, which spends much of its time on the bottom of bodies of water. "They are primarily nocturnal, but will feed underwater during the day ambushing their prey, the organization posted on its website. "Snapping turtles are ill-tempered and capable of producing a very serious bite." Deer farming and piebaldsDeer farmer grows rare piebalds on his Pennsylvania property They live 30 to 40 years and eat anything from insects to small mammals. A common snapping turtle can weigh 20 to 75 pounds, the organization said. According to the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, snapping turtles are quite aggressive out of water and may attempt to bite, but are calmer in water. Mosquito magnets rejoice: New study says changing your soap could help scare off bites Now's your chance to name 3 baby eagles that hatched in Northern Virginia in March Yes, there's a $29 hot dog in NYC. The most shocking part? It might be worth it. Critically endangered orangutan born at California zoo: 'Every birth is a monumental success' Indiana sheriff's deputy dies after protecting her son from dog attack, officials say Natalie Neysa Alund covers breaking and trending news for USA TODAY. Reach her at nalund@usatoday.com and follow her on Twitter @nataliealund.