A NSW Police cadaver dog has been utilised in the search for missing Belgian backpacker, Celine Cremer, after new information identified an “additional area of interest”. At the time, the 31-year-old was believed to have been driving towards Tasmania’s West Coast, with authorities locating her car at the Philosopher Falls Track car park on June 27. Police believe her car, a white Honda CRV with the the registration number E40TF, had been parked there since June 17. Her last reported contact with friends and family was on June 12. Inspector Anthea Maingay said new information in relation to Ms Cremer’s mobile phone activity identified “an additional area of interest” within in hiking track, with searches scheduled over the weekend. “Considerable search efforts were undertaken in difficult terrain and treacherous weather conditions before the search was formally suspended on 10 July,” she said. “The search involved a broad range of police and SES resources, including ground crews, police drones and helicopters, specialist search and rescue rappelling, and ATVs. “Our thoughts remain with Celine’s family.” As it stands, no signs of Ms Cremer have been located, with recovery efforts hampered by strong winds and rain. On July 10, Commander Stuart Wilkinson said it was most likely Ms Cremer had died due to the challenging weather conditions she would have been exposed to. “Expert medical advice has been received that given consideration to poor weather conditions and cool temperatures, Celine could not have survived the conditions she has been exposed to since she was reported missing,” he said. He added that police had been in “constant contact,” with the woman’s family, and extended his condolences to Ms Cremer’s loved ones. “It’s obviously a distressing situation, and they’re understandably devastated,” he said. “As we suspend the formal search, I extend our thoughts to Celine’s family and loved ones at this difficult time”. Originally published as NSW Police cadaver dogs involved in search for Belgian backpacker Celine Cremer