Una sa tanan, kining pangutana gikan sa internet: “What are the five most crucial rights of the elderly? The principles include the right for Independence, Participation, Care, Self-fulfillment and Dignity.” Atong katungod ang pagka-Gawasnon; Pagsalmot sa mga social activities, kay kaylagi, part and partial pa man gihapon kita (despite sa atong retirement) sa Pilipinhong katilingban. We cannot be strangers in our own country; Pag-amoma. Ang Article X V, Section 4 sa Constitution, nagkanayon: “It is the duty of the family to take care of its elderly members, while the State may design programs of social security for them (the seniors); Kaugalingong kalampusan ug Kaligdong. Ato kining basic ug bug-at nga mga katungod, nga dili unta mapataligam-an sa kagamhanan ug sa katilingban mismo. Dugang niini, worldwide, giingon nga ang “Older persons should have access to adequate food, water, shelter, clothing and health care through the provision of income, family and community support and self-help. Older persons should have the opportunity to work or to have access to other income-generating opportunities.” Senior Citizens Center (sa America ni, kay wa man kitay ato dinhi). Matud pa, ang “Senior centers are local, trusted community gathering spaces, providing access to information and opportunities for healthy aging and support in a highly social setting. Whether it is a place to share a meal, take a fitness class, learn a skill, exercise creativity, enroll in benefits, or simply to hang out with friends, senior centers are a second home to many older adults.”  Functional kaayo ng ilang mga senior citizens centers sa America ug lagmit sa ubang kanasuran nga makatagbaw kaayo ang ilang pagpakabana sa mga senior citizens. “Food is a key way for senior centers to reach older adults. Events, and especially those with great food, draw people in. Successful events have included lunches with themes and high-quality food, farm to table dinners, bringing in professional chefs, bingo with sponsors and higher value prizes, food trucks, and meals accompanied by professional entertainment. Give people an irresistible reason to come to the center.” Daku kaayo og role ang mga senior centers didto. Naghimo sila’g mga kalihokan nga makadani sa mga seniors pag-adto o pagduaw sa ilang center, sama sa pag-sponsor og mahalon ug lamian nga pagkaon. Dugang niini, “As we approach two and a half years of living in a pandemic, senior centers should celebrate all that has been accomplished. The world will never quite be the same, th lang at is certain. Some programs will not come back. And, neither will some people.” Naghisgot man tag senior center, sa kaulohan adunay mga senior centers didto, pet project sa SM Foundation, brainchild ni Teresita Sy Coson, anak sa founder sa SM Group of Companies. Ang ato lang hisgutan dinhi, for lack of space mao ang senior citizen center sa Makati, ilang ginganlan og Senior Hub. Unsa may tua didto? Healthy food, massage center, beauty and grooming saloon, arts center, music school, mini theater, ubp. nga gi-house sa unom ka andana nga building. Ato ning himuon dinhi. I think naghuwat lang ang SM Foundation nga ato silang sangpiton. Philstar.com is one of the most vibrant, opinionated, discerning communities of readers on cyberspace. With your meaningful insights, help shape the stories that can shape the country. Sign up now! Signup for the News Round now