Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved. thesouthafrican.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited Home » HIGH bandwidth: SA internet providers RANKED Here’s how SA internet providers ranked in a recent review. The top and worst on the list WILL surprise you.  The Daily Investor reports which SA internet providers ranked top in a recent survey. Quoting findings from the Internet Service Providers Association (ISPA), a new review found that Telkom’s Openserve was the BEST Fibre Network Operator (FNO) used by the country’s Internet Service Providers (ISPs). ISPs work closely with the country’s FNOs to serve their clients and, because of that, they’re in-the-know when it comes to ranking SA’s service providers. Therefore, according to an ISPA survey conducted in August 2023, it asked ISPs to rank SA’s FNOs in all categories. TRENDING: RTMC gives SA motorists a hand with license renewals By way of analysis, the ISPA says it’s proven that larger FNOs have an advantage over their smaller counterparts in servicing clients. It is for this reason that you should rather opt for a large ISP and FNO, as they have a higher quality network, client management service and technical expertise, and all-around business processes. ALSO READ: These 5 CITIES are proving highly popular for SA EXPATS Which ISP do you use? And are you happy with the coverage and level of service? Be sure to share your thoughts with our audience in the comments section below. CLICK HERE TO READ MORE ARTICLES FROM RAY LEATHERN Is jy Afrikaans? Kliek hier vir nuus in jou taal! The Daily Lotto is a lottery game that guarantees a jackpot every day. Are you South Africa’s next big winner? Good luck! Orlando Pirates legend Benedict Tso Vilakazi has warned that the Buccaneers’ CAF CL journey might end at Friday. Friends and family of Reeva Steenkamp are remembering her on another birthday since her murder by boyfriend Oscar Pistorius in 2013. Missed an episode of Skeem Saam? No problem! Watch the latest episode of your favourite South African soapie here! Betway Premiership side Kaizer Chiefs are not resting. Amakhosi have reportedly sent an offer to buy a striker target for this season. Marshall Dlamini, the EFF secretary-general, will be the party’s chief whip in the National Assembly, replacing Floyd Shivambu.  
          TheSouthAfrican.com is all about South Africa and the stories that affect South Africans, wherever they are in the world.
         
          We're independent.
          
          No agenda.
          
          No bias.
         
          Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will be accepted without an appointment.
         
South Africa – Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd - Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park, 2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
         Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.