Explore the dynamic world of Customer Experience (CX) at CMSWire. Stay updated with the latest news, expert advice and in-depth analysis on customer-first marketing, commerce and digital experience design.  Studio allows non-technical users to harness the power of AI to create engaging customer experiences at scale while improving internal efficiency and reducing time-to-market SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--#Cloud--Cloudinary, the image and video platform that powers many of the world’s top brands, today announced a key enhancement to its enterprise DAM, Cloudinary Assets, with the addition of Studio, a powerful new feature that allows users to quickly adapt images and video with ease and at scale. Powered by AI, Studio users will benefit from more efficient media management workflows, improved collaboration, and faster time to market. With access to built-in generative AI capabilities, users can quickly remove backgrounds, add drop shadows or otherwise manipulate images and videos to suit their needs. Cloudinary is launching Studio at the Henry Stewart DAM conference this week in New York City.  Cloudinary’s enterprise DAM uses intelligent automation to supercharge the creation of image and video variations, and eliminate critical but tedious and time-consuming work. Cloudinary Assets users save countless hours with the ability to define one or multiple transformations that the platform can use to instantly optimize images and videos for all channels, devices, and platforms and automatically generate variations when uploaded or on demand.  “AI has been at the heart of our image and video solutions for more than a decade – and this legacy of innovation powers our intelligent, modern DAM platform, enabling us to help many of the world’s most successful brands deliver great customer experiences while improving internal efficiency and profitability,” said Rob Daynes, managing director for DAM at Cloudinary. “We’re thrilled to introduce Studio’s cutting-edge automation and generative AI capabilities to help teams adapt their assets at scale with ease so they can bring campaigns to life faster and continue delivering the experiences their customers love.”  Studio brings additional workflow efficiencies to a modern DAM platform that includes:  These powerful capabilities deliver impressive benefits for many of the world’s most dynamic brands. For example, the world’s largest collector car auction company, Mecum Auctions, relies on Cloudinary to automatically retrieve and optimize more than two million assets published across mobile, tablet, and desktop – automations that have saved the auction house more than 2,000 working hours, equal to a full year of work for one employee.  According to Mecum Auctions’ IT Director Cade Cannon: “We're a big company in terms of our footprint, but we don't have armies of resources. Being smart and being agile with our resources is to our advantage, and knowing that we are now able to align our resources with things that are adding value to the company or adding value to our customers – that's our sweet spot, and Cloudinary allows us to do that.”  Visit Cloudinary’s website to discover how its intelligent, modern DAM platform helps enterprises streamline visual content operations and accelerate their go-to-market execution. Attendees of this week’s Henry Stewart DAM conference in New York City can see also a demo of Studio and Cloudinary Assets at Cloudinary booth 28, and learn more about the most important digital asset management trends and features during its two live sessions:  About Cloudinary  Cloudinary is the image and video technology platform that enables the world’s most engaging brands to deliver transformative visual experiences at global scale. More than 1.5 million users and 10,000 customers, including Apartment Therapy, Bleacher Report, Bombas, Grubhub, NBC, Mediavine, Minted, Paul Smith and Peloton, rely on Cloudinary to bring their campaigns, apps and sites to life. With the world’s most powerful image and video APIs backed by industry-leading artificial intelligence and patented technology, Cloudinary offers a single source of truth for brands to manage, transform, optimize, and deliver visual experiences at scale. As a result, the most engaging brands across all industries are seeing up to a 203% ROI using Cloudinary with benefits including faster time to market, higher user satisfaction and increased engagement and conversions. For more information, visit www.cloudinary.com.  Juli Greenwood Head of Global Communications and Customer Marketing [email protected]   For over two decades CMSWire, produced by Simpler Media Group, has been the world's leading community of digital customer experience professionals. Today the CMSWire community consists of over 5 million influential customer experience, customer service and digital experience leaders, the majority of whom are based in North America and employed by medium to large organizations.  Our sister community, Reworked, gathers the world's leading employee experience and digital workplace professionals. And our newest community, VKTR, is home for AI practitioners and forward thinking leaders focused on the business of enterprise AI. Not yet a CMSWire member? We serve over 5 million of the world's top customer experience practitioners. Join us today — unlock member benefits and accelerate your career, all for free. For over two decades CMSWire, produced by Simpler Media Group, has been the world's leading community of digital customer experience professionals. Today the CMSWire community consists of over 5 million influential customer experience, customer service and digital experience leaders, the majority of whom are based in North America and employed by medium to large organizations.  Our sister community, Reworked, gathers the world's leading employee experience and digital workplace professionals. And our newest community, VKTR, is home for AI practitioners and forward thinking leaders focused on the business of enterprise AI.