Mandy Tustin has complained to GO Outdoors about the lack of a lift at the Festival Park store Want Stoke-on-Trent news emailed to you direct from our journalists? Sign up to our newsletter We have more newsletters Want Stoke-on-Trent news emailed to you direct from our journalists? Sign up to our newsletter We have more newsletters Disabled shopper Mandy Tustin has accused GO Outdoors of 'discrimination' - because there's no lift to get her to the first floor. The 53-year-old, from Trent Vale, has osteoarthritis and uses a mobility scooter. She first attempted to reach the top floor in early December when the bigger and better Festival Park store fully opened and discovered there was no lift. And there's still no lift this week. Mandy said: "I initially went in early December just after they extended the store. I needed something from upstairs. When I went I found there was no lift and I asked someone in the shop who said they were having one installed within a couple of weeks. It wasn't ideal but someone went upstairs to get the item for me. READ: Family need £30k to get Jack, 28, home 33 days after he collapsed in Benidorm "I had not been in again until I visited last weekend. My husband has got into paddle-boarding and we needed a lifejacket. When we got there we asked where they were and they told us they were upstairs and when we asked where the lift was they told us they don't have one. I told them 'this is ridiculous'.  "They didn't have an alternative option. Eventually a manager reassured me that it was being fitted that day. I still wasn't very happy. I then had to go back to exchange something on Wednesday this week and I spoke to a lady who told me there was no concrete date. It is just not on." Now Mandy is vowing to boycott the store until a lift is fitted. She said: "If I don't say something who will? I feel disappointed with them. There's a sad irony that you can't go anywhere in that store.  "We've got our own caravan and all the camping equipment is upstairs. What's the point, if we go back I'll just have to sit in the car.  "It is discrimination. They said it was out of their hands and I guess I am just waiting on a response from them now. I feel like I am being fobbed off. I'll believe it when I see it. I want a definite date for when the lift is going to be fitted. The whole store needs to be accessible to everyone. " StokeonTrentLive has contacted GO Outdoors for a statement without success. If you're on the lookout for local news, we have you covered with our FREE email newsletter - sign up in the box at the top of this story or click here. READ NEXT: Boy, 16, in court after police 'raid' Meir house Instagram row between former lovers ends with man having to pay ex £200 Drivers face £70 fines under plan for Stoke Station car ban Stoke-on-Trent 'gangster' fails to learn his lesson as he's back behind bars Neighbours slam council after road left looking like this 