The outdoor clothing and equipment chain is opening 13 new shops across the North West and North Wales GO Outdoors has announced three new Cheshire stores as part of its expansion across the North West. The outdoor clothing and equipment chain confirmed it will be opening shops in Chester, Warrington and Macclesfield. It is part of the company's introduction of its new 'express-style' stores, of which they are opening 13 across the North West and North Wales. They are smaller, 'high street-style' stores which will 'enable shoppers to pick up specialist outdoor clothing and equipment in convenient high street locations'. The firm says they are more 'compact' than the traditional super-stores. Despite this, a full range of stock will be available to order and collect, with products including tents, camping equipment, fishing, equestrian and climbing gear.  READ MORE: Ellesmere Port catering firm feared it wouldn't survive Covid - now it's one of England's best Brands that will be sold in the new stores include Rab, OEX and Berghaus, as well as trusted brands like Peter Storm, HiGear and Brasher. Staff will also be on hand to offer advice to customers.  John Hinde, retail director for GO Outdoors said: “We are extremely excited and proud to be able to expand GO Outdoors onto the high street in this way in Cheshire, and to serve customers within the convenience of their new local store. We have had a brilliant couple of years at GO, as more and more people are reaping the benefits of the outdoors for their physical and mental well-being, and this expansion is the outcome of that success.  “We’re looking forward to offering more customers our unbeatable range of outdoor clothing, footwear and equipment, whilst also supporting local communities and high streets."  The three stores opening in Cheshire will be based at: The Warrington store has opened today (Monday) while the shop on Foregate Street in Chester is set to open on Wednesday (November 30). The Macclesfield outlet will launch on Thursday (December 1).  A total of 23 jobs have been secured in Cheshire as a result of the openings. The company plans to continue its expansion next year with a further two super stores planned for 2023. NEWSLETTER: Sign up for CheshireLive email direct to your inbox here READ NEXT: Chester Rows - the oldest shopping centre in the world? We visited Chester Christmas Market - and it's back to its very best for 10th anniversary I visited a Christmas winter wonderland at Delamere Forest and it felt like a magical Narnia-type land When Bob Marley, The Who and Blondie played a leisure centre near Chester Met Office reveals Christmas Day forecast for Cheshire - but will we see snow?