 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Create a glowing backyard oasis with our list of solar-powered sets, hanging lanterns, and more.  In This Article Food & Wine / Walmart  There's something magical about draping your outdoor space in twinkling string lights. The best outdoor string lights are practical since they help increase visibility when entertaining, but they're also quick to install and easy to maintain, all while helping to upgrade your backyard aesthetic. You've chosen the perfect bistro set, outdoor dinnerware, outdoor rug, and weather-proof tablecloth. Now it's time to make your next dinner party glow.
  When shopping for the best outdoor string lights, there are a few details to consider, from style to durability. Every pick on this list is weather-proof, meaning the lights can withstand elements like heat, humidity, wind, and rain. Many of these picks offer tech-powered features like smart app functionality, voice control, and scheduled timers. Some string lights are even equipped with custom color-changing abilities and brightness modes.
  Using tested insights and thorough research, we found the best outdoor string lights for any setup. So whether you're firing up your gas grill for a weeknight meal or having guests over to gather around the fire pit, get your backyard ready for entertaining with these top picks.
 These string lights are sleek, easy to set up, and completely solar-powered. The lights cannot be connected, so you’re limited to each string.  These Brightech outdoor string lights can be easily installed with illuminating Edison bulbs that can last up to six hours on a full charge of sunlight. During testing, we noted that the lights remained on for nearly eight consecutive hours before shutting off automatically. 
  Design-wise, we were impressed with the bulbs’ simple and sleek construction and durability. The shells are made of clear plastic, though you’d never know unless you tap them, and the flexible, strong cord can handle years of use. Heat-resistant up to 122°F, the lights can also withstand wind, rain, and snow. Scoring almost a perfect score across the board in our tests, we would have awarded Brightech a perfect rating if the lights could be connected and strung together.
  Bulb Type: Plastic Edison bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 12 | Power Source: Solar-powered
 Available in a pack of two, this affordable pick is ideal for outdoor landscape lighting.  These string lights provide low ambient lighting versus bright light.  Upgrade the traditional string lights setup with the Brightown Outdoor Solar String Lights. With eight lighting modes (including fading, fireflies, and twinkle), these fairy-style lights are a great outdoor option because they're fully solar-powered and IP65 water-resistant. 
  We noted that these lights were very easy to install during testing and performed well during durability testing. Designed to provide a pure, white glow in every direction for up to 10 hours, the lights’ copper wire is flexible and shapeable, so you can wrap them around plants, flowers, and shrubs. 
  Bulb Type: LED bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 100 | Power Source: Solar-powered
 Whether you hang them up or place them on a table, these solar-powered lanterns are a great low-lighting option. The words “good luck” are labeled on the jar, and the lighting is very low, so these may not be the best if you’re looking for a plain, bright light.  An alternative to traditional string lights, these hanging lanterns are a unique way to bring some extra light into your indoor or outdoor space, whether you hang them up or simply place them on a patio table. They can last up to eight hours with a full charge and are designed to withstand rain and snow. 
  During our tests, we noted that these lanterns are a great choice if you’re looking for an ambient lighting option. They arrive preassembled and automatically light up at dusk, so long as they’re charged. 
  Bulb Type: LED bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 6 | Power Source: Solar-powered
 Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson These lights provide significant value, costing under $15 for a 33-foot string and 100 LED bulbs. This pick doesn’t emit enough light for reading or security purposes.  For a romantic, dainty lighting setup, the AMIR Upgraded Solar String Lights deliver in every category. Emitting a nice, warm glow, these lights are designed to be decorative. During testing, we noted that they won't provide substantial light for reading or security. The copper wiring adds a nice touch, as it blends in seamlessly with the surroundings so the LED lights are only in view.
  In our tests, we noted that these lights are water-resistant, and the strand is conveniently long enough to wrap around a small tree or other patio furniture, offering better value than similar string light options. 
  Bulb Type: LED bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 100 | Power Source: Solar-powered
 Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson These fairy lights are an affordable and stylish option that offers 80 crystal-inspired globes per strand with ten levels of brightness and eight distinct modes. Battery-operated lights may require frequent replacements.  The most affordable fairy lights on our list, the Metaku Globe String Lights Fairy Lights provide a glowing ambiance. This stylish alternative to traditional Edison string lights includes 80 crystal-inspired globes per strand, which emit a warm white light and are fully battery-operated. 
  The lights are equipped with ten levels of brightness and eight distinct modes, including flash, twinkle, slow fade, and steady on. They're suitable for indoor and outdoor use and can withstand elements like heat, wind, water, moisture, and snow. A remote control is included for easy operation.
  Bulb Type: LED bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 80 | Power Source: Battery-powered
 These energy-saving string lights are waterproof and feature a 10,000-hour lifespan.  They don’t include a dimmable function.  A step up from traditional string lights, these elegant Novtech lights are also a great choice, emitting a soft, warm light similar to a kitchen candle. Shaped like a globe with LED beads inside, each light features a 10,000-hour lifespan and is completely waterproof. 
  Because they're low voltage, they're considered energy-saving compared to others and won't overheat or turn yellow when used for long periods. The only downside is there is no option to add a dimmable function.
  Bulb Type: LED glass bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 12 | Power Source: Plug-in cord
 Featuring smart voice controls, you can remotely power these lights via an app, Alexa, or Google Assistant. These lights don’t offer color-changing capabilities.  This popular smart outdoor string light setup includes many of the same benefits as the HBN lights except for the color-changing feature. You can remotely or automatically control these lights via an app, Alexa, or Google Assistant and even coordinate time settings to create a lighting schedule. 
  As with most of the picks on this list, they're durable, energy-saving, shatterproof, and weather-resistant. You can also take advantage of the light's dimmable function, which allows you to manipulate the brightness depending on the desired ambiance.
  Bulb Type: Plastic bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 26 | Power Source: Plug-in cord
 Equipped with a handy remote, you can control these lights with ease.  Taking into consideration the price, these string lights don’t look as high-end as other picks.  Add some color to your backyard with the tech-forward HBN Color Changing String Lights. Not only are they durable and weather-proof, but they also feature a handy remote, so you can control them with ease.
  Lasting up to 25,000 hours, HBN's lights also include nine pre-programmed color modes with 16 million color combinations, from warm white for a relaxed ambiance to vibrant green and purple hues. Depending on your space, stick with one strand or link up to 48 together.
  Bulb Type: Plastic bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 15 | Power Source: Plug-in cord
 These heavy-duty bulbs can be programmed with a dimmer.  They’re not the most attractive Edison-style string lights.   Consider this Addlon pick a triple threat, thanks to its heavy-duty construction, bright lights, and adaptable design. With an insulated exterior and durable cord, these lights are weather-proof, which means they’re resistant to high heat, wind, water, humidity, and snow, so you won’t have to worry about leaving them outside all year long. 
  The cord length runs 48 feet, with a 96-foot option available for larger spaces. They can be programmed with a dimmer if you’re looking to create even more of a mood. 
  Bulb Type: Edison bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 15 | Power Source: Corded electric
 Bring your memories to life with these clip-string lights, which offer just enough light to highlight each photo.  Be careful not to clip on something too heavy, as you may damage the string.  Ideal for a special occasion like an intimate engagement party or an incredible anniversary dinner, the Romandle String Lights include clips to hang photos, art, keepsakes, and more. The small, golden light bulbs offer just enough light to highlight your feature wall, creating a warm, cozy atmosphere without cluttering the space. Plus, you can light up your photos anywhere because they're wireless and battery-operated.
  Bulb Type: Plastic LED bulbs | Number of Bulbs: 30 | Power Source: Battery-powered
  Most string lights are made with LED bulbs. They're energy-efficient, low-voltage, and offer a longer lifespan compared to other bulb types. If you're planning to hang string lights outside, especially in direct sunlight, LED bulbs are the best option.
  String length is an important factor if you're looking for enough light to drape across a large space. Many of the best string lights offer at least six feet in length, though that may not be enough if you plan to hang them across a large backyard or event space. Most of the picks on our list can be connected to extend their overall length.
  Among batteries, plugs, USB, and solar-powered options, many different power sources are available for the best string lights. It all depends on where you plan to use them. If they are hung outside, solar-powered lights are the easiest, most energy-efficient choice. However, if you want the flexibility to hang them indoors, consider battery-operated picks. Note that USB and plug-in options require the most planning, as you'll need a nearby outlet or extension cord.
  Many of the string lights on this list are equipped with added effects like dimming capabilities, color-changing features, and various lighting modes that flicker, twinkle, and fade. Decide which extras are most important to you, and look for string lights that support them.
 The amount of time string lights last can depend on various factors, including where the string lights are displayed and stored, what material they’re made from, and whether or not they’ve been subjected to elements like rain, snow, or wind. In ideal conditions, string lights should withstand multiple years. The best outdoor lights for a patio are a question of personal preference. Solar-powered lights may be best for those who only intend to use them outside, while battery-powered or plug-in options may suit users who want the flexibility to move them between indoors and outdoors. If you have a large outdoor space, look for lights that can be extended by linking two or more strings together. Outdoor string lights can be placed almost anywhere outside. Hang them from the ceiling or along the wall, wrap them around a tree or shrub, or layer them across a large patio or pool area. As with any light source, the best practice is to turn it off when not in use. Some string lights, especially solar-powered options, will automatically shut off when the battery runs out, which is typically in a matter of hours. However, plug-in or battery-powered string lights may stay on indefinitely, so keep a close eye to make sure you turn them off properly.  Clarissa Buch Zilberman is a writer and editor based in Miami. Specializing in lifestyle, business, and travel, her work has appeared in Food & Wine, Realtor.com, Travel + Leisure, and Bon Appétit, among other print and digital titles. 
