By Emily Scrivener For Mailonline   Published:  09:36 EDT, 3 May 2023   |  Updated:  09:37 EDT, 3 May 2023      2 View  comments  SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Dailymail.co.uk will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.  Amazon shoppers are rushing to add instant colour and comfort to their garden furniture with the help of a set of weather-resistant cushions. Filled with high-quality hollowfibre filling for maximum comfort and support and covered in a water-resistant polyester fabric, the Gardenista Premium Water Resistant Outdoor Scatter Cushions are a hugely popular choice for those looking to spruce up their garden on a budget.  Looking to revive tired garden furniture? Filled with a comfy hollowfibre filling and made of soft, water-resistant fabric, the Gardenista Premium Scatter Cushions are great for giving your garden a makeover on a budget.  Filled with a comfy hollowfibre filling and made of soft, water-resistant fabric, the Gardenista Cushions are great for giving your garden a makeover on a budget Scores of delighted Amazon shoppers are leaving rave reviews for the Gardenista Outdoor Cushions, crediting them with adding instant flair and style to their outdoor space.  Practical and stylish, the cushions can be used to instantly lift tired-looking furniture while, the 100 per cent polyester and water resistant fabric means they will stay looking fresh whatever the spring weather throws at you.  And with 13 colours to choose from, there's one to suit every taste.  Costing £8.50 per cushion, the Gardenista cushions are an effortless way to add colour and comfort to your space for under a tenner. While affordable, shoppers have been impressed by the quality, hailing them 'well worth the money' and describing them as 'gorgeous' and 'vibrant'. This is thanks to the soft-touch polyester fabric. While comfortable on the skin, it's also supremely durable, meaning it can be wiped clean should there be any spills and hold up to any spring rain showers. Packed full of premium hollowfibre filling, the outdoor cushions are plump and supportive, measuring 45cm by 45cm.  The garden cushions are made with 100 per cent polyester, so they're super durable and water-resistant and will stay looking fresh through any rain showers or spillages With close to 1,000 five-star reviews, the Gardenista Premium Water Resistant Outdoor Scatter Cushions have had Amazon shoppers' seal- of approval. With 13 colours available and four in a pack, shoppers have been snapping them up in mulitple colours, eager to spruce up sofas and chairs and used as extra seating in the summer. 'Ordered yesterday, received today … oh wow, they really are lovely' raved one shopper. 'I posted them on my bench on Facebook and so many people have come back saying what a great colour, they brighten up my patio!'. Another agreed, adding: 'These are great cushion, comfy, waterproof and a vibrant colour… idea for the garden furniture.' A third penned: 'Excellent addition to brighten up the garden furniture & looks great with existing seat cushions. Well made, very comfortable and just the right size. Great value for money too!'.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group