Sponsored By ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT MINNEAPOLIS — Most Minnesotans have a deep sense of place about the state’s natural resources and agree they should be protected, but environmental and conservation policy has become mired in political rancor and the state needs a new direction to save its outdoor heritage. That’s the premise behind the new statewide group Upstream, launching this fall to change the way Minnesotans talk about — and argue over — the environment. The group is “policy agnostic and apolitical,” said Andy Goldman-Gray, a Twin Cities marketing executive who is heading the campaign. “We want to keep the discussion upstream of politics and traditional environmentalism.” ADVERTISEMENT More than 90 Minnesota groups and businesses — as diverse as Catholic Charities, Backcountry Hunters and Anglers, General Mills, the Minnesota Twins and Duluth's Vikre Distillery — have already thrown their support behind the effort. The goal now is to attract thousands of individual Minnesotans to give the campaign a grassroots base. Upstream will not be taking positions on pressing environmental issues like climate change, farm policy, copper mining near the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness or oil pipelines. Nor will it try to encourage support for environmental laws or even constitutional amendments. Instead, Upstream organizers want to focus on the end result of keeping Minnesota the way most of us like it. Despite a constant barrage of ‘us against them’ and ‘jobs vs the environment’ battles, most Minnesotans disagree not about if the state’s forests, fields, lakes and rivers should be protected, but about how they should be, Goldman-Gray said. Meanwhile, environmental policy in the state swings back and forth “depending on the whims of whoever is elected most recently.” “The politics of environment in Minnesota is broken,” Goldman-Gray said. “Caring for our lands, lakes, parks and communities is not political. … We are stronger stewards of Minnesota when we share this unique Minnesota value around caring for our natural places.” Upstream is being described as a “culture campaign,” and not an environmental advocacy group. It’s an effort to see if a state where everyone can get together behind the State Fair and the Twins can do the same for its natural resources. “There’s actually a pretty broad culture in Minnesota — rural, suburban, urban — around shared responsibility for this place we call home,” said Paul Austin, executive director of the nonprofit Conservation Minnesota, an early supporter of the Upstream effort. “But sometimes the way groups advocate from the right or the left sort of covers up that shared culture. … Upstream is hoping to uncover it.” ADVERTISEMENT At the core, the Upstream premise is that Minnesotans of all backgrounds want the same thing: a healthy place to live, work and leave to future generations. “We aim to repair the civics of talking about our sense of place, about the Minnesota we all love,” Goldman-Gray said, likening the Upstream campaign to campaigns promoting seat belt use, not littering or not smoking. “No one has tried this before. It’s an experiment to see if we can bring people together to talk who otherwise would never talk to each other,” Goldman-Gray said. “We want to bring some people to the table who haven’t been there, who maybe have been vilified by some groups — farmers, miners and others — and let’s see how much we really have in common because of this place we share.” Emily Vikre, co-owner of Vikre Distillery, said she signed on to the Upstream campaign because of her deep interest in the outdoors and sustaining Minnesota’s natural heritage. “It’s a unique approach to thinking about environmental issues and the outdoors and sense of place. Their focus on storytelling and celebrating the place we are from really makes sense to me,” Vikre said. “They want people to reflect on what it means to be from Minnesota and then share those stories.” Vikre said the group needs to return to a statewide focus to engage all of Minnesota and not just the Twin Cities region. “I have no idea where this is going to end up, but let’s give it a try,” he said. ADVERTISEMENT The Upstream effort so far has been operating on grants from Minnesota-based foundations and individual donors. The group is seeking corporate sponsors as well. Goldman-Gray said he pursued the upstream idea after hanging his head after years of bad news about global and state natural resources, believing little would be left of the Minnesota he cherishes for his children and future generations. “Let’s try leaning into positivity and possibility, because that’s how you motivate people to take action,” he said. The campaign conducted a poll over the summer and found that 83% of Minnesotans trust other Minnesotans to do the right thing when it comes to the environment. “We have this shared ethic, shared values in Minnesota. … We need people to share their stories about their sense of place to let them see how much we have in common,” Goldman-Gray said.  Go to 
    
      mnupstream.org
    
      .  Upstream will host its first major event, called the 
    
      Fall Festival of Care
    
      , Oct. 6-14, “bringing people across Minnesota together to contribute to the movement of caring for the state through volunteer activities.”  The festival will include an art expo featuring the work of a dozen Upstream Arts Fellows on Oct. 11 at Loppet Trailhead in Minneapolis’ Theodore Wirth Park. The event will include the first Unsung Caretaker Awards, which recognize individuals' and organizations' outstanding environmental stewardship efforts across the state.  ADVERTISEMENT Other regional events are planned in Duluth, the Iron Range, Rochester and Mankato.  ADVERTISEMENT