Comment As we saw with the collapse of FTX, the web3 space leaves a lot to be desired in terms of transparent information about companies, fundings, management and a slew of other data that really is commonplace and “de rigueur” in the “normal” tech industry. And there are far too many so-called “web3 analyst” houses that are borderline conflicted. But, let’s face it, the Web 2.0 space doesn’t have all the answers either. Subscribing to platforms like PitchBook and Crunchbase can be an expensive business, especially for the everyday individual builder who doesn’t have access to a corporate expense account, making it difficult to access reliable, trustworthy web3 data for the average person. After a while in beta, a new startup, now formally coming out of the gate, hopes to change this. EdgeIn is a new database platform which it says is aiming to “level the playing field for builders in web3” to “erode Big Venture/Hedge’s advantage/stranglehold” over the market, it says. Put simply, the platform is pulling in lots of different datasets in a familiar database format and making it either (mostly) freely available or charging a low subscription. The web3 dataset on companies, projects and investments will cost $14.99/month, and offer real-time updates on companies, people, deals and events. Unusually, it will also offer emails of users on the platform (I’m not sure how that will play with Europe’s GDPR however). Co-founder and CEO Redg Snodgrass told me the idea for the platform came from “scratching his own itch” in terms of a desire to get reliable data for discovery, due diligence and competitive analysis: “We spoke with hundreds of investment analysts and associates (the workhorses) and heard the same pain points over and over. Crunchbase is stale and unreliable. PitchBook is too expensive and out of reach especially for web3-specific data. Other incumbents in the space move too slow. Everyone wanted a better, more collaborative experience.” There are currently two user journeys on the site: company and investor. The platform pulls in lots of datasets from partners such as Harmonic.ai or Amberdata, and indexes companies itself. A companies page offers “Recently Discovered” web3 projects. This is a short view of a company, plus users can tag-up companies, add a reaction or add it to a personal list. It also displays a company index which can be filtered on funding, geography, trending, recently acquired or shut down. An activity timeline shows events related to a company listing, such as fundraising, acquisitions, hiring events, plus the company’s team, as well as investment data. On the Investors page you can see they invest in certain tags, but a user can also contrast with their actual deals. Finally, if users see missing data, they can make suggestions on the platform which — EdgeIn claims — can be acted upon in around an hour. EdgeIn claims to have indexed more than 90% of the web3 market to date, and listed 50,000 web3 companies and projects, with 4,000 active investor profiles and over 20,000 builders. The company eventually plans to target generative AI, AR/VR and a few other alpha markets. Community members have free access to around 25,000 published companies, and because anyone can provide data, EdgeIn wants to create incentivize structures for that, such as with tokens. In addition, EdgeIn will be releasing an API. Founded by Snodgrass, Ashley Brown and Raymond Lopez, the company is currently bootstrapping and has raised $1 million from a handful of angel investors, including Mike Dinsdale (Akkadian Ventures, DocuSign, DoorDash, Gusto), Mike Borozdin (DocuSign, Google), Jeremy Clover (Circle), Capital6Eagle, Pedram Amini, Bayo Okusanya and Ulises Merino Núñez. The company is now in the process of raising a $1.5 million pre-seed round at an $8 million cap. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that it’s Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Powered by WordPress VIP