Armed with some data from our friends at CrunchBase, I broke down the largest US startup funding rounds for full year 2022. I have included some additional information such as industry, company description, round type, founders, and total equity funding raised to further the analysis.  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series B
Description: Denver-based Velocity Global offers a global employment solution that simplifies how companies onboard, manage, and pay talent. Founded by Ben Wright in 2014, Velocity Global has now raised a total of $500.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Norwest Venture Partners, Eldridge, and Friedman Fleischer & Lowe (FFL).
Investors in the round: Eldridge, Norwest Venture Partners
Industry: Employment, Human Resources, Information Technology, Productivity Tools, Recruiting
Founders: Ben Wright
Founding year: 2014
Location: Denver
Total equity funding raised: $500.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series E
Description: South San Francisco-based Plenty is a vertical farming company that brings fresh, pesticide-free produce to customers. Founded by Jack Oslan, Matt Barnard, Nate Mazonson, and Nate Storey in 2014, Plenty has now raised a total of $941.0M in total equity funding and is backed by DCVC, Walmart, SoftBank Vision Fund, Finistere Ventures, and Driscoll’s.
Investors in the round: JS Capital Management, One Madison Group, SoftBank Vision Fund, Walmart
Industry: AgTech, Farming, Food and Beverage, Sustainability
Founders: Jack Oslan, Matt Barnard, Nate Mazonson, Nate Storey
Founding year: 2014
Location: South San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $941.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series C
Description: San Francisco-based Miro is a visual collaboration platform that provides an intuitive, engaging, and in-person collaboration experience for every team. Founded by Andrey Khusid, Oleg Shardin, and Oleg Shardin in 2011, Miro has now raised a total of $476.3M in total equity funding and is backed by Atlassian, Accel, TCV, Bradley Horowitz, and Salesforce Ventures.
Investors in the round: Accel, Atlassian, Dragoneer Investment Group, GIC, ICONIQ Capital, Julien Codorniou, Salesforce Ventures, TCV
Industry: B2B, Enterprise Applications, Enterprise Software, Product Management, UX Design
Founders: Andrey Khusid, Oleg Shardin, Oleg Shardin
Founding year: 2011
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $476.3M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series A
Description: San Francisco-based FTX US allows users to trade a variety of digital assets like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Solana, and Dogecoin. Founded by Gary Wang and Sam Bankman-Fried in 2020, FTX US has now raised a total of $400.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Temasek Holdings, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, Tribe Capital, and Bond.
Investors in the round: Bond, Greenoaks, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Multicoin Capital, New Enterprise Associates, Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, Paradigm, Race Capital, SoftBank Capital, Steadview Capital, Temasek Holdings, Tribe Capital
Industry: Bitcoin, Cryptocurrency, Trading Platform
Founders: Gary Wang, Sam Bankman-Fried
Founding year: 2020
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $400.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series E
Description: Palo Alto-based Uniphore is the global leader in Conversational Automation. Founded by Ravi Saraogi and Umesh Sachdev in 2008, Uniphore has now raised a total of $606.8M in total equity funding and is backed by IIFL Finance, New Enterprise Associates, Chiratae Ventures, Sorenson Capital, and Cisco Investments.
Investors in the round: GoldenArc Capital, March Capital, New Enterprise Associates
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Customer Service, Machine Learning, SaaS, Software
Founders: Ravi Saraogi, Umesh Sachdev
Founding year: 2008
Location: Palo Alto
Total equity funding raised: $606.8M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series D
Description: San Mateo-based Veev is a building technology company that reinvents the way homes are built and experienced. Founded by Ami Avrahami, Amit Haller, and Dafna Ben Porat Akiva in 2008, Veev has now raised a total of $585.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Fifth Wall, Bond, Western Technology Investment, Eclipse Ventures, and JLL Spark.
Investors in the round: Bond, Fifth Wall, JLL Spark, LenX, Zeev Ventures
Industry: Construction, Real Estate, Smart Building, Smart Home
Founders: Ami Avrahami, Amit Haller, Dafna Ben Porat Akiva
Founding year: 2008
Location: San Mateo
Total equity funding raised: $585.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Venture
Description: New York-based Sidewalk Infrastructure Partners applies innovative technology to urban infrastructure systems. Founded by Brian Barlow, Jonathan Winer, and Michael Delucia in 2019, Sidewalk Infrastructure Partners has now raised a total of $800.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Alphabet, Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, and StepStone Group.
Investors in the round: StepStone Group
Industry: Infrastructure, Smart Cities
Founders: Brian Barlow, Jonathan Winer, Michael Delucia
Founding year: 2019
Location: New York
Total equity funding raised: $800.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series C
Description: Berkeley-based UPSIDE Foods is a food tech company that produces and grows sustainable cultured meat. Founded by Nicholas Genovese, Uma Valeti, and William Clem in 2015, UPSIDE Foods has now raised a total of $606.0M in total equity funding and is backed by IndieBio, Temasek Holdings, Norwest Venture Partners, Fifty Years, and SOSV.
Investors in the round: Abu Dhabi Growth Fund, Baillie Gifford, Bill Gates, Cargill, Cercano Management, Christiana Wyly, CPT Capital, Dentsu Ventures, EDBI, Givaudan, IndieBio, John Doerr, Kimbal Musk, Norwest Venture Partners, SALT Fund, SoftBank Vision Fund, SOSV, Synthesis Capital, Temasek Holdings, Tyson Foods
Industry: Food and Beverage, Food Processing, Organic Food, Sustainability
Founders: Nicholas Genovese, Uma Valeti, William Clem
Founding year: 2015
Location: Berkeley
Total equity funding raised: $606.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series G Extension
Description: San Francisco-based Faire is a marketplace and wholesale platform that helps retailers find and buy wholesale merchandise for their stores. Founded by Daniele Perito, Jeffrey Kolovson, Marcelo Cortes, and Max Rhodes in 2016, Faire has now raised a total of $1.29B in total equity funding and is backed by Sequoia Capital, Norwest Venture Partners, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Y Combinator, and Wellington Management.
Investors in the round: Sequoia Capital, Y Combinator
Industry: E-Commerce, Marketplace, Retail, Retail Technology, Wholesale
Founders: Daniele Perito, Jeffrey Kolovson, Marcelo Cortes, Max Rhodes
Founding year: 2016
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $1.29B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series E
Description: Fremont-based Weee! is an online grocery delivery platform that offers Hispanic and Asian foods specialty products and everyday staples. Founded by Larry Liu in 2015, Weee! has now raised a total of $862.8M in total equity funding and is backed by Tiger Global Management, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Silicon Valley Bank, Goodwater Capital, and SoftBank Vision Fund.
Investors in the round: Greyhound Capital, iFly.vc, SoftBank Vision Fund
Industry: E-Commerce, Grocery, Retail
Founders: Larry Liu
Founding year: 2015
Location: Fremont
Total equity funding raised: $862.8M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series E
Description: Somerville-based Form Energy develops and commercializes a low-cost battery system that can store wind and solar energy for a long duration. Founded by Marco Ferrara, Mateo Jaramillo, Ted Wiley, William Woodford, and Yet-Ming Chiang in 2017, Form Energy has now raised a total of $815.0M in total equity funding and is backed by ArcelorMittal, Temasek Holdings, VamosVentures, Energy Impact Partners, and Coatue.
Investors in the round: ArcelorMittal, Breakthrough Energy Ventures, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Capricorn Investment Group, Coatue, Energy Impact Partners, GIC, NGP Energy Technology Partners, Prelude Ventures, Temasek Holdings, The Engine, The Rise Fund, TPG Rise Climate Fund, VamosVentures
Industry: Battery, Energy, Energy Storage, Environmental Engineering, Renewable Energy
Founders: Marco Ferrara, Mateo Jaramillo, Ted Wiley, William Woodford, Yet-Ming Chiang
Founding year: 2017
Location: Somerville
Total equity funding raised: $815.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Seed
Description: Miami-based Yuga Labs is a blockchain technology company that develops NFTs and digital collectibles. Founded by Greg Solano and Wylie Aronow in 2021, Yuga Labs has now raised a total of $450.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Animoca Brands, Coinbase, MoonPay, FTX Ventures, and BOND.
Investors in the round: 11:11 Media, a16z crypto, Adidas, Animoca Brands, Artist Capital Management, Atlas Benjelloun, BOND, Calvin Broadus, Cobalt Capital, Coinbase, Colin Kaepernick, Dez Bryant, DIGITAL, Eden Block, Friendly Trading 2, FTX Ventures, Genies, GV, Hashed, J.A.S Ventures, Justin David Blau, Lightspeed Venture Partners, LionTree, Mark Cuban, MoonPay, Samsung NEXT, Sergio Giavanni Kitchens, Seven Seven Six, Sound Ventures, Standard Crypto, Steve Aoki, SV Angel, Tess Ventures, The Forest Road Company, The Sandbox, Thrive Capital, Tiger Global Management, Time Ventures, Timothy Mosley, VaynerFund
Industry: Blockchain, Cryptocurrency, Digital Media, Ethereum
Founders: Greg Solano, Wylie Aronow
Founding year: 2021
Location: Miami
Total equity funding raised: $450.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Venture
Description: Fremont-based NEXTracker offers a breakthrough in horizontal tracking, with lower costs, better performance, and more flexibility for solar power plants. Founded by Daniel Shugar in 2013, Nextracker has now raised a total of $547.6M in total equity funding and is backed by ClearSky, Sigma Partners, DBL Partners, TPG Rise Climate Fund, and Tennenbaum Capital Partners.
Investors in the round: TPG Rise Climate Fund
Industry: Natural Resources, Renewable Energy, Software, Solar
Founders: Daniel Shugar
Founding year: 2013
Location: Fremont
Total equity funding raised: $547.6M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series B
Description: San Francisco-based Anthropic is an AI-driven research company that focuses on increasing the safety of large-scale AI systems. Founded by Daniela Amodei, Dario Amodei, Jack Clark, Sam McCandlish, and Tom Brown in 2021, Anthropic has now raised a total of $704.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Sam Bankman-Fried, Caroline Ellison, Jaan Tallinn, Nishad Singh, and Dustin Moskovitz.
Investors in the round: Caroline Ellison, Center for Emerging Risk Research, Jaan Tallinn, James McClave, Nishad Singh, Sam Bankman-Fried
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Information Technology, Machine Learning
Founders: Daniela Amodei, Dario Amodei, Jack Clark, Sam McCandlish, Tom Brown
Founding year: 2021
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $704.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series D
Description: Fort Lee-based Cross River is a financial institution that offers technology and banking services to consumers and businesses. Founded by Gilles Gade in 2008, Cross River has now raised a total of $775.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Andreessen Horowitz, T. Rowe Price, Ribbit Capital, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, and LionTree.
Investors in the round: Andreessen Horowitz, Eldridge, General Global Capital, Hanaco Venture Capital, T. Rowe Price, Whale Rock Capital Management
Industry: Banking, Financial Services, FinTech
Founders: Gilles Gade
Founding year: 2008
Location: Fort Lee
Total equity funding raised: $775.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series C
Description: Pflugerville-based The Boring Company engages in constructing underground transportation networks. Founded by Bridgett Moore, Bridgett Moore, Elon Musk, and Samuel Hetherington in 2016, The Boring Company has now raised a total of $908.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Sequoia Capital, Craft Ventures, Valor Equity Partners, Founders Fund, and 8VC.
Investors in the round: 8VC, Craft Ventures, DFJ Growth, Founders Fund, Sequoia Capital, Valor Equity Partners, Vy Capital
Industry: Construction, Infrastructure, Transportation
Founders: Bridgett Moore, Bridgett Moore, Elon Musk, Samuel Hetherington
Founding year: 2016
Location: Pflugerville
Total equity funding raised: $908.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Venture
Description: Bellevue-based TerraPower focuses on developing a sustainable and economic nuclear energy system while reducing proliferation risks. Founded by Bill Gates and Edward Jung in 2006, TerraPower has now raised a total of $750.0M in total equity funding and is backed by US Department of Energy, CRV, SK Group, Intellectual Ventures, and Bill Gates.
Investors in the round: Bill Gates, SK Group
Industry: Clean Energy, CleanTech, Energy, Nuclear
Founders: Bill Gates, Edward Jung
Founding year: 2006
Location: Bellevue
Total equity funding raised: $750.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series A
Description: San Francisco-based TeraWatt Infrastructure operates an electric vehicle charging infrastructure for medium and heavy-duty transport and fleets. Founded by Benjamin Birnbaum, Ethan Goldsmith, and John Rapaport in 2018, TeraWatt Infrastructure has now raised a total of $1.1B in total equity funding and is backed by Vision Ridge Capital Partners, Cyrus Capital Partners, and Keyframe Capital Partners.
Investors in the round: Cyrus Capital Partners, Keyframe Capital Partners, Vision Ridge Capital Partners
Industry: Electric Vehicle, Energy Management, Fleet Management, Industrial Engineering
Founders: Benjamin Birnbaum, Ethan Goldsmith, John Rapaport
Founding year: 2018
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $1.1B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series E
Description: Irvine-based Anduril Industries is a defense product company that builds technology for military agencies and border surveillance. Founded by Brian Schimpf, Joseph Chen, Matt Grimm, Palmer Luckey, and Trae Stephens in 2017, Anduril Industries has now raised a total of $2.2B in total equity funding and is backed by Andreessen Horowitz, General Catalyst, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Valor Equity Partners, and Elad Gil.
Investors in the round: 8VC, Andreessen Horowitz, DFJ Growth, Elad Gil, FJ Labs, Founders Fund, General Catalyst, Human Capital, Lachy Groom, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Lux Capital, Marlinspike Capital, Modern Venture Partners, Palumni VC, Thrive Capital, Valor Equity Partners, WCM Investment Management
Industry: Aerospace, Augmented Reality, Government, National Security, Virtual Reality
Founders: Brian Schimpf, Joseph Chen, Matt Grimm, Palmer Luckey, Trae Stephens
Founding year: 2017
Location: Irvine
Total equity funding raised: $2.2B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Venture
Description: Cary-based Epic Games is an interactive entertainment company that develops games and offers its game engine technology to other developers. Founded by Mark Rein and Tim Sweeney in 1991, Epic Games has now raised a total of $6.4B in total equity funding and is backed by Tencent, BlackRock, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Fidelity Management and Research Company, and AXiomatic.
Investors in the round: KIRKBI, Sony
Industry: Developer Platform, Gaming, Software, Video Games
Founders: Mark Rein, Tim Sweeney
Founding year: 1991
Location: Cary
Total equity funding raised: $6.4B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
EDITORIAL GUIDELINES
LEGAL
PRIVACY
TERMS OF USE CONTACT US
ADVERTISE
TIPS
WRITE FOR US NYC VC
NYC TECH EVENTS
NYC TECH NEWS
NYC STARTUPS
NYC COWORKING
TECH DIRECTORY  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC Join the millions and keep up with the stories shaping entrepreneurship. Sign up today. 