Jasmine Shells, founder and CEO of Chicago-based software startup Five to Nine, surrounded by her team.  Chicago was a tough place to raise startup money in 2018 for Jasmine Shells. She had better luck after she relocated Five to Nine, her employee-engagement software company, to New York. But she was bullish on Chicago and wanted to be an example of a successful Black founder there, so she returned two years later. She found the winds of opportunity had shifted dramatically in favor of early-stage Black and Brown founders. “We got investment from the University of Chicago and plenty of other Chicago angel investors and funds,” Shells, who has raised $5.25 million, told Forbes. “It’s been a really cool turnaround story.” There are a lot of really cool turnaround stories now in the Windy City, home to at least ten investment funds or angel groups that focus on Black and Brown entrepreneurs, many of which have been created in the past three years. Chicago, the third-largest U.S. city, tops the national list as a place where underrepresented early-stage founders can get their footing. Last year, 5.4% of the city’s seed and pre-seed funding, or $20 million, went to Black and Brown founders, according to CrunchBase. New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles lag with 3.5% or fewer. A Chicago-based organization called TechRise, created with help from Chicago billionaire Penny Pritzker, the former U.S. Commerce secretary, works closely with local startups and said it has helped facilitate an additional $30 million in seed and pre-seed investments that weren’t captured by Crunchbase data. That would bring the total for Black and Brown founders to $50 million, or 13.5%. “For TechRise, one of the biggest successes right out of the gate was disproving that there was a pipeline problem of diverse founders,” Pritzker, who cofounded TechRise’s parent organization P33, told Forbes in an email. “These numbers tell us that Chicago continues to be the best city in the country for the earliest stage Black and Latinx founders.” Even as the top dog, Chicago is far from making venture capital allocation equitable for underrepresented founders. Of the $16 billion in total venture capital — not just early-stage capital — deployed in the city last year, only 3.2% went to companies either led or founded by Black or Latino entrepreneurs, according to Crunchbase. The city’s combined Black and Latino population is about 59%, according to Census data. Even so, Chicago entrepreneurs and investors said the city has made strides in supporting diverse founders at the earliest level, not only with funding but also with needs like mentorship, exposure and networking. “There was not a lot of focus on underrepresented founders raising cash,” said Osvaldo Montelongo, a Latino entrepreneur who’s founder and CEO of Connect Care Hero, who started his company in 2017 but has only been able to raise venture funding starting in 2020. “There were a lot of incubators, but not a lot of people writing checks.” A big change in the fundraising ecosystem was the creation of funds that emphasize underrepresented founders. These include Fifth Star Funds, Chingona Ventures, Capitalize VC, 5th Century Partners, LongJump Ventures and CAST US, which is run by a firm co-founded by former McDonald’s CEO Don Thompson called Cleveland Avenue. There are also theme-specific funds — like Supply Change Capital (food tech) and Vitalize Venture Capital (future of work) — that have diverse operators or fund managers. TechRise operates weekly pitch competitions in which it awards underrepresented founders non-dilutive capital that originates from investors and corporate sponsors. Jeff Osuji, a Black founder who’s CEO of Chicago-based EventNoire, has raised $1 million in funding since 2019 and counts LongJump and Cleveland Avenue among investors. He also won $25,000 in a TechRise competition in December. He said the funding environment has improved, but also the exposure and information that Black and Brown founders have access to. “Both of those [investors] I had talked to for over a year,” Osuji said. “And so it’s not about just having a good pitch and story, right? It’s about building a relationship with investors. And that’s just not something that we’ve had a lot of exposure to as Black and Brown founders, understanding how to go about that.” CAST US, a $70 million fund that invested in Osuji’s startup, was launched in 2020 and received about $16 million of its capital from the Illinois State Treasurer’s Office. (The name stands for Cleveland Avenue State Treasurer Urban Success.) Illinois State Treasurer Michael Frerichs said that money is part of the $274 million that’s been allocated to Black- and Brown-, women-, veteran- and disabled-owned fund managers. “You find a lot of people of color who are starting up a fund and they run into modern-day Jim Crow,” Frerichs told Forbes. “‘Well, we’d love to invest with you but you don’t have enough years of experience. You don’t have enough assets under management. Come back to us when you have a better track record and a bigger fund and we’ll consider investing.’ Well, if everyone has that attitude, they’re never going to have a larger fund. They’re never going to have a track record.” Jason Mercer, a principal with CAST US, said funds that focus on Black and Brown founders that emerged since the May 2020 murder of George Floyd have about seven or eight years for investors to see their returns, the expectations for which typically hover between 3x and 5x their initial investment. “You can literally call them the funds that George Floyd built,” he told Forbes. “If [we] don’t perform well, I anticipate commentary and a backlash calling it a woke financial strategy. But if these funds hit 3x, 4x, 5x, get some good, strong exits, I think you’ll see people say, ‘Oh, wow, they’re just as good as everybody else, if not better,’ and we will hopefully see sustained investment.”  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.