Affiliate links on Android Authority may earn us a commission. Learn more. Published onMay 22, 2024 Crunchyroll is essential for anime enthusiasts, offering a premier Japanese animation and entertainment collection outside Asia. It boasts exclusive anime series, thousands of episodes, and unique productions, positioning itself as a critical platform for anime in the UK and the US. Subscribers enjoy access to popular shows like Hell’s Paradise and One Piece, quizzes, and the latest news from Japan. Crunchyroll’s varied membership options provide something for every fan, ensuring you’re up-to-date with the latest in anime. Here’s a guide to understanding Crunchyroll’s costs and membership benefits to find the perfect subscription. You can sign up for the service at the link below: The streaming service has four plans, each with different perks. Here are the main differences and how to decide which plan is the best for you. Max also has several anime shows from the Crunchyroll library to stream on its service (AT&T currently owns both services). You can stream about 20 to 30 anime titles on Max. This is meant to give those subscribers a taste of the Crunchyroll catalog and not replace it. Crunchyroll used to compete with Sony’s rival anime-centric streamer Funimation, but as of March 1, 2022, all Funimation content not already on Crunchyroll is being migrated to Crunchyroll. In early December 2020, Sony announced that its Funimation anime division would acquire Crunchyroll for $1.175 billion. The deal was approved and finalized in 2021. It was unclear how or even if the two services would continue to co-exist, but now they have been merged under the Crunchyroll banner. Funimation was entirely shut down on April 2nd, 2024. Crunchyroll’s pricing will increase following the merger, with over 50 new titles available on the service. Current Funimation paid subscribers can get 60 days of Crunchyroll Premium for free as part of the merger process. Funimation automatically transferred existing subscribers to Crunchyroll, noting that the transfer “may vary depending on your specific payment platform, subscription type, and region.” To make matters worse, Crunchyroll won’t support the digital copies redeemed through Funimation. As we mentioned, the paid subscription tiers offer features like downloading shows to mobile devices. They also support more concurrent streams per account and discounts to the service’s merchandise store. The service also has its own news service for general anime announcements. You can upload your own picture or any image to be your profile. Paid members can also customize their profile page with different designs. In addition to a redesigned UI, it adds features like recommendations based on your past viewing history. You can also create your own watchlist, along with custom lists that let you organize and label anime shows in any category. You can also pause a show and pick up where you left off from your three most recently watched shows. Crunchyroll offers content for kids and more mature anime shows and movies for adults. As of this writing, only one minor parental control feature is available. Here’s how to enable it: Remember that if your kids know your account and password, they can switch the controls back to showing mature content. The service is available on the following platforms: The service used to be available for the Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii consoles, but those apps have now been discontinued. So, if you are convinced and want to try Crunchyroll, what should you watch first? You’ll be happy to know that Crunchyroll offers both quantity and quality. From little-known cult classics to worldwide smash hits, it’s got something for everyone. But what can you watch? Crunchyroll’s catalog consists primarily of anime series. It offers a lot of classic popular shows like One Piece and Gundam, but it’s also the best place to watch new releases online. You can access simulcasts: new episodes from top series are usually available to watch only an hour after they are broadcast in Japan. Don’t worry if you don’t speak a lick of Japanese. There are also some great anime movies on Crunchyroll, but the choices are slightly more limited. The same applies to Asian dramas since the list of available titles changes regularly. You will find action-packed, long-running shonen favorites like Naruto, Bleach, One Piece, and more. They are perfect for those who enjoy long series, thanks to most of these shows’ immense number of episodes. However, you can enjoy shorter action series such as One-Punch Man, JoJo’s Bizarre Adventure, and Attack on Titan. Fans of fantasy, however, can check out the mysterious and captivating Mushi-shi anime. If you want to add a bit of romance into the mix, the recent The Ancient Magus’ Bride series is also a must-watch. Finally, we can’t recommend Yuri on Ice enough — a sports anime smash hit from 2016 that has captivated audiences since. In 2020, the service started dropping all-new anime series that it produced or co-produced under the Crunchyroll Originals label. They have included shows like Tower of God, ONIKAWA: Over the Moon for You, and The God of High School, with more in the works. If you are a hardcore anime fan, you should sign up for Crunchyroll, especially now that it has absorbed its main competitor, Funimation. Crunchyroll’s library of classic and current anime TV shows is extensive, and you can watch much of its content for free, provided you can deal with commercials and low 480p resolution. Its paid subscription fees are reasonable, and you can eliminate ads and get higher-resolution videos. Finally, canceling Crunchyroll is simple and free of hidden fees and restrictions, so it’s low-risk for those who aren’t entirely sold and want to try it out. The answer depends on which plan you have. The Free and Fan plan supports just one stream. However, the Mega Fan plan supports up to four streams simultaneously, and the Ultimate Fan plan supports up to six. Unfortunately, none of the service’s anime shows or movies is available in 4K resolution. The service does use ads in its Free membership tier, but you can get rid of them if you sign up for any of its paid plans. Technically, sharing your account with anyone is against Crunchyroll’s Terms of Service. If you decide to share your account, be aware you might get cut off if you abuse it. The service can be watched in other parts of the world via a VPN, so you can access titles that are generally not available in your country. If you sign up for either the Mega Fan or Ultimate Fan plans, you can use the service’s iOS and Android apps to download anime shows and movies to watch offline. Crunchyroll currently has 120 million registered users worldwide, with about 13 million paid subscribers. No. As of April 2, 2024, all Funimation content has moved to Crunchyroll as its parent company, Sony, bought the rival anime streamer. Crunchyroll claims that the service is available in over 200 countries. However, not every Crunchyroll anime show or movie is available in every country. That’s due to several factors, including streaming licensing rights, that might differ in your country of origin. That’s our look at Crunchyroll. We will update this post with any new information as warranted.