By Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com   Published:  23:43 EDT, 25 March 2023   |  Updated:  22:15 EDT, 26 March 2023      1k View  comments  A self-proclaimed Canadian 'crypto king' was kidnapped, held for three days and tortured, after he reportedly scammed investors out of millions to live a glamorous lifestyle, according to a lawsuit.  Aiden Pleterski, 23, is currently going through bankruptcy proceedings as authorities in Canada try to recover the $29million he's accused of scamming out of investors. Just $1.6million has been returned, with reports saying Pleterski spent most of it on a private jet, a huge fleet of flashy cars and luxury vacations. The latest revelations, made by Pleterski's father in a government report detailing what happened to the funds, are that Pleterski was kidnapped in the middle of the night in December and held for three days. Adam Peters said he got a late night call demanding $3million Canadian ($2.1million USD) in ransom. Peters then claims his son was driven around Ontario, beaten and tortured.  Aiden Pleterski, 24, is currently going through bankruptcy proceedings as authorities in Canada desperately try to recover the $29million he allegedly scammed out of investors as just $1.6million has been returned, with a trusty report saying Pleterski spent most of it on a private jet, flashy cars and luxury vacations Pleterski drove at least 10 different sports cars, including a rare McLaren Senna, purchased for over $1million in September 2021 He was supposedly released after a few days but threatened to come up with the money quickly or else. One of the few calls he was allowed to make was to his landlord, who testified that Pleterski called begging him for the millions in ransom payments.  'I said, 'There's absolutely nothing that I can do.'  No suspects have been revealed in the kidnapping and Toronto police did not provide any information on the suspected kidnapper or if any arrests were made.  Rob Stelzer, the trustee appointed to produce the report, told CTV he received a call from Toronto police in early December about the kidnapping. 'I mean, obviously, he owes a lot of people a lot of money,' Stelzer said.  The $29million may be just the beginning of what Pleterski owes investors, according to attorney Norman Groot, who was hired by some of those scammed by the crypto king.  Groot characterizes Pleterski as having run a ponzi scheme on his clients, with investments made by some clients allegedly used to fake returns for others. The Canadian 'crypto king' posts his glamorous fleet of supercars on his Instagram - including his grey Mclaren 720S with suicide doors, which are on the market for at least $300,000 Pleterski posted images online of his luxury getaways - including holidays on yachts, sailing in the ocean with his friends, and driving around in his flash sports cars  The latest revelations, made by Pleterski's father in a government report detailing what happened to the funds, are that Pleterski (pictured right) was kidnapped in the middle of the night in December Pictured: His grey Mclaren 720S being washed. Pleterski has been characterized as having run a ponzi scheme on his clients, with investments made by some clients allegedly used to fake returns for others He's also alleged to have spent his millions on a private jet and several luxury vacations Aiden Pleterski, 23, is currently going through bankruptcy proceedings as authorities in Canada try to recover the $29million he's accused of scamming out of investors Pleterski posted a photo to his Instagram account of himself shopping as his followers compliment him on his new fit  He's trying to find out just how much Pleterski transferred out of his account, with losses that could be double that $29million.  Pleterski claimed in 2021 that he lost investments when the crypto market crashed in the fall of that year. 'In doing so, I guess you could say greed took over, and I was taking very aggressive positions, and I was trying to make returns that obviously weren't feasible or weren't necessarily possible at the time, and it just caused more losses,' he said. A report by trustees investigating the scheme say Pleterski took the $29million from investors and said he would invest it in both crypto and foreign currencies.  The trustees claim he invested just about $485,000, or less than two percent of the total funds at hand. The report alleges he spent approximately $362,000 on a warehouse where he stored the remaining cash.  Videos and photos posted to his Instagram stories and highlights show off his fleet of luxury cars and his private jet trips to Miami.  His extravagant vacations are also  documented in the highlights, show the crypto king living his best life on luxury yachts, jet skiing over the bright waters, dining out on wine and oysters with women and friends, and front row seats at concerts. His 95.2K followers gush over his every move, complimenting Pleterski on his fit and drooling brush with celebs, like Machine Gun Kelly, and over his luxurious lifestyle.   He also showed off his yellow Lamborghini Aventador SV  - which costs at least $507,000 to purchase. Pleterski would often make sure his 97,000 followers on Instagram knew which new, flash car he was driving  Alongside posting about his supercars, the 23-year-old showed off how he traveled in style with all of the money he earned. He's believed to have chartered private jets to take him and his friends on lavish holidays  Investigators with the Canadian government are trying to figure out how to recover the millions lost by Pleterski, seen here with Machine Gun Kelly Pleterski has posted a slew of luxury cars to his Instagram highlights including this yellow Lamb Aventador SV (left) and this red Lamborghini (right) A 720S grey Mclaren with suicide doors (left) is featured on his Instagram stories along with a Lamborghini STO (right)  Among his fleet of vehicles are two orange sports cars - which the 'crypto king' amassed alongside a number of flashy Mclarens and Lamborghinis It also says Pleterski drove at least 10 different sports cars, including a rare McLaren Senna, purchased for over $1million in September 2021.    Another $700,000 went to the mansion Pleterski lived in, including both rent and a down payment to eventually buy it. He gave another $940,000 to an associate, while Stelzer claims Pleterski's parents also got around $800,000 from their son. Stelzer, the government trustee, wants the properties sold and the money refunded to Pleterski's investors.  Pleterski's parents said they believed their son was operating a successful investment business. 'I knew when he was in high school, he was playing games upstairs on his computer just like any other teenager,' Pleterski's father said in December, which was detailed in a transcript included in the new report. 'But at some point, you became aware that he was trading in cryptocurrency?' the trustee's lawyer asked. 'At some point, yes,' Pleterski's father responded. Stelzer alleged that Pleterski's parents benefited more than $1.1 million from their son's scheme.  The pair have agreed to  return an Audi S5 and a Volkswagen Atlas – with a market value in excess of $100,000 – to the trustee, CTVNews reported.  They will also fork over $812,000 by June 30, in cooperation with the bankruptcy proceedings, the report claims.  Stelzer has said he believes there are more people who lost money in the scheme and encouraged them to come forward.   'We know $41 million came into the account net,' he said. 'We know only $25 million have filed claims. You can do the math,' he said. 'They should reach out … and get the claim filed. The only way they can participate in a dividend is by doing it.' Lawyers for Pleterski have yet to comment on the kidnapping allegations, according to CBC.  $1million (plus) - Pleterski spent over $1m in investor money to live in a Burlington, Ontario mansion. He paid $45,000 per month in rent and eventually put down a deposit to buy it $362,000 - A warehouse to store his extra cash and cars  $940,000 - Money given to an associate  $1.6 million - Pleterski drove more than 10 sports cars, including a McLaren Senna, a very rare, limited-production supercar purchased in September 2021 $5.5 million with a $500,000 deposit - property in Ajax, Ontario       
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group