Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Cryptocurrency exchange Luno is the latest company in the industry to make layoffs, setting out to cut 35% of its global workforce. The London-based firm's CEO, Marcus Swanepoel, informed employees of the redundancies at 12 p.m. London time on Wednesday in a live-streamed town hall. "2022 has been an incredibly tough year for the broader tech industry and in particular the crypto market," Swanepoel said in an internal memo which shared with CNBC Wednesday. "Luno unfortunately hasn't been immune to this turbulence, which has affected our overall growth and revenue numbers." Luno has a total headcount of roughly 960, according to its LinkedIn profile, meaning that more than 330 jobs will be impacted. The cuts impact Luno's marketing teams in particular. A Luno spokesperson told CNBC the layoff measure would have "minimal or no impact on key operating, and compliance teams." Luno, which has offices in Africa, southeast Asia and Europe, is part of the Digital Currency Group crypto conglomerate. The company will also be scaling back its U.S. and Australia operations, a company spokesperson told CNBC. DCG is one of several crypto firms caught up in the fallout from the collapse of FTX, formerly one of the world's largest crypto exchanges. Genesis, the lending unit of DCG, filed for bankruptcy last week. Genesis' bankruptcy filing came after a standoff with one of its peers, Gemini, over a disputed lending agreement that generated rich returns for Gemini clients through Gemini's high-yield lending product, Gemini Earn. Gemini clients have $900 million stored on Gemini Earn. The service halted withdrawals after Genesis, which lent the funds out to large institutional borrowers, hit pause on client redemptions. The crypto industry has been mired in a downturn known as a "crypto winter" since the collapse in May last year of controversial algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD. Higher interest rates from the Federal Reserve have also spooked market players. In the memo shared with employees Wednesday, Luno's Swanepoel said the industry had seen a "series of shocks" that led to a constrained funding environment and a shift toward long-term profitability. "While we anticipated a downturn and proactively planned ahead with a business and funding model that can be resilient to some of these factors, the sheer scale and speed of all of this happening, and all at the same time, has put significant strain on our original plan," Swanepoel said. "What this means in practice is that in addition to streamlining our strategy to focus on our core strengths, we need to also substantially decrease our cost base - which includes employee headcount in all of our markets - in order for us to be set up for success going forward." Roughly $2 trillion of value has been erased from the overall crypto market since the peak of the crypto boom in November 2021 — although bitcoin has had a bit of bounce since the start of the year. TerraUST's failure, coupled with deep declines in digital currency prices, sparked a cascade of further crypto failures, including Three Arrows Capital, Voyager Digital, FTX, BlockFi and Genesis. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by