BENGALURU, Oct 11: Minerva Public School from Punjab were crowned champions in the 62nd Subroto Cup Sub-Junior (U14) Boys Inter-School International Football Tournament by defeating Chawngfianga Middle School from Mizoram 1-0 in an exciting final played at the Army Service Corps Centre here on Tuesday.
This is the first time in the history of the tournament that a school representing Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) is winning the Subroto Cup.
The first half was closely contested by the both team’s midfield who were trying to create chances for the attackers.
The first real chance came for Minerva as Malsom Tuboi found space on the edge of the box. The midfielder’s shot did not test the keeper as it flew past the post.
Chawngfianga started to control the midfield as Minerva were restricted to counter-attacks.
The school from Mizoram were looking dangerous in the attacking front, with Malsawmkima controlling the game from the centre of the park. His intelligent through-ball found Isak Lalmalsawma, but the forward could not apply the finishing touches.
Malsawmkima forced Minerva goalkeeper Waikhom to make a good save from a direct free kick. Mizoram continued in the same tempo as both teams went into the lemon break with the score goalless.
Mizoram had a glorious chance to open their account in the start of the second half from a corner. Malsawmkima rose high only to head it wide of the post.
Isak Lalmalsawma tested the Minerva goal but was inches wide. The defining moment of the match, in fact the whole tournament came in the dying seconds of second half injury time.
Khangembam’s cross from the left wing found Mohammed Azam Khan inside the box. The forward rose high to head the ball which trickled inside the goal through the fingers of the Mizo keeper, Lalmuanpuia, sending everyone into a frenzy.
Air Marshal R Radhish AVSM, VM, Air Officer Commanding-In-Chief, Training Command was the Chief Guest during the event and presented the trophy to the winning team.
The Runner’s Up of the tournament received Rs 1,25,000 along with the runners up trophy, which was presented by Air Marshal SK Indoria AVSM, VM, SASO, Training Command.
The winners of the Subroto Cup were presented the Winner’s Trophy by the Chief Guest along with a cheque of Rs 2,50,000.
UNI As a subscriber, you will have full access to all of our Newsletters and News Bulletins. Designed Developed & Hosted by Pugmarks.