Why Sign In? Subscribers, sign in to access exclusive content. Unlimited Members, sign in to enjoy sitewide access. News & Reviews News Wire CSX’s fifth heritage unit, Chesapeake & Ohio No. 1869, makes its debut (updated) | Last updated on August 11, 2023 
The locomotive wears the classic C&O passenger scheme.

 The locomotive wears the classic C&O passenger scheme. Get the newest photos, videos, stories, and more from Trains.com brands. Sign-up for email today! WAYCROSS, Ga. — CSX Transportation took the wraps off its fifth heritage locomotive today, No. 1869 that wears the classic Chesapeake & Ohio passenger scheme, complete with script lettering and the “C&O For Progress” logo. The locomotive joins units that celebrate the history of the Baltimore & Ohio, Seaboard System, Chessie System, and Conrail. CSX showed off the locomotive in a video released on its social media channels. On Friday, Aug. 11, it released a photo of the locomotive still inside the Waycross shop. — Updated Aug. 11 at 9:40 a.m. CDT with additional image. Can’t wait to see the Western Maryland heritage unit.  I hope its the black and gold speed letter scheme of the fifties and sixties rather than the “circus” colors of the seventies right before the WM died. I’m looking forward to seeing the NC&StL and Tennessee Central units.  NS heritage units made a bigger “splash” so to speak, but both NS and now CSX heritage unit programs have come when we all could use a boost in morale. I’m not a big fan of these wide-cab “techno” GE locomotives, and yes the original C&O paint-scheme looked better on an E-8, an FP-7, or even a BL-2 (!).  But still, I’m glad to see  CSX celebrating the “heritage” of their predecessor railroads with these special paint-schemes.    I’m only sorry I live so far away from the CSX network and probably won’t get a chance to see these “Heritage” locomotives in action …. Looks nice! Still can’t wait to see the L&N unit! Excellent response George.  Ten thumbs up! Pere Marquette was absorbed by C&O in the late 40’s….this paint scheme would almost mirror the PM. Way cool. I’ve posted before and will post again, I love CSX’s approach — the actual CSX livery at the cab and nose, the heritage livery on the long hood. It looks great and gives authentic the other railroad’s heritage units don’t have. It’s a half century since C+O disappeared into Chessie System, and even longer before then that it gave up its independence by merger with B+O. I’m glad I’m old enough (just barely) to remember C+O. The younger generations don’t remember that railroad or perhaps never even heard of it. One of my best friends and briefly a roommate (once again, half a century ago) was the son of a C+O bridge engineer, variously assigned to Charleston (WVa) or Detroit. Wut? The C&O didn’t disappear into the Chessie System. The C&O remained a distinct entity. The Chessie System was created as a holding company for the C&O, B&O and WM railroads and represented the integrated operations of these separate entities. Also, the C&O never gave up its independence through a merger with the C&O. The C&O gained control of the B&O in 1963. Scott — we’re saying the same thing in two different ways. The unified Chessie System livery (as in a previous heritage unit) was introduced in 1972 or 1973, thereafter no C&O or B&O paint jobs on the locos (or any other media). Corporate-wise, you’re right. There were two corporations, C&O and B&O, the latter having picked up what little was left of WM. My first post was in reference to the public image, your post in reference to the corporate structure. So, my friend, we’re both right. Congratulations CSX! Your efforts to memorialize the heritage members of the CSX Family are highly appreciated. Keep up the good work! Dr. Güntürk Üstün The CSX heritage series is reinforcing employee pride in the history of the railroad that continues to move the nation’s economy with safe, reliable and sustainable rail-based transportation services. Dr. Güntürk Üstün Uh huh. The C&O Railway was a major line among North American freight and passenger railroads for nearly a century before becoming part of the Chessie System in 1972 and eventually merging into the modern CSX. In 1970, the C&O included more than 5,000 route miles of track stretching from Newport News, Virginia, to Chicago and the Great Lakes. Dr. Güntürk Üstün Uh huh. Numbered CSX 1869 in honor of the year the C&O was formed in Virginia from several smaller railroads, the newest heritage locomotive sports a custom paint design that includes today’s CSX colors on the front of the engine and transitions to a paint scheme inspired by 1960s era C&O locomotives on the rear two-thirds. Dr. Güntürk Üstün Uh huh. 

                                            Canada’s labor minister to meet with CN, CPKC, union                                        
 

                                            Metro-North’s Waterbury Branch remains closed by flood damage                                        
 

                                            Arizona fire that destroyed homes blamed on BNSF track work                                        
 

                                            News & Products for the week of August 19th 2024                                        
 Members enjoy 15% off any purchase in our store. Join Today! Steam by the Numbers
 

                                    Steam by the Numbers answers many questions about steam locomotive evolution, explaining the reasons why so many wheel arrangements were developed.
 Trains Across America 2025 Calendar
 

                                    Trains' Trains Across America Calendar is back for 2025!
 Canadian National Snowburst Puzzle
 

                                    Bam! That had been a 3-foot-tall drift across the Moose Range Road grade crossing near Sycamore, Ill.
 Locomotive Complete Special Issue Archive DVD-ROM
 

                                    Get 17 years of Locomotive special issues with the Locomotive Complete Special Issue DVD-ROM!
  Get updates and special offers via email from Trains.com brands!
 Get updates and special offers via email from Trains.com brands!