BANK holidays provide time to catch up on some DIY jobs around your home. If you're curious about B&Q's opening times, here's everything you need to know about the late May bank holiday. The three-day weekend gives Brits the perfect chance to complete some DIY projects around the house or in the garden. However, some stores across the UK have altered opening times on August 26. Shoppers hoping to bag a B&Q buy or two are in luck as stores across the UK open for usual business hours on the August bank holiday. It is important to note that opening hours often differ from one branch to another, depending on where you are located. B&Q will open at 7am or 8am, depending on your local branch, and close at 8pm on Monday, August 29. To see the opening hours of your nearest store, visit the B&Q store locator.  Shoppers can also phone ahead to make sure. To provide staff with a bit of extra time to spend with their families and some well earned time off, many retailers adjust working times over pubic holidays. So people looking to plan a shopping trip over the long weekend should be sure to check when their favourite stores are open. Despite operating hours changing over the bank holiday, you are still able to shop online as usual. However, delivery times may vary. The opening times of stores generally differ depending on the location and size of the store. Public transport timings also change on bank holidays, so ensure you check the timetables to avoid any travel troubles. Luckily for shoppers, we have a handy guide with all the important dates for retailers including: Homebase, Ikea, Screwfix, Waitrose, Home Bargains and Wickes. Here's the complete list of the bank holidays in 2024.  Make sure you read this before heading out on a bank holiday.  Get all the other opening times and bank holiday news here. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/