Centrelink says some customers may be experiencing payment delays following multiple reports of their online services being down. Centrelink has responded to reports of their online services being down across the country, stating some banks had experienced “difficulties” processing payments. No issues had been detected with Centrelink’s online systems, a Services Australia spokesman told NCA NewsWire. It follows multiple reports throughout the morning that users were struggling to access the Centrelink website. According to Downdetector, problems with the social security payment service’s online portal began early Wednesday morning. Sixty-two per cent of reports suggest issues with the website, while another 28 concern the mobile app. Ten per cent of people complained of not being able to log in. Hi there, we are aware of a delay in processing some Centrelink and tax payments, and we expect this to be completed by 11am today. We apologies to our customers affected by the delay. ^Chris On Twitter, Commonwealth Bank confirmed it was aware of a “delay” in processing Centrelink and tax payments. “We expect this to be completed by 11am today,” a tweet from the account states. In a Facebook post at 10.42am, Services Australia clarified all payments had been processed for customers. “However, some customers may be experiencing delays with this payment landing into their bank account,” the post states. “We’re aware these payments are currently being processed and will be in accounts later today. There is no need to call us as everything is being done to resolve this as soon as possible.” Four boys from Yarra Valley Grammar School in Melbourne sparked outrage when they posted a shocking list onto the platform Discord. The internet is being flooded with scandalous images thanks to the rollout of new artificial intelligence, sparking major concerns. With the rising cost of living stretching budgets further than ever, cost-conscious Aussies are cutting back. It’s left one key industry in a battle to survive. Our Apps