Facebook Twitter Instagram Search Menu Webcasts Microphone Icon Events Events Videos Video Icon HUB Security announces public cloud security and data privacy for Google Cloud                             Also Noted By SSN Staff Updated 1:29 PM CST, Tue March 7, 2023 MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. – Cybersecurity solutions company HUB Security Ltd. has announced a unique cybersecurity solution for the Google Cloud leveraging HUB’s core technologies. Utilizing isolation, governance, and tight access control, HUB calls their latest solution a potential paradigm shift in cyber security. It provides protection for data at rest, in transit, and in use a time when data cannot be encrypted and is at its most exposed. “HUB prides itself in isolating and securing the whole execution environment," said Uzi Moskovitz, HUB’s CEO. “The historical focus on cyber intrusion and network defenses is no longer an acceptable solution. HUB is focused on making trustless security environments a reality, providing protection even if end user systems and computers are compromised.” Working together with Google, HUB has attempted to use their solution to solve the security and privacy problem for cloud with confidential computing that compensates for cloud-based weaknesses with a secure environment for the creation and distribution of keys. Normally only a benefit to high volume cloud users, HUB aims to bring easy to scale solutions that fit both large and small organization in heavily regulated industries like finance, insurance, and healthcare. You can learn more about HUB’s offerings at hubsecurity.com. Cloud-Based, Cybersecurity, Google Cloud, HUB Security Ltd., Security, Uzi Moskovitz Comments To comment on this post, please log in to your account or set up an account now. Need the Latest Security News in the Industry? Want to always have the latest security news in the industry right in your inbox? Click the button below to subscribe. Subscribe Now From Fire Panel to Fire Service: Honeywell's CLSS Paves the Way for Faster, More Reliable Alarm Communication Inovonics to feature Inovonics Cloud Services software at ISC West, booth #3103 Investing Now Makes the Rest of the Year Less Taxing. Literally. WeSuite’s Tracy Larson Shares How Speed and Accuracy Grow Sales Organizations Categories Recent Archives Commercial Monitoring Residential Suppliers Cybersecurity General News Also Noted On The Editor's Desk Monitoring Matters 20 Under 40 Emerging Leaders Under 40 Fire Systems Installation News and Notes Women in Security This Blog's on Fire (And Other Stuff) 
SecurityCEU.com launches Professional Alarm Contractor Education (PACE) program
 
SIA announces winners of 2024 Denis R. Hébert Identity Management Scholarship
 
Genetec updates FICAM, expands list of access control options for U.S. fed
 
Brinks announces partnership success with Cresta
 
AFS provides financing for multiple alarm company acquisitions
 
HiveWatch, SAGE Integration announce partnership
 
Pye-Barker Fire & Safety acquires Safety Plus
 
ZeroEyes launches ZeroEyes One (ZEO)
 
Cohesity issues 2024 Global Cyber Resilience Report
 
LVT Integrates with Axon’s RTCC
 
August 2024
 
July 2024
 
June 2024
 
May 2024
 
April 2024
 
March 2024
 
February 2024
 
January 2024
 
December 2023
 
November 2023
 
October 2023
 
September 2023
 
August 2023
 
July 2023
 
June 2023
 
May 2023
 
April 2023
 
March 2023
 
February 2023
 
January 2023
 
December 2022
 
November 2022
 
October 2022
 
September 2022
 
View all Archives
 Quorum Cyber turns tables on cybercriminals by exposing new RAT Altronix announces strategic partnership with LiftMaster Index Engines adds data reporting in CyberSense 
Privacy Policy
                             |
                            Sitemap |
                            Terms
                                of Use |
                            Web
                                Accessibility Guidelines
 © 2024                            Security Systems News. All rights reserved. Web solutions provided by VGM Forbin Media Kit Advertise Advertiser Directory 
Privacy
                        Policy
                     |
                    Sitemap |
                    Terms of
                        Use |
                    Web Accessibility
                        Guidelines
 © 2024                    Security Systems News. All rights reserved. Web solutions provided by VGM Forbin  Webcasts Microphone Icon Events Events Videos Video Icon Subscribe Now *  - Indicates required fields Password Requirements