Freightliner announced that the Cummins X15N natural gas engine will be available in its Cascadia trucks. 

Related Articles



- Volvo Group cites strong NA truck sales in Q2
- Truckstop and Bloomberg survey: Demand may pick up in H2 2024
- J.B. Hunt, Bridgestone, Kodiak pass 50,000 autonomous truck miles



Freightliner will offer the X15N in the Cascadia 126-in. BBC, in both sleeper and day cab configurations. Production is targeted to begin in 2025. 
The X15N is designed for heavy-duty and on-highway truck applications, with 400 to 500 HP and 1,450 to 1,850 lb.-ft. of torque. According to Cummins, the X15N achieves lower NOx levels than the 2024 EPA and CARB standards.
Freightliner is working with Cummins Inc. to offer the new Cummins X15N natural gas engine in its heavy-duty Freightliner Cascadia trucks. 
“We have a number of customers that continue to run natural gas trucks today and our goal is to provide those customers with the products, like the X15N, they need to operate successfully for their business,” said Greg Treinen, vice president of on-highway market development at Daimler Truck North America. 
“Our end-user customers are looking for ways to achieve their sustainability goals, and the X15N is essential to our commitment to help customers reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and improve NOx,” explained José Samperio, vice president and general manager of North America on-highway at Cummins Inc. “The X15N will help long-haul fleets see improved economic and environmental performance.”
 Freightliner will offer the X15N in the Cascadia 126-in. BBC, in both sleeper and day cab configurations. Production is targeted to begin in 2025.  The X15N is designed for heavy-duty and on-highway truck applications, with 400 to 500 HP and 1,450 to 1,850 lb.-ft. of torque. According to Cummins, the X15N achieves lower NOx levels than the 2024 EPA and CARB standards. Freightliner is working with Cummins Inc. to offer the new Cummins X15N natural gas engine in its heavy-duty Freightliner Cascadia trucks.  “We have a number of customers that continue to run natural gas trucks today and our goal is to provide those customers with the products, like the X15N, they need to operate successfully for their business,” said Greg Treinen, vice president of on-highway market development at Daimler Truck North America.  “Our end-user customers are looking for ways to achieve their sustainability goals, and the X15N is essential to our commitment to help customers reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and improve NOx,” explained José Samperio, vice president and general manager of North America on-highway at Cummins Inc. “The X15N will help long-haul fleets see improved economic and environmental performance.” Volvo Trucks places safety and sustainability at the forefront of every decision we make. It is our responsibility at Volvo Trucks to protect and preserve the finite resources of our planet. While making our business environmentally and financially sustainable, we will, together with our customers, leave a better world to our future generations. 2025 Medium- and heavy-duty truck forecasts are now aiming downward, due to rising inventory and stagnant market fundamentals. ACT Research has adjusted its 2025 expectations for medium-duty and heavy-duty trucks downward, even as 2024 forecasts rise. The primary driver of the forecast changes for Classes 5-7 and Class 8 trucks is strong build relative to retail sales, which is leading to significant inventory gains, according to the latest release of the North American Commercial Vehicle Outlook. Along with releasing FCEV performance and sales information, the company also said it aims to complete its BEV recall by year-end. Data is “showing some signs that the very challenging freight market could be nearing a bottom.” Keynote speakers include executives at Kodiak Robotics and Continental, as well as a retired U.S. Army General. “We achieved record quarterly sales and solid profitability in the second quarter,” said chair and CEO Jennifer Rumsey. The station allows hydrogen fuel to be dispensed into onboard storage for long-range vehicles, such as the Nikola hydrogen fuel cell electric Class 8 truck. This year’s program semi-finalists represent multiple branches of the United States Military. These trucks will be used in different long-haul applications on specific routes in Germany, such as the transport of building materials, sea containers or cylinder gases. According to FTR, the 12,400 Class 8 truck sales recorded in July are somewhat below seasonal expectations. Truck industry content for fleet owners and managers