BigCommerce’s trusted enterprise platform chosen for its flexibility and ability to scale with Curology’s needs over time Austin, July 18, 2023 — BigCommerce (Nasdaq: BIGC), a leading Open SaaS ecommerce platform for fast-growing and established B2C and B2B brands, today announced dermatologist-founded skincare brand Curology launched a new storefront, The Curology Shop™, on the BigCommerce platform. The Curology Shop™ marks Curology’s first entrance into direct-to-consumer sales for its non-prescription skincare products, and the company needed an ecommerce platform that could work with its existing legacy platform and technology stack and scale with its evolving business needs. “At Curology, we’re making big investments to expand access to our products through a range of ecommerce and brick-and-mortar channels,” said Justin Bersuder, vice president of product and core experience at Curology. “In BigCommerce, we found a viable technology partner for our ever-evolving business needs. Curology is a complex business, sitting at the intersection of CPG and telehealth, so we need flexibility when it comes to our commerce experiences so we can deliver best-in-class experiences to our consumers and patients alike.” The launch of The Curology Shop™ follows Curology’s recent expansion into retail with the availability of its products at Target and Target.com, broadening its reach to consumers and furthering its mission to provide more access to personalized, effective skincare. Curology is also leveraging BigCommerce’s integration with Oracle NetSuite to connect with Curology’s existing ERP to access product and inventory data. BigCommerce also integrates with Curology’s customer single sign-on system to route all logins through its in-house account systems, allowing prescription and non-prescription order histories to be merged. “We’re thrilled to partner with Curology as they make their foray into DTC ecommerce,” said Marc Ostryniec, chief sales officer at BigCommerce. “They have a great vision for their brand and are making strategic moves to reach more audiences. Our open, flexible and powerful platform is the perfect fit to support their continued expansion.” Curology joins a growing group of health and beauty merchants on the BigCommerce platform, including Bulk Nutrients, Bulk Apothecary and Jentri Quinn. About BigCommerce BigCommerce (Nasdaq: BIGC) is a leading open software-as-a-service (SaaS) ecommerce platform that empowers merchants of all sizes to build, innovate and grow their businesses online. BigCommerce provides merchants sophisticated enterprise-grade functionality, customization and performance with simplicity and ease-of-use. Tens of thousands of B2C and B2B companies across 150 countries and numerous industries use BigCommerce to create beautiful, engaging online stores, including Ben & Jerry’s, Molton Brown, S.C. Johnson, Skullcandy, Solo Stove, Ted Baker and Vodafone. Headquartered in Austin, BigCommerce has offices in London, Kyiv, San Francisco, and Sydney. For more information, please visit www.bigcommerce.com or follow us on Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram and Facebook. BigCommerce® is a registered trademark of BigCommerce Pty. Ltd. Third-party trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. Brad Hem
[email protected] Step Up Your Fraud Prevention Approach in 2024 Unleashing GenAI Magic: Transforming Visual Commerce for Unbeatable Customer Experiences Returns Challenges, Opportunities Covered in New Webinar Multichannel Merchant: Editorial Spotlight on Returns in 2023 Webinar: The Generative AI Genie is Out of the Bottle High-Touch Returns Become Point of Differentiation for 3PLs Goods-To-Person E-Fulfillment Technology: Flexing Along With Demand Foreign Trade Zones: A Hidden Gem for Retailers Automation and Robotics: Moving Past Limitations to Gains Shipping Capacity Management: The Outlook for 2022 Peak Season Content-Based Marketing: A Post-Cookie Evolution Generative AI in Customer Service: A Balanced Blueprint Why Digital Wallets are The Key to Modern Loyalty Marketing ESG and Your Supply Chain: 3 Steps to a Streamlined Strategy Retail Cyber Threats: 5 Ways to Protect Your Business