You will be able to share this link with anyone and everyone, even on social media.
* Please fill out the form below in order to receive your shareable link. You will be able to share this link with anyone and everyone, even on social media. * Please fill out the form below in order to receive your shareable link.   Tinus le Roux founded Fancam to help attendees leave games with a digital keepsake, but after years of scanning high-resolution crowd imagery, he started noticing trends about demographics, apparel and attentiveness. Le Roux and his team began training computer vision algorithms to make those determinations. It’s not facial recognition because there’s no database of people for comparisons, but the AI engine that now powers sister company CrowdIQ can approximate an age, gender and fan affinity based on appearance and apparel.  “We’ve got a simple question,” le Roux said. “We ask the client, ‘If you had a supercomputer who could look at your crowd all the time, what would you ask it?’”  CrowdIQ takes photographs of the entire venue every 10 to 15 minutes, fueling team business intelligence with details about the types of people filling each section, when they take their seats and when they leave them. The St. Louis Cardinals adjusted the time of their first pitch based on this data to maximize more people seeing more of the game.   Founded: 2020
Headquarters: Minneapolis
Employees: 10
Key executives: Tinus le Roux, founder and CEO; James Taylor, founder and CTO; Markus Coetsee, CFO; Rachel Goodger, CRO
Key partners: Minnesota Vikings, L.A. Rams, Dallas Cowboys, Detroit Lions, Jacksonville Jaguars, Tampa Bay Lightning, Chicago Blackhawks Even when ticketing data showed little difference, the Minnesota Vikings discovered night games drew crowds that were younger and more female than in daytime, helping inform alterations to their game-day presentation. Whether it’s the parent on a family outing or the boss for a corporate gathering, the ticket buyer tends to be the oldest member of the group, which can skew age data of attendees. As part of an MLB pilot program, CrowdIQ data was one of several sources the Atlanta Braves consulted to realize their average Truist Park attendee was 38 — much younger than expected. For a smaller subsection of the arena or stadium, CrowdIQ can take high-resolution shots every second for its attention-tracking product, creating insights about which Jumbotron videos capture fans’ attention, which sponsorship activations are most effective, and even how long fans are tied up in concession lines. The Detroit Lions became the first client to transmit this data in real time to its Ford Field Analytics War Room for actionable information.  “Our job has been to get the data. We’re at a point now where we want the conversation on the industry side to be, ‘what do we do with the data?’” le Roux said, adding: “It’s never been possible to quantify crowds this way. The technology didn’t exist. Now that it exists, you can do it at scale.”  Venu Sports on hold; NASCAR shifts gear on the Clash and the USL Super League launches to solid crowds and reception 

 Shareable URL copied to clipboard! https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Journal/Issues/2023/02/20/In-Depth/crowdiq.aspx Sorry, something went wrong with the copy but here is the link for you. https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Journal/Issues/2023/02/20/In-Depth/crowdiq.aspx Register for a free SBJ account to unlock one extra article per month.  © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ weekly content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ daily content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: