BT Sport will disappear from television screens in the United Kingdom in July as the channel rebrands to TNT Sports, with Premier League football, Champions League football and Premiership Rugby next season to be shown on the new channel. The renaming follows the purchase of BT Sport by Warner Bros Discovery, which also owns Eurosport. In time, the two channels will be brought together under the TNT Sports brand, with fans able to watch top football, rugby, tennis and Olympic sport action all under one banner. For now, though, Eurosport will remain distinct - the channel is the lead rightsholder for the Paris 2024 Olympics in the UK and Ireland. But what does this mean for subscribers, and what is TNT Sports? What is BT Sport and what sports does the channel show? Launched in August 2013, BT Sport is a group of paid television sports channels available in the UK and Republic of Ireland. It shows sports including Premier League and Champions League football, Premiership and Champions Cup rugby, cricket from Australia and New Zealand and MotoGP. What is Warner Bros Discovery and when was a merger agreed? Warner Bros Discovery (WBD) and BT Group announced last year that they had reached an agreement to form a joint venture that will eventually merge the Eurosport and BT Sport channels and portfolios. Warner Bros Discovery is a multinational mass media conglomerate that operates many of the world’s biggest television brands, including CNN and HBO. What is TNT Sports? TNT Sports will be a familiar brand to those in Latin America, where it is the home of top-level domestic and European football. From July 2023, the channel will now have a dedicated brand in the UK and Ireland ahead of the start of the 2023/24 football season. “The TNT Sports name is already synonymous with premium live sports in a number of countries around the world and a further sign of the global scale and expertise that WBD brings to the partnership with BT,” Andrew Georgiou, managing director of WBD Sports Europe, explained of the decision to rebrand. What does this mean for BT Sport subscribers? No price changes have yet been flagged for existing subscribers to BT Sport, but nor have they been ruled out ahead of the rebrand. For television viewers, BT Sport is expected to simply become TNT Sports, with no new channel to tune in to. For those who watch regularly via the BT Sport app, discovery+ will be the new live streaming home of the rebranded channel. BT Sport subscribers already enjoy complimentary access to discovery+ which includes Eurosport’s streaming offer and wide range of entertainment programming. What sports will I be able to watch on the new channel after the merger is complete? The merger will allow sports fans to watch many of the world’s biggest sporting events all under one channel banner. These include: the Olympic Games, the Premier League, Champions League, Europa League, Premiership Rugby, MotoGP, UFC, Boxing, WWE, tennis Grand Slams, cycling Grand Tours and the winter sports season. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their kicker rankings for the 2024 NFL season. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.