Atlanta’s second-largest office landlord is rolling out more coworking spaces in its local portfolio. CP Group is expanding its worCPlaces program into three more Metro Atlanta office buildings, adding to its flex office portfolio that launched in 2021. CP Group is opening a 100K SF worCPlace at the iconic Bank of America plaza, as well as smaller footprints at Paces West and 5600 Glenridge in Dunwoody. CP Group also is adding its worCPlaces program to two Boca Raton, Florida, office buildings.  The firm will operate 340K SF in coworking spaces throughout its U.S. portfolio this year. The move expands the program from the initial Atlanta rollout at One and Two Ravinia towers in Dunwoody and Lakeside Office Park. CP Group Managing Partner Angelo Bianco previously told Bisnow that worCPlaces allows the firm to preserve and extend its brand to new customers that otherwise wouldn't consider traditional office leases and their long-term commitments. DEVELOPMENT Atlanta-based Creative Land Co. is seeking approval from the Georgia Department of Community Affairs to develop a 265-acre mixed-use project off Cochran Mill Road in the city of Chattahoochee Hills. The firm plans to develop 200 apartment units, 167 townhomes, 240 single-family houses, 100 hotel rooms and 14K SF of retail in an area near the Serenbe mixed-use community. Creative Land plans to deliver the project in 2031, according to its development of regional impact application.  LEASING Sandbox VR, a virtual gaming company, is opening a 4,500 SF venue at The Battery Atlanta. The company is establishing an entertainment venue along Battery Avenue across from Savi Provisions offering private VR rooms for groups and special events to fight alien hordes, zombies or explore fantasy worlds. PERSONNEL Allison Bittel has left Colliers Atlanta to join Savills’ Atlanta office as its senior managing director, working alongside newly named market leader David Rubenstein. Past clients for the veteran tenant representative, who also worked with Cushman & Wakefield for 18 years, include Lincoln Financial, Siemens and repping Papa Johns USA in its 60K SF headquarters lease at The Battery.  ***  Cortland has tapped Juan Bueno as president of operations for the multifamily firm, tasked with leading the firm’s facility operations, analytics, revenue, marketing and resident experience. Most recently, Bueno was the U.S. president for Avison Young. *** Avison Young has hired Subham Nandy as a senior associate for its industrial capital markets group in Atlanta. Nandy comes from Lee & Associates in Atlanta. He graduated from Emory University in 2018 with a degree in economics and briefly worked in India. *** Peachtree Group named Jenelle Zadik as the vice president of people and culture for its Peachtree Hospitality Management division, tasked with talent acquisition and retention. Prior to Peachtree Group, Zadik was a community liaison for the U.S. Consulate General in Nigeria. She will report to Peachtree Group Chief Operating Officer Melissa Ross. ASSIGNMENTS Manulife Investment Management tapped JLL Managing Director Jeff Taylor and Executive Vice President David Horne to lease the Proscenium, the 521K SF Class-A office tower at 1170 Peachtree St. in the heart of Midtown.  *** Crow Holdings has appointed Lincoln Property Company Southeast Senior Vice President Shane Froman, Senior Portfolio Manager Naomi Rizzo and Senior Property Manager Theresa Nabors to handle retail property management at the 23,200 SF Glenwood Place in Grant Park, 10K SF Shoppes at 319 West Ponce in Decatur and Suwanee Town Center, a four-building, 58,600 SF retail center in Gwinnett County. Success! You are subscribed to the Bisnow Atlanta Newsletter. or click here to copy link to clipboard LOGIN TO BISNOW We're not asking for your money. This is not a step
                        towards a paywall. Our news is free and we intend to keep it that way. Enter your email below. We will email you a link to reset your password. Use the form below to reset your password. Company Info Newsletters Other Stuff © Copyright 2024 Bisnow. All Rights Reserved  Upcoming regulations in the European Union require us to show this pop-up and ask you to agree to keep using Bisnow.com. We want to take 15 seconds to tell you what's going on: Sound good? Just hit yes and continue on your way.