Vancouver, British Columbia--(Newsfile Corp. - April 5, 2023) - Wisr AI Solutions Inc. ("Wisr AI" or the "Company"), a leading AI-driven cybersecurity platform provider, is pleased to announce the development of an AI-based Cyber Breach Prediction platform. This platform enables the Wisr AI system to predict the level of cyber breach risk of an organization based on how similar it is, and in what ways, to companies that have experienced a breach in the past. The platform is built using a proprietary data set and analysis of cyber breaches and utilizes Wisr AI's proprietary artificial intelligence (AI) model that combines multiple datasets, including information regarding organizations that have been breached with large-scale firmographic, technographic and associated risk data to create an AI-based 'lookalike' model.  Utilizing AI allows cohort analysis and pattern recognition across organizations that may not be regarded as comparables by a human analyst. The 'lookalike' data model looks at points of comparison across areas including technical, business, geographic, industry, political, size, company history, and many other unique identifiers and achieves over 90% prediction success on AI backtesting. Predicting cyber breach risk has tremendous benefits, underscored by a growing number of legislative institutions in many countries that are beginning to impose mandates that organizations report breaches within a 24 to 72 hour-time period. Most notably, President Joe Biden recently signed into U.S. law a requirement for critical infrastructure industries including financial services, energy, healthcare, food supply and more, to report a breach within 72 hours of the breach occurring in March 2022.1 These legislative changes complement Wisr AI's platform to help enterprises get ahead of their cyber risk internally and through their 3rd party vendor networks. "We are pleased to expand our technology portfolio with the development of a unique AI-driven cyber breach 'lookalike' prediction platform," said Rob Goehring, Founder and CEO of Wisr AI. "Cybercriminals often target vulnerabilities that exist across many organizations and we intend to mitigate cyber threats by detecting them in advance. This platform helps enterprises understand how their organization and their third-party vendors are at risk based on how they share critical business, technology and other factors with companies that have been compromised." About Wisr AI Wisr AI is an advanced, proprietary AI platform that predicts cyber attacks on large enterprises - and their 3rd party vendor networks. Wisr AI helps enterprises assess not only their own internal Cyber Risk posture, but also helps prioritize the inherent risk faced through 3rd party infrastructure and supply chain connections. The Wisr AI Cyber Intelligence platform constantly consumes massive amounts of global data - news, social media, cyber breach reports, dark web chatter and more - to build dynamic, AI driven risk rating algorithms. Our engine keeps enterprises prepared, and helps prioritize IT security efforts to match their risk profile. For more information, please contact: Rob GoehringCEO of Wisr AIrob@wisr.ai 778.200.9005Wisr AI Investor Relationsir@wisr.ai905.347.5569 Forward-looking statements This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements and forward-looking information (collectively, "forward-looking statements") related to future events or the Company's future business, operations, and financial performance and condition. Forward-looking statements normally contain words like "will", "intend", "anticipate", "could", "should", "may", "might", "expect", "estimate", "forecast", "plan", "potential", "project", "assume", "contemplate", "believe", "shall", "scheduled", and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions, or developments and are based on expectations, assumptions, and other factors that management currently believes are relevant, reasonable, and appropriate in the circumstances. Although management believes that the forward-looking statements herein are reasonable, actual results could be substantially different due to the risks and uncertainties associated with and inherent to the Company's business. Additional material risks and uncertainties applicable to the forward-looking statements herein include, without limitation, the impact of general economic conditions, the success of the Company in obtaining new or extended contracts or orders; the Company's ability to maintain existing customers or develop new customers; the Company's ability to successfully integrate acquisitions of other businesses and/or companies or to realize on the anticipated benefits thereof; and unforeseen events, developments, or factors causing any of the aforesaid expectations, assumptions, and other factors ultimately being inaccurate or irrelevant. This list is not exhaustive of the factors that may affect the Company's forward-looking statements. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company. All forward-looking statements included in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release are made as at the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the included forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable securities laws.  To view the source version of this press release, please visit https://www.newsfilecorp.com/release/161319