Gov. Josh Shapiro’s administration announced Monday that Amaya Capellán has been appointed as the commonwealth’s Chief Information Officer, leading Pennsylvania’s Office of Information Technology. Capellán is currently a vice president at Comcast, where she oversaw the launch of the cable and internet provider’s Xfinity app, and also worked on the roll-out of the Xfinity Mobile and Comcast Business Mobile wireless services, according to the administration. As CIO, Capellán “will lead efforts to improve online services and user experience,” the governor’s Office of Administration wrote in a news release. This will involve standards and policy-making as well as oversight of initiatives on computer services, data management and cybersecurity, according to the office. “Amaya is a proven leader with an impressive track record of digital transformation throughout her career,” Secretary of Administration Neil Weaver said in the release. “Her breadth of experience delivering results in the private sector will help us advance the Shapiro Administration’s priorities for digital transformation and customer service, and further solidify Pennsylvania’s place as a leader among states in information technology.” Capellán’s office has oversight on a number of crucial state database and digital system overhauls – some of which have seen delays that have generated pushback from lawmakers, such as the Department of State’s planned replacement of its voter registration and professional licensing databases. Similarly, Shapiro and legislators are pushing for a revamp of the Department of Environmental Protections’ permitting process, including technology upgrades to streamline the permit system. In May, Shapiro issued an executive order creating a new Commonwealth Office of Digital Experience (CODE PA) within the administration’s technology office to work on user-friendliness, highlighting recent successes with online systems for sales tax returns, veterans’ services and state park reservations. Capellán - according to a 2017 profile in Philadelphia Magazine – is also the daughter-in-law of Marsha Perelman, a major Shapiro campaign donor, although administration officials stressed that Capellán’s selection was based purely on her resume and not her political connections. Perelman - a well-known Philadelphia-area philanthropist with background as an oil and gas executive - donated $35,000 to Shapiro’s gubernatorial campaign, according to campaign finance records, and has pitched in similarly large amounts to other Democratic causes in years past. The Office of Administration conducted an “exhaustive, nationwide search for a new CIO” and “selected Amaya based on her tremendous resume and accomplishments and our goal to bring a fresh perspective to how we drive digital transformation to serve state agencies and the public,” an agency spokesperson said in an email. Before working at Comcast, Capellán held positions that involved leveraging technology at the sales startup PeopleLinx, the ad agency FCB Global, the consulting firm Booz & Company, and an e-learning startup in Spain, according to the administration. “I am honored for this opportunity to serve in the Shapiro Administration,” Capellán said in Monday’s news release. “I look forward to collaborating across our customer agencies, the governor’s office, CODE PA, and the tech community to transform the technology systems that support the commonwealth’s operations and deliver exceptional digital services for the people of Pennsylvania.” More: Pa. House approves “Crown Act” banning discrimination on the basis of hairstyle, texture Pa. budget’s state of play: Stuck in overtime with no immediate end in sight If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices