Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Tom Horton
 
    Edited By
                        
              Leslie Gornstein
 
Updated on:  January 23, 2024 / 4:11 PM EST
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Are you on the fence about upgrading your home security? That's understandable -- signing up for services with a home security company sometimes comes with a multi-year contract, which is a big commitment. But not having such a system can lead to big regrets. As in, really big. "Arguably anyone can benefit from having a home security system," says Tim Reinemo, security professional and co-founder of Security Guards Only. "It is just one of those things where it is always better to have it and end up not needing it than not to have it and end up needing it." Reinemo was one of several experts we spoke to about home security systems. We spoke with several experts to get a definitive list of signs every homeowner should keep in mind when it comes to home security: Tim Reinemo; realtor, investor, and CEO of Eazy House Sale Isabella Griffin; and executive security expert Toney Greer. Greer is the founder and CEO of the Royal Society of the United States.  When speaking with CBS Essentials, each source provided a list of things to pay attention to in your everyday -- red flags that mean it's time to invest in home security. We compiled the top five common answers and listed them below.  But how do you know when it's time to beef up your home security? Below, we lay out the most reliable home security companies -- plus, we dig into the signs that indicate it may be time to take steps to protect your home.  Shop home security service plans below from some of the leading brand names in home security today. Whether you're ready to batten down the hatches for a long-term contract commitment or browse contract-free or DIY solutions, we have an expert-recommended company below to meet your home security needs. If the idea of signing up for a multi-year contract doesn't faze you, than ADT is our pick for your home security needs. This well-established company has high marks for supportive customer services when you need it. Plus, ADT has one of the largest professional monitoring networks thanks to nine centers spread across the United States.   All ADT plans require you to sign up for a 36-month contract. While there is no trial period, the good news is that ADT does offer a six-month moneyback guarantee, which gives homeowners some time to make sure they're happy with their new home security system. Prices for equipment and installation start at $600 for the secure home package. For a step above this basic option, you can choose the smart home package (starting at $920) or a video and smart home package (starting at $1,050) instead. All plans come with a digital touchscreen control panel, motion detector, and three door or window alarms. 24/7 alarm monitoring services are also available for an additional monthly charge which ranges from $46 to $58 per month. Pros Cons If flexibility and customizability are important to you when it comes to home security, SimpliSafe is our pick for the best home security solution. SimpliSafe services come with no contracts, no professional installation (unless you want it), and even the option for zero monthly fees. That last one is a free alternative to professional monitoring services, making it ideal if alarm and security camera alerts are more than enough for your security needs.  In terms of pricing, SimpliSafe offers a number of options. If you'd like, you can build your home security system piecemeal and pick up devices like a wireless outdoor camera ($190) or motion sensors ($30 apiece) and build your system from the ground up.  There are also packages for anyone interested in an all-in-one purchase. Base package costs range from $200 (the Foundation) to $568 (the Beacon). All packages are currently 20%, so don't miss out. Professional installation is available starting at $99. Pros Cons If you prefer to handle everything yourself (and avoid high prices or long-term contracts), than Scout Alarm is what you need.  Invest in devices like the door panel sensor ($50), motion detector ($30), indoor camera ($99), or video doorbell ($99) as you see fit. Each device can be paired with a central security hub ($120) and Scout Alarm supports Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa devices.  With bundle packages starting at $230, Scout Alarm offers more affordable DIY solutions than other companies. Called Scout Packs, bundles come with a security hub and yard sign, but you can nab additional devices like motion sensors and a smart lock with larger packages. Optional monitoring plans start at $10 per month. Pros Cons The fact is, the security of your family and the protection of your home are two very big deals. This is one area where being prepared ahead of time is critical -- rather than waiting until after a situation where added home security would have saved the day. If you relate to one or more of these signs, don't delay -- home security is one issue where time is of the essence.  "While many people think of home security as a luxury, it's actually an essential part of keeping your family safe from threats," Griffin says. "If you are concerned about the safety of your loved ones, it may be time to look into installing a security system." The first and most pressing question is this: Do you feel safe in your neighborhood? The best home security system won't just alert you in the event of a breach of parameter. It might also also deter burglars from coming around at all.  One study -- led by researcher Joseph Kuhns from the Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at University of North Carolina -- surveyed more than 400 incarcerated burglars... and found that more than 40% of break-ins were "spur-of-the-moment," as opposed to planned.  This study also found that more than 80% of intruders would check for signs of a home alarm system first. This shows that paying for visible equipment like outdoor cameras, keypads, and security signs from a home security company can go a long way toward reducing the risk of a potential break-in. "Whether you travel often or simply work long shifts, having a security system that can keep an eye on your home while you're away is crucial to keeping it protected," Griffin says. "Investing in a quality system can help you feel secure that your house is safe even when you're not there." If you're frequently away from home for long periods of time, you may sleep better knowing there's a system in place for keeping an eye on it whether or not you're around. No, we're not talking about the "Home Alone" method either: Rigging cardboard cutouts to move around like there's a roaring house party going on while you're away only works in the movies. Instead, consider home security systems that offer 24/7 live monitoring services such as ADT Home Security. If you'd prefer a DIY solution, you can invest in quality outdoor cameras like the Google Nest Cam, which offers up to three hours of free event video history (or 60 days with a Nest Aware subscription).  And for travelers, security doesn't have to end at your doorstep. The best smart trackers like the Apple AirTag (the gold standard for smart trackers if we're being honest) can help you keep an eye on important items like your wallet, keys, or luggage. "You want to protect valuable items in your home," Griffin says. "Home security systems provide layers of protection from burglars, and they are an excellent tool for safeguarding your valuable items. If you have expensive jewelry, electronics, or other items worth protecting, a home security system is the perfect investment." If you have valuable, rare, or otherwise important possessions sitting comfortably in your home, a home security solution can go a long way toward bringing you peace of mind.  Whether it's luxury clothing worth more than a year's worth of rent, a family heirloom that you couldn't bear to lose, an emergency fund stashed under your mattress, or the world's biggest collection of McDonald's Happy Meal toys, consider protecting your valuables with the help from a reliable home security company.  Owning a home that's not crowded by neighbors or businesses on all sides has its perks. Living at the edge of a cul-de-sac can be rewarding if you love being close to nature, for example. Perhaps your street is quiet and peaceful throughout the day since your closest neighbor is a 10-minute drive away.  While the idea of never having to fight for street parking or deal with nosy neighbors can be great, living in an isolated area like this has its tradeoff: Your home easily stands out as a potential target to burglars. Balance an isolated living situation by protecting your loved ones with the best home security system for a rural area: Vivint, SimpliSafe, and Cove are all great picks for home security in an isolated region. You don't always need to wait for the most dire or extreme reason to invest in something like a home security system. If you have children and want to keep an eye on them while they play outside, for example, a home security system can help you keep tabs on your family from any location.  The same goes for elderly relatives or pets. Indoor and outdoor cameras can be your second pair of eyes and make life easier, especially if you're a primary caregiver for anyone with special needs (people who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer's or schizophrenia, for example).  Another less-talked-about benefit to home security is the protection that comes from devices like smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors. Unlike your typical sensors that sound an alarm if some or carbon monoxide is detected, some devices from home security companies like ADT can also send you an app alert. That is worthwhile protection for you and your loved ones.  When you know you need a new home security system, you don't want to waste time comparing companies. That's why we did most of the work for you by researching the best home security companies. For a better idea of how we review products, here are the main things we prioritized while putting together our list on home security companies: Tom Horton is a resident health expert for CBS Essentials, with deep experience in topics ranging from chronic conditions to health-care devices to diet options. He lives in upstate New York, and draws his power from local bookstores, long hikes on a sunny day, and his cat Sammy. 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Hillary Clinton spoke at the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
         
          President Biden and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are addressing the convention on its first night.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          The first night of the Democratic National Convention walked the line between "thank you Joe" and "we are moving forward."
         
          Hillary Clinton spoke at the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
         
          President Biden and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are addressing the convention on its first night.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          First daughter Ashley Biden spoke lovingly about her father, President Biden, as she delivered remarks on the opening night of the Democratic National Convention. See her full address.
         
          First lady Jill Biden delivered heartfelt remarks about her husband, President Biden, while addressing the Democratic National Convention on Monday. See the first lady's full speech.
         
          Georgia Sen. Raphael Warnock called Donald Trump a plague on the American conscious while speaking about Jan. 6 on the opening night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention. See Warnock's full address.
         
          Kentucky abortion access advocate Hadley Duvall and Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear offered scathing criticisms of Donald Trump and the Republican Party on the issue of abortion rights while addressing the Democratic National Convention Monday night. See Duvall and Beshear's full remarks.
         
          Texas Rep. Jasmine Crockett briefly choked up while giving an emotional address at the Democratic National Convention as she recounted meeting Vice President Kamala Harris for the first time. Crockett also compared the backgrounds of Harris and former President Donald Trump.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.