Tough as nails, professional-grade security cameras for home use. If you’re looking for outdoor cameras, Lorex is a great place to start. It offers the biggest catalogs of outdoor cameras we’ve seen, and the options are far from shabby. There are cameras with 4K resolution, color night vision, built-in security lights, and smart motion detection powered by artificial intelligence. There’s no question that Lorex offers some of the best outdoor cameras on paper; where else can you find outdoor cameras that can see hundreds of feet in total darkness, when the industry average is 80 feet? If you’re planning to buy Lorex cameras, though, give this review a read first and find out if Lorex is the best match for you. It may offer some of the best hardware, but the way they work isn’t for everybody. We recently tested two Lorex cameras that we feel represent the brand, and we found lots of things to love and a few things that could prompt some to reconsider. Lorex is one of the best security cameras, but it’s not perfect.   Pro Tip: With stunning video quality, see how our #1 pick SimpliSafe Outdoor Camera is a better alternative to Lorex.  For this review, we chose to test one of the most advanced Lorex security systems, which comes with 4K outdoor cameras. And of course, writing about a camera’s video and audio, especially if the resolution is as high as 4K, doesn’t really do it justice. So here’s a video review showcasing the Lorex 4K’s video display day and night.    That said, 4K security cameras haven’t reached their prime yet. They take a huge toll on your network as well as your video storage. Fortunately, Lorex has lower-resolution options, too, like the Lorex system in the video review below. This one has cameras that record in 2K – still high-quality, but not as taxing as 4K.  When it comes to home security, we like having options, but when we checked out Lorex, we felt a bit overwhelmed by the number of options available — there were thousands! We thought you might feel the same, so before scouting Lorex, we recommend familiarizing yourself about security cameras in general. You should, for instance, know the difference between wireless, wire-free, and IP cameras. Our security camera guide is a good place to start. We also recommend reading up on the worst security cameras you should avoid, just so you know what NOT to look for. We had our mind set on testing Lorex’s DVR systems because we wanted to get a feel for these always-on, always-recording cameras Lorex offers. Most of the cameras we test, like the Ring Spotlight Cam we reviewed recently, are configured to record only when there’s motion, so Lorex offers a really nice change of scenery. Filtering Lorex’s catalog to that of only DVR systems did the trick. It narrowed our options down to about a dozen systems. We went through each system and found one offering cameras that would let us test Lorex’s full capability in terms of camera resolution, smart home integrations, advanced detection, and so on. It was none other than the Lorex 4K Ultra HD system that comes with an eight-channel DVR, which by the way is one of the pricier systems in Lorex’s catalog. It contained: We unboxed and tested it out, and here’s what we thought of the system’s features. There’s a lot of upside in using cameras that record 24/7, but we found that Lorex’s DVR setup wasn’t without downsides. One is the limited storage. The typical space of Lorex DVRs is 1 TB, which is enough to store about 20 days of recordings from one camera. But remember, all your cameras share that storage space. So for our four cameras, recordings lasted about five days before getting written over. That meant we had to back up important clips as often as that. Once a clip is overwritten, there’s no getting it back. Should you wish to, you can expand your storage space with additional hard drives. The DVR we got had slots for three more hard drives in addition to the one TB drive already in it. Of course, hard drives aren’t cheap, so expanding your DVR’s storage can drive up the total equipment cost. Keep that in mind when studying Lorex’s pricing. Local recording via a DVR or NVR has pros and cons. Besides requiring no monthly fees, there’s lower risk of hacking if videos are stored locally. That said, without backup, you could lose important videos if something happens to the recorder (e.g. physical damage, tampering, corrupted drive, etc.). We recommend having both local and cloud storage. That way, you have automatic video backup in the cloud. Fortunately, that option is available for some Lorex systems.   Pro Tip: While hacking security camera cloud storage isn’t rare, most cases can be attributed to poor password habits. Some users don’t change the default password of their security cameras, which enables hackers to access their cameras and storage without much difficulty. 4K video is all the hype these days, and Lorex is riding the wave. Of all the brands we’ve reviewed, Lorex seems to have the widest selection of 4K Ultra HD cameras. So if you want your cameras to capture near-cinematographic videos, we highly recommend checking out Lorex’s 4K camera lineup. But is 4K really worth all that hype? We asked our resident video expert and here’s the short of what he said. It’s a fact that 4K cameras have better image quality than standard 1080p ones. They capture frames with four times as many pixels as the latter. From a security perspective, that means you’d be able to see more and clearer details, which is handy for identifying perps or reading license plates of getaway cars. (Lorex can zoom in up to 25 times, but in our tests, we find that 12 to 15 times is the sweet spot.) However, he continued that 4K cameras may not be practical for most homes right now since they consume bandwidth like crazy. Most homes can handle traffic from a couple of 4K cameras, but not from eight of them. He also noted that 4K recordings use up more storage space, which isn’t practical for systems like Lorex that have limited memory. (Our DVR has 1 TB of space.)  Our recommendation? Use a combination of 4K, 2K, and 1080p cameras. Fortunately, Lorex has options for each. We suggest using its 4K and 2K cameras in the most crucial areas, like your front lawn or porch. Meanwhile, use 1080p cameras indoors. Just don’t go with 720p cameras. In our opinion, those fail to provide the picture quality required to capture detailed videos. One key aspect of Lorex cameras is their ruggedness. The outdoor cameras we tested can work in temperatures between -40 and 131 degrees Fahrenheit. They were also weatherproof and tamper-resistant. But that hardiness of Lorex cameras often comes at the cost of the design. Most Lorex cameras are bulky and heavy; think street corner or storefront cameras. They don’t exactly fit in that well in a residential setup. Lorex has been making improvements in that department. Most of the recently released Lorex cameras feature a sleeker design similar to that of Arlo and Nest. They are still on the bulky side, but features like color-changing halos around the lens add a few aesthetic points to make them easier on the eyes. Streaming and recording are staple security camera features, but what about other features? Lorex has them too. Here are some of the features we enjoyed the most:   FYI: Other security cameras, like the SimpliSafe Outdoor Camera Pro from our SimpliSafe review, offer color night vision using a bright spotlight. While outdoor lighting provides added security, some homeowners prefer their cameras hidden. If that’s the case, Lorex’s color night vision is a great option.  As bodybuilders often say, “No pain, no gain.” In order to gain access to Lorex’s top-shelf features, you’ll have to go through the installation process, which isn’t exactly painless. It’s doable, of course, but you’ll need a little patience. Here’s why. Most Lorex security camera systems are built around a DVR (digital video recorder) or NVR (network video recorder). Both are central devices that need to sit within Wi-Fi or Ethernet cable range of your router. Those devices process videos from the cameras and then store them in a built-in hard drive. While we love the local storage, setting up a DVR or NVR adds a few steps to the installation process. We recommend starting by clearing out some space for the DVR or NVR, as they aren’t exactly small. They are about the size of a DVD player, and again, they need to sit close enough to the router. Setting up the recorder is easy, though. In most cases, you just have to plug it in, connect it to your router, and then boot it up. That’s the case with the DVR we received, and it started up nice and smooth. Next, we had to place the cameras and then connect them to the DVR. The latter was the tough part. All four cameras we received were indoor/outdoor types, but we decided to keep them all outdoors. After all, they looked too bulky for our interior design. Each camera needs two types of wires: The first one is for power, which plugs into a wall outlet; the second one goes to the DVR for data transfer. We had to get creative, which meant drilling, snaking wires through the ceiling, and using an all-important tool of the trade to keep the wires out of our way: duct tape. That said, not all Lorex cameras are as time-consuming to install as the one we had purchased. There are wire-free Lorex cameras that run on batteries and connect to Wi-Fi, so basically, all you’ll have to do is mount them. There are also cameras that do plug into a wall outlet but use Wi-Fi to transmit video and audio. Those cameras are called Wire-free and Wireless cameras, so check them out if they are more your style. Eventually, we got things done but after installing the cameras and the DVR, we still had questions about how to connect our system to the app. That was when we decided to call customer support. We also had the option of live chatting with a customer service rep on the Lorex website, but we felt that would be more time consuming. We were hopeful our representative would answer our questions, but honestly, we didn’t get the kind of service we expected. The representative we spoke with was a bit short and didn’t seem interested in helping. He did eventually help us set our system up, but it wasn’t the most professional experience we’ve ever had. Because our Lorex system was self-monitored, having a decent app was key, since that’s where we viewed our livestream and received notifications. The Lorex app worked on all devices, which was great because we used both Apple and Android products in our household. Once we downloaded the app, we got push notifications, saw both live and recorded video and grouped cameras together. For example, we grouped together our outdoor front cameras and outdoor back cameras which made it possible to livestream multiple cameras at one time. This made the self-monitoring portion simple when live streaming because we had eyes on multiple places simultaneously.   You Should Know: The mere presence of security cameras could deter an intruder, so install the cameras in a visible location. We’ve all heard the saying “you get what you pay for” and that’s the case with Lorex. Because of the wide variety of systems, there are a wide variety of prices. Our system was on sale for $387.99 but normally costs $699.99.   Money Saving Tip: Take advantage of Lorex’s open box deals, which are gently used security systems at a discounted price with a one-year warranty.  One of our favorite things about Lorex was there was no mandatory monthly fee. While the initial investment may feel like shelling out a large chunk of change at one time, many other security companies require long-term contracts and monthly fees even after the initial equipment costs. Some don’t even store footage unless you pay for a cloud subscription. The Ring cameras we reviewed, for example, require a $10 monthly fee to store videos from the entire camera system. But not Lorex; once we paid for the product we were done. Of course, that wouldn’t be the case if we sprung for the unlimited cloud storage, which broke down to $3.49 a month, but we opted out. Compared to most security camera brands we test, Lorex is kind of unique. Take Ring, for instance. This Amazon-owned security camera brand offers mostly wireless security cameras that store videos in the cloud. And without local storage, Ring cameras need a subscription to be able to record. The same goes for the Google Nest Cam family. That said, there are still brands like Lorex that offer local recording devices, or at the very least, security cameras with a microSD card slot for local storage. Swann and Wyze come to mind, both offering affordable video monitoring solutions. Let’s take one product from each brand and compare them to the Lorex 4K camera we tested. The following is the data and research conducted for this review by our industry-experts. Learn More. Lorex was a good option for us. We loved the clear video and lack of lengthy contracts and monthly fees. But because there was no professional monitoring option, this system’s best for someone who lives in a gated community, an apartment with a doorman or somewhere with other security measures in place. Otherwise, you may get stuck in a situation where you’re unable to call the police for whatever reason, but for someone looking to avoid monthly fees, Lorex is a great option. Find out how Lorex compares to other security cameras For a closer look at how Lorex performs, we compared it with other popular security cameras. Lorex cameras are secure because all of the footage is stored locally on a hard drive rather than in cloud storage. As long as you change your administrator password periodically and create long, complicated, and unique passwords every time, your system will be secure. Also, make sure to perform all firmware updates as soon as possible. Lorex is currently owned by Dahua Technology Co. FLIR Systems sold Lorex to Dahua in February 2018. Your Lorex cameras may have stopped working because the camera may not be connected to the power adapter. You might also have a faulty cable. PR News Wire. (2019). Smart Home Security Market to Grow at a CAGR Of 19.6% During 2018 – 2022.
prnewswire.com/news-releases/smart-home-security-market-to-grow-at-a-cagr-of-19-6-during-2018–2022–300927558.html About Us Contact Us Careers Our Research Deals & Promotions Password Strength Checker Password Generator What’s My Security Score?