Our vision: A safe, secure and prosperous Canada, through trusted intelligence and advice. CSIS is at the forefront of Canada's national security system. Our role is to investigate activities suspected of constituting threats to the security of Canada and to report on these to the Government of Canada. We may also take measures to reduce threats to the security of Canada in accordance with well-defined legal requirements and Ministerial Direction. CSIS Public Report 2023 2023 Progress Report on the CSIS Accessibility Plan
								 Government of Canada’s launch of a public consultation on legislative amendments to counter foreign interference
								 CSIS Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategy 2022
								 Avoiding Complicity in Mistreatment by  Foreign Entities Act - Annual Report to the Minister of Public  Safety
								 Protecting National Security in Partnership with All Canadians
								 The Evolution of Disinformation: A Deepfake Future
								 All news Learn more about job opportunities at CSIS. Report threats to national security. Keeping Canadians safe through counter-terrorism, security screening and protecting critical infrastructure. Learn more about Canada’s independent centre responsible for assessing terrorism threats to Canada and Canadian interests worldwide. CSIS' Academic Outreach and Stakeholder Engagement program seeks to better understand current and emerging issues related to security and intelligence. The program draws on experts from within government, academia, private business and other external bodies across the world. Learn about security assessments on persons whose employment with the Government of Canada requires them to have lawful access to classified information or sensitive sites. Learn more about how CSIS collects and shares intelligence. All related publications Interim Director Minister of Public Safety, Democratic Institutions and Intergovernmental Affairs Learn more about job opportunities at CSIS. Report threats to national security. Learn how CSIS works with experts to better understand security issues.