We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports 31 July 2024 — Guidance Information on which domestic and international events we will be at during 2024 to 2025, and guidance on how we can support businesses to participate. Service Targeted, sector-specific training and practical help for small and medium-size businesses looking to start exporting. Part of the Department of Business and Trade’s Export Academy. Service Search for export opportunities to bid for by product or location. Service Putting the right finance and insurance in place can help you to win contracts, fulfil orders and get paid. See if your business is eligible for UK Export Finance support. Service Guidance, training and updates on restrictions and regulations for military and dual-use items. 26 September 2023 — Collection UKDSE’s security brochures set out how UK companies can help to solve security problems for customers around the world. 

          See all latest documents
        
 We help UK defence, cyber and physical security, and civil maritime companies to export, and help overseas companies invest in the UK in these sectors. UKDSE is part of the Department for Business and Trade. 

              Read more about what we do
            
 Email 
dbt-ukdse.enquiry@businessandtrade.gov.uk
 Contact: Specific enquiries For specific enquiries, find team mailboxes in our contacts directory. 
 Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      