Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Apple revealed a number of new features coming to its devices during its WWDC conference in June, all of which are available now. For Mac, the new features come in the form of macOS 14 Sonoma and while there aren't as many new features for Mac as there are for iPhone with iOS 17 and Apple Watch with watchOS 10, there are still plenty that make updating to the new software worth it. The question is though, is your Mac compatible with the new software? The final build of macOS Sonoma is available now, so you can download it for free if your device is compatible. If you aren't sure if your Mac is compatible with macOS 14 Sonoma, we're here to help.
                         Apple is pretty good at supporting older devices for software updates, though there does come a point where the hardware running some older devices just won't cut it anymore and you'd get a bad user experience so support gets dropped instead. A couple of Mac models that supported macOS 13 Ventura have therefore lost support for macOS 14 Sonoma due to a lack of processing power, but there are still plenty of models that will run the new software.
                         The following Mac models are all compatible with macOS Sonoma:
                         Well, this is the other catch. While your Mac model might support macOS Sonoma, it might be that you don't get every single new feature offered by the software. There are some great features, like the ability to add widgets to your desktop, something called Presenter Overlay in video conferencing that lets you stay part of the conversation when you share your screen, a game mode and changes to Messages, among plenty more.
                         Presenter Overlay for example, is only available on Mac models running Apple Silicon though, while reacting with your hands to produce a 3D augmented reality effect on a FaceTime call, also needs a Mac with a built-in camera and running Apple Silicon. Game Mode on macOS Sonoma needs Apple Silicon too, and there are other features that are restricted to certain Mac models as well, so while you should get the majority of features, there might be a few you miss out on depending on what model you have.
                         Unlike iPhone and Apple Watch, Apple doesn't name its Mac models in number order. It typically distinguishes between models using the processor and year of release, which can make things a little confusing. If you are wondering what Mac you have, you wouldn't be alone. To find out what Mac model you have, follow these steps:
                         Apple Silicon models are distinguished by an "M" before them. For example, "M1" or "M2". If you want the model and serial number of your Mac model, you can get a little more information by holding down the Option key after you press the Apple logo in the top left corner, and then tapping on System Information and making sure Hardware is selected in the sidebar. From here, you'll find the Model Number, which you can cross reference with Apple's various support pages to identify your Mac model.
                         Apple released the final build of macOS 14 Sonoma on 27 September, which was a couple of weeks after iOS 17 and watchOS 10 were made available. You can download it by clicking on the Apple menu in the top left of your screen > Click on System Settings > Tap on Software Update > Click on Upgrade Now to begin the dowload.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Android Auto is great but could it be better ? A few fixes would improve it. PlayStation 5 games are more expensive than ever, but these tricks will make sure you never pay full price again. Google Wallet can hold credit cards and concert tickets, and now just by taking a picture you can add a digital representation of everything else. Creating AI images on X isn’t as straightforward as other AI image generation tools, but it can be done with a subscription to X Premium Google's event may have been focused on the Pixel 9 and Pixel Watch 3, but its AI announcements showed how ahead the company is of the competition. From the Action Button to some fancy photo-editing tools already baked in, you'll wish you had known about these iPhone 15 tricks sooner. 