Latest Wolves news from BirminghamLive includes two possible line-ups for this weekend's match against Liverpool Get Wolves transfer latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get Wolves transfer latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Wolverhampton Wanderers are plotting a revenge mission this weekend when beleaguered Liverpool come to town. Wolves’ players and supporters understandably hold some bitterness about their FA Cup exit to Liverpool last month and will be using that as motivation in the Premier League on Saturday (3pm). Liverpool are the only current top flight team that Wolves haven’t beaten in a Premier League match since their promotion in 2018. The Reds have defeated Wolves in eight consecutive games during that period.  READ: Joao Gomes makes point to Lopetegui and explains Cunha's role in transfer READ: Matheus Cunha responds to £43m ‘pressure’ and addresses Wolves position But this Liverpool team is vulnerable having lost three of its last six matches. It would have been four had VAR not failed Wolves and Toti Gomes at Anfield last month. Julen Lopetegui didn’t field his strongest available XI in either of those cup games. Rest assured, none of Wolves’ main players will be sitting out of Saturday’s clash. Here’s how we think Wolves will line up… Defence Jose Sa has his critics at the moment and his gaffe against Manchester City last time out has only increased the pressure on him. Daniel Bentley joined Wolves towards the end of the window, but Sa remains number one and will keep his spot. Lopetegui has consistently picked Nelson Semedo, Nathan Collins, Max Kilman and Hugo Bueno as Wolves’ back four in the Premier League. New signing Craig Dawson gives him an experienced alternative to the inexperienced Collins and Kilman. If Lopetegui wants some extra attacking intent from left-back he could bring Rayan Ait-Nouri back into the fold. Speaking about Ait-Nouri recently, Lopetegui insisted his future is at left-back, despite utilising him further forward of late. Lopetegui said: “With the ball he has a big quality, he has to adapt to play our way. Without the ball, he is going to improve a lot. He is very young. If he improves without the ball he is going to be a very good left-back.” Midfield One of Liverpool’s weaknesses this season has been their midfield. In contrast, the January arrivals of Mario Lemina and Joao Gomes have added to what was already a strong department at Wolves. Lemina has had several weeks training with his new teammates, which is likely to give him the edge over Gomes on this occasion. Joao Moutinho is another option for Lopetegui, but the veteran Portuguese is no longer assured of a starting berth. Ruben Neves and Matheus Nunes - who are both players of interest to Liverpool - will start the match. The expectation is that it will be Lemina alongside them. Attack Lopetegui surprised everyone by fielding a front three of Adama Traore, Raul Jimenez and Hwang Hee-chan at The Etihad. You can bet your bottom dollar he won’t do it again. Matheus Cunha will surely start through the middle after dropping to the bench in the last two matches. The striker now has a full month of training under his belt following his transfer from Atletico Madrid. Flanking Cunha should be Daniel Podence and fellow new signing Pablo Sarabia. Sarabia wasn’t able to make an impact against City, but he will become a fixture in Wolves’ line-up under Lopetegui. Predicted Wolves XI (4-3-3): Sa; Semedo, Collins, Kilman, Bueno; Lemina, Neves, Matheus; Sarabia, Cunha, Podence Alternative Wolves XI (4-3-3): Sa; Semedo, Collins, Dawson, Bueno; Gomes, Neves, Matheus; Sarabia, Cunha, Podence READ NEXT Inside Wolves deal to sign Joao Gomes after first spotting him in 2021 Brazilian football experts explain exactly what Gomes will bring to Wolves Klopp faces crisis as Liverpool miss six key players for Wolves match Check out all the latest Wolves news from BirminghamLive     Sign up for our free daily Wolves newsletter 