By James Evans For Mailonline   Published:  07:57 EDT, 6 March 2023   |  Updated:  08:41 EDT, 6 March 2023      1 View  comments  Conor Benn is set to face his first TV interview on Monday night since his positive drugs test last year - with fans anticipating more revelations in the explosive saga. The 26-year-old twice tested positive for a banned substance last year after Sportsmail broke the news of Benn's results ahead of his showdown with Chris Eubank Jr at the O2 Arena back in October. The bout was called off just two days before it was due to take place. Benn was quick to protest his innocence and submitted a 270-page document to the WBC to try and clear his name in December. The organisation revealed that there was 'no conclusive evidence' that the boxer intentionally took the banned substance - and has been cleared of any wrongdoing, though an investigation is still ongoing. With Benn's interview airing tonight, Sportsmail breaks down everything you need to know including how to watch and what time it airs.  Benn's exclusive interview with Piers Morgan about his failed drugs test will air this evening Conor Benn revealed that he was left on the 'brink of suicide' after the failed tests  Sportsmail's Riath Al-Samarrai broke the exclusive of Benn's positive drugs test last year  Leading up to the blockbuster showdown with Eubank Jr, Benn twice tested positive for clomifene in Voluntary Anti-Doping Association drugs tests last year. Clomifene is a women's fertility drug which is classified under hormone and metabolic regulators and can increase testosterone in men.  Benn's positive was discovered in testing in September by the Voluntary Anti-Doping Association and multiple sources told Sportsmail that a notification was made to all parties as far back as September 23.  On October 5, the Board of the British Boxing Board of Control Limited released a statement to confirm that they would prohibit the fight between Benn and Eubank Jr from taking place. Benn (R) was due to fight Chris Eubank Jr (L), but the bout was scrapped following the results Despite the statement, Benn maintained that the fight would still go ahead as planned. However, lawyers failed to get a High Court injunction to resurrect the fight - with the showdown officially being cancelled just two days before they were supposed to fight. The welterweight would turn over his licence to the British Boxing Board of Control (BBBoC), due to the investigation into the failed tests.  He was also removed from the WBC's world rankings - pending the outcome of the investigations.  Benn hasn't fought since his second-round TKO win over Chris van Heerden back in April 2022 Benn has always insisted he is innocent and repeatedly claimed he was a clean fighter in the aftermath of the scandal - immediately blaming contamination as a reason for the test results.  He said something in his food or drink might have been a factor - stating that the substance could have got into his system due to eating a high number of eggs in the build-up to the fight. Conor's legal team would go on to submit a 270-page document to the WBC (World Boxing Council) back in December in order to prove his innocence. What did the WBC say? The organisation restored him to their rankings after controversially ruling that his positive test could have indeed been caused by high egg consumption.  In a lengthy statement, they said there was 'no conclusive evidence that Mr Benn engaged in intentional or knowing ingestion of Clomiphene', but in a striking development they disclosed that contamination had not actually been the primary thrust of his defence, which favoured attacking VADA's testing processes. However, the statement made no reference to Benn's second positive for the same substance in September, which was first revealed by Sportsmail and led to the postponement of Benn's October fight with Chris Eubank Jr.  Is he in the clear now? No. While Benn has been cleared of wrongdoing, he has still not re-obtained his boxing licence and he is still under investigation by UK Anti-Doping and the British Board Boxing Board of Control.   That means he is not free to fight on a BBBofC show in this country while the probe is ongoing - though that hasn't stopped Eddie Hearn attempting to secure a new licence for one of his prized fighters. Benn (left) could still face a two-year ban pending the outcome of a separate investigation  Benn's interview is set to take place on Monday evening - with Morgan taking to social media to confirm the official date. In a post to Twitter, Morgan said: 'EXCLUSIVE: After two failed drug tests, and his career hanging by a thread, boxing star Conor Benn breaks his silence for his first TV interview. 'It was raw, emotional, shocking and combative. Airs Monday, only on @PiersUncensored @TalkTV.' The interview is set to air on the official Piers Morgan Uncensored YouTube channel Benn's interview with Morgan will be aired during the 'Piers Morgan: Uncensored' show on TalkTV. Monday's interview between Benn and Morgan is set to get underway at 8pm in the UK.  Fans hoping to tune into the show can do so on the official Piers Morgan Uncensored YouTube channel.  Following the investigation, Benn has revealed he is preparing to sue the British Boxing Board of Control for an expected £3.5million in damages after being cleared by a boxing authority of a doping offence. Benn is angry with the British Boxing Board of Control for not giving him the opportunity to clear his name. Speaking exclusively to The Mail on Sunday, Benn said: 'I've always been innocent and the Board have known about this for ages except they chose to call the show off two days before [it was due to take place']. 'There's been other fighters in the past who have tested positive under UKAD, and the board have done nothing. They've still been allowed to fight. 'It's just strange to me that VADA – the Voluntary Anti-doping Organisation that I employed myself for this fight – they've [the BBBoC] taken notice of other fighters who have failed the Board's own testing agencies.' The boxer also revealed that Benn said that the battle to prove his innocence of drug-taking has 'killed' him emotionally.  'It's killed me, definitely,' he said. 'It's like people have been waiting for something. People have been waiting for this. There are people who know me, know my team, and they know what we represent. It's all just crazy.'  Conor Benn has threatened to sue the British Boxing Board of Control for £3.5m in damages Benn revealed that the battle to prove his innocence of drug-taking has 'killed' him emotionally In a short clip uploaded to talkSPORT Boxing's official YouTube channel, Benn revealed to Morgan that he didn't think he was going to make it through this period and felt like he was on 'death row.' 'To be branded a cheat in the court of public opinion, what has that done to you?' Morgan asked.  'It's hurt me. I didn't think I was going to make it through this period,' said Benn. 'It's hard because I feel like I was on death row for something I hadn't even done. 'If I had done something wrong, you know, I am human. I would raise my hands to it, 'I made a mistake'. When asked if he was feeling suicidal, Benn said: 'Yeah, yeah I'd say so, and it upsets me now because I don't know how I got so bad. 'I got in a really bad way about it. You've got to remember, if you think I'm innocent or if you don't think I'm innocent, I am innocent.' Conor Benn will feature on the Piers Morgan: Uncensored on Monday evening  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group