By Ruth Francis For Mailonline   Published:  09:08 EDT, 16 July 2023   |  Updated:  11:26 EDT, 16 July 2023      14 View  comments  Vick Hope and Calvin Harris made a rare public appearance together on Sunday as they headed out for a leisurely lunch in Ibiza. The world-famous DJ, 39, who owns a farm on the party island, kept it casual in a white T-shirt and shorts, which he teamed with a printed shirt and black trainers. Vick, 33, meanwhile opted for a stylish blue, tie-dye print dress, which clung to her sensational curves and flashed a bit of leg. She kept her raven locks slicked back into a neat ponytail and accessorised with gold hoops and a shoulder bag with a black strap. The Radio 1 star paired the ensemble with gold sandals and dark sunglasses. Super style: Vick Hope and Calvin Harris made a rare public appearance together on Sunday as they headed out for a leisurely lunch in Ibiza Bearded hunk: DJ Calvin, 39, cut a causal figure in a white T-shirt which he wore with a printed shirt and black shorts The presenter looked happy and relaxed as she enjoyed her low-key date day with her partner of 17 months. The private pair were accompanied by Vick’s parents, Adeline Nwosu and Nigel Hope who were seen laughing next to the famous duo after flying out to enjoy some of the Ibiza summer season with their daughter and her DJ beau. Vick has been engaged to the superstar DJ for a year after he proposed just five months into their whirlwind romance. The happy couple split their time between Calvin's 138 acre Ibiza farm and their London pad. The chart topper proposed to Vick with a huge diamond ring underneath a tree at his farm, named Terra Masia. Vick, who starred on Strictly come Dancing a couple of years ago, flashed the ginormous rock at the 2023 Women's Prize for Fiction ceremony last month for all to see.  Recent reports claim that the pair are set to marry in an intimate ceremony later this year. A source told The Sun that the pair have their heart set on Ibiza for the big say because it is a 'very special place for them both.' So in love: The TV presenter and her DJ partner appeared totally at ease in each others company as they walked along the beach in Ibiza Family time: The private pair were accompanied by Vick’s parents, Adeline Nwosu and Nigel Hope who were seen laughing next to the famous duo  Home sweet home: The happy couple split their time between Calvin's 138 acre Ibiza farm and their London pad Love: The chart topper proposed to Vick with a huge diamond ring underneath a tree at his farm, named Terra Masia Famous face: Calvin has gone on to be one of the highest paid disk jockeys in the world and Vick is a highly successful TV and radio presenter Bling ring: Vick Hope displayed her engagement ring (pictured here) last month when she attended the 2023 Women's Prize for Fiction ceremony at Bedford Square Guardens in London The fiercely private couple first met back in 2007 when Calvin was an up-and-coming DJ with his hit Acceptable in the 80s. Vick – who was 19 at the time – rejected his advances when he made a move. She told You Magazine: 'It's something that we laughed about on our first proper date. We still laugh about it now.’ Calvin has gone on to become one of the highest paid disk jockeys and music producers, racking up an estimated £200-plus million fortune. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group