By Orla Loughran Hayes   Published:  09:12 EDT, 18 May 2023   |  Updated:  09:17 EDT, 18 May 2023      View  comments  SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Dailymail.co.uk will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.   Have you ever woken up with a stiff neck or back pain? If so, you're not alone. Many people suffer from discomfort caused by improper sleeping positions, and one of the main culprits is the pillow. That's where the Elviros Cervical Contour Memory Foam Pillow comes in. The number one bestselling neck pillow is specifically designed to cradle your neck and head, providing support and comfort throughout the night. And Amazon shoppers have shared how it's 'worked wonders' helping alleviate tension and pain. One of the best features of this pillow is its contour shape. It has a centre position to hold the head, which reduces stress on the spine and vertebrae, and the memory foam conforms to the shape of your head and neck, further providing support in all the right places. It's also available in two sizes and heights and has grooves where you can place your hands, allowing them to rest comfortably without getting in the way of your head or neck.  The Elviros Cervical Contour Memory Foam Pillow is a great investment for anyone looking to improve their sleep quality and reduce pain and discomfort  Unlike a traditional pillow, the Elviros Cervical Contour Memory Foam Pillow is (you guessed it) made of memory foam instead of feathers. Memory foam sounds like pretty high-tech stuff, and it is - conforming to your shape over time, it gives you the right amount of support. Also, this pillow is specially made to fit your neck curve and has a centre position to hold the head. This means that your head is prevented from rolling out of a stable position (easily done when you're nodding off).  It may take some getting used to if you're used to traditional pillows, but once you experience the difference in support and comfort, you'll never go back  No one wants stress when they're getting a good night's kip after a long, hard day. Luckily, the brand says that support in the head area like this brings ‘a reduction in stress in the cervical vertebra and spine’.  Also, if you’re someone who likes to sleep with your hand under the pillow, then this pillow should be good for you, too. It has special flap-like slots where you can place your hands, which reduces pressure on your hands and wrists and stops your shoulders from being pushed in front of you. It seems that lots of clever thinking has gone into the creation of this pillow and, judging from the Amazon reviews, it’s paying off. ‘Now my neck and back pain has gone, and my posture has improved. Highly recommended this pillow,’ wrote one happy buyer. Many people have been writing that the pillow has relieved their sleep problems, improved their posture and relived their body pain A second reviewer also found that it helped with their body pain: ‘It’s fantastic, and I recommend it to anyone who suffers from neck pain.’ A third penned: ‘Currently suffering from frozen shoulder and in pain throughout the night. This pillow has really helped to stop me from turning on my side which is extremely painful!  'It is comfortable and the support is great. It has eased my muscle pain and I would recommend it.’ So, if you’d like a pillow created to stop you from experiencing ghastly body pain and have better posture, then look no further than the Elviros Cervical Contour Memory Foam Pillow. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group