By Geraint Llewellyn For Mailonline   Published:  08:31 EDT, 28 July 2023   |  Updated:  11:36 EDT, 28 July 2023      61 View  comments  Amal Clooney looked sensational as she enjoyed a romantic dinner with dapper husband George at swanky restaurant Gatto Nero in Lake Como on Thursday. The couple appeared in high spirits as they made their exit and hopped into a chauffeur driven car while one excited fan tried desperately to grab a selfie.  Amal, 45, put on a very leggy display in a silver sequinned mini dress for the evening which boasted a daringly plunging neckline.  She added extra sparkle to her ensemble with diamond pendant earring and a pair of towering metallic heels.  Meanwhile George, 62, oozed sophistication in a dark grey suit which he layered over complementary shirt. Glamour: Amal Clooney, 45, looked sensational as she enjoyed a romantic dinner with dapper husband George, 62, at swanky restaurant Gatto Nero in Lake Como on Thursday Quick exit: The couple appeared in high spirits as they made their exit and hopped into their chauffeur driven car while one fan excited tried desperately to grab a selfie The couple, who wed in 2014, share five-year-old twins Alexander and Ella.  It comes after it was revealed the couple's pal Jennifer Aniston has formed an unlikely friendship with George's ex Lisa Snowdon. The Friends actress, 54, follows Lisa, 51, on Instagram and regularly likes her posts, particularly the former model's cooking tutorials. The Hollywood star most recently showed her appreciation for Lisa's 'detox broth' with chicken, garlic and chilli.  She also took some notes on Lisa's recipe for vegetarian pasta along with a post advertising an anti-ageing capsule. Jennifer also lent her support to Lisa when she released her book Just Getting Started: Lessons in Life, Love and Menopause.  The start provided a front cover quote for the tome, writing: 'Bravo, Lisa, for lifting the veil and shifting the perspective on this season in women's lives. It's not the end but a beginning.' It's not known exactly when Lisa and Jennifer first crossed paths but it was likely during Lisa's relationship with George. Legs 11: The lawyer put on a very leggy display in a silver sequinned mini dress that boasted a daringly plunging neckline Chic: Amal added extra sparkle to her ensemble with diamond pendant earring and a pair of towering metallic heels Woza! The skimpy frock perfectly showcased the stunner's long toned legs  Sensational: Amal accentuated her features with glamorous make-up and classic red lip  Let me through: George was forced to push himself through the scrum to his waiting motor Style: Meanwhile George oozed sophistication in a dark grey suit Chinwag: Chatted with pals outside the venue before hopping into their chauffeur driven car Kiss: George pecked the couple's pal on the cheek as they said their farewell  Cool dude: George layered his tailored jacket over a complimentary shirt Shotgun: Amal as first in the car  with George pulling up the rear  Bye! George exchanged a few words with the waiting fans   The model dated the A-list actor for five years after they met on the of a Martini advert in 2000. Speaking to The Sun, Lisa recalled: 'George was charming, a really nice man, good fun and we had a great time. It was quite wild.' She added: 'Sometimes I think it will be written on my tombstone — "George Clooney once dated Lisa Snowdon."' But she stayed tight-lipped on the saucier details that fans wanted to know, saying: 'I never tell', in response to questions about George's sexual prowess.  Pals: It comes after it was revealed the couple's pal Jennifer Aniston has formed an unlikely friendship with George's ex Lisa Snowdon  Former flame: It's not known exactly when Lisa and Jennifer first crossed paths but it was likely during Lisa's relationship with George (pictured in 2004)  Lisa admitted that while she has lost touch with George over the years, but remains friends with his Ocean's Eleven co-star Matt Damon. Speaking on I'm A Celebrity in 2016, Lisa said of the actor: 'He came to my birthday party. He’s really nice.' Jennifer has been a longtime friend of George's and she previously spent time with him and his wife Amal Clooney at their home in Lake Como, Italy after they welcomed their twins Ella and Alexander in 2017. During an appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, Jennifer said: 'It’s amazing to see him with children. 'That’s what we talked about. That anything can happen.'  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group