By Alanah Khosla   Published:  09:08 EDT, 4 September 2023   |  Updated:  09:33 EDT, 4 September 2023      View  comments  A self-made millionaire mother has fundraised more than £12,700 to buy hundreds of school uniforms for low-income households after becoming concerned at how the cost-of-living crisis is 'crippling families'.  In an experience she described as  'amazing', Kate Stewart, 41, from Liverpool, distributed the school uniforms to struggling families at the Sandon Pub, Anfield, which she owns, on Saturday. The businesswoman was inspired to help low-income families by setting up her Kids School Uniform Appeal on GoFundMe, following her previous struggle of purchasing school uniforms when she was a young mother.  Hundreds of children received two shirts and jumpers, two skirts or trousers, and a pair of shoes over the weekend, bought from shops including Sainsburys, Asda, Argos and Shoe Zone. The remaining items will be sent to churches in the Liverpool area to be given at food banks.  Kate Stewart (pictured left) raised £12,700 to buy hundreds of school uniforms for low-income families  She explained that the fundraiser was 'not just about throwing money at something, it's also about calling for change'. The business owner wants to see school uniform policies amended so students all wear generic clothing items that parents can iron or sew the school crest onto. She said: 'I work (in Liverpool) in a very deprived area, and children are returning to school and the parents just cannot afford new uniforms. 'The schools' policies are saying that everything's got to be branded - branded jumpers, branded coats, branded bags, branded PE kits - and it's making it inaccessible for low-income families.' Kate said shops are charging 'extortionate prices' for branded school uniforms and the cost of the items puts financial pressure on low-income families. She added: 'If your child loses a jumper, and you paid £3 to £5 for it, you could afford to replace it. When you pay £30 or £40 for a jumper, you can't afford to replace it.' Ms Stewart was inspired to purchase the uniforms after previously struggling to afford her daughter's uniform as a young mother. She explained: 'I had a baby at 17 and when she was four, I didn't have the money for her uniform and at the time, I had to go to my boss and swallow my pride and ask them for the sub out of my wages.' Kate, who made her first million aged 23 with tanning shops, was inspired to source school uniforms as she previously struggled to afford one for her child  Her boss helped her, and the experience prompted her to vow: 'when I make enough money, I'm going to do exactly the same and help people'. Kate made her first million aged 23 with a string of tanning shops and beauty salons, before becoming owner of Liverpool's Heritage Market and The Sandon pub. She also founded Vitality Homes, which aims to help integrate people previously addicted to drugs and alcohol back into society. The mother also helped low-income families by personally purchasing 250 uniforms for local children last year, facilitating a Christmas Market-themed free shopping day, sponsoring five local grassroots football teams, and other endeavours. She said the cost-of-living crisis is 'absolutely crippling' some families and that this 'has to be factored into what the uniform policy is'. She added: 'Stop making it so difficult on families across the nation and stop making children feel inadequate to their peers, because some children in school might come from a higher-income family and they might come in splashed in logos of the school. 'I'm trying to help these kinds of people who need it because it must be so hard. The pressure on these families is just not fair. 'I'm asking entrepreneurs and people who hold a high social responsibility to do the same in their cities. 'Let's all come together and let's help people in need of it and in financial difficulty.' 
	    Share what you think
           No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts,
      or debate this issue live on our message boards.
      
 We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group