By Maeve Bannister For Australian Associated Press   Published:  09:03 EDT, 25 July 2023   |  Updated:  09:13 EDT, 25 July 2023      50 View  comments  Sexual assault survivor advocates have strongly condemned suggestions it should be illegal not to report a rape to police. Greens senator Larissa Waters asked experts about the proposed change during a public hearing into Australia's consent laws. She referenced a submission Liberal senator Linda Reynolds made to an investigation into how Bruce Lehrmann's rape trial was handled. Senator Reynolds called for amendments to the ACT Crimes Act to deter individuals from using the media or parliamentary forums in relation to an alleged criminal offence that should be the subject of the criminal justice processes. Liberal senator Linda Reynolds (pictured) has been comdemned by sexual assault survivor advocates for submitting a proposed law that would make it illegal to not report rape to police  She also pointed to a section of NSW law that made it an offence for anyone who knew or believed a serious, indictable offence had been committed and failed to report it to police. Consent advocate Saxon Mullins said the former minister's comments were unbelievable. 'Survivors have lots of different experiences when they go through the justice system, and they'll have lots of different takeaways from it,' she told the parliamentary committee on Tuesday. 'But the one thing that will always stay the same is that your agency has been taken away. 'To suggest that that should be done on your behalf and of some perverted view of what justice looks like is disgusting.' Advocates asked to give their opinion by Greens MP Larissa Waters (pictured) have told a parliamentary committee the proposed law would hinder the agency of survivors  The head of Rape and Sexual Assault Research and Advocacy condemned the senator for making a 'completely ridiculous' assertion. 'It's a gruelling and difficult thing to report sexual violence to anyone in your life, to your most trusted confidant, let alone to a police organisation that historically doesn't have a great track record,' Rachael Burgin said. 'We strongly condemn those comments and question the ethos that got the senator to the point to make that statement.' 1800 RESPECT (1800 737 732) Lifeline 13 11 14 
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group