By Jessica Taylor For Mailonline   Published:  06:13 EDT, 27 April 2023   |  Updated:  10:17 EDT, 28 April 2023      225 View  comments  Tiny figurines of the UK royals show the Duke and Duchess of Sussex present at Windsor Castle following the coronation of King Charles as the royals are reunited in miniature.  Babbacombe Model Village, based in Torquay, Devon, has built a tiny coronation scene which shows King Charles and Queen Camilla being taken through the streets of Windsor as part of a royal procession following the coronation. The scene, designed by artist Wayne Stott, who has been pictured putting the finishing touches on his mini royals, features dozens of thumb-sixed figurines - including Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. The tiny replica of Meghan appears to be dressed in the outfit she wore when the couple were last seen in public on the Windsor Estate just after Queen Elizabeth passed away and the couple stepped out to greet royal fans who gathered to offer condolences following the monarch's death at the age of 96 last September. It comes as people around the country recreate both tiny and enormous versions of the royals - including a 7ft knitted dummy of King Charles.  Tiny replicas of the royal family, created by Babbacombe Model Village which is based in Torquay, Devon, shows the Duke and Duchess of Sussex (pictured) present in Windsor after King Charles's coronation Elsewhere among the figurines, King Charles and Queen Camilla have a post-coronation glow as they sit in a horse-drawn carriage lined with red and painted gold. They are travelling past a grand (although much smaller) Windsor Castle along the road, which is lined with royal fans. Above them is a string of Union Jack flags to celebrate the King and Queen being crowned. Babbacombe Model Village spokesman Mike Rhodes said: 'Everything you see at the Model Village from the model buildings to the miniature people have to be hand-crafted and this display took about three months to create. Elsewhere, the figurines show the King and Queen sitting in a horse-drawn carriage as they travel through Windsor Wayne Stott, who designed the miniature village, is seen putting the finishing touches on King Charles's figurine The designer at Babbacombe Model Village paints a touch of gold on the King's hat as he travels through the scene of 'Windsor' The scene passes by a grand (although much smaller) Windsor Castle which towers in the background of the procession A tiny replica of Prince Harry, dressed in a sharp grey suit and a dark blue tie, stands next to a Beefeater Wayne Stott walks in the background of the miniature coronation scene in which the figurines are thumb-sized The tiny replicas of Meghan Markle (left) and Prince Harry (right) have been described by the creators as 'surprise visitors' Mr Stott takes a closer look at the hat of King Charles as he sits in a horse-drawn open carriage while royal fans line the streets Wayne Stott paints white onto the hat of King Charles as he finishes off his tiny procession scene Toy brand Matchbox is also cashing in on the coronation - announcing it has replicated the 261-year-old carriage in which the King and Queen Consort will travel after the coronation ceremony at Westminster Abbey Matchbox has announced it will replicate the King's carriage in a miniature version to celebrate the coronation A CGI image of the tiny version of the carriage shows it being led by eight horses outside Buckingham Palace Another CGI image shows how Matchbox has replicated the eight horses which will lead the carriage 'As always at Babbacombe Model Village touches of humour are added into the scene - along with a surprise visitor. 'The scene will be on display until the end of June.' Harry and Meghan's 'reunion' with the royals comes after the Sussexes confirmed Prince Harry will attend his father's coronation next month, but Meghan will stay at home in California with the children. Buckingham Palace confirmed earlier this month: 'Buckingham Palace is pleased to confirm that The Duke of Sussex will attend the Coronation Service at Westminster Abbey on 6th May.  'The Duchess of Sussex will remain in California with Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet.'  Charles will be crowned in a ceremony full of pomp, pageantry and traditions that date back 1,000 years, following the 70-year reign of his mother Queen Elizabeth II who died last September. Omid Scobie, who is a trusted contact of the Sussexes, tweeted the news of Harry's forthcoming attendance and then added: 'I understand that Archie's fourth birthday (also on May 6) played a factor in the couple's decision. 'Expect it to be a fairly quick trip to the UK for Prince Harry, who will only be attending the coronation ceremony at Westminster Abbey.' Elsewhere, toy brand Matchbox has released CGI images of its own tiny royal replicas in honour of the coronation. The tiny model is a 1:64 replica of the 261-year-old carriage which will carry the newly-crowned King and Queen Consort back in a grand procession to Buckingham Palace on May 6.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group