By Kinta Walsh-cotton For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:06 EDT, 24 September 2023   |  Updated:  04:50 EDT, 24 September 2023      127 View  comments  Kenzie Greaves left FIFO work behind this year when she realised she could earn a much bigger salary on OnlyFans instead of toiling away in the Perth mines. The New Zealand-born beauty, 24, who moved to Australia six months ago, initially made adult content on the side to offset the 'ridiculous' cost of living.  But once she started raking in thousands more than she was making in the mines, Kenzie decided to jump ship to the X-rated platform full time - and she hasn't looked back.  'The pay for FIFO was so bad, everybody raves about how good it is but it's s**t, and I was making so much more [on OnlyFans] even when I wasn't doing it full-time,' Kenzie told Daily Mail Australia this week. She added: 'It depends on what role you are in and how long you've been there, but it's not as much as people think. It's very over-glamourised.' OnlyFans model Kenzie Greaves, 24, (pictured) left FIFO work behind this year when she realised she could make thousands of dollars more than she did in the Perth mines Kenzie revealed she earned 'about $1,500 a week' working 90 hours when she was doing FIFO for one week on, one week off.  Now, she rakes in a whopping $15,000 a week on average from OnlyFans subscriptions and content she films with other male and female creators.  Despite her massive success, Kenzie said she never thought her OnlyFans account would grow as big as it has when she first started. She opened the account while working as a carpenter and later a personal trainer in New Zealand so she could supplement her low income and make ends meet.  'Everybody knows that the wages and the living cost there are ridiculous. My job that I was doing just wasn't cutting it, so I started a side hustle for extra money,' she said.  The New Zealand-born beauty turned to OnlyFans to offset the 'ridiculous' cost of living Six months ago, Kenzie was still filming content for OnlyFans on the side when she moved to Perth to work in the mines. She said she chose the FIFO industry so she could make money and meet new people as she acclimated to living in Australia.  However, things quickly took a turn when she arrived on site for the first time to find all her new workmates and bosses already knew who she was.   'Apparently my name got spread around quite quick and everyone searched my Instagram and then obviously there's the [OnlyFans] link in my bio,' she said. 'So it's pretty obvious... It only took about three days before people were already on it and showing it around.' She opened the account while working as a carpenter and later a personal trainer in New Zealand so she could supplement her low income and make ends meet  Kenzie revealed she earned 'about $1,500 a week' working 90 hours when she was doing FIFO work, but now rakes in $15,000 a week  Despite being confronted by her male colleagues about her sex work, Kenzie kept her eye on the prize and pushed through it, deciding she would keep working until she could make OnlyFans a full-time gig. 'I've worked in male-dominated industries my entire life so it didn't really bother me to be honest. I just own it,' Kenzie said. 'If people are going to judge then they're not the type of people I want to be around. 'I'm making so much more money doing [OnlyFans] so I just was like, "Okay cool, well you guys are the ones paying my bills if you're subscribing so go for it, show it around."' The former mine worker said she worked nonstop to make money while stationed in the Perth FIFO camp.  When she wasn't working in the mines, she was replying to her OnlyFans subscribers and posting content for them.  During her weeks off, she would bulk film content to post while she was living in the camp. She even once filmed content while wearing her work uniform in the camp and said it was 'a big hit'.   Now, she rakes in a whopping $15,000 a week on average from OnlyFans subscriptions and content she films with other male and female creators 'It was pretty difficult because I was working 90 hour weeks for FIFO,' Kenzie said. 'I would wake up at two in the morning, I would reply to all my DMs before I went to the gym before work, and then I would reply on my breaks at work, and then at night time I would be uploading new content and replying as well. 'I did one week on, one week off. My weeks off would be when I would make the videos for when I was away.' The former mine worker said she worked non-stop to make money while stationed in the Perth FIFO camp - replying to subscribers and filming content during her few breaks It wasn't long before Kenzie started raking in way more money than she was earning from her day job and decided to quit.  She said her workmates and bosses all 'hated' her for leaving the mines to make a living as a sex worker, but she revealed they are all now subscribed to her page.  Kenzie said she is much happier doing OnlyFans full-time than she ever was working in New Zealand or the Perth mines, and wants to keep doing it for at least 10 years.   'It's so enjoyable and lets me live the life I want to live. So I don't see myself doing anything else right now,' she admitted.  Now, Kenzie said she is much happier doing OnlyFans full-time than she ever was working in New Zealand or the Perth mines, and wants to keep doing it for at least 10 years Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group