By Laura Parkin For Mailonline   Published:  09:01 EDT, 22 March 2023   |  Updated:  10:40 EDT, 22 March 2023      80 View  comments  David Beckham posed for photos with Snoop Dogg as he and his son's Romeo and Cruz joined the rapper backstage after his London show on Tuesday.  The former footballer, 48, went for a casual look in a charcoal Supreme hoodie and black cargo trousers.  Snoop Dogg, 51, donned a sporty black sweater and matching joggers with his signature Death Row Records necklace.  Smiling for the photos at The O2 Arena, the famous family appeared to be having the time of their lives while David caught up with his pal.  Beneath the photos he penned: 'The Man was back in town last night @SnoopDogg. So good to see you man. Talking kids, grandkids & LA.'  Catching up: David Beckham, 48, posed for photos with Snoop Dogg as he and his son's Romeo and Cruz joined the rapper backstage after his London show on Tuesday Fun night: Smiling for the photos at The O2 Arena, the famous family appeared to be having the time of their lives while David caught up with his pal Cruz, 18, donned a denim jacket with a white T-shirt and a gold version of Snoop Dogg's necklace.  Meanwhile, Romeo, 20, also wore a matching necklace with a tan knitted hoodie and a pair of straight leg jeans.  During the show, Snoop Dogg celebrated 25 years of hip hop and was joined on stage by artists he has collaborated with over the years.  It comes after David cut a despondent figure as he left the main stand at Hendon to see his son Romeo play for Brentford B on Monday night.  The younger Beckham came off the bench to play the final 17 minutes of their London Senior Cup quarter-final, as Brentford B looked to retain the trophy they won last year. Instead, they were eliminated by a 3-1 defeat to Southern League Premier Division South Hendon, after two late goals from the hosts. David Beckham was one of 345 fans in attendance at Silver Jubilee Park on Monday night, and he was happy to pose for a photo with Hendon's matchday secretary Jeremy Lawrence.  Lawrence jokingly wrote: 'Ok then David. As you asked so nicely'.  Pals: Snoop Dogg, 51, donned a sporty black sweater and matching joggers with his signature Death Row Records necklace Matching: Cruz, 18, donned a denim jacket with a white T-shirt and a gold version of the rapper's necklace Performance: During the show, Snoop Dogg celebrated 25 years of hip hop and was joined on stage by artists he has collaborated with over the years Fun: The musician was beaming as he donned a pair of shade and sang Risqué: He was joined by a lingerie-clad dancer on stage at the O2 When the final whistle was blown, Hendon's official Twitter account confirmed the score and wrote: 'Great to see David Beckham grace our ground tonight ❤️'  According to Brentford's match report, Romeo joined the action with the score all square, after J’Neil Bennett’s 55th minute penalty for the visitors was cancelled out by Hendon's Niko Muir. The match looked like it was going straight to penalties, the method used to settle any match tied at full-time. Then Lee Allinson's hosts struck twice at the death.  Romeo Beckham is on loan at the west London side from Inter Miami II, and he secured his first goal for the club with an injury-time winner against Wealdstone last month. Gracious: It comes after David cut a despondent figure as he left the main stand at Hendon to see his son Romeo play for Brentford B on Monday night with Jeremy Lawrence Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group