By Ross Heppenstall For The Daily Mail   Published:  08:58 EDT, 17 September 2023   |  Updated:  16:46 EDT, 17 September 2023      36 View  comments  Nobody seems quite sure how good Leeds United can be this season, least of all themselves, but that they are moving in the right direction is undeniable. A first victory at Millwall in 11 years – courtesy of three devastating counter-attacking goals – was proof enough. To go to deepest, darkest Bermondsey and win this emphatically is not easy. It was not pretty at times either as Daniel Farke's men were forced to withstand some uncomfortable early moments before their class told. In Willy Gnonto, Crysencio Summerville, club-record £36million signing Georginio Rutter and summer recruit Joel Piroe, Farke has a forward line dripping with pace, power and creativity. Joel Piroe celebrates the second of his two goals as Leeds eased to a 3-0 win away to Millwall The Dutch striker was left with a tap-in for his second goal after Dan James teed him up Georginio Rutter lashed home a third goal for Leeds moments after they'd doubled their lead It set the seal on a handsome victory which lifted Leeds up into the Championship top half Joel Piroe rolls the ball home to culminate a slick Leeds move and given them an early lead Piroe scored twice and Rutter – who has been revitalised under Farke – weighed in with a late third. The home stands had long since emptied by the time Farke headed towards the 2,000 Leeds fans to celebrate victory. After winning 4-3 at Ipswich in their previous away game, this was further evidence that the new chapter being patiently written by Farke is one of substance. The German, a two-time promotion winner from the Championship with Norwich, said: 'I'm proud of my guys because I've played here several times and I know it's an unbelievably tough place to come. 'You have to be on it and as a club we've waited more than a decade for three points here. 'We had to show steel and resilience against Millwall's long balls – you have to dig in and give your life to stay calm. 'We then showed our quality with three amazing team goals. The three points were priceless.' Summer signing Ethan Ampadu and 17-year-old Archie Gray again formed a successful midfield partnership while on-loan Tottenham defender Joe Rodon epitomised Leeds' collective desire by putting his head in where it hurts. Leeds goalkeeper Ilian Meslier misjudges the flight of the ball as Tom Bradshaw pounces Rodon received a nasty cut under his eyebrow for his troubles during the first half but soldiered on and was outstanding. Farke added: 'Joe showed a warrior mentality and that's exactly what you need at a place like this.' With a bumper crowd and live television audience, there was certainly no hiding place for Leeds; not that they suggested they were looking. After surviving Millwall's early aerial bombardment, Leeds led in the 15th minute, putting them on the road to their first win here in seven attempts. A piece of improvisational defending saw captain Luke Ayling clear the danger with his head before Piroe appeared to foul Kevin Nisbet on the edge of Leeds' 18-yard box. Yet referee Chris Kavanagh allowed play to continue and Gray found Rutter advancing at pace. Wilfried Gnonto of Leeds turns out of trouble during the Sunday lunchtime game at The Den Georginio Rutter of Leeds tries to get clear of Allan Campbell and Billy Mitchell (left) Rutter played the ball out to Gnonto on the left flank and then took a reverse pass from the Italy winger before producing a deft touch to find Piroe inside the penalty box. The summer signing from Swansea took one touch to control the ball and a second to rifle low and hard past Bartosz Bialkowski. To Leeds it was the classic scam – keep cool under pressure and hit the enemy when they are least expecting it. Farke said: 'You could put that goal into a book and sell it because it was so wonderful.' Leeds look well suited to playing away from home on the counter-attack this season and went close to a second when Summerville's clever lobbed effort sailed narrowly wide of Bialkowski's far post. Illan Meslier showcased his shot-stopping ability with smart saves from Ryan Longman and Tom Bradshaw either side of half-time. Millwall supporters tried hard to rouse their team but Rowett's men lacked the guile to unlock a resolute Leeds rearguard. Piroe tapped home his second with 13 minutes remaining when substitute Dan James' scuffed effort fell kindly into his path. Rutter got the goal he deserved with a thumping left-foot finish to cap another deadly counter-attack. Leeds captain Luke Ayling chases Tom Bradshaw as the Millwall man tried to break away Jake Cooper of Millwall slides in to stop Crysencio Summerville as he goes on a run Farke, who revealed another Spurs loanee, Djed Spence, will be out for several weeks with knee ligament damage, said: 'The relationship between Rutter and Piroe was quite good. 'It's improving and you can sense that on the training ground.' Millwall boss Gary Rowett said: 'The scoreline felt a bit harsh and not a fair reflection of the effort the players put in. 'But I expect Leeds to be up there this season with the quality they have in attack.' Millwall (3-1-4-2): Bialkowski 6.5; Leonard 6.5, Cooper 6.5; Wallace 6; Mitchell 6 (Saville 84); Norton-Cuffy 7, Campbell 6 (Esse 64, 6); Longman 6.5 (Emakhu 73, 6); De Norre 6 (Flemming 64, 6); Bradshaw 7.5, Nisbet 6.5 (Watmore 64, 6) Subs (not used): Trueman (gk), McNamara, Harding, Adom-Malaki Manager: Gary Rowett Leeds United (4-2-3-1): Meslier 7.5; Ayling 7, Rodon 7.5, Struijk 7.5, Byram 6.5; Ampadu 7.5, Gray 7.5 (Gruev 89); Summerville 7 (James 69, 6), Gnonto 7 (Anthony 69, 6), Piroe 8.5 (Kamara 83); Rutter 8.5 (Gelhardt 89) Subs (not used): Darlow (gk), Cresswell, Shackleton, Poveda Scorers: Piroe 15, 78; Rutter 81 Manager: Daniel Farke Referee: Chris Kavanagh 6.5  Attendance: 17,909 Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group