By Riath Al-Samarrai for the Daily Mail    Published:  07:29 EDT, 15 January 2023   |  Updated:  03:10 EDT, 17 January 2023      425 View  comments  Whatever else is said about the patience of those who follow Chelsea, a sense of humour is at least surviving through these tricky times. And so they had themselves a little sing when it finally went right for a change, which is to say Kai Havertz got a header on target and with it that rarest of things – a win under Graham Potter. 'We are staying up,' was the message, and perhaps that was an overstatement of their difficulties, but it has just been that kind of season. That kind of tenure. That kind of period where if you don't laugh you might run a good manager out of town. Kai Havertz's header midway through the second half proved the difference as Chelsea recorded a much-needed victory Prior to the game Stamford Bridge had proven an emotional setting as the club paid tribute to the late Gianluca Vialli  The German celebrated wildly as the Stamford Bridge crowd urged their team on after a difficult few weeks for the club Of course, with Chelsea and the two-headed beast of their injuries and form, it is premature to say with any certainty if this will be a belated start of the new chapter, or a solitary sheet of paper for their many cracks. That they won for only the second time in nine games in all competitions ought to be kept in the context of Crystal Palace's own limitations of late, not to mention a recognition that it was only possible because Kepa Arrizabalaga made excellent saves from rocketed volleys in each half. Graham Potter appeared relieved as his players alleviated some of the pressure on his shoulders with the victory on Sunday Myhailo Mudryk - the club's latest signing - was paraded around Stamford Bridge at half-time having arrived in London to complete his move The first half was a cagey affair with neither side having many clear cut opportunities and defences cancelling each other out  But a victory is a victory and the only known way of stopping the sort of grumbles that have spread with growing volume of late. As Potter put it: 'I'd be lying if I said I wasn't relieved.' With a forthcoming fixture against the fading force of Liverpool followed by Fulham and West Ham, the necessity now is that this becomes part of a sustained move and not an outlier against recent trends, though a raised mood will only help with such missions. That was assisted in part by the unveiling at half-time of Mykhailo Mudryk on a bafflingly long contract of eight and a half years. The reception he received as he entered the pitch felt like a celebration for the arrival of the cavalry, though it will also be noted Chelsea have never lacked for new signings. Indeed, Mudryk is their 13th in one and a half windows, which is arguably part of the problem for Potter. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was introduced by Graham Potter and immediately gave Chelsea a renewed impetus for the remainder of the game Thiago Silva led a young back four expertly as he marshalled his fellow defenders to keep out Crystal Palace's dangermen Chelsea (4-2-3-1): Arrizabalaga 8; Chalobah 6, Thiago Silva 7, Badiashile 6, Hall 7 (Koulibaly 77); Gallagher 7, Jorginho 6.5; Ziyech 7.5 (Kovacic 88), Chukwuemeka 5.5 (Aubameyang 63, 5.5), Mount 6.5; Havertz 7 (Azpilicueta 89). Subs not used: Bettinelli, Loftus-Cheek, D Fofana, Cucurella, Humphreys. Booked: Jorginho, Gallagher. Manager: Graham Potter 7. Crystal Palace (4-2-3-1): Guaita 7; Clyne 6.5, Guehi 6, Andersen 6 (Tomkins 37, 6.5), Mitchell 6.5; Schlupp 6 (Hughes 69, 6), Doucoure 6.5; Olise 6.5, Eze 5.5 (Edouard 69, 6), Zaha 6; Ayew 6 (Mateta 69, 6). Subs not used: Johnstone, Ward, Milivojevic, Richards, Ikechukwu. Booked: Clyne, Doucoure, Eze, Guehi, Hughes. Manager: Patrick Vieira 6. Ref: Peter Bankes 7.   The question, as ever, is if the new blood will assimilate and justify the cost, which in Mudryk's case was in excess of £62million. The need for an early impact from the forward is quite urgent, as highlighted by a match in which Chelsea had the vast majority of possession but managed only five shots on goal, one being the Havertz's winner midway through the second half. On other days such ineffectiveness might have tipped the fans over the edge, but it is possible any antipathy here was quelled by the solemn nature of how the afternoon began, with touching and well co-ordinated tributes to Gianluca Vialli, led in the centre circle by a variety of his former team-mates from John Terry to Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink. There were also colourful banners in the stands, which offset the grey nature of what initially unfolded on the pitch. For this one, Potter had opted to make five changes, which in light of the squad's ailments – 11 in the treatment room at last count – would indicate just how far he is from a settled plan.  Of those alterations, there was a debut for Benoit Badiashile, while Jorginho, Conor Gallagher, Carney Chukwuemeka and Hakim Ziyech also returned. The upshot of such dramatic surgery was a number of defensive holes that allowed Palace some early success in getting behind, though their chances across a dull first half were predominantly contained to one sweet volley from Michael Olise and a Jeffrey Schlupp header.  Both were well saved by Kepa - he developed into Potter's best player on the day. In credit to Chelsea, they increased their tempo between scares and created a good headed chance for Havertz, which he wasted, and another when the same man was a fraction short of reaching a pull back by Conor Gallagher.  Lewis Hall then came close to lashing in the loose ball, before Vicente Guaita made an exceptional save in nudging over a drive from Ziyech. The pressure on Patrick Vieira's side gradually increased through the second half, before Chelsea teed up Palace's third defeat in four league games via a corner routine.  The move started with a short exchange of passes between Gallagher and Ziyech before the latter whipped to Havertz.  The forward was helped by Schlupp and Cheick Doucoure impeding one another, but the header was excellent. His next attempt from a Mason Mount cross was not nearly so good, given it was misdirected in front of a largely open goal, and the cost was almost underlined moments later when Doucoure thundered a volley on a course for the top corner.  Kepa somehow kept it out and Potter managed a smile. Caitlin Clark breaks silence on prospect of joining new league Olympic medalist Alysha Newman's OF exploded after viral celebration Raygun's coach and husband performs his own style of breakdancing Tom Brady teases NFL comeback in new vlog PM greets Aussie athletes as they return home after Olympics Moment a brawl breaks out among White Sox and Cubs fans in Chicago. Fist fights leads to a bloody mess between Cowboy and Rams fans Accelerator Active Energy Q&A with Travis Kelce and Livvy Dunne Steph Curry's wife Ayesha in tears after exchange with French cops Trans golfer, Hailey Davidson, shares video practicing golfing Police confirm Biden is '421' during Vegas emergency Steph Curry involved in HEATED exchange with fans outside afterparty Relive the action with Sportsmail's live blog for the Premier League clash between Chelsea vs Crystal Palace, as well as updates from Newcastle vs Fulham.  Host commentator That will be a major relief for Chelsea. It wasn't always pretty, but they've ended their run of three defeats in three. Full match report is to follow. Thanks for joining us.  Have a nice evening.  Hughes and Olise combine well on the right to maintain pressure on Chelsea's back four. Koulibaly heads clear but waves and waves of Palace attacks continue coming.  They can't get it far enough away from their goal. Tomkins tries to flick the ball on, but Azpilicueta gets it clear. Edouard has a chance at a tight angle but there's a sliding challenge from Azpilicueta on him, which came off the forward. Goal kick to Chelsea, with the full-time whistle imminent.  Everyone is back for Chelsea defending their slender lead. Palace are really pushing for something here.  Corner for Palace after Doucoure swings the ball in. Edouard jumps with Badiashile. Thiago Silva wins the first header to clear but Palace come again.  That is so poor from Palace. They get a free-kick on the right, which is swung in with all the defenders forward. But it clears everyone and out for a goalkick. Have to take advantage of those situations at this stage of the game.  Mount overhits a pass when he should be able to slip in Aubameyang. Seven minutes of added time to play.  Newcastle lead against Fulham. Alexander Isak.  More changes for Chelsea. Ziyech and Havertz for Kovacic and Azpilicueta. The German played much, much better when Aubameyang was introduced.  Chelsea are continuing to strive for another goal. Mount does well to get the ball forward, but Doucoure breaks up the hosts attack to get Palace back into Chelsea's defensive area.  Mateta again does well to hold onto it and allow midfield runners to get forward. And a great save by Arrizabalaga keeps out Doucoure's effort. Zaha then manages to isolate Chalobah, who recovers well to block the Ivorian's shot out for a corner. The game is beginning to get a bit tetchy. Gallagher is down holding his face, Palace players are not having it and they try to force him off.  Oooft, that is not a great challenge by Hughes on Gallagher. He immediately apologises, and is booked. That could have gone either way.  Chelsea have seven minutes plus injury time to see the game out. Palace haven't exactly looked like threatening since their changes. Mateta has a decent touch and holds the ball up well before Gallagher goes through him and he's booked as a result.    Doucoure is walking on a tight rope. Again, he can probably consider himself lucky not to receive a second booking. Vieira, meanwhile, for complaining is booked.  The free-kick ends up at the feet of Mount, who puts a delicious cross in. Havertz should score! He misses but he has Aubameyang behind him who looks so frustrated. That would have been game over.  Palace now have a wind behind them having got away with one there. Koulibaly is being readied to come on. Hall is off for him. For his sake, you hope that issue he went down with doesn't give him too much trouble.  The former Napoli man goes to left-back. He can't have played there too many times.  Lewis Hall plays a brilliant ball on the half-volley into Aubameyang. A really nice bit of play. He's now down. It looks like cramp, but he could have tweaked something.    It was Aubameyang with the chance. Intelligent play by the forward to fashion the chance.  Meanwhile, Doucoure was lucky there to avoid a second booking for a foul on Gallagher.  Schlupp, Ayew and Eze off for Edouard, Mateta and Hughes. Around 20 minutes to go. Chelsea could benefit from the space left by Crystal Palace now.  Huge chance for Chelsea and a save by Guaita! Up at Newcastle, it's chaos Mitrovic has given Fulham the lead... or has he? He's kicked it twice! Free-kick to Newcastle.  Mateta and Edouard are being readied for Crystal Palace. The time is now for them to try and lay a glove on Chelsea's young backline.   Kai Havertz. Inspired change from Potter! He had seen enough of the team with Chukwuemeka, traditionally a deeper midfielder, playing in the '10' role. Aubameyang, who he introduced, combines well with Havertz to win Chelsea a corner.  It's swung in by Ziyech, evading Schlupp with Havertz sneaking in behind to score. An intelligent substitution if that 30 second period is anything to go by. Aubameyang drops in and Havertz goes beyond him. They win a corner. Debates about Potter will rage but Chelsea supporters cannot be too happy about this football. It is quite tepid, injuries notwithstanding.  Palace win a throw in wide on the left in the Chelsea attacking third, they think they should then have a throw in but it's a goalkick. Changes are now made by Potter. Aubameyang is on for Chukwuemeka, with Havertz dropping in behind him.  Chelsea come again, this time through Chukwuemeka but his touch sees Crystal Palace win a throw. Another foul on Jorginho sees Chelsea win a free-kick. Changes can't be far away, there appears little impetus in this game at present.  Ooo, almost an opening for Chelsea through a fortunate series of events! They attack and James Tomkins has to come across to clear. It's blocked by a pressing Mason Mount but Guaita is alert enough to the danger.  It's difficult for Chelsea as they struggle to get players up and around Havertz. Ziyech, though, uses his thigh well to find Gallagher. His ball in-field to Havertz allows the German time to shoot but it would have to be special. Lewis Hall has enjoyed his first proper touches of the half. Mount and him exchange passes, and it's the 18-year-old's poor touch that sees Chelsea give it away. Palace win a throw in their defensive right-back position.  Chelsea give the ball away in a dangerous area. Olise finds Zaha, whose shot is blocked by Arrizabalaga. Poor from Gallagher to give it away there. Appears as though Vieira has told his team to be calmer on the ball and more patient in their attempts to break through Chelsea.  Thiago Silva dispossesses Ayew and goes on a barnstorming run forward - Eze accepts his booking by hauling him down. The free-kick is knocked backwards, with Badiashile receiving it before passing it back to Thiago Silva.  Chelsea's first booking this afternoon as Jorginho hauls down Olise when he was looking to break. The free-kick is cleared, but only to the Frenchman and he's able to dance forward. Guehi and Doucoure exchange passes out wide and the defender is brought down by Havertz. The free-kick is swung in by Eze, who has been quiet today, but it's cleared. Trevoh Chalobah was briefly down. We get back underway after that brief stoppage. Palace win a throw in an attacking position on the right thanks to Ayew. Mount gets us back underway. Excitement at half-time came from Mudryk being introduced. Chelsea supporters will have to survive just watching their current stars this half. The hosts knock it around conservatively to try and get up to rhythm.  Possession: Chelsea 69 - 31 Crystal Palace Shots: 6 - 4 On target: 1-3  Corners: 9 - 4 Half-time. It is greeted by a smattering of applause. The last major action of the half saw Ziyech's effort brilliantly stopped by Guiata. A good end to the half for both goalkeepers. The hosts' have enjoyed 72 per cent of the ball, but this is the charge that can be levelled against Potter teams is that: have they used that to the best of their ability? The answer is surely no.  Minutes to go until half-time and Palace come forward through Doucoure and then Mitchell. His cross is blocked out for a corner. Two minutes are added on.  The referee has made a rod for his own back by insisting on the quadrant law being applied. Supporters on both sides trying to referee that.  A great save by Arrizabalaga! Schlupp's header is directed powerfully and the Spaniard does so well to keep that out. Lewis Hall is fouled by Nathaniel Clyne, who is booked as a result. Conor Gallagher stands over the free-kick but it is comfortably cleared and Chelsea claim a throw in. Chukwuemeka comes across to receive it. His cross is then blocked by Tomkins for another corner. Gallager stands over that and the supporters he endeared last season take pleasure in reminding him - and referee Peter Bankes - that the ball isn't within or touching the quadrant.  The hosts' win a corner thanks to Lewis Hall's cross being blocked by James Tomkins, who has been introduced for Andersen. The last time he played he was sent off on Boxing Day.  Chelsea are sustaining pressure here. Chalobah and Hall are playing high, which is what Potter wants.  More good play by Ziyech leads to another huge Chelsea opportunity. he dances in field and finds Gallagher who then knocks it onto Hall. He is unlucky not to score after driving his left-footed effort beyond Guaita's goal. Joachim Andersen has just risen after briefly going down with a knock. He will have to go off. Chelsea supporters are whistling to illustrate their displeasure at the Dane's perceived time wasting in trudging off. They are briefly down to 10 men, with Doucoure slipping into right centre-back.  That could be a big loss for Palace.  Havertz is now operating in the sort of areas that you imagine Frank Lampard would have envisaged when he sanctioned the £90m move for the German three years ago.  He picks it up and is given far too much room to turn and drive at the Palace back four, who are defending a bit desperately.  Jorginho is being afforded a lot of space to operate within. He gets the ball wide to Hall, whose cross is claimed by Guiata. Meanwhile, at St James' Park it remains 0-0 between Newcastle and Fulham. There are an array of legends in the ground for Chelsea today. Mark Hughes is here, arms-crossed.  Half an hour gone and it's been an intense opening period to the game. At Manchester City last weekend there was a banner in the Chelsea end which read 'Vinci per Luca' (win for Luca) - the tributes to the Italian before the game appear to have galvanised the crowd and players. Chelsea come forward down the right again through Ziyech. He finds Mount whose ball is in for Havertz. He has to score! His header from eight-10 yards out goes over the bar. He stays down after as a result of taking a knock. Chelsea have recovered from a 10 or so minute spell where they were poor. They are much improved. A wonderful pass by Ziyech finds Mount and he tries to cut it back for Havertz but nothing doing.  Palace's full-backs, Clyne and Mitchell, are struggling a bit. Gallagher avoids a serious injury potentially there. His touch is heavy and he stretches for it, with Doucoure catching him low down on the foot. The Palace midfielder is booked for the challenge.  He briefly stays down which must have been a worry for Potter but he gets up and soon after wins Chelsea corner. Meanwhile, they have confirmed the signing of Mykhailo Mudryk from Shakhtar Donetsk.    At the moment, Palace look more dynamic and quicker to the ball. Their midfield of Doucoure and Schlupp look sharper than Gallagher, Mount and Jorginho.  That said, Mount does well again to evade Andersen and he gets to the byline where he wins a corner. Ziyech stands over it on the right.  He floats a deep one towards the edge of the box which is headed back across by Thiago Silva. He then has a second bite at the cherry with his head, before driving a half-volley at the Palace goal which is superbly stopped by Guaita.  Before the World Cup break Potter spoke about his team needing to maintain confidence throughout the game. It has evaporated here in a matter of Palace attacks. You surely cannot be that vulnerable having given away two half chances.  Palace are sustaining attacks now and Olise is fed the ball and his drive is well saved by Arrizabalaga. That's two shots on target for the visitors so far and none for the hosts. The corner leads to nothing.  A Havertz attempted lob goes over the bar. He is then flagged offside.  Palace can now come forward. They build well initially through Andersen, who lays it off to Doucoure. He shovels it out wide to Olise who again tries to stand up Hall.  Hall wins out but Gallagher is superbly challenged by Doucoure. This time Olise does beat his man on the Palace right and gets a cross in. Arrizabalaga makes a right hash of it presenting an opportunity to Mitchell - his shot is blocked.  Palace are targeting the ball over the top of Thiago Silva for Zaha, who's playing quite centrally, to get onto. In a foot race, there would be only one winner.  That tactic will work at some point, but as it is they are just giving the ball back to Chelsea at every opportunity. Chelsea launch another attack, down their right, with Ziyech laying it off to Mount to cross. It's let go by Andersen for Guaita to claim. Brilliant by Ziyech. That is the sort of invention and attacking play that Potter will be desperate to see. He stands up Mitchell, making a return to action after a three-game suspension, and glides past him. His cross in field comes to nothing but Chelsea, through Chukwuemeka. Palace eventually get it clear. It's been a really bright start by both sides. Neither are playing within themselves, despite their poor runs of form.  Zaha almost gets in behind Chalobah but the ball just overruns. Doucoure and Schlupp are enjoying some space in midfield.  Gallagher and Chalobah exchange passes in a dangerous area before Jorginho takes over. They are sizing each other up at this stage. Some pressure from Crystal Palace with new man Badiashile making a good intervention that prevents Zaha slipping Olise in.  Olise then wins a corner as Palace renew their attack. He is targeting Lewis Hall at the moment, who does well to cut out the Frenchman's ball in-field for a Palace corner. That comes to nothing as Havertz is fouied.  The corner comes to nothing as Ziyech fails to beat the first line of defenders. It was whipped and flat from the right side.  Brilliant atmosphere at the ground today.  Chelsea are enjoying possession with almost every player having had a number of touches. Lewis Hall, on the left today, gives the ball away under pressure from Jordan Ayew.  Chelsea enjoy some early possession. Crystal Palace are yet to touch it. A gloved Kai Havertz makes an intelligent run into the channel but he's not found by Ziyech.  A chance for Chelsea comes through Mount whose cross is blocked by Guehi out for a Chelsea corner. Here we go. We're underway.  The current players and some of Vialli's former team-mates are lined up on the centre-circle as they pay tribute to the late, great Italian. Some of his highlights play out on the big screens. It's a very emotional scene.  A big occasion for both sides, you feel. Stamford Bridge is full and we are almost underway.  This is the club's first game since the tragic passing of Gianluca Vialli at the age of 58 last week after a long battle with pancreatic cancer. They have warmed up in the Vialli '9' shirts in their previous two encounters, but this is the first time the Stamford Bridge crowd will have seen them.  20 minutes to go until kick-off.  A sunny but bitter day in west London and Stamford Bridge is beginning to fill up. The question that hangs over today is what sort of atmosphere will greet Potter and his team should they fall behind?  The answer to that could come soon. It has been a big weekend of movement in the Premier League so far this weekend. On Friday night, Aston Villa continued their Unai Emery-led resurgence with a win over Leeds, further pushing Jesse Marsch's side into trouble. On Saturday lunchtime, Manchester United recorded their finest result to date under Erik ten Hag as they came from behind to beat Manchester City 2-1. Their equaliser being the main talking point.  In the 3pm kick offs on Saturday, Everton's plight became ever more worrisome as they once again squandered a lead to lose 2-1. Fan protests became ever more vociferous as players were accosted outside the ground as supporters demand answers.  Liverpool's fall continued with a 3-0 loss at Brighton. Jurgen Klopp and Jordan Henderson both said the performance was shocking, with the skipper admitting that confidence was low at the club.  Nottingham Forest beat Leicester 2-0 thanks to two Brennan Johnson goals. Brendan Rodgers' side are yet to win a game since returning from the World Cup hiatus. They are in serious trouble again.  Wolves beat West Ham while in the late game Bournemouth further slid down the table with a loss at Brentford.  So to today. In the other 2pm kick-off, Fulham travel to Newcastle while later on today Arsenal have a chance to go eight points clear at the top of the league as they travel to Tottenham. Arsenal supporters, look away now... Mykhailo Mudryk is set to be in attendance when Chelsea face Crystal Palace on Sunday. The 22-year-old star is set to be welcomed as a guest at Stamford Bridge as Graham Potter's side look to notch their first win of 2023. Mudryk will watch the game from the stands and conduct a medical with the club before flying back to Shakhtar's camp in Turkey to tie up loose ends before an official unveiling. CLICK BELOW TO READ MORE A criticism levelled at Graham Potter while at Brighton was that he struggled to settle on a starting XI and at times that hurt his team. There are some theories that his inability, seemingly, to find a coherent and settled attack impacts his side going forward. In their last three games they have scored once and conceded seven. At the back, Badiashile comes in for his debut. Koulibaly has really struggled recently and it could be good for him to have a spell out of the spotlight. Teams have begun targeting his side.  Ziyech will need to do a lot to convince Chelsea supporters he is worth of his place in the side. A lot of criticism has been sent his way for his perceived lack of effort and application. Just the 0.2 expected goals for him so far this season. Not great. Five changes to the Chelsea team that lost to Fulham. One of which, the start of a three-match ban for Joao Felix, costing Chelsea quite a lot of money, is enforced. Mitchell returns from a three-match ban for Crystal Palace. Chelsea: Kepa Arrizabalaga; Chalobah, Thiago Silva, Badiashile, Hall; Jorginho, Chukwuemeka, Gallagher; Mount, Havertz, Ziyech Substitutes: Bettinelli, Kovacic, Aubameyang, Loftus-Cheek, Koulibaly, Fofana, Azpilicueta, Cucurella, Humphreys. Crystal Palace: Guaita; Clyne, Guehi, Andersen, Mitchell; Schlupp, Olise, Doucoure, Ayew, Eze, Zaha. Substitutes: Johnstone, Ward, Milivojevic, Tomkins, Mateta, Hughes, Edouard, Richards, Ikechukwu.   Potter, to his credit, has made few excuses for Chelsea's recent difficulties. They have only won one Premier League game since October 16 - against Bournemouth last month.  They essentially have an entire team currently sidelined, and reports emerged on Friday that the club were investigating the root of the troubles. Potter admitted as much in his pre-match press conference.  'Yeah absolutely. We’re looking all the time,' he said. 'We’re going over how they’re happening and trying to evaluate the whole thing. Sometimes it’s difficult when you come in halfway through the season to know how things have happened. It’s a bit of bad luck and learning going forward on how we can improve. 'Not at the moment [do we know what's causing the issues]. The nature of them it’s almost like it’s not even a pattern. Just different problems. It’s tricky. It’s not like we’ve been overtraining or anything like that. We certainly need to get to the bottom of that.' Patrick Vieira has insisted it is not the best time to play Chelsea despite their three consecutive defeats and largely abysmal form.  CLICK BELOW TO READ MORE Graham Potter has been bullish this week. He said initially that it was not his job to win over the boo boys with Chelsea away ends increasingly becoming more and more recalcitrant.  But he has also admitted that there will be questions over the team's form. ‘There are always questions if you don’t get results,’ said Potter. ‘I was under pressure after two defeats before the (World Cup) break, that’s from the media. In terms of the board, I’ve had full support. They have been very reassuring. But I’m not naive and if anyone I work for thinks the problem lies with me they have every right to say: “Thank you very much but it’s not working” and I accept that.’ He also denied that there was a problem with the application of some of his players.  ‘I don’t think so. From what I see they are professional, they are responsible, they are honest. We are in a bad moment and we have challenges. Everybody suffers from that point. January is always complicated, no matter where you are, because the window is open and human beings are human beings. But I don’t see any problems in that regard, I have the boys’ support and they have mine, and we just need to keep working.’ CLICK BELOW TO READ MORE      Defeat at Fulham consigned Chelsea to their third successive loss, maintaining their diabolical run of just one Premier League victory since mid-October. The loss at Manchester City in the FA Cup on Sunday last week brought with it the first real signs of displeasure at the current regime, with Thomas Tuchel's name being sung from the away end. But while Graham Potter has failed to convince some Chelsea supporters that he is the right man for the job, others have taken aim at the playing squad - with a number of big-money signings facing uncertain futures.  CLICK BELOW TO READ MORE Good afternoon and welcome to today's live coverage of Chelsea vs. Crystal Palace at Stamford Bridge.  It's a lovely day and team news will be with you shortly. Could a certain Mykhailo Mudryk be in attendance as well? We will have to wait and see.  What is there to say about Chelsea, then? It seems a club so unsure of itself and uncertain that one does not know what is going to happen from hour to hour, let alone from match to match or even day to day. Currently, it appears as though Todd Boehly is presiding over a quickly sinking ship but the brass band are still playing the hits with the signings of the likes of the aforementioned Ukrainian and Joao Felix. Fulham's victory over today's hosts on Thursday consigned Chelsea to their third defeat in three games across all competitions. One goal scored over those games; seven conceded. Not good.  Potter has been open about the struggles currently abound at the club and their injury list is long. But it is a wonder today whether Stamford Bridge will turn on him - or the ownership - should another poor result occur.  Crystal Palace, meanwhile, are the epitome of inconsistent. Performances have either been really quite brilliant or abysmal. Their last two games probably fall into the latter camp.  With the likes of Southampton and Nottingham Forest resurgent, they could do with a result today just to shake that small, if relevant, nagging feeling that they could get dragged in.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group