
                
                    
                        Let Healthcare Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              With nearly 7 out of 10 healthcare workers stressed out about their finances, Merakey, a leading behavioral health and developmental non-profit provider, has partnered with DailyPay–the leading provider of on-demand pay. Through this partnership, Merakey is expanding its existing robust suite of employee benefits, adding the impactful financial wellness function of on-demand pay.    An October 2022 Harris Poll commissioned by IntelyCare and DailyPay found that inflation and other economic concerns have negatively impacted healthcare workers’ sleep, mental health, self-esteem, physical health, and relationships at home. In fact, 41% of healthcare workers said their personal finances currently cause them stress. With DailyPay, Merakey is alleviating the need for its employees to rely on a traditional biweekly paycheck–an extremely powerful tool for many hourly employees as they can now tap into their own salary to pay unexpected expenses and other life circumstances.    Headquartered in Lafayette Hill, Pennsylvania, Merakey employs thousands of healthcare professionals nationwide. Staying true to its values and guiding principles of which the organization operates, Merakey’s partnership with DailyPay was a natural fit for its dedication to supporting its frontline and administrative workforce both personally and professionally.    “Merakey continually evaluates opportunities to be an employer of choice and provides programs to enhance our employees’ experience,” said Merakey’s Chief People Officer, Leah Pason. “Many of our staff across the country, especially our frontline workers, have enrolled in DailyPay to take advantage of accessing their earned pay to help them meet their daily needs. As we continue to measure the impact that DailyPay has on our workforce, employee engagement and recruitment and retention efforts, we are already seeing and hearing that DailyPay is having a positive benefit for our employees. We are confident that this benefit will continue to enhance the employee experience and will help position us as an Employer of Choice.”    Merakey is actively hiring many frontline and administrative positions that are eligible for DailyPay benefits. In addition to on-demand pay, Merakey offers continued learning benefits including CEU-accredited courses, medical, dental, paid time off, care.com membership, and employee assistance, among others. To learn more about Merakey’s career opportunities visit www.merakey.org/careers.    Merakey Merakey is a not-for-profit organization serving over 50,000 people across 700 locations in the US that works to provide the highest quality health and human services. They believe that everyone deserves a chance to reach their fullest potential. Since 1969, they’ve worked every day to enrich the lives of individuals, families, and communities. They serve communities through the delivery of various supports, including developmental, behavioral health, and educational resources.   DailyPay DailyPay, Inc., powered by its industry-leading technology platform, is on a mission to build a new financial system for everyone. DailyPay delivers the industry’s leading on-demand pay solution with modern, insight-driven pay strategies that help America’s leading employers to activate their workforce and build stronger relationships with their employees, so they feel more engaged, work harder, and stay longer. DailyPay works to ensure that money is always in the right place at the right time for employers, merchants, and financial institutions. DailyPay is headquartered in New York City, with operations based in Minneapolis and Belfast. For more information, visit www.dailypay.com/press.   The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines