
                
                    
                        Let Healthcare Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Lutheran Life Communities, a not-for-profit system of continuing care retirement communities and senior services, has partnered with DailyPay—the leading provider of on-demand pay—as part of its effort to continuously reciprocate support and care for its healthcare team members. The decision to implement the on-demand pay benefit results from the organization's ongoing dedication to addressing its team member needs.   Headquartered in Arlington Heights, Illinois, Lutheran Life Communities continues to advance its mission and dedication to its team members through innovative changes to boost morale and retention. This innovation also supports hiring and retention as the healthcare industry continues to struggle with workforce and labor shortages.    “In the modern business landscape, team members expect to be treated with respect, to be paid equitably, to trust and be cared for by the people they work with–despite the healthcare disruption and economic stressors,” says Paul Rauseo, Vice President of HR and Strategy at Lutheran Life Communities. “Access to paychecks in real time is now the new norm.”    A Harris Poll survey commissioned by IntelyCare and DailyPay found that 65% of healthcare workers say their household typically lives paycheck-to-paycheck.    “In reviewing data and listening tours, we see that 403b withdrawals are up year over year and applications to company care programs continue to grow,” says Sloan Bentley, CEO at Lutheran Life Communities. “Team members have requested and are in favor of additional programs like DailyPay to meet changing needs.”   Since implementing DailyPay in January 2023, Lutheran Life Communities has been able to put over $46,115 in the hands of its team members through on-demand pay transfers. The power of choice and control over earned pay enables Lutheran Life Communities team members to pay bills on time, save, spend and access hard-earned monies on demand.    Lutheran Life Communities Based in Arlington Heights, Illinois, Lutheran Life Communities is a not-for-profit senior living organization offering residential living, assisted living, memory support, residential healthcare and rehabilitation. Additional services include adult day programs, home care, move management and childcare. Founded in 1892, the organization has grown to four communities in Illinois and Indiana, serving more than 1100 residents and just under 1000 team members. For more information, visit LutheranLifeCommunities.org.   DailyPay DailyPay, Inc., powered by its industry-leading technology platform, is on a mission to build a new financial system for everyone. DailyPay delivers the industry’s leading on-demand pay solution with modern, insight-driven pay strategies that help America’s leading employers to activate their workforce and build stronger relationships with their employees, so they feel more engaged, work harder, and stay longer. Through its massive data network, proprietary funding model and connections into over 6,000 endpoints in the banking system, DailyPay works to ensure that money is always in the right place at the right time for employers, merchants, and financial institutions. DailyPay is headquartered in New York City, with operations based in Minneapolis and Belfast. For more information, visit www.dailypay.com/press.   The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines