The first group of students incarcerated at Northern Nevada Correctional Center in Carson City stepped into the prison's auto bay Monday, Aug. 28, for their first day of Auto 101, Introduction to General Mechanics offered by Western Nevada College. It has taken four years and the sustained effort and partnership of Campagni Auto Group, Nevada Department of Corrections, and WNC to reach this point. Campagni Auto Group approached NDOC in 2019 to express its interest in creating opportunities for formerly incarcerated people with Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) certifications to apply for positions with the dealership. As with many industries across the region and the country, retiring staff and staffing shortages, in general, have presented challenges for the automotive industry. Dana Whaley, Carson City Toyota’s former general manager, and others at the Campagni Auto Group in Carson City, recognized that there is a pool of talent that, if trained while incarcerated, could return to the community ready to help rebuild the workforce at their dealership and others around the state. "Western Nevada College is honored to collaborate with forward-thinking partners like Campagni Auto Group to develop innovative solutions that bridge the employment gap," said WNC President, Dr. Kyle Dalpe, “Our joint efforts are not just about education; they're about transformation and opportunity, giving incarcerated students the skills they need to succeed and contribute to our community." WNC joined the endeavor to provide the educational pathway. Meanwhile, NDOC secured a grant for $85,000 and purchased up-to-date equipment for the auto bay. Then, in mid-March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic brought everything to a standstill. A little over two years later, in April 2022, after NNCC was able to return to somewhat normal operations, the equipment was installed and planning was rebooted. “We are anxiously awaiting the chance to interview the first set of graduates who will have earned multiple Automotive Service Excellence certifications and a Certificate of Achievement from WNC before they walk out the door,” Whaley said. “We’re proud to have been at the forefront of this endeavor.” Alex Street, WNC’s Auto Mechanics program lead and instructor for the Auto 101 course at NNCC, enjoys working with these students. “They are hard-working and job-focused,” Street said. “They are ready and willing to fill a workforce need.” The students are already working on meeting their general education requirements for the Certificate of Achievement by taking the “Strategies for Academic Success” course this semester. They will also complete six credits in English/Communications and three credits of Mathematics. By the end of summer 2024, the first cohort of students should have completed the courses that will prepare them for ASEs in Steering and Suspension, Brakes and Engine Performance. “Providing those who are incarcerated with access to education and training is incredibly important to the students on so many levels,” said Deb Conrad, program director for WNC’s Higher Education in Prison Program. “All who have participated in bringing this to fruition understand not only the benefit to the students, but to our communities and the state as well.” To learn more about the program, contact Deb Conrad at 775-445-3302 or email deb.conrad@wnc.edu. In the photo: Auto students at NNCC (in blue) with (from top left to bottom right): Alex Street, WNC Auto Program Lead; Jeff Hawkins, Campagni Auto Group Service Manager; Cliff Sorensen, Campagni Auto Group Director; William Quenga, NDOC Deputy Director of Silver State Industries; Nethanjah Breitenbach, NNCC Warden; Dana Whaley, Campagni Auto Group Former General Manager; Harold Wickham, NDOC Deputy Director of Programs; and WNC President Dr. J. Kyle Dalpe. Click here to get the latest news sent to
your inbox every day ... or see all stories The Carson City School District is pleased to announce a successful and smooth start to the 2024-2025 school year. School campuses and hallways were flooded with people again and students, educators and employees were greeted with enthusiasm, excitement and a renewed commitment to learning. Lahontan Reservoir located within Lahontan State Recreation Area, has been placed under a HAB Danger Advisory after recent water test results showed a suspected alga bloom, according to Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources. Author Stephen Provost is the featured speaker for the Frances Humphrey Lecture on Thursday, August 22 from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at the Nevada State Museum in Carson City. RNR Tires, Carson City’s newest tire shop, is officially open with a grand opening celebration planned for Sept. 7. A 59-year-old man was arrested Saturday for possession of a birth certificate, a Social Security card and other identifying information not belonging to him, and possession of suspected cocaine and methamphetamine, according to a Carson City Sheriff's Office booking report. Nevada Builders Alliance, the state’s largest construction and building trade association, and Friends of Sutro Tunnel Charity, a non-profit focused on preserving and restoring the historic site in Dayton will hold their second ‘Meat and Drink’ event hosted at the Sutro Tunnel. Are you looking for a fun activity for your kids? Carson Country youth bowling league sign-ups are now open for ages 3-18. Registration and weekly fees vary by location. Youth league bowling offers scholarship money as prizes, community give back and tournaments. With a prompt of "insects and bugs" Carson City area photographers took to their backyards, gardens and trails in search of the winged and un-winged creatures of summer. For decades, the question of how to connect Lake Tahoe Basin’s small cities and tourist destinations — separated by the vast lake and a rugged mountain landscape — has presented a challenge. Cooler weather and fewer mosquitos make for a great walk by our beautiful Carson River. Scroll and click photos to enlarge. The Lyon County Sheriff’s Office responded Saturday, 11 p.m. to the area of US Highway 50 and Apache Drive in Stagecoach for a reported armed robbery. Upon arrival, deputies learned the adult male victim had been robbed at gunpoint by two other adult male subjects, at a residence in the 8800 block of US Highway 50. Jazz & Beyond Carson City Festival continues its 11-day stretch today, Sunday, August 18 with live music, cowboy poetry and more at Silver Saddle Ranch. The Carson City School District is pleased to announce a new school-based initiative aimed at enhancing the educational environment and minimizing distractions in classrooms. Starting Monday, August 19, 2024, all middle and high school students will be required to place their cellphones and other smart technology devices in locking pouches during school hours. Nevada families are poised to spend $525.1 million on back-to-school preparations this year, according to the Retail Association of Nevada. Compared to one year ago, total spending is down 0.5 percent. On Thursday, August 22, from 6:30 – 8:00 pm, Moxy Ruckus, featuring Monique Haviland, will perform a Big Hair Eighties Review concert at Dangberg Historic Park. Here is the Carson City area road report for the week of August 19-25, 2024. Closures and lane restrictions are expected at the following locations due to road and utility work: The Carson City Sheriff’s Office would like to remind everyone that the new school year starts on Monday, August 19, 2024. Our School Resource Officers and Traffic Units will be teaming up to monitor and enforce all school zone laws for this school calendar year. The Carson City Parks, Recreation, & Open Space Department seeks public input, especially from the local sports community, regarding the city’s sports fields. On Saturday, August 24, from 10 to 11 a.m., Glen Whorton of the Nevada State Historic Prison Preservation Society, will speak on “The Great and Not So Great Escapes.” Each year, the Town of Gardnerville collects more than 450 tons of green waste from its residents. The green-waste program started in 2000 as a free service to Town residents as the Town was able to dispose of its green waste at Bently Ranch free of charge. With anticipated gusty winds and low humidity, the National Weather Service issued a Red Flag Warning for Carson City and surrounding counties though Saturday. The South Lake Tahoe Police Department, in partnership with the California Highway Patrol, Douglas County Sheriff’s Department, El Dorado County Sheriff's Department, Nevada State Police, and the U.S Forest Service Law Enforcement branch will be out in force August 21 through August 25, in response to the unauthorized car event called Lake2O. A young coyote has a photo session in the morning light Friday at Silver Saddle Ranch in Carson City. On Saturday, August 10, CBP Aerial Arts, an authentic and professional aerial arts studio in Gardnerville, presented its 2024 Annual Production, The Lion King, at the Carson City Community Theater,  Bob Boldrick Theater. Women's drumming is this Saturday, August 17 at 10 am, in a shady spot by a Carson City playground.  Please join us for upliftment, self-expression, and mutual support. All levels of drumming experience, or none, are welcome. On Friday, August 16, 2024, at approximately 12:36 a.m., the Douglas County Sheriff’s Office (DCSO) was asked by the California Highway Patrol (CHP) to be on the lookout for a black Mercedes GLC SUV believed to be travelling north on U.S. 395. On Saturday, Aug. 17 Nashville country-rock duo Lance & Lea will headline the Levitt AMP concert at the Brewery Arts Center in Carson City. On Thursday, eight Carson City youth graduated from a ten-week wilderness program designed for minors who have been court ordered on probation and into the program.  According to Ali Banister, Chief of Juvenile Services in Carson City, the participants embarked on a “transformative ten-week adventure,” which totaled over 300 hours of “intense learning and personal growth.” According to the Nevada Department of Employment, Training and Rehabilitation’s (DETR) July 2024 economic report, Nevada’s unemployment rate increased by 0.2 percentage points to 5.4 percent and the state saw a decrease of 1,500 nonfarm jobs. Join UNR Extension Master Gardeners at the Carson City Community Garden for our monthly Garden Talks.
Topic: Technology in the Garden. Most content submitted to Carson Now is covered under Creative Commons license:  Please see Copyright Policy for more information. Contact us for more information. Terms of Use and Privacy Policy NowTown Network sites:
Carson City News - Carson Now
South Lake Tahoe News - South Tahoe Now
