The Texas Rangers released their final television schedule for the 2023 season, and as of now nearly all of their games will be featured on Bally Sports Southwest.  In all, 155 of the 162 regular-season games will appear on BSSW. The other seven will appear on national outlets.  Per the Rangers, the games will air on Bally Sports Southwest and will stream on BallySports.com and the Bally Sports app. Diamond Sports Group, the owner of the Bally’s networks, is in bankruptcy proceedings. Both Diamond and MLB have assured fans that games on Diamond’s networks will continue to be available.  But if Diamond fails to make its scheduled payments to teams like the Rangers, that could allow those teams to begin break free of their contracts. The Rangers reportedly sent a letter to Diamond stating it would terminate its TV rights agreement if the company became insolvent. For now, the Rangers and BSSW appear to be full-speed ahead for the regular season. The seven games that are not scheduled for BSSW: Saturday, April 1 vs. Philadelphia (3:05 p.m. CT)—FOX Sunday, April 2 vs. Philadelphia (6:08 p.m. CT)—ESPN Friday, April 7 at Chicago Cubs (1:20 p.m. CT)—Apple TV+ Sunday, April 16 at Houston (6:08 p.m. CT)—ESPN Sunday, July 9 at Washington (11:05 a.m. CT)—Peacock Saturday, August 26 at Minnesota (6:15 p.m. CT)—FOX Saturday, September 2 vs. Minnesota (6:15 p.m. CT)—FOX This will be the first season since 1995 the Rangers won’t have former outfielder and general manager Tom Grieve in the broadcast booth. He retired after last season. CJ Nitkowski is now the full-time analyst for teams, pairing with play-by-play voice Dave Raymond. Two former Rangers players — David Murphy and Dave Valle — will serve as analysts for select games.  Emily Jones and Lesley McCaslin will serve as field reporters.  More From SI’s Inside The Rangers: You can find Matthew Postins on Twitter @PostinsPostcard Catch up with Inside the Rangers on Facebook and Twitter.  Need to catch up on the Rangers? Check out our Texas Rangers Offseason Central Page! Need to get ready for Spring Training? Check out our Rangers Spring Training Tracker Matthew Postins is an award-winning sports journalist who covers the Texas Rangers for Fan Nation/SI and also writes about the Houston Astros, Chicago Cubs and Philadelphia Phillies. He also covers the Big 12 for HeartlandCollegeSports.com.