Kindred Group — the parent company of sportsbook and casino platform Unibet — has launched its first retail operation in the state of Washington in partnership with Swinomish Tribe, which operates Swinomish Casino & Lodge. A Malta-based legal sports betting conglomerate is expanding its reach in North America.  Kindred Group — the parent company of sports betting and casino platform Unibet — has launched retail wagering in Washington State in partnership with the Swinomish Tribe. The community, which is one of Washington’s 29 federally-recognized tribes, owns and operates Swinomish Casino & Lodge. The entertainment destination opened its sportsbook on April 13. The launch of Kindred’s retail operations at Swinomish Casino & Lodge comes after the sports betting operator secured a six-year agreement in October 2022 with the Swinomish Tribe. The deal includes Unibet-branded kiosks and over-the-counter wagering at the casino’s sportsbook.  Swinomish Casino & Lodge and Kindred also plan to open a Unibet betting lounge this year.  "We are delighted to launch the first phase of our exciting retail partnership with the Swinomish Indian Tribal Community,” said Kindred Group SVP of North America Manuel Stan in a statement. “Work continues at pace to build a fantastic Unibet sportsbook lounge, offering customers to the Swinomish Casino & Lodge a truly immersive sports betting experience.” Kindred gaining retail access in Washington is the result of the state prohibiting online betting sites. Retail sports betting in Washington is exclusively offered by the state’s tribal casinos.  Washington has 14 retail sportsbooks across the state that are open to the public. Operators that have gained retail licenses in Washington include DraftKings, FanDuel, and Caesars.  Kindred’s presence at Swinomish Casino & Lodge marks the company’s 13th retail launch in North America across three states, which include Arizona and Pennsylvania. In 2019, Kindred launched its first Unibet sportsbook in Pennsylvania at Mohegan Sun Pocono. Two years later, the sports betting giant opened its first Unibet sportsbook in Arizona at Yuma’s Paradise Casino.  Kindred is also expanding its reach in North America as an emerging online betting operator. Earlier this week, the company received final approval from the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement to launch its proprietary platform in the state. The platform will go live in May.  Kindred also plans to offer its proprietary platform in Pennsylvania at some point in Q2 2023. 
                    If you choose to make use of any information on this website including online sports betting services from any websites that may be featured on this website, we strongly recommend that you carefully check your local laws before doing so. It is your sole responsibility to understand your local laws and observe them strictly. Covers does not provide any advice or guidance as to the legality of online sports betting or other online gambling activities within your jurisdiction and you are responsible for complying with laws that are applicable to you in your relevant locality. Covers disclaims all liability associated with your use of this website and use of any information contained on it. As a condition of using this website, you agree to hold the owner of this website harmless from any claims arising from your use of any services on any third party website that may be featured by Covers.

                