Though there’s much less public excitement around the blockchain collectibles category today compared to last year, the NFL has stuck with partner Dapper Labs and its All Day product. Ahead of this football season, both sides updated their financial relationship, the offering and their expectations for a new crypto era. The league and the NFLPA each took equity stakes in Dapper when initially getting into business together in 2021. All Day launched last year, offering NFTs featuring recent and historic NFL content. The platform averaged more than $12 million in secondary sales in August, September and October 2022, according to CryptoSlam! data. Marketplace sales totals haven’t topped $4 million in a month since, as blockchain assets have struggled to return to their ‘21 heyday. More from Sportico.com NFL Ratings Reign Supreme Despite TV's Overall Decline NFL Names Tottenham Hotspur Stadium 'Official Home' in the U.K.  Aaron Rodgers Refunds Cater to Spoiled U.S. Bettors Market Crypto’s collapse left All Day millions short of previous expectations, according to reports. At one point, the NFLPA marked $41.8 million in missing licensing and sponsorship revenue in a filing with the Department of Labor, with much of that figure likely tied to the group’s new partnerships for products like All Day and DraftKings’ NFT-based Reignmakers game. In July, Dapper announced a third round of layoffs in less than a year, cutting 51 workers. “With this restructure, we have made the business more lean,” CEO Roham Gharegozlou said in a statement at the time, “which is going to let us do the right thing for our fans and grow our communities in the most healthy way possible.” Behind the scenes, the players association’s joint venture OneTeam Partners and the league each worked with Dapper to update the terms of their partnership, according to sources close to the discussions, giving the partners comfort in moving forward with the product for a second season, and offering Dapper a multiyear runway. While financial terms of Dapper’s football deals have not been revealed, it has become customary this year for rights holders to accept smaller guaranteed payouts in exchange for other benefits, such as increased equity stakes or a higher percentage of potential future revenues. Offering increased potential upside for partners instead of higher guaranteed payments could relieve pressure on blockchain companies to wring revenue out of the current market, allowing them to take a longer term approach to audience development. And those deals could change again. Insiders said it’s not uncommon for agreements in emerging categories to evolve regularly as young partners try to build new business models. Digital collectible platforms could have more leverage than others in the licensing world as well, given leagues’ switching costs. Extensive workflows have been created to support the collectibles’ creation, and getting fans to move to a new product is more complicated than getting them to buy a shirt made by a different producer. Much of the product’s utility would also be lost if the host platform is no longer an official league partner. Additionally, Dapper has the advantage of being a relatively well-known (and well-capitalized) player in its category, with the breakout success of NBA Top Shot on its resume. If rightsholders were to attempt to take their deals elsewhere, they also could face trouble finding an eager alternative. In fact, other NFT startups are already disappearing in the lingering crypto winter, including Recur, which previously launched a college sports-focused product and had raised $50 million. That said, the NFL has continued developing additional NFT partnerships, such as the NFL Rivals game from Mythical Games, which recently boasted 2 million total players. The sports NFT category showed signs of life in August, with major products garnering more than $36 million in volume combined, according to The First Mint. On Wednesday, DraftKings—whose data includes primary sales—took the top position among all NFT collections in activity, while NFL All Day cracked the top 10 Friday after selling out of weekly pack drops for three straight weeks. With an updated product line, All Day’s September haul has already topped its monthly secondary sales numbers for every month since February. This season, several of the new additions to All Day showcase features unique to digital collectibles. For instance, Dapper Labs introduced “Dynamic Moments,” a set of collectibles that will come to include highlights accumulated over the course of the season, depending on how well the player or team performs. That way, even if a star like Patrick Mahomes has a run of All Day-worthy plays this season, they can be reflected on the platform without the company needing to decrease the rarity of his individual top tier “moments.” “Dynamic Moments is sort of the culmination of a lot of conversation and a lot of strategic planning that we undertook during the offseason with the NFL and NFLPA,” Dapper Labs VP of sports business development Adam Barrick said in an interview. “It’s really one of the focal points of the product for this year.” Those collectibles will also hold particular value in All Day’s game mode, Playbook, which tasks users with grabbing “moments” tied to the highest performing players each week. On the other end of the spectrum, All Day announced that it would be minting common tier collectibles without visible serial numbers, offering a more accessible entry point to the product. Dapper Labs is hoping to draw in avid NFL fans beyond those specifically interested in blockchain assets. Along those lines, it is also introducing more products focused on teams, rather than individuals. This year, Dapper plans to work more closely with NFL clubs, marketing its product via team digital channels in addition to its own and the league’s. The goal? Making its platform as dynamic as its newest products, and proving that blockchain offerings are here to stay. Best of Sportico.com Manchester United Sale Timeline: From Glazer Takeover to Recent Bids What NFTs Mean for Sports Business Disney to Spend $44.9 Billion on Sports Rights Through 2027 Click here to read the full article.  Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.