You will be able to share this link with anyone and everyone, even on social media.
* Please fill out the form below in order to receive your shareable link. You will be able to share this link with anyone and everyone, even on social media. * Please fill out the form below in order to receive your shareable link.   The six-figure price tags on coveted NBA Top Shot Moments sold in early 2021 awoke the world to digital collectibles. Dapper Labs didn’t publicize the technology underpinning these drops — calling them “Moments” rather than non-fungible tokens (NFTs), enabling purchases with a credit card rather than cryptocurrency, deliberately avoiding the word “blockchain” in promotional messaging — but for many sports fans, this was their introduction to Web3. Blockchain has since become a buzzword within the sports industry and a key to a host of new experiences and revenue streams, such as fantasy sports (popularized by Sorare), ownership-level perks (best implemented by the BIG3 with its Forever Experience Action Tokens, FEATs) and ticketing (slowly gaining traction).  What blockchain tech is and how it works is helpful to understanding its value, although hardly necessary, as Dapper Labs showed. As for a definition, Apollo Global Management partner Christine Moy, who is head of the firm’s digital assets division, explained it well from the stage of a Sports Business Journal event in 2021, describing blockchain technology as a “shared digital ledger and network so that people can transact in a peer-to-peer way without needing financial intermediaries.”   It is, in other words, decentralized, yet secure, removing the need of a gatekeeper like a bank. All secondary and tertiary market transactions can be traced, enabling the original IP creator — such as a sports team or league — to continue earning royalties on sales of items like tickets that are later sold for many multiples of their original face value.  Whereas users of Web1 were able to read information, Web2’s proliferation of social media emphasized reading and writing. Now blockchain is a critical component of the next-gen iteration. “Web3 is read, write and own — the ability to own a piece of the internet and be able to commercialize your piece of it,” Moy said then.  Even though NFT and cryptocurrency markets have dimmed considerably, many sports insiders remain bullish on blockchain’s potential. Monumental Sports & Entertainment Chairman and CEO Ted Leonsis was asked that very question at last fall’s SBJ Dealmakers conference and replied, “Yes, yes, yes. Accountability, transparency and transactions — all thumbs up.”  On a previous occasion, Leonsis said, “This is the birth of something very, very big. And today is the worst day that blockchain will ever be. Every day going forward, there’ll be more investment; there'll be more innovation; there'll be more products; there'll be more people that understand and are opening up and developing upon it.” The first conceptualization of what would become blockchain can be traced to writings in the 1980s, with a key leap forward in 1991 by cryptographers Stuart Haber and Scott Stornetta, who sought to digitally timestamp sensitive documents for authenticity. The data would be kept in blocks sequentially added to form a chain.   Use of blockchain became more widespread with the advent of Bitcoin in 2009. The creation of Ethereum in 2015 advanced the field by enacting smart contracts — automated executions of agreements. Dapper Labs created its own infrastructure, known as the Flow blockchain. Tokens are created by a process called minting, by which the digital file is permanently fixed as a crypto asset.   To do this requires energy-intensive computational power, as numerous competitors all race to solve increasingly complex cryptographic puzzles. This effort is called mining; Bitcoin production alone accounts for more energy consumption than some developed countries. Some newer blockchains, such as Algorand, take a different approach and tout themselves as carbon-neutral.   The other relevant sports product spawned by blockchain is the decentralized autonomous organization, or DAO. They are a democratized and transparent manner of conducting business, with decisions driven by members’ votes.  Some DAOs have been formed in hopes of pooling investment for ownership of a sports franchise. One successful purchase was of the Killer 3s in the BIG3; the DAO acquired all 25 Fire Tier FEATs to claim majority control of the team. Unlike tokens that are purely a collectible, these offer added benefits. “This concept of utility is just hugely important, and it is definitely the path forward,” said Drive by DraftKings CEO Meredith McPherron.  Other examples include NFTs created by The Players’ Lounge, a college-focused membership organization, which grants token owners exclusive access to events such as athlete meet-and-greets. Endstate is doing something similar with limited-edition sneakers, where buyers will own actual footwear as well as NFT versions; Philadelphia Eagles receiver DeVonta Smith designed a pair and later hosted fans who purchased his kicks.  “Really important in the entire conversation around blockchain and NFTs is tying physical to digital,” said Altius Sports Partners CEO Casey Schwab, who previously worked at the NFLPA where part of his charge was guarding against counterfeit products. Blockchain usage can help ensure authenticity.  Venu Sports on hold; NASCAR shifts gear on the Clash and the USL Super League launches to solid crowds and reception 

 Shareable URL copied to clipboard! https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Journal/Issues/2023/04/24/In-Depth/blockchain.aspx Sorry, something went wrong with the copy but here is the link for you. https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Journal/Issues/2023/04/24/In-Depth/blockchain.aspx Register for a free SBJ account to unlock one extra article per month.  © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ weekly content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ daily content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: