San Francisco, Oct 16 (IANS) The crypto gaming industry has secured approximately $600 million in funding during the third quarter (Q3) of this year despite facing challenges in the broader crypto and gaming markets, a new report has shown. Even though this is a substantial amount, it represents a 38 per cent decline from the $973 million invested in crypto gaming in the second quarter (Q2) of 2023, according to crypto data firm DappRadar. The overall investment in crypto games for the year is estimated to be around $2.3 billion. “This quarter witnessed Web3 gaming projects amassing a notable $600 million, propelling the year’s tally to $2.3 billion. While this constitutes just 30 per cent of the funds pooled last year, it’s essential to keep in perspective the distinct market dynamics of 2023,” the report said. The year 2023 has proven to be a difficult year for game studios both inside and outside of the crypto sphere. According to GamesIndustry.biz, about 6,100 jobs have been lost in the gaming business last year. Established companies like Epic Games, Telltale Games, and Team17 have all had to lay off employees in the past month. Gaming-focused crypto companies such as Star Atlas studio ATMTA and Otherside developer Yuga Labs have also undergone staff reductions this year. According to the experts, Q3 has provided a nuanced view into the multifaceted world of blockchain gaming. “With investments flowing into the sector reaching $600 million this quarter and cumulatively $2.3 billion for the year, it’s evident that stakeholders see substantial potential in the space,” the report stated. –IANS shs/ksk The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired John Abraham’s latest film, Vedaa, has been receiving positive feedback since its release on August The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) is proud to announce that renowned Indian actor Pankaj The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired Award winning composer and music maestro A.R. Rahman was felicitated with the prestigious ‘Excellence in Song Rote Rote Movie Ghudchadi Singer Jubin Nautiyal Featuring Sanjay Dutt, Raveena Tondon, Parth Samthaan Song Name – New Woman Featuring – LISA and Rosalia Check out New Woman Song Taylor Swift’s final series of shows for the European leg of her Eras tour at Ankita Lokhande recently shared a fun moment on her Instagram Stories, revealing that her husband, Devoleena Bhattacharjee, a beloved figure in Indian television, has thrilled her fans with the heartwarming Shaheer Sheikh recently returned from his vacation and made a heartfelt visit to his best Actress Disha Parmar recently shared an adorable moment with her daughter, Navya, on Instagram, capturing “Kota Factory,” once hailed for its relatable depiction of student life in Kota, has unfortunately “The Legend of Hanuman” Season 4 continues to impress with its blend of stunning animation, “Gullak” Season 4, much anticipated by fans of the charming Mishra family, unfortunately fails to “Blackout,” starring Vikrant Massey, is a thriller that strives to keep viewers on the edge glamsham.com® (since 1999) is an English language news / information platform with an aim to connect with people with information about the  entertainment industry.