Here’s a roundup of the latest retail and restaurant activity around Whatcom County: Nana J’s, a new Bellingham restaurant serving curry, lentil soup, tikki masala and kabab wraps opened on Tuesday, March 21. The new restaurant is open from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and from 4-8 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday, and is at 1311 N. State St. Poppy & Pomegranate, a new floral shop, will open on Saturday, April 1. The flower shop designs and sells bouquets, provides services for weddings and events, and offers flower delivery services. The shop will be open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wednesday through Sunday and is at 1003 Harris Ave. in Bellingham. Uncle Jesse’s Pottery in Ferndale celebrated its grand opening on Saturday, March 25. Artist Jesse Hughs starting making pottery as his full-time job last March and sells his pottery pieces at vendor events and fairs in Whatcom and Skagit counties. The storefront does not have operating hours posted. It is located at 5679 3rd Ave. in Ferndale. The Ferndale Woods Coffee shop will be closed Monday, March 27, through Monday, April 3, for remodeling, according to the coffee shop chain’s Facebook page. The Ferndale location is at 1867 Main St. Jalapeno’s Mexican restaurants are celebrating 24 years in business by offering 24% off its entire menu on Wednesday, March 29, according to Daniel Cantu, Jalapeno’s vice president. Guests who dine in at any of the four Jalapeno’s locations will receive the discount. Jalapeno’s has four Bellingham locations in Barkley village, downtown, Fairhaven and on Meridian. The Barkley location is open from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. on Friday, 11 a.m. to midnight on Saturday and is at 2945 Newmarket Place. The downtown location is open from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and is at 501 W. Holly St. The Fairhaven location is open from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and is at 1007 Harris Ave. The Meridian location is open from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and is at 4451 Meridian St. Allied Arts of Whatcom County is expanding its Reuse Thrift Store in Bellingham, which will have its grand reopening from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on April 7. The thrift store is regularly open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday and is at 1418 Cornwall Ave. Greene’s Corner reopened on Wednesday, March 22, after completing renovations and opening its outdoor beer garden for the spring and summer seasons. Greene’s Corner is open from 9 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Sunday through Thursday, from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Friday and Saturday, and is at 2208 James St. in Bellingham. On Easter Sunday, April 9, kids 12 years and under can get a free meal at Bellingham’s Applebee’s restaurant. The deal is only valid for dine-in meals and an adult entree purchase is required, according to an email from an Applebee’s spokesperson. Applebee’s is open from 11 a.m. to midnight Sunday through Thursday, from 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. Friday and Saturday and is at 1069 E. Sunset Drive. The Bellingham Burger King location at 201 Telegraph Road has filed building permits through the city of Bellingham for both indoor and outdoor remodels with an estimated value of $789,965. The permits were issued from the city on Wednesday, March 15, according to public records. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.