A professional writer for more than two decades, Beth has lived in nearly a dozen states – from Missouri and Virginia to Connecticut and Vermont – and Toronto, Canada. In addition to traveling extensively in the U.S. and the U.K., she has a BA in Journalism from Point Park University (PA), a MA in Holocaust & Genocide Studies from Stockton University (NJ), and a Master of Professional Writing from Chatham University (PA). A writer and editor for Only In Your State since 2016, Beth grew up in and currently lives outside of Pittsburgh and when she’s not writing or hanging out with her bunnies, budgies, and chinchilla, she and her daughter are out chasing waterfalls. More by this Author Small towns often ooze charm and boast quite a few gems that are beloved by locals and just waiting to be discovered by those visiting or passing through. One of the nicest restaurants in America, the waterfront Trafford in Warren, Rhode Island wins guests over with its delicious food and beautiful views. If you’ve got a bucket list, you might want to add it. Trafford Restaurant can be found at 285 Water St. in Warren, RI. For more information and to view a menu, visit the Trafford Restaurant website. You can also give the official Trafford Restaurant Facebook page a follow. Have you been to this waterfront restaurant in Rhode Island? What did you think? Share your experience in the comments! For a leisurely day of shopping and dining, visit this small town in Rhode Island. This Walkable Stretch Of Shops And Restaurants In Small-Town Rhode Island Is The Perfect Day Trip Destination  Looking for something fun to do in Rhode Island? How about a food tour? Take a look at the selection of food tours on Viator.   OnlyInYourState may earn compensation through affiliate links in this article. As an Amazon Associate, we earn from qualifying purchases. Get the latest on things to see, do, and eat around Rhode Island! Thank you! You'll receive your first newsletter soon! An error occured. What are some other best small-town restaurants in Rhode Island? We love our small towns in Rhode Island, don’t we? And there are so many amazing places to dine throughout the state. Check out the following small-town restaurants in Rhode Island:   What foods is Rhode Island known for? Where do I begin? Growing up in the Ocean State, I’ve tried just about every local food you could think of! There are so many awesome foods that are definitely Only In Rhode Island. The following are some of our favorites, and I’ll throw in some drinks as well: Check out more Rhode Island foods.   Sign up to receive news, updates and exclusive offers direct to your inbox. 
© 2024 World of Good Brands
 
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
