Triple Play Home Services, a home service provider based out of Edmond, Oklahoma, acquired Comfy Bear Plumbing, Heating, and Air, an established HVAC and plumbing company based in Oklahoma.
 Image courtesy of Triple Play Home Services EDMOND, Okla. — Triple Play Home Services, a home service provider based out of Edmond, Oklahoma, acquired Comfy Bear Plumbing, Heating, and Air, an established HVAC and plumbing company based in Oklahoma.  "We are excited to announce the acquisition of Comfy Bear Heating and Air," said Mike Fore, CEO of Triple Play Home Services. "This acquisition will allow us to expand our service offerings and continue to provide exceptional customer service to our clients. We are excited to welcome the talented team at Comfy Bear Heating and Air to the Triple Play family." Comfy Bear Plumbing, Heating, and Air has been serving Oklahoma residents for many years, providing high-quality heating and air conditioning services. The acquisition is designed to expand Triple Play Home Services’ reach and allow the company to offer a wider range of services to customers throughout the state. "We are proud to have built Comfy Bear Heating and Air into a reputable HVAC company in Oklahoma," said Josh Walker, owner, Comfy Bear Heating and Air. "We are confident that Triple Play Home Services will continue to build on our legacy and provide excellent service to our customers. "We are excited to see our business become part of a larger organization with the resources to take it to the next level,” continued Walker. “We have no doubt that Triple Play Home Services will continue to provide outstanding service to our customers."  You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days. 
	Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to The News audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of The News or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep!
 On Demand Don’t miss your chance to learn from industry thought leaders and gain valuable insight on how the A2L transition will affect your HVAC business!
 During this webinar, we will discuss what acidic condensate is, how it’s formed, and the damage it can cause if not properly treated—while hitting on the latest regulations that are driving the adoption of condensing technology.
 Copyright ©2024. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing