With the upcoming Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves movie coming, there are also a pair of companion prequel fantasy adventure novels that are being released.  These books include Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves: The Road to Neverwinter by author Jaleigh Johnson (The Mark of the Dragonfly), which is an adult-themed book. The other one is Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves: The Druid's Call by author E. K. Johnston (Star Wars: Ahsoka), which is a YA novel. Below you’ll find brief descriptions of each one: Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves: The Road to Neverwinter: "Every adventuring party has a starting quest. Join Edgin Darvis and his team of heroic (well, occasionally heroic) heisters in this official prequel to the film Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves."  Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves: The Druid's Call: "Discover Doric's powerful druid origins in this thrilling young adult prequel to the film Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves." Both D&D books will be released on February 28th, 2023,  In related Dungeons & Dragons news, Hasbro has released some new products in support of the upcoming movie. This includes Dicelings, which are toys that transform from an oversized twenty-sided dice into a classic Dungeons & Dragons monster such a white Owlbear, a black dragon red dragon, and a Beholder. Yep, we now have D&D Transformers! If you want to buy them, click here, and we’ll earn a small commission.  In the film, “A charming thief and a band of unlikely adventurers undertake an epic heist to retrieve a lost relic, but things go dangerously awry when they run afoul of the wrong people. Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves brings the rich world and playful spirit of the legendary roleplaying game to the big screen in a hilarious and action-packed adventure.” The movie was directed by Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley, and the movie stars Chris Pine, Michelle Rodriguez, Regé-Jean Page, Justice Smith, Sophia Lillis , Chloe Coleman, Daisy Head, and Hugh Grant. It’s set to hit theaters on March 31st, 2023! All names, trademarks and images are copyright their respective owners.   ///   Copyright / DMCA Notice
Copyright © 2008-2024, GeekTyrant Industries, LLC. All rights reserved.
Cookie Declaration  ///   Privacy Policy
Links monetized by VigLinkCustom Code and Design by, Free Reyes