We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. It's soon! Dungeons & Dragons: Honour Among Thieves has confirmed its UK release on Paramount+, with fans not having to wait long.  The fantasy-comedy, which stars Chris Pine and Michelle Rodriguez in the lead roles, will be released on the streaming service on August 18, with the co-exclusivity agreement meaning it will also appear on Sky Cinema on the same day.  The film sees Pine play Edgin Darvis, a former member of the Harpers, who leads a ragtag bunch of misfits as they seek to reclaim his daughter and prevent the schemes of Forge Fitzwilliam (Hugh Grant).  Related: How Dungeons & Dragons movie landed that major cameo star Ahead of the film’s theatrical release back in March, directors Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley spoke exclusively with Digital Spy about the process of adaptation, revealing that they wanted to imbue the film with the original game’s spirit.  “I think that that was the ultimate challenge of this in terms of the writing, to create the illusion of spontaneity in a movie that we’ve crafted down to the movement,” said Goldstein. “It has no real spontaneity, except that sometimes actors would come up with something.  “But we wanted to make sure that if we captured the spirit of play, then we knew that those who know the game would respond. Maybe it’s not exactly like their Dungeon Master would do it,” he continued.  Related: Dungeons & Dragons star Justice Smith used sign language in his spellcasting “The challenge is: how do you adapt something that doesn’t have any set story?” added Daley. “What we were really adapting was the spirit of the game. I think anyone who’s played, kind of understands that when they see it.  “We also had a lot of different characters that allowed us to explore different methods of gameplay and different kinds of personalities that are representative of the players,” he added.  Dungeons & Dragons: Honour Among Thieves will stream on Paramount+ and Sky Cinema from August 18. Reporter, Digital Spy George is a freelance writer who specialises in Movies and TV. After graduating with a degree in Film Studies and Journalism from De Montfort University, in which he analysed the early works of Richard Linklater for his dissertation, he wrote for several websites for GRV Media.  His film tastes vary from blockbusters like Mission: Impossible and John Wick to international directors such as Paolo Sorrentino and Hirokazu Kore-eda, and has attended both the London and Berlin film festivals.
  Dungeons & Dragons' Steelbook is 29% off  Chris Pine's Poolman confirms UK release date How to get LEGO's new Dungeons & Dragons set Dungeons & Dragons 2 gets update from Chris Pine Baldur's Gate 3 is a stunning game - until Act 3 Dungeons & Dragons confirms UK digital release D&D topples John Wick 4 with box office debut D&D's armpit hair is more important than you think Dungeons & Dragons' best Easter eggs How Dungeons & Dragons landed that major cameo D&D ending redeems an overused movie trope Does the new D&D movie have a credit scene? DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.