
  Dungeons & Dragons: Honour Among Thieves, which filmed some segments in Wells, has now finally revealed when it will be released on digital in the UK.
 
  Film crews descended on Wells in 2021 to film segments and used the cathedral as well as the area outside the Bishop's Palace for several scenes.
 
  Chris Pine, who played the main lead role of Edgin Darvis, was one of the actors seen on location as well as Chloe Coleman who played his daughter Kira Darvis.
 
  Other members of the cast included Hugh Grant, Michelle Rodriguez, Regé-Jean Page, Justice Smith, Sophia Lillis, Jason Wong and Daisy Head.
 
  The scenes filmed in Wells appeared to be used as the exterior of a castle and courtyard in the city of Neverwinter which is a prominent location in the story.
 

 
The film was released for digital purchase back at the beginning of May in the United States and will finally now release in the UK on Friday, July 7.
 
  Meanwhile, a DVD, Blu-ray, 4K UHD and 4K UHD version of the film will be available to buy on Monday, July 31, according to Digital Spy.
 
  Whilst Honour Among Thieves disappointed slightly at the box office, earning $208 million from a $150 million budget, it did impress critics.
 
  It scored a 93% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with 266 out of 295 critics giving it a positive review, as well as a 7.3/10 on IMDb.
 
  While a sequel is yet to be confirmed, writers and directors Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley have expressed interest in doing a follow-up.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.