A Twitter engineer told the BBC that the company is "like a building where all the pieces are on fire." Twitter's workforce has shrunk by around three-quarters since its purchase by Musk. "There are so many things broken and there's nobody taking care of it," the engineer told the BBC. A Twitter engineer says that chaos at the company has gotten so bad that it's "like a building where all the pieces are on fire." The unnamed engineer, who said he wished to remain anonymous because he is still working at the company, told the BBC's Marianna Spring that Elon Musk's leadership of the company – in particular recent mass layoffs – had caused huge problems, including "so many" parts of the site being broken. The BBC did not confirm the worker's location. "When you look at it from the outside, the façade looks fine, but I can see that nothing is working," the engineer said. "All the plumbing is broken, all the faucets, everything." Since Musk bought the social-media platform for $44 billion in October, Twitter's workforce has been depleted through a series of layoffs, firings, and resignations. Musk has previously defended his decision to reduce the workforce in order to save costs. CEOs and experts have been divided in their reaction to Musk's approach, with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff telling Insider recently that Silicon Valley leaders should consider whether to emulate Musk's style when it comes to tough decisions around layoffs. Twitter's layoffs have resulted in an extensive reorganization of remaining workers, the engineer told the BBC. He said that one "totally new" staff member without expertise was now doing a job that used to be done by more than 20 people. The New York Times previously reported that some junior employees have been left in charge of areas they haven't worked on before. "There are so many things broken and there's nobody taking care of it," the engineer told the BBC. Musk had also brought some Tesla engineers in to review code created by Twitter employees, he added. The BBC reported that Musk had cut so many staff that the site couldn't protect users from trolling and disinformation. Lisa Jennings Young, Twitter's former head of content design who quit in November, said her whole team, which worked on some projects to reduce hate on the platform, was laid off. Speaking about the features her team had introduced, she said: "There's no-one there to work on that at this time." Reports have suggested that there has been more hate speech on the platform, including data from the Anti-Defamation League indicating a huge surge in antisemitism on Twitter in the immediate weeks after Musk took over. Musk responded to The BBC's report this week by tweeting: "Sorry for turning Twitter from nurturing paradise into place that has … trolls." Musk said in December that fewer people are viewing content containing hate speech since he bought Twitter and that the number of hate speech impressions on the platform was down by a third. Twitter did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment, made outside of its regular working hours. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.