Given recent mass layoffs in the tech industry, we thought it would be worth taking a closer look at the tech industry-based gig workers we’d studied in our recent U.S. Gig Economy research, to get a sense of how their outlook differed from regularly employed (then suddenly unemployed) IT industry workers. About 10 percent of the freelancers we’d surveyed were IT workers. In the first month and half of 2023, over 77,000 tech workers have been laid off, including 9,090 from Salesforce, 3740 from Twitter, 18,000 from Amazon, 10,000 from Microsoft, 12,000 from Alphabet, 3,900 from IBM, and 6,650 from Dell. Many of these companies had attracted their workers by offering generous parental leave policies; this recent article describes the “earthquake” experienced by some of the many young tech workers who were fired from their jobs during their maternity or paternity leave. Making more money sitting at the kitchen table: tech gig workers benefited from the pandemic ... [+] overall. Amid this massive shakeup in tech, we issued a flash report on tech workers in the gig economy that looked into their demographics, motivations and future expectations. Our aim was to provide some insight into whether gig work might be an appropriate pivot for the thousands of tech workers who’d lost their jobs. Here’s what we found. The tech gig workers we talked to identified as working in IT, web design, or online applications and services. They skewed heavily male, and young—72 percent of tech workers versus 53 of all our gig economy respondents were male, and 33 percent are under 35 years old, twice as many as our overall gig worker sample. Only one in five tech gig workers is over 55 years old, compared with one-third of all gig workers. A Choice to Make More and Work Less Among this group, 70 percent chose to work as freelancers—a surprising statistic given that their average tenure in gig work, under 10 years, was substantially lower on average than other gig workers. A third have been freelancing for less than five years, while nearly half of other gig workers have been at it for over a decade. But when we understood that 29 percent of tech gig workers make over $100,000 a year freelancing—a proportion 6 percent higher than gig workers overall—and that for many of them, gig work is an additional source of income, the choice to work this way began to make sense. One person told us, “I work part time and earn full time pay, working from 10 am to approximately 3 pm weekdays. I earn about 80 percent of my personal income from this line of work.” Only 44 percent of the tech gig workers we interviewed make 100 percent of their living freelancing, compared with 62 percent of the overall gig working population. More than half (56 percent) of tech freelancers were likely have another job or source of income, which presumably provided health benefits. Flying Without a Net That said, a shocking number of them—85 percent—have no insurance or pension. Considering that two-thirds are also childless, this points to a high-risk mentality among this cohort: without anyone to be responsible for, they feel they can fly without a net. On the other hand, tech freelancers expressed the wish to retire earlier than other gig workers we’d studied—22 percent want to retire before they’re 60, and one in ten before they’re 55. Almost one in three, however, say they will never retire. And 75 percent expect to fund their retirement out of their own personal savings. Their motivations for choosing to work independently weren’t much different from those of the overall gig working cohort. For the tech gig workers we talked to, flexibility is the main reason or route to freelancing. Our research showed that working remotely or from home is more important to tech gig workers than for other gig workers, and many are driven to freelancing by geographic circumstances. Two-thirds expect to remain working in this independent model for the foreseeable future. One tech gig worker we talked to summed up the benefits: “No 8 to 5, no office but my kitchen table, no transportation costs.” Deeper Optimism Than Most Tech freelancers projected much stronger confidence about their future than other gig workers did. Considering that the pandemic produced a loss of income for very few of them (9 percent), and in fact more than twice as many tech freelancers as our overall gig worker sample reported that their income increased during the pandemic, it’s not hard to see why they’re optimistic. Covid had the effect of switching more technology roles to the independent freelance model—and many of these tech workers appreciated the safety and convenience afforded by their new pandemic-resistant work arrangements. As we’ve seen already this year, and indeed in recent history in other industries, tech companies tend to hire up for big projects and let people go when the funding dries up or the project is over. For tech workers in particular, a traditional job is looking less financially secure, between the high turnover rates and constant need to shore up their knowledge base to stay abreast of a fast-changing industry. Working independently may indeed offer them greater stability, if not benefits, in the long run. What can employers learn from this? Companies across almost all industries report a dearth of tech talent. They now have 77,000 highly trained people to hire on a freelance or permanent basis.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.