In this dynamic environment, access to the VC market is crucial for family offices, who should ... [+] consider investing through funds before making co-investments and eventually investing in a fund's general partnership. Family offices have for long been attracted to direct investments including the high-growth potential of venture capital investments. According to the latest family office investment report from Goldman Sachs, Eyes on the Horizon, in APAC up to 91% of family offices invest in venture capital and 86% in the Americas where the lowest percentage would be in EMEA where only 76% invests into this asset class. However, with the recent collapse of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) and the ongoing high-interest rate environment, the venture capital space has felt a little unsteady. Despite these challenges, family offices keep expanding on their VC plays, leveraging their network and often patient capital to gain access. In the midst of all of this turbulence, the Simple team released their first review of venture capital for family offices. With the current climate in mind, the review examines the role of family offices in the VC ecosystem, the function of venture investments in a family office portfolio, and the different avenues family offices can take to achieve their desired exposure here. Venture might have been through the ringer recently, but as an asset class, VC remains an enticing one for family offices. Access is a crucial factor for family offices when entering the VC market, one that relies heavily on what and who you know. It can take years of experience and deep networks to gain a position in developed VC ecosystems. Meaning, family offices must determine if their network can provide the right opportunities and risk management, and if not, they might initially consider investing through VC funds before making co-investments and eventually investing in a fund’s general partnership to gain experience, expand their network, and establish a presence in their targeted VC ecosystem. Co-investments with funds can lead to pre-vetted investments that potentially offer strong value propositions. Family offices have the opportunity to invest in a fund's general partnership, gaining a management seat to increase their total venture capital allocation and target specific sectors. This approach allows them to navigate the complexities of VC investments more effectively, even during periods of market turbulence. Family offices often view venture capital and private equity investments as a continuum in their allocation of alternative assets within their portfolio. The amount invested, timeframe, and potential returns are all factors that lean towards the long-term, creating a spectrum of considerations at every stage of a company's growth. However, managing VC investments in the years after they are made can be difficult due to illiquidity, long time horizons, and the need to account for the value of the investments. Managing liquidity in VC investments involves a laddered approach, but this does not account for risk. As with any asset class, the VC space is only emboldened by the many players who assist at various stages in the investment value chain. Be it solution providers who help source & due diligence investments such as Velvet who lists and DDs funds, Revere who rates various funds and there are even solutions that provide a single stock that gains exposure to a range of VC companies AQVC, There are several new platforms dedicated to help discover, invest and monitor venture and private fund investments Sprout or DOT investing. Then there are also broader investment platforms, such as Titanbay who also offers dedicated VC feeders. Some firms specialize in structuring vehicles for VC investments, such Angellist, whose new platform is basically a supertool for both startups and investors or Vauban, an online, end-to-end platform that streamlines the entire investment projects process. Today there are even corporate venture builders, like Wright Partners, who build joint partnerships with families and corporates, leverage their assets, and take ventures to external investment in 18 months. The use case for families building their own ventures would be particularly relevant for very established family owned firms looking to innovate beyond their current line of business into an adjacent space that might not fall directly into the mandate of the operational business. In the software space, most technology products allow for the reporting and management of fund-based and other direct investments but there are also more coming out dedicated on VC that can help with deal flow tracking and more sophisticated requirements. Hatcher is great for sourcing and managing direct deals where Fundwave offers a family office-focused solution that tracks investments and makes reporting simpler. Similarly, many portfolio management systems help with managing and reporting on investments. All of these players contribute to making the VC investment process more seamless, accessible and effective for family offices. As the venture capital space faces increasing challenges, the resilience of family offices, along with other investors will be put to the test. But it’s this resilience that will ultimately set them apart. By leveraging co-investments alongside established funds, family offices can access pre-vetted opportunities and effectively manage the risks involved. There’s also an opportunity for family offices to make better use of their unique assets, network and capabilities as ideal partners for startups by providing not only capital but also mentoring and support – and at a time like this, sage advice is an invaluable asset. In this dynamic environment, family offices must – and will – continue to adapt and explore innovative ways to maintain their position as valuable players in the VC landscape.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.