


								
									AAPL: 224.785 ( -1.265 )								 
									Copyright © 2024 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
								 Sabrent Rocket Nano, version two Sabrent has announced a redesigned version of its tiny Rocket Nano portable SSD with up to 4TB capacity and speeds ideal for 8K video recording.  Crafted from a high-grade aluminum alloy, the external solid-state drive is just 2.85-inches in length, 1.3-inches in width, and 0.6-inches in height. The device also weighs 1.75 ounces.The USB 3.2 Gen 2x2 interface supports data transfer speeds of over 1,500 MB/s for maximum speeds when handling large data transfers. That speed allows it to capture 8K video recordings and other high bitrate content without many slowdowns. Version two of the Rocket drive is smaller than a credit card The new Rocket Nano comes with a removable silicone sleeve to offer protection against drops and debris. The package contains a USB-C to USB-C cable and a USB-C to USB-A cable for convenience.Sabrent Rocket Nano - Pricing & Availability The new Rocket Nano is available now in three storage options: a 1TB drive for $119.99, a mid-tier 2TB drive, and a large 4TB drive for $499.99. Crafted from a high-grade aluminum alloy, the external solid-state drive is just 2.85-inches in length, 1.3-inches in width, and 0.6-inches in height. The device also weighs 1.75 ounces. The USB 3.2 Gen 2x2 interface supports data transfer speeds of over 1,500 MB/s for maximum speeds when handling large data transfers. That speed allows it to capture 8K video recordings and other high bitrate content without many slowdowns. The new Rocket Nano comes with a removable silicone sleeve to offer protection against drops and debris. The package contains a USB-C to USB-C cable and a USB-C to USB-A cable for convenience. The new Rocket Nano is available now in three storage options: a 1TB drive for $119.99, a mid-tier 2TB drive, and a large 4TB drive for $499.99. Andrew is a writer and commentator who has been sharing his insights on technology since 2015. He has authored numerous online articles covering a range of topics including Apple, privacy, and security. Andrew joined ... Why aren't these SSD's using Thunderbolt?  Given the USB4 spec includes Thunderbolt as well, it's inexcusable nowadays to not include it.
 Why aren't these SSD's using Thunderbolt?  Given the USB4 spec includes Thunderbolt as well, it's inexcusable nowadays to not include it. Umm...the title only works if you ignore thickness and therefore volume.  Good luck fitting this SSD in your wallet.  :smile: 
 Umm...the title only works if you ignore thickness and therefore volume.  Good luck fitting this SSD in your wallet.  :smile:  1500 MB/s read and write or just read? This speed matches TB speed on an entry-level interface. I'd like to see independent tests actually show this speed on a Mac. PC tests don't count with specialized I/O boards. 
 1500 MB/s read and write or just read? This speed matches TB speed on an entry-level interface. I'd like to see independent tests actually show this speed on a Mac. PC tests don't count with specialized I/O boards.  
rob53 said:
1500 MB/s read and write or just read? This speed matches TB speed on an entry-level interface. I'd like to see independent tests actually show this speed on a Mac. PC tests don't count with specialized I/O boards. 

yup. will be a < 1,000MB/s (10Gbps) drive on all Macs, since USB 3.2 Gen2x2 isn’t in any Apple devices.

Not a bad price for what it is, sounds like a PCIe 3.0 NVMe SSD inside. Appleinsider shouldn’t just post a press release as a news item without even giving it the slightest bit of Apple context though (ie ignore the Gen2x2 claims.)
 
yup. will be a < 1,000MB/s (10Gbps) drive on all Macs, since USB 3.2 Gen2x2 isn’t in any Apple devices.

Not a bad price for what it is, sounds like a PCIe 3.0 NVMe SSD inside. Appleinsider shouldn’t just post a press release as a news item without even giving it the slightest bit of Apple context though (ie ignore the Gen2x2 claims.) Give me a TB version and I’ll be interested.  
 Give me a TB version and I’ll be interested.   Apple has released watchOS 10.6.1 and tvOS 17.6.1 to the public, as well as rereleasing iOS 17.6.1 and iPadOS 17.6.1. For the first time, Apple has made its whole podcast library available online, where it can be heard in Safari or other browsers, instead of the Apple Podcasts app. Apple is commemorating the 108th anniversary of the US National Park Service by launching a campaign to raise funds through Apple Pay donations. A record-breaking discount is available exclusively for AppleInsider readers, with the premium 2024 M4 iPad Pro 13-inch with 1TB storage now $200 off. Procreate, company behind the popular art app designed exclusively for iPad, has issued a public statement saying that it has no plans to include generative AI in its products. Most potential upgraders will find pricing to be a big factor in moving to the iPhone 16, a survey claims, with the introduction of Apple Intelligence almost as important. The Apple Sports app now offers NFL and NCAA football support just in time for the upcoming football season. On this episode of the HomeKit Insider Podcast, we break down the news from Google's special event, the launch of the Aqara FP1E presence sensor, and more smart home news. Apple announced new AI language models at WWDC. These models run both locally on Apple devices and on Apple's own Apple Silicon-powered AI servers. Apple is applying to the City of Waukee in Iowa, just west of Des Moines, to return some of its land surrounding its iCloud data center back into a freshwater marsh, also known as a "prairie pothole." A report has outlined how Tim Cook has become the chief lobbyist for Apple. This is unsurprising, given Cook and predecessor Steve Jobs' history of influencing world governments. 