Find the best LG TV to suit you, whatever your budget 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 LG is one of the top-performing TV brands in the world, so it should come as no surprise that the best LG TVs you'll find on the market today are some of the most technically-advanced displays that have ever been made.  It's not just one of the best TV makers, but it's also one of the most prolific. LG tends to bring out many new TVs throughout any given year, from high-end displays that often feature in our best TVs guide to entry-level screens that are better suited to those on a budget. But with so much choice, it can be a challenge to choose the best LG TV for you.  We’ve reviewed many LG TVs over the years, as well as many from other top brands so we know how the competition stacks up. We’re always looking out for the best combination of design, performance and value for money. LG TVs suit all kinds of preferences, including the best 8K TVs that look truly incredible; gorgeous QNED (LG’s term for QLED, or sets that use quantum dots) TVs that deliver much higher brightness than even the best OLED TVs; and also cheap but cheerful 4K UHD TVs that would make a great second screen in a guest room. Whether you're looking for a TV that's premium and packed with the latest features or want to get the best LG OLED TV for the least amount of money, we've got a number of options for you to consider in our guide to the best LG TVs below. Matt is TechRadar's Managing Editor for Entertainment, meaning he's in charge of persuading our team to watch the latest movies on gorgeous TVs as well as listen to fantastic speakers and headphones. It's a tough task, as you can imagine. Matt has over a decade of experience in tech publishing, and has been writing about the latest TVs and soundbars since 2017. Matt is looking forward to following all of the latest updates from CES 2024, where all the major TV makers revealed their models for the next 12 months. Why you can trust TechRadar 


We spend hours testing every product or service we review, so you can be sure you’re buying the best. Find out more about how we test. Best overall   The best LG TV overall  On balance, the C4 offers more than any other LG TV – excellent picture quality, a range of sizes, and extensive gaming features, all at a fair price for what it delivers.  See more below  Best budget   Best budget LG TV Although the B3 is an OLED TV, it's available for a surprisingly reasonable price given the impressive picture quality and great gaming features and performance.  Read more below Best Picture   Best LG TV for picture quality If picture quality is most important to you, then there's none better than the LG G3, an OLED TV that delivers high brightness, rich contrast, and bold colors.  Read more below Best for 8K  Best LG TV for 8K If you're looking for an OLED TV that delivers 8K resolution, you'll want LG's Z3. This TV is available in 77- and 88-inch screen sizes and has a sensationally detailed picture. Read more below Best small TV   Best small-screen LG TV  LG only makes one 32-inch TV,  and it's a really good one. The LQ6300 gives you all you need in a 32-inch sized screen for watching TV and gaming.  Read more below  Best 97-inch TV  Best 97-inch LG TV  If you're looking for the largest TV LG makes, it's the 97-inch G2 "Gallery" OLED model. This TV is designed to be wall-mounted and is a striking centerpiece for a room. Read more below   Our expert review: The LG C series OLED TVs have consistently served as the best LG TVs overall for the last few years, and that continues with the LG C4. Offering superb picture quality with good brightness, an excellent array of gaming features and a wide range of screen sizes, the LG C4 stands tall in the LG TV range.  The LG C4 takes much of what made its predecessor, the C3, look great and builds on that further. Improved brightness means HDR highlights pop that little bit extra, colors are brighter and contrast is even richer than before. There's also a new Dolby Vision Filmmaker Mode for even greater picture accuracy when watching movies. The LG C4 also serves as a brilliant gaming TV, with up to 144Hz refresh rate, VRR including AMD FreeSync and Nvidia G-Sync, and ALLM across all four HDMI 2.1 ports. It also features LG's Game Optimizer, where gaming settings are automatically set, but can be further adjusted to suit the player.  LG's webOS 24 smart TV platform on the C4 features a tidier design than last year's webOS 23 and features Quick Cards for easy navigation. The C4 also features a slim, premium-looking design with a remote that covers all the bases. The C4 is not the cheapest LG TV in the 2024 range, or even the cheapest OLED (that's the LG B4). But when you weigh up what it offers against its price, it's still the best LG TV you can buy for your money.  Read our full LG C4 review  Our expert review: The LG B3 is the TV maker's entry-level OLED in its 2023 TV lineup (the A3 isn't widely available) and although it only has a standard W-OLED panel (unlike the OLED Evo panels in the LG C3 and LG G3) it still offers a crisp, detailed picture with rich contrast and punchy colors. It's also stacked with features for gaming and has an intuitive smart TV platform. The LG B3's crowning glory is its picture quality. It has a fantastic mix of dynamic color, deep black levels and refined details that gives the picture a natural, true-to-life feel. The LG B3's picture feels more premium than its price suggests. It isn't the brightest OLED around, due to its W-OLED panel, but that doesn't stop it from offering phenomenal picture quality. Gaming is another highlight for the B3. The set has a 4K 120Hz refresh rate as well as support for AMD Freesync, Nvidia G-Sync, ALLM, VRR and Dolby Vision gaming, which makes it ideal for PS5 and Xbox Series X owners. Gaming feels responsive, with the B3 handling graphically intense moments well thanks to its low 9.2ms input lag time (achieved by turning 'Boost' on in the Game Optimizer menu). Sadly though, it does only have two HDMI 2.1 ports.  It's not all perfect, admittedly, as the LG B3's built-in sound is average, which means it could definitely benefit from a soundbar to match the quality of the picture on screen. The stand that it comes with also feels a little cheap. However, when it comes to bang for your buck, the B3 has had significant discounts from its original launch price that mean more people have access to a mid-range quality OLED for a substantially lower price.  Read our full LG B3 review  Our expert review: The LG G3 is our recommended LG TV if you want a stunning picture above all else. There are a range of features on offer here. However, despite supporting all other HDR formats, the LG G3 does not include HDR10+ functionality. Gamers will be happy to hear there's Dolby Vision gaming and 4K 120Hz with VRR and ALLM support across all four HDMI ports. Pairing an OLED Evo panel with MLA technology yields a picture with vibrant colors, punchy and dynamic HDR images, stunning black levels, and a new-found brightness to top it all off. According to LG, it's a 70% brightness increase on previous generations of its OLED TVs. The LG G3 has a slim and elegant design, which makes it look effortlessly sleek on the wall. In terms of the frame itself, its silver and metallic design make it not only look good, but also feel solid. The only drawback is it's designed with wall mounting in mind, meaning there are no optional feet or a stand included with the G3. You’ll have to pay extra for that. The LG G3 is priced like a premium flagship TV. Though its price has dropped somewhat since its launch in March 2023, you'll still find alternatives from other brands for considerably less – in our review we offered up the Samsung S95C as a solid rival. Having said that, the picture quality, gaming features and increased brightness compared to normal OLED panels mean you’re getting a lot of TV, even if the price tag is high. In other words, if you can afford it, it's worth it. Read our full LG G3 review  Our expert review: The LG Z3 is our top pick if you're looking for the best 8K TV available from LG. The standout features here include an impressive 8K resolution that's available on large 77 and 88-inch panels, which makes sense considering it will show off  8K images the best. In our review of the 77-inch version of the Z3, we said that "it's hard to overstate the jaw-dropping precision, detail and clarity you get when over 33 million self-emissive pixels produce their own light and color completely independently of their neighbours." That nicely sums up our enthusiasm for the Z3's picture, which also does an excellent job of upscaling 4K sources to 8K. The Z2 features brightness-boosting Micro Lens Array technology, which, along with an AI Processor 8K Gen6 processor, gives it a brightness advantage over regular OLED TVs. There's also LG's AI Sound Pro onboard, which can virtually mix the TV's audio to create a  9.1.2-channel Dolby Atmos presentation. Read our full LG Z3 review  Our expert review: LG doesn't make many TVs smaller than the 42-inch LG C4 OLED, but it doesn't need to with the 32-inch LQ6300 available. If you're looking for a solid HD TV for your bedroom or small living room, the LQ6300 delivers great performance for a very affordable price.  During our testing, the LQ6300 demonstrated very good picture quality for the price, showcasing punchy colors and natural, well-defined textures. Its contrast was also good, though it did struggle with black uniformity (the ability to evenly display black tones across the screen) when watching darker movies. But overall the LQ6300's picture is strong.  Although the LQ6300 lacks the premium gaming features you'd find in larger screens, it still delivers great gaming performance. It handled graphically intense battle sequences in Battlefield V well and we ultimately had a blast while playing it.  The LQ6300's sound is also surprisingly effective, with decent bass and clear speech despite its 2x10W speaker array. Compared with most 32-inch TVs we've tested, the LQ6300's built-in sound stands above the rest.  When you combine all this with the LQ6300's great value price (compared with other 32-inch sets), it's no surprise that the LQ6300 sits at the top of our best 32-inch TV list.  Read our full LG 32LQ6300 review  Our expert review: After something a bit more stylish? The LG G2 OLED is a knockout television that delivers a super-thin design that comes with a special flush wall mount, so it barely protrudes from the wall. This is one of the older LG TVs in our list, but we're keeping it in as our top pick if you're looking for a 97-inch panel as LG has kept this model around in the bigger size – you won't find a 97-inch G3. The real hero here is LG's OLED Evo technology with Brightness Booster Max, which makes this LG's brightest OLED yet – even more than the LG C2. Matched with excellent image processing, Dolby Vision HDR and – yes – four HDMI 2.1 ports, it's very well futureproofed. In our LG G2 review we wrote: "The best surprise of all is the way the G2 uses its extra brightness to make pretty much every frame of any source you care to mention look even more sublime than it has on any LG OLED before."  The breathtakingly slim design makes it a real centerpiece television, with the contrast and color benefits of OLED pushed to new, lighting-enhanced heights. The a9 Gen 5 AI processor is even more capable of smartly upscaling and processing onscreen objects in the most suitable way. Watch out though: the G2 is really designed to be wall-mounted, and it doesn't come with a TV stand or feet out of the box. You can buy a floorstanding Gallery Stand alongside, or find a third-party solution for placing on a counter, though. This is a major consideration if you're considering the huge 97-inch model. Read our full LG G2 review If you're looking for the best LG TV, there are several key considerations you need to bear in mind. The first is size. We know it's tempting to always assume bigger is better when it comes to technology. However, the size of the screen you should buy needs to be dictated by the space you have, how far away you'll be sitting from the screen and the kinds of content you'll be watching on it. We'd also recommend checking out the HDR capabilities of any new TV –we've detailed these under each of the LG TVs in our guide.  It's also worth considering sound. If you're willing to spend extra cash on a soundbar, you don't need to agonise about audio. However, if you'd like an all-in-one cinema system, consider a TV that delivers great audio as well as a fantastic picture.  Finally, have a price range in mind. You might be able to bump up your budget a little if you find the perfect TV – or find a great deal in the Black Friday sales – but it's a good idea to set a limit to begin with so you don't fall in love with the unrivalled images and features of a TV that's well above what you can afford. You may also want to question whether it's definitely an LG TV you want. There's a lot to love about this brand, but it may also be worth your time to take a look at our best Samsung TV and best Sony TV guides as well.  A great question. With so many outstanding TV brands out there, why should you choose LG over the rest? Panel-maker LG Display (distinct from LG Electronics, which assembles and sells LG-branded TVs) has become the poster child for today’s OLED TVs, as a major supplier to its competitors like Panasonic, Sony, or Philips.  While you may like the specific feel or features of other OLED ranges – Panasonic has a more grounded color palette, while Sony’s Acoustic Surface Audio+ technology emits sound from the panel itself – you’re still in a sense buying from LG. LG’s OLED sets tend to have a slightly warmer ‘pop’ to colors than some competitors, but the difference is pretty small unless you’re looking for it. OLED is able to reach deeper black levels and offer more precise light control than even the best LCD or QLED TVs, thanks to its self-emitting panels and ability to turn pixels off entirely. The TVs degrade faster than LCDs, though, and can't go quite as bright as some of the newer Samsung TV models. (You can suss out your preference in our OLED vs QLED comparison guide.) The webOS smart TV platform on LG TVs is also fantastic, with a sleek and polished interface alongside good app support – and voice commands through the Magic Remote for all new OLED sets. Keep in mind, though, that LG doesn't support HDR10+, even if it has generally wide support for HDR10, Dolby Vision, and HLG formats. UK viewers won't find Freeview Play on its most recent televisions either. A feature that will be of interest to US viewers is an ATSC 3.0 tuner, which lets the set receive free, over-the-air TV channels broadcast using the next-gen ATSC 3.0 standard. ATSC 3.0 offers support for 4K resolution video with HDR and Dolby Atmos audio among other features, so it's worth investigating when buying a new TV. At present, only LG's G2-series models provide an ATSC 3.0 tuner, though we expect to see it offered in other lines in the future. This all depends on what you want it for. If you're a home theater fanatic who spends their free time absorbing all the latest movies (especially in 4K Blu-ray format) you're going to want to look at LG's excellent OLEDs. Which one is right for you will depend on your budget.  The flagship LG G4 will likely provide the best overall picture quality (thanks to its brighter MLA tech), but comes at a higher price than the mid-range C4 and entry-level B4. It's also likely to come with the best built-in sound due to its larger speaker array.  If you want a variety of sizes, then the C4 is your best choice, as it comes in a wide range covering a 42-inch screen that's perfect for smaller rooms, all the way up to a cinema-sized 83-inch. The C-series is also arguably the most versatile when it comes to picture and smart TV features.   The B4 is the entry-level model of the group and from what we've seen offers some brightness improvements over its predecessor, the B3, and comes in a new 48-inch size. It's unlikely to beat the picture quality of the C4, but if you want an LG OLED TV on a budget, this is the one.  Thankfully, all these sets generally come with the same gaming features across the board – including four fully-kitted-out HDMI 2.1 ports so your choice will pretty much come down to picture quality and sizes. LG also has a range of QNED (mini-LED) TVs that provide decent overall picture quality, but these won't best its OLED models anytime soon. We found the QNED91T to be a feature-packed TV, but it was ultimately held back from greatness by inconsistent performance. LED sets work a bit differently, though. LG’s LEDs are now labelled under “NanoCell”, rather than “Super UHD”, though they’re still the LED panels LG has been making for years. The LG NanoCell 9 Series – that “9” again referring to its 2019 release, so you know it’s up to date – is listed as “LG 65SM9500PUA”, this time leading with the model size (65-inch). That’s followed by the “S” labelling for Super UHD / NanoCell TVs, compared to “U” for simpler UHD TVs, “L” for LED TVs that aren’t 4K. LG also used to use “E” for OLED and “P” or Plasma TVs (now discontinued), though you won’t find these labels on new sets. The second letter differentiates between each year’s new product range. So, while 2019 4K LEDs from LG all have “SM” in them, 2018’s sets had “SK” instead.  The way a TV brand says a TV works and the way it does day to day doesn't always add up. That's why we're dedicated to testing every TV that we recommend, but there's a lot to consider. We put all of the best LG TVs in this guide through their paces with a range of content resolutions – including standard definition, 1080p, 4K and sometimes 8K.  We rate the picture quality, the brightness and vibrancy of colors. We test the features and smart assistants built-in, as well as how the most popular streaming apps, like Netflix, work. We listen to whether the built-in speakers work well out-of-the-box so we can tell you whether it's a good TV for sound or one you'll absolutely need a soundbar for.  We also spend time tweaking the settings of a TV so we can say with confidence whether it has everything you need. We've recently upgraded our testing program to include measurements of peak HDR brightness, DCI-P3 color space coverage, Cinema mode (or Filmmaker mode, if available) color accuracy, and 4K input lag, so our reviews of LG and other TVs will include this data in the performance comments as well. Importantly, we also live with the TV. By that we mean we don't just watch a few TV shows and call it a day. We test the viewing angles and brightness levels in different rooms at different times of the day. We'll listen to the state-of-the-art sound when we have family chatter to contend with and we'll share our first-hand experiences. We've tested hundreds of TVs over the years, so we know what we're looking for and what makes a solid performance and a stellar performance.  We also think it's important to provide wider context, even in a guide like this one that's focused on one specific brand. That's why, where possible, we've included details about models with similar specs from other TV makers. That way you'll be able to make the best decision about which TV is right for you. Check out the latest LG promo codes to see this month's best discounts. August 9 2024
Added the 32-inch LQ6300 as 'Best small TV' option. June 5 2024
Replaced the LG C3 with the LG C4 as 'best overall LG TV'. Removed LG A2 as 'best budget' due to stock availability and replaced with LG B3 after significant discounts over the past year.  Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. Matt is TechRadar's Managing Editor for Entertainment, meaning he's in charge of persuading our team of writers and reviewers to watch the latest TV shows and movies on gorgeous TVs and listen to fantastic speakers and headphones. It's a tough task, as you can imagine. Matt has over a decade of experience in tech publishing, and previously ran the TV & audio coverage for our colleagues at T3.com, and before that he edited T3 magazine. During his career, he's also contributed to places as varied as Creative Bloq, PC Gamer, PetsRadar, MacLife, and Edge. TV and movie nerdism is his speciality, and he goes to the cinema three times a week. He's always happy to explain the virtues of Dolby Vision over a drink, but he might need to use props, like he's explaining the offside rule. Nakamichi's new Dolby Atmos soundbar setup with four 12-inch subs is here to really rock your home theater Google TV's upcoming picture-in-picture mode is going to be a disappointment This AI video generator might be almost as fast as shooting real video TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 