The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Expert Reviewed
									 Have a question for Tamrah Harris or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Tamrah Harris,
                                                    Lauren Kawaguchi, Au.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. A hearing deficit can affect quality of life in myriad ways. Frequently mishearing others, not tracking well in group conversations and needing people to repeat themselves are often signs of less-than-optimal hearing health, says Lauren Kawaguchi, a clinical audiologist at Proliance Surgeons in Seattle and a 2024 Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “These things can be irritating and exhausting to both the person with hearing loss and the people around them, which is why hearing loss can be detrimental to a person’s quality of life,” she says. “After being evaluated by an audiologist and ear-nose-throat (ENT) doctor, hearing aids may be the next step.” Read on to learn more about Nano hearing devices specifically (which aren’t hearing aids) to determine whether they might be a good fit for you or a loved one. Summary What we like What we don’t like Nano was launched in 2017 after the founder discovered during a visit with his grandmother that she was having difficulty hearing the family conversation. He later realized she had lost one of her prescribed hearing aids and couldn’t afford to replace it. Nano offers several sound amplification products that are customizable to fit any ear size and can be worn discreetly. Its products are offered without a prescription or hearing examination at an affordable price. Currently, hearing devices that can be bought directly from a manufacturer without a hearing exam or prescription are not intended for people with diagnosed hearing loss. These devices, known as personal sound amplification products (PSAPs), are for people with normal hearing who want to hear better in certain environments and situations. While Nano claims its products are state-of-the-art, FDA-registered, medical-grade hearing aid solutions, this language is misleading. And as of October 2021, the FDA reports no products can be marketed legally as over-the-counter (OTC) hearing aids. Therefore, it would be more accurate to describe Nano’s products as PSAPs rather than hearing aids. With that said, the table below offers important details for four of Nano’s bestselling hearing products. Nano offers free downloadable apps for its hearing products in both Apple and GooglePlay app stores. Nano also offers the following latex-free accessories made from medical-grade silicone for various hearing device models, all of which are available for purchase via the brand’s website: Nano’s hearing products are not covered by insurance. Most insurance providers, including Medicare, don’t cover the costs of hearing aids or PSAPs. With that said, Nano was founded with the mission of helping people gain access to affordable hearing products, according to the company. It even offers small, affordable monthly payment plans for qualifying customers. Nano offers a 45-day full refund guarantee and a 12-month standard warranty on its hearing products, according to the company. You can also purchase the Elite Protection Plan for a full year of protection in case of loss or accidental damage to the device(s). The Elite plan costs $79, or four interest-free payments of $19.75. Nano claims all of its devices have been designed by the best audiologists and sound engineers and that its products, which are made in the U.S., work for over 96% of customers. However, the FDA recommends a hearing evaluation before getting any kind of hearing aid, allowing an audiologist or hearing health professional to determine the specific type and amount of hearing loss being experienced. Nano Hearing Aids has two accredited business listings on the Better Business Bureau (BBB) website, but neither are rated. At the time of writing, both listings say the profile is being updated and doesn’t offer any information regarding customer reviews and/or complaints. Meanwhile, Nano’s website primarily features highly rated reviews. Out of 5,090 reviews, 81% gave the brand 5 stars.



Hearing Aids Personalized For You
Jabra Enhance's hearing aids are custom-programmed based on your test results so that you'll have personalized sound right out of the box.

					Get Started
				
On Jabra Enhance's Website


 


 Hearing Aids Personalized For You Jabra Enhance's hearing aids are custom-programmed based on your test results so that you'll have personalized sound right out of the box. On Jabra Enhance's Website The FDA considers the products listed on Nano’s website PSAPs—not hearing aids. PSAPs allow people with normal hearing to hear better in specific situations, such as when hunting, bird watching or watching a performance from a distance, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PSAPs are not intended to compensate for or manage hearing loss, and they aren’t individually programmed like hearing aids. If you’re experiencing hearing loss, consult an audiologist or hearing health professional for an evaluation to determine the type and severity of hearing loss you have and what kind of device could best address your hearing health needs. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Tamrah Harris is a registered nurse and certified personal trainer through the American College of Sports Medicine. She is the founder and CEO of Harris Health and Wellness Communications. She has over 25 years of experience in healthcare with a passion for health education and wellness.
			 
				Lauren Kawaguchi is a board-certified audiologist specializing in cochlear implants, hearing aids and diagnostic audiology. Originally from Las Vegas, she moved to Seattle to complete her undergraduate degree in speech and hearing sciences from the University of Washington, where she continued on to receive her clinical doctorate in audiology in 2019. As part of her clinical training, Dr. Kawaguchi worked with one of the top cochlear implant teams in the U.S. at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri. This experience catalyzed her love for cochlear implants and serving patients with hearing loss of all severities. She aims to empower patients and increase awareness about the social and emotional effects of hearing loss.
			