Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Carolin Lehmann, 
                              
              Tom Horton
 
    Edited By
                        
              Leslie Gornstein
 
Updated on:  May 28, 2024 / 1:11 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           If you're interested in signing up with a home-security company in 2024, you may feel a bit overwhelmed. Is a long-term contract the right move for you? Should you go the DIY route, installing doorbell cameras and the like, or opt to get a service professionally installed? There are so many options when it comes to home security companies that you may have no idea where to start -- and that's where we come in.  Some factors are more important than others, making it easy to get started with what's most important to you.  "The best security system for your living situation may depend on a few factors, including cost, features, comprehensiveness and installation process," security professional and co-founder of Security Guards Only Tim Reinemo told CBS Essentials. Start with your home security requirements: if you're looking for a straightforward, budget-friendly way to monitor your front door, you can save a lot by investing in the top-selling Ring video doorbell, for example. For everything else, we here at CBS Essentials spoke with experts to come up with a list of the best home security companies that will match your security needs -- and are well worth your time and money. Read on for the best home security companies in 2024 according to experts and customer reviews. There are both DIY-hybrid and professionally installed options to shop ahead. Here's a quick look at the best home security companies in 2024.  If you want both full-service and DIY options, ADT may be the pick for you. You can install an ADT system on your own, or have someone come out to do it for you (which costs around $150). Note that many options do require a contract, unlike the services offered by Ring, Scout and SimpliSafe. "ADT is a leader in North America for professional home security systems," Reinemo says. "They do both self and professional monitoring. They have an app and even offer a money-back guarantee. Having been an industry leader for so long, ADT will be a safe bet if you are willing to pay more than some other, less comprehensive systems costs." ADT prices start at $599 (or $9.98 monthly for 60 months) for equipment and installation, and the monitoring starts at $45.99 per month. They have a live chat option if you run into any trouble. If you want a security system that's tailored very specifically to your home, ADT is a top choice. "This service offers bespoke security solutions, including advanced video surveillance, smart home automation and 24/7 professional monitoring," Toney Greer, CEO and founder of The Royal Society, a security and concierge management company, told CBS Essentials. Right now, customers can save a whopping 50% off a new ADT system with a pro monitoring plan thanks to ADT's ongoing Memorial Day sale event. Pros Cons If you're looking for a more affordable, semi-DIY approach, try Ring. Purchase your own home security equipment, like the options below, and install your security cameras and other gadgets exactly where you want them, unlike with ADT and Vivint. Then you can subscribe to Ring Protect (starting at $3.99 a month) to opt in to professional monitoring. You can subscribe to a Ring Protect plan separately to receive mobile notifications when your system is triggered; change your alarm modes; and monitor your Ring devices through the Ring app.  The more involved Ring Protect Pro Plan offers 24/7 emergency police, fire and medical response; keeps your Ring alarm online during a power outage; and more. There are no contracts required with Ring, and you can call or chat for tech support. The company, owned by Amazon, has had some privacy concerns. Pros  Cons "Ring doorbell cameras use Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connectivity to allow homeowners to stream audio and visual footage to their smartphones and Amazon Alexa or Google Assistants," Reinemo says. "The fact that it is a do-it-yourself installation appeals to many as a more cost-effective option."  This doorbell takes 1080p HD video footage (including night vision) and lets you hear and speak to anyone at your door from your phone, tablet or computer. You can power it with its built-in rechargeable battery, or connect it to your existing doorbell wires for consistent power. Find this doorbell in two colors. Pair it with a Ring Protect subscription. The Ring video doorbell is available today at Amazon for $100, but shoppers who trade in another qualifying home security device can save 20% off the list price.  Pair your Ring doorbell with this 14-piece alarm kit that's a great fit for two- to four-bedroom homes. It comes with one base station, two keypads, eight contact sensors, two motion detectors and one range extender. The keypads can arm and disarm your alarm, and its contact sensors can sense when doors or windows open.  Again, you have to subscribe to a Ring Protect plan separately. But it's worth it: The Ring app helps you monitor all those devices above, and lets you know, via your mobile device, if a device has been triggered. If you want more help than that, you have the option: The Ring Protect Pro Plan offers 24/7 emergency police, fire and medical response, and you don't have to worry about your Ring alarm staying online during a power outage. Complete your home security setup today by purchasing this collection available from Amazon for $330 below. "Vivint is another popular company that is known for quality equipment," Reinemo says. "Homeowners can self-monitor or outsource their livestream monitoring." Vivint offers outdoor security cameras, a doorbell camera, smart locks, lighting and security sensors. The systems are customized to your home, and the company can come install them, unlike with Ring, SimpliSafe and Scout.  They don't require a contract if you pay for your security equipment upfront. Then you'll have to pay for monitoring each month. Monthly service starts at $30 a month, not including the price of equipment. The equipment cost starts at $599, and financing is available. You can call or chat for tech support. Pros Con SimpliSafe has a variety of systems you can buy for your home, like the one featured below. Choose how many components you want in your system. The size of each system featured lands somewhere in the middle of industry standards, with eight pieces.  SimpliSafe can be more affordable, thanks to its self-installation (unlike with ADT and Vivint) and variety of options, and you don't need a contract. Sign up for professional monitoring separately (starting at $20 a month). You can call or chat for tech support. Pros Con "SimpliSafe offers affordable and customizable DIY systems with professional monitoring options and no long-term contracts," Greer says. This eight-piece system comes with a base station and sensors to protect windows, doors and cabinets. The sensors detect motion within 30 feet and have a 90-degree field of view. They have a 24-hour battery and cellular backup so you stay protected even if you lose power or Wi-Fi.  Customers with a business account can save 30% when purchasing this SimpliSafe home security system.  This home security package is currently 30% off on Amazon. Scout sells customizable home security systems that start at about $229. They require self-installation, unlike with ADT and Vivint. Choose motion sensors, cameras, water sensors and more. The system comes with a smart home hub that sounds a siren and notifies your computer or smartphone when there is trouble. You can even auto-alert people you trust when you're out of reach.  Or you can opt for professional monitoring, and the system stays up and running even if your internet is out. No annual contract is necessary, but you still have to pay, even for self-monitoring, at $9.99 per month. You can call or email for tech support. Pros Cons "The biggest thing is to do your research and take the time to read the fine print," Reinemo says. "For example, the multiple scandals with Ring security systems that have surfaced over the past few years. All of the information about how these companies operate is easily accessible, and you can decide how lax you are willing to be about data and privacy concerns that may arise around what footage is captured on your property.  "Ultimately, even with a data breach such as the ones in the past, you may still gain a lot of benefits from the security system being implemented, such as catching an intruder, knowing when your kids are home or even simple conveniences such as tracking package deliveries." When you're comparing devices and plan details to find the right home security solution for your home, it can be easy to overlook one key thing: customer service. You deserve a reliable home security company that has your back 24/7 and provides a hassle-free experience should you need to call for help or information. So which home security company has the best reputation when it comes to customer service? ADT is our top recommendation thanks to positive customer reviews and an A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau (BBB). While your customer service experience may differ depending on your location, ADT has some of the most reliable dealers and customer support staff.  While hours of operation can vary from one location to the next, ADT emergency lines are staffed around the clock to provide customers with prompt guidance and support when necessary. When picking the best home security companies of 2024, we considered a number of important factors. For a closer look at how we review products and services, here's what we prioritized while analyzing home security companies: Carolin Lehmann is an expert in health, fitness, furniture, apparel, gift guides and books for CBS Essentials. She's always testing new products to recommend. Some of her current favorites include Stanley cups and Alo Yoga workout sets. 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          "All this talk about how I'm angry at all those people (who) said I should step down — that's not true," President Biden said in his DNC speech Monday.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Hillary Clinton spoke at the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
         
          President Biden and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are addressing the convention on its first night.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          The first night of the Democratic National Convention walked the line between "thank you Joe" and "we are moving forward."
         
          "All this talk about how I'm angry at all those people (who) said I should step down — that's not true," President Biden said in his DNC speech Monday.
         
          Hillary Clinton spoke at the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
         
          President Biden and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are addressing the convention on its first night.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          First daughter Ashley Biden spoke lovingly about her father, President Biden, as she delivered remarks on the opening night of the Democratic National Convention. See her full address.
         
          First lady Jill Biden delivered heartfelt remarks about her husband, President Biden, while addressing the Democratic National Convention on Monday. See the first lady's full speech.
         
          President Biden closed out the opening night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention with a speech touting his Oval Office achievements, criticizing former President Donald Trump and throwing his support behind Vice President Kamala Harris. See Biden's full remarks.
         
          Georgia Sen. Raphael Warnock called Donald Trump a plague on the American conscious while speaking about Jan. 6 on the opening night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention. See Warnock's full address.
         
          Kentucky abortion access advocate Hadley Duvall and Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear offered scathing criticisms of Donald Trump and the Republican Party on the issue of abortion rights while addressing the Democratic National Convention Monday night. See Duvall and Beshear's full remarks.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.