Select Star, a startup providing data discovery, lineage and governance tools to mostly enterprise organizations, today announced that it raised $15 million in a Series A round led by Lightspeed Venture Partners with participation from Bowery Capital, Sozo Ventures and Pebblebed. The fresh cash brings the company's total raised to $20 million, and CEO Shinji Kim tells me that it'll be put toward product engineering, go-to-market and customer success efforts. "The explosion of data and apps makes it challenging to ensure good data governance while allowing data teams to leverage all the appropriate data in a self-service fashion," Kim said in an email interview with TechCrunch. "Traditional tools exist for enterprise data catalog and data governance but they require a lot of manual configuration and training to be fully leveraged within the organization, which is where Select Star comes in." Kim was previously the CEO of data processing provider Concord Systems, which was acquired by Akamai in late 2016. She joined Akamai and led the company's internet of things data platform for real-time messaging, and -- while there -- noticed an unfortunate pattern. According to Kim, many of Akamai's enterprise clients were running into issues understanding and using all their data as they moved to cloud database infrastructures, usually because the context of data was missing. By "context," Kim means an aggregate view of how data's flowing and being used within and between services, apps and tools -- which is exactly what Select Star provides. The platform analyzes metadata and logs from Snowflake, Google BigQuery, Amazon Redshift, Databricks, Tableau, Looker and other popular platforms, and then attempts to automatically tag and distill events down into bullet points. Select Star also creates a continuously updated inventory of key data assets, models and business metrics. Delivering a system of record for all the data across an organization and teams, the platform tries to expose the most significant database-level relationships. Image Credits: Select Star "We automatically generate customers' data model, data lineage, documentation, detect personally identifiable information and more, so there’s minimal work required on the setup and you can get insights right away," Kim said. "Our column-level lineage models give a deep understanding of end-to-end data flows, which helps data teams to avoid data models and dashboards from breaking." This sort of context, Kim avers, can help enterprises become more data-driven -- particularly those that work with multiple, large, disparate data sets on a regular basis. For example, a business might want to look at sales data, marketing data and product usage data together to get a complete profile of a customer. Gathering and normalizing all that info might present a challenge not only from a technical perspective, but because different departments and people might interpret the data in different ways. To Kim's point, for one reason or another, few companies consider themselves truly data-driven despite their best efforts. In a 2021 NewVantage survey, only 30% reported having a well-articulated data strategy. A separate recent report from Accenture found that only 33% of businesses trust "their data enough to use it effectively and derive value from it." And in a 2019 poll conducted by Arm Treasure Data, 47% of respondents indicated that their company's data was "siloed and difficult to access." "Having an automated data discovery platform like Select Star can act as the single source of truth that everyone can refer to," Kim said. "This helps eliminate any confusion, fosters trust in data and encourages more analytics work to be done effectively." I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the other startups tackling this same problem, in some cases from noticeably different angles. Castor comes to mind -- it's building data catalogs, or collections of metadata, data management and search tools designed to help users find the data they need within an organization. There's also Alation, Data.World and Collibra, which similarly offer data search and data lineage-tracking tools, as well as data observability firms such as Manta and Unravel Data. Kim expressed confidence that Select Star can compete -- and is competing -- exceptionally well, though, pointing to a customer base that includes Square parent company Block, Pitney Bowes, Fivetran, Opendoor and Handshake. She declined to comment on revenue metrics, but said that the plan is to double Select Star's 20-person workforce by the end of the year, suggesting some optimism about the future. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.