MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS James Shaughnessy joined the electronic signature company from Workday in May 2022.  April 19, 2023 at 03:08 PM  3 minute read Lawyer Compensation - In-House Former Workday, Lenovo and HP lawyer James Shaughnessy was paid $13.6 million, almost entirely in stock, when he joined DocuSign as head of its legal department in mid-2022, the electronic signature software company disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Shaughnessy, who took the legal reins at San Francisco-based DocuSign on May 31, received a $13.2 million stock award and a salary of $321,692, which was prorated because he joined mid-year, DocuSign’s proxy statement explains. His annual base salary is $510,000. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Trudy Knockless By Rhys Dipshan By Maria Dinzeo By Trudy Knockless 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder 'If Only We Had Full Staffing': This Legal Sector Is Spread Thin, but Negotiating Higher Rates The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies Women, Influence & Power in Law Awards honors women lawyers who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession. WIPL is the original global forum facilitating women-to-women exchange on leadership and legal issues. 
                                        JOB DESCRIPTION SUMMARY      Pulsar Title Insurance Company Inc., a commercial and residential title insurance underwriter based in the Bato...
                                 
                                        RECRUITMENT BONUS Newly hired employees from this recruitment may be eligible to receive bonus payments up to $3,000!*   FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE: ...
                                 
                                        Morristown, NJ; New York, NY Description: Fox Rothschild has an opening in multiple offices for a Counsel in our Litigation Department. The ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Corporate Counsel now! Already have an account? Sign In Predictive reporting, trend analysis, peer guidance and a practical playbook to help general counsels succeed in their increasingly high stakes roles as risk managers and corporate strategists The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.