Dataiku offers enterprises a framework for AI laws and various use cases in the new Generative AI Use Case Collection. Dataiku now offers enterprises a suite of generative AI solutions and applications and an underlying framework. The Generative AI Use Case Collection and the RAFT framework should enable companies to integrate generative AI themselves into their work processes or develop applications for it. Dataiku’s self-developed RAFT Framework for Generative AI helps companies prepare for future laws and regulations surrounding AI. The framework includes data around compliance, risk management and ethics for using AI in business solutions. The Generative AI Use Case Collection lets companies work with generative AI. The solutions are 16 blueprints for various generative AI use cases.  The functionality for these use cases includes privacy-protected and automated generation of insights into the performance of factory machines, legally approved and automatically generated promotional emails and accurate bots that perform search queries for complex policy documents and contracts. Additional services include Dataiku’s Prompt Studio which allows end users to develop into complete prompt engineers. There is also AI Prepare, this service helps end users build production-ready data transformations by typing what they want to do with their data. These services are only available in preview for now.  The Dataiku RAFT framework and the Generative AI Use Case Collection are generally available. Dataiku / Framework / generative AI  "*" indicates required fields 
The tech sector has been underperforming in the stock market lately. ... 
SAP is adding new AI applications to its customer experience (CX) app... 
NetSuite is taking full advantage of Oracle technology to build out t... 
IFS Sri Lanka started 25 years ago with 28 people. In 2023, you can s... 
The latest release of the Appian Platform focuses on AI that meets the strictest security requirements. Appia... 
Snowflake has introduced the GenAI tool Cortex Analyst. With it, customers are able to perform analysis on fi... 
xAI recently launched two new Grok models. This is the second version of the language model, and it teams wit... 
The tech sector has been underperforming in the stock market lately. In some cases, lingering problems are th... 
Discover the essential strategies and imperatives to create a data an... 
Some companies thrive in times of external uncertainty. They know how... 
The IT department is currently under great pressure, partly because o... 
As the software development life cycle becomes ever more complex and ... Techzine focusses on IT professionals and business decision makers by publishing the latest IT news and background stories. The goal is to help IT professionals get acquainted with new innovative products and services, but also to offer in-depth information to help them understand products and services better. © 2024 Dolphin Publications B.V.All rights reserved.