To make the most of your techUK website experience, please login or register for your free account here. We are pleased to confirm our brand new Communications Infrastructure and Services Council, an elected body that sets the strategic direction of our telecoms policy here at techUK. The techUK Communications Infrastructure and Services Council supports our programme by representing members as the collective voice of telecoms policy in the UK, holding government and regulator to account, and shaping the major industry decisions for future networks.  The new members of the techUK CISC are: The Communications Infrastructure and Services Council is led by: Our Chair Andrew Conway commented on today's news: Andrew Conway BAI Communications & Chair of CISC The Council will lead techUK’s regular engagement with key stakeholders and decisionmakers on the challenges, opportunities and developments facing the UK’s telecoms sector and helps the Programme to enable telecoms businesses build relationships with each other, enhancing the industry through innovation that is commercialised and optimised. If you want to learn more about the Council, techUK's Telecoms Programme, and our plans for the year ahead, please get in touch with the team below.  Head of Telecoms and Spectrum Policy, techUK Head of Telecoms and Spectrum Policy, techUK Jaynesh Patel is Head of Telecoms and Spectrum Policy, leading the Communications Infrastructure and Services Programme at techUK and overseeing the UK Spectrum Policy Forum.
Jaynesh has extensive experience in the sector, having worked for CityFibre (a full fibre broadband company) and the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) on digital infrastructure policy. Most recently Jaynesh led on policy and public affairs in the UK and Ireland for ChargePoint (an EV charging network).
Prior to this Jaynesh worked in the Cabinet Office for more than five years, including over two years at the Government Digital Service (GDS) supporting the digital transformation of UK Government.
Jaynesh has a BSc (Hons) in Economics from the London School of Economics (LSE).
 Jaynesh Patel is Head of Telecoms and Spectrum Policy, leading the Communications Infrastructure and Services Programme at techUK and overseeing the UK Spectrum Policy Forum. Jaynesh has extensive experience in the sector, having worked for CityFibre (a full fibre broadband company) and the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) on digital infrastructure policy. Most recently Jaynesh led on policy and public affairs in the UK and Ireland for ChargePoint (an EV charging network). Prior to this Jaynesh worked in the Cabinet Office for more than five years, including over two years at the Government Digital Service (GDS) supporting the digital transformation of UK Government. Jaynesh has a BSc (Hons) in Economics from the London School of Economics (LSE). Programme Manager, Telecoms and Net Zero, techUK Programme Manager, Telecoms and Net Zero, techUK Josh joined techUK as a Programme Manager for Telecoms and Net Zero in August 2024.
In this role, working jointly across the techUK Telecoms and Climate Programmes, Josh is responsible for leading on telecoms infrastructure deployment and uptake and supporting innovation opportunities, as well as looking at how the tech sector can be further utilised in the UK’s decarbonisation efforts.  
Prior to joining techUK, Josh’s background was in public affairs and communications, working for organisations across a diverse portfolio of sectors including defence, telecoms and infrastructure; aiding clients through stakeholder engagement, crisis communications, media outreach as well as secretariat duties.
Outside of work, Josh has a keen interest in music, painting and sailing.
 Josh joined techUK as a Programme Manager for Telecoms and Net Zero in August 2024. In this role, working jointly across the techUK Telecoms and Climate Programmes, Josh is responsible for leading on telecoms infrastructure deployment and uptake and supporting innovation opportunities, as well as looking at how the tech sector can be further utilised in the UK’s decarbonisation efforts.   Prior to joining techUK, Josh’s background was in public affairs and communications, working for organisations across a diverse portfolio of sectors including defence, telecoms and infrastructure; aiding clients through stakeholder engagement, crisis communications, media outreach as well as secretariat duties. Outside of work, Josh has a keen interest in music, painting and sailing. Programme Manager, UK SPF and Satellite, techUK Programme Manager, UK SPF and Satellite, techUK Tales has a background in law and economics, with previous experience in the regulation of new technologies and infrastructure.
In the UK and Europe, he offered consultancy on intellectual property rights of cellular and IoT technologies and on the regulatory procedures at the ITU as a Global Fellow at the European Space Policy Institute (ESPI).
Tales has an LL.M in Law and Business by the Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) and an MSc in Regulation at the London School of Economics, with a specialization in Government and Law.
 Tales has a background in law and economics, with previous experience in the regulation of new technologies and infrastructure. In the UK and Europe, he offered consultancy on intellectual property rights of cellular and IoT technologies and on the regulatory procedures at the ITU as a Global Fellow at the European Space Policy Institute (ESPI). Tales has an LL.M in Law and Business by the Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) and an MSc in Regulation at the London School of Economics, with a specialization in Government and Law. Programme Assistant - Markets, techUK Programme Assistant - Markets, techUK Matthew joined techUK in August 2023 as a Programme Assistant, supporting the Communications Infrastructure programme, as well as the Digital Connectivity and Spectrum Policy Fora.
Before joining techUK, Matthew worked in marketing, data, and events across a number of sectors, including education and consumer goods. He studied German and Dutch at University College London and the Universiteit van Amsterdam.
 Matthew joined techUK in August 2023 as a Programme Assistant, supporting the Communications Infrastructure programme, as well as the Digital Connectivity and Spectrum Policy Fora. Before joining techUK, Matthew worked in marketing, data, and events across a number of sectors, including education and consumer goods. He studied German and Dutch at University College London and the Universiteit van Amsterdam. Sign-up to get the latest updates and opportunities from our Communications Infrastructure and Services programme.     Registered in England number 1200318 techUK is the trade association which brings together people, companies and organisations to realise the positive outcomes of what digital technology can achieve. With around 1,000 members (the majority of which are SMEs) across the UK, techUK creates a network for innovation and collaboration across business, government and stakeholders to provide a better future for people, society, the economy and the planet. By providing expertise and insight, we support our members, partners and stakeholders as they prepare the UK for what comes next in a constantly changing world. Design & Development by Pixl8 Membership software by ReadyMembership   Building the Smarter State is techUK’s flagship public services conference and the go-to conference for public sector digital leaders. 2024 will mark the tenth anniversary of this hugely influential conference, where we will focus on the most pressing and important topics for public sector digital transformation. 