MSP clients can develop and demonstrate information security and privacy maturity by leveraging expert governance, risk management, and compliance services STAMFORD, Conn., June 16, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- EXTEND Resources today announced that Unified Technologies has become the newest EXTEND Resources Partner Program member. The partnership enables Unified to work closely with EXTEND's sophisticated information security and data privacy experts and deliver governance, risk management, and compliance services to its managed services clients. Today, MSP and MSSP customers face a common challenge: Demand from their prospects, clients, boards, regulators, insurance carriers, and other stakeholders to continually demonstrate that they have an effective, comprehensive information security and privacy program. EXTEND Resources and its partners harness their collective knowledge and expertise to aid clients in responding to security risk assessments, maximizing cyber insurance benefits, strategically implementing security and privacy programs that inspire confidence, and leveraging valuable tools and insights to handle data breaches proficiently. "We welcome Unified Technologies as a respected member of EXTEND's Partner Program," said Howard Hoffmann, CEO of EXTEND Resources. "Unified has earned a reputation for delivering managed services that give clients the leverage they need to compete in today's global marketplace. We look forward to working with them to deliver world-class security and privacy programs that foster a strong security posture for their clients." "Clients from a wide variety of industries count on our unified computing, converged infrastructure, and secure solution experience," stated Anthony X. Silva, President and CEO, Unified Technologies. "Partnering with EXTEND Resources enables us to broaden the security and privacy capabilities we offer to the market and ensure our customers have proactive governance, risk management, and compliance strategies in place to protect their information -- today and into the future." For more information about Unified Technologies' Information Security and Data Privacy Services, contact mailto:info@unifiedtech.com [info@unifiedtech.com] or at +1-305-477-6650. For details about EXTEND's MSP Partner Program, contact info@extendresources.com. About Unified Technologies Unified Technologies (UT) is an IT Solutions and Service Provider committed to delivering the most secure, reliable and flexible IT Infrastructure and to boosting our customers' competitiveness. We work within vertical markets that include Financial Services, Professional Services, Healthcare, Hospitality, and Government, and our team is comprised of certified subject matter experts and trusted advisors who develop best-of-breed Hybrid IT solutions from industry leaders such as HPE, Cisco, VMWare, Citrix, Palo Alto, Aruba Networks, Fortinet, Veeam, Rubrik, Exagrid, and others. About EXTEND Resources EXTEND Resources offers outsourced information security and privacy services. Using a highly disciplined approach to managing governance, risk management, and compliance initiatives, EXTEND's experts help clients define their security and privacy objectives and strategies, effectively protect sensitive information, spend wisely to reduce risk, become confident in their security posture, and be prepared in the event of an incident or breach. To learn how EXTEND can help your organization enhance its security and privacy maturity, visit ExtendResources.com and follow the company on Twitter at @ThinkExtend. Media Contact Katie Allen, EXTEND Resources, 1 404-698-1999, kallen@extendresources.com Andrew Duke, Unified Technologies, 305-477-6650, marketing@unifiedtech.com   SOURCE  EXTEND Resources © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.