School of Library and Information Science Master of Library and Information Science (MLIS) Online   MLIS Required Courses (25 credit hours): LIS 636--Foundations of Librarianship is recommended for those with no library experience. Graduate Certificates do not require additional hours, but require an additional capstone
                        experience. Electives (15 credit hours) - students may select from a range of elective courses
                        ranging from children's literature to information technology to archival theory and
                        practice. One of the five electives must be a technology course: LIS 516, 557, or
                        558. Successful completion of the comprehensive exam in LIS 695 is required to receive
                        the master's degree. Students with little or no library experience are encouraged
                        to take an archival practicum (LIS 648) and/or library practicum (LIS 689). Degree Track Requirements and Recommended Electives: (PDF)  MLIS Plans of Study -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The curriculum for a number of degree programs at Southern Miss have been designed
                        to meet the licensure/certification requirements in Mississippi, and prepare students
                        to sit for licensure exams in Mississippi. The various licensure boards in each state
                        are responsible for setting requirements for licensure/certification in their state.
                        Distance students with intent of returning or moving to any state other than Mississippi
                        should be aware of the unique requirements for that state. MLIS with School Licensure emphasis (AA Level) To obtain a public school license following completion of this program, students may
                        first obtain school licensure in Mississippi then apply for a license in their state
                        of residence if it allows for reciprocity. Each state has specific requirements for
                        licensure: some examples of additional requirements are additional coursework, distinct
                        test scores, and criminal background checks. We are unable to determine if this program
                        would lead to licensure in states other than Mississippi. For questions regarding licensure, contact the state Department of Education listed
                        at https://www2.ed.gov/about/contacts/state/index.html To request consideration for recommendation for AA School Librarian licensure in Mississippi,
                        contact the School Director. Students who plan to use the master's degree in library
                        and information science for Class AA licensure should complete the following recommended
                        courses in addition to the MLIS required core courses: Supplemental Endorsement for School Library Licensure (AA Level for those with MLIS
                           or other master's degree) SLIS offers a 21-credit hour Supplemental Endorsement to add to an existing teaching
                        credential. If interested in the endorsement, contact Dr.%20Stacy%20Creel. Required Courses: 21 Credits ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Graduate Certificates Students may earn a graduate certificate along with the MLIS or post MLIS. Twelve
                        credit hours of LIS credit may count toward both MLIS and LIS certificate if earned
                        together: Graduate Certificate in Archives and Special Collections Graduate Certificate in Youth Services and Literature Advising_Decision_Tree.pdf ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Course Descriptions 500. Library and Information Science Orientation. 1 hr. An orientation to the School of Library and Information Science MLIS program
                        and to librarianship in general. 501. Reference and Information Sources. 3 hrs. An introduction to reference materials, services, activities, and functions,
                        as well as methods for locating information. 505. Cataloging and Classification. 3 hrs. Principles and methods of cataloging and classifying library materials. Provides
                        practice in bibliographical description and subject analysis. 506. Cataloging Multimedia Objects. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 505. Study of the principles and methods of descriptive
                        and subject cataloging and classification of multimedia materials. 508. School Libraries. 3 hrs. Study of the development and administration of school libraries. 511. Collection Development and Management. 3 hrs. Philosophy and principles governing the selection and procurement of all types
                        of library materials, including the use of selection aids and bibliographic sources
                        for developing both print and nonprint collections. 516. Technology in the School Library. 3 hrs. A survey of technology utilized in elementary and secondary school libraries. 517. Children's Literature and Related Media. 3 hrs. A survey of children's literature, traditional and modern, and other related
                        materials for use by and with children from birth to grade 6. 518. Young Adult Literature and Related Media. 3 hrs. Study of adolescent literature and other related materials for use by and
                        with young people of grades 7-12. 519. Programs and Services for Youth. 3 hrs. Introduction to programming for youth and its relation to learning and libraries. 528. Storytelling. 3 hrs. A study of oral tradition in a variety of settings with emphasis upon selection
                        of stories and the art and techniques of storytelling. Provides practice in storytelling. 533. History of the Book. 3 hrs. A study of the origins and early development of books and printing in Western
                        Europe and the Americas. 540. Information Ethics. 3 hrs. Introduces ethical issues specifically related to information professions
                        and information technology. 545SL. Sources of Information for a Multicultural Society. 3 hrs. Overview of the diversity of information resources available in print and
                        other media for a multicultural society and the diversity of information utilization
                        by that society. 557. Information Technology and Libraries. 3 hrs. Examines various applications and contexts in which computers and other forms
                        of information technology are utilized in different types of information centers and
                        libraries. 558. Web Design and Evaluation. 3 hrs. Introduces principles of Web design and development including basic HTML and
                        XML coding, Web usability, and evaluation of Web sites including library Web sites. 575. Library and Information Science Seminar. 1 hr. Alternating topics related to library and information science. 580CA. British Studies: British Libraries, Archives, and Special Collections. 3 hrs. Comparative or historical studies of library and information institutions,
                        collections, models of service, or professional practice in the United Kingdom. 581CA. British Studies: Seminar in Children's and Young Adult Literature. 3 hrs. Intensive study of specific topics of British interests in literature for
                        children and adolescents. 586CA. British Studies: Historical Studies in Children's Literature. 3 hrs. Traces the development of children's literature in England and the United
                        States to the early 20th century. 587CA. British Studies: Research. 3 hrs. To provide the opportunity for in-depth research projects using the resources
                        of metropolitan London and/or the United Kingdom. 589. School Library Practicum. 1-3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 508 and LIS 516 or the consent of the advisor. Provides
                        an opportunity for supervised practice in school libraries. 590. Library Instruction. 3 hrs. Study of principles and methods of information literacy and bibliographic
                        instruction in libraries. 605. Library Management. 3 hrs. Analysis of administrative theory and principles of management in libraries. 607. School Library and the Curriculum. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 508. Examines the relationship of the library program in
                        the school curriculum, with emphasis on the role of the school librarian. 609. Seminar in Library Management. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 605. Survey of the problems in the management of library
                        programs such as planning, organizing, staffing, funding, or use of evaluation standards. 629. Studies in Children's Literature. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 517 or 518. Advanced study and evaluation of children's
                        literature and publishing trends in the field. 631. History of Libraries and Librarianship. 3 hrs. A study of the origins and development of modern public, academic, and school
                        libraries as well as the development of librarianship as a modern profession. 634. History of Children's Literature. 3 hrs. Traces the development of children's literature in England and the United
                        States to the early 20th century. 636. Foundations of Librarianship. 3 hrs. Examines the history and present state of librarianship and the ethics, values,
                        and issues of the profession. 640. Academic Libraries. 3 hrs. The development and administration of the academic library. 641SL. Public Libraries. 3 hrs. The development and administration of the public library. Problems in public
                        library services. 642. Special Libraries. 3 hrs. The development and administration of special libraries serving businesses,
                        institutions, and government agencies. 645. Digital Preservation. 3 hrs. A comprehensive overview of digital preservation from conceptual understandings
                        to crucial issues of planning, developing and managing digital collections. 646. Introduction to Archival Theory and Practice. 3 hrs. Introduction to Archival Theory and Practice. 3 hrs. An introduction to the
                        basic concepts and theory related to the acquisition, processing, organization, and
                        preservation of archival materials and special collections.. 647. Introduction to Archival Organization. 3 hrs. Basic instruction on the organization, arrangement, and description of materials
                        of archival significance. 648. Archival Practicum. 2-4 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 647 or the consent of the advisor. Provides an opportunity
                        for supervised practice in special collections and archival operations. 649. Preservation of Documentary Materials. 3 hrs. The care and preservation of documentary materials in their various formats
                        including techniques for conservation, preservation, and restoration. 651. Fundamentals of Information Science. 3 hrs. Prerequisites: LIS 501, LIS 505, LIS 511 with "B" or better, or permission
                        of instructor. Examines the evolution of information science, communication and information
                        theory, information organization and retrieval, and bibliometrics. Recommended that
                        it not be taken concurrently with LIS 668. 652. Metadata for Digital Collections. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 505. An overview of metadata as it applies to digital resources
                        in libraries, archives, and museums. 653. Library and Information Database Systems. 3 hrs. Prerequisites: LIS 505 and LIS 557. Foundation of constructing library and
                        information databases, impacts of bibliographic standards, library functions and interconnectedness
                        on these database applications, and evaluation and measurement. 654. E-Resources Management. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 557 and LIS 605 or permission of the instructor. Planning,
                        implementation, and management of electronic resources in various library and information
                        settings. 656. Online Information Retrieval. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 501. Applications and issues related to the online resources
                        currently available. 664. Government Resources and Publications. 3 hrs. Study of local, state, and federal government resources, publications, and
                        bibliographic organization. 667. Health Informatics. 3 hrs. Provides an overview of health informatics concepts and tools. 668. Research Methods in Library and Information Science. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: LIS 501, LIS 505, LIS 511 with "B" or better. Survey of scientific
                        research methods and their application to the field of library and information science.
                        Cannot enroll in LIS 668 and LIS 695 during the same semester. 670. Topics in Services to Library Clientele. 3 hrs. The role of libraries in meeting informational and recreational needs of library
                        users, lifelong learning, services to special groups, and popular culture collections. 675. Seminar: Topics in Organization of Materials. 3 hrs. Alternating topics, including indexing, abstracting, advanced database tools,
                        metadata, digital libraries, and other related topics. 689. Library Practicum. 2-4 hrs. Prerequisite: Permission of the practicum coordinator. Provides an opportunity
                        for supervised practice in a library. 691. Research in Library Science. 1-6 hrs. Prerequisite: Permission of director. Independent research on an approved
                        topic. 692. Special Problems. 1-3 hrs. An independent problem study to be approved by the director. 694. Field Problems. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: Permission of director. Practical experiences in dealing with
                        problem situations in the field and related institutional settings. 695. Master's Research Project. 3 hrs. Prerequisite: Completed all required courses LIS 501, 505, 511, 605, 636,
                        651, 668 with minimum B, no Incompletes on transcript, completed at least three approved
                        LIS electives prior to enrollment. Original research project and paper dealing with
                        a specific problem or issue in the field of library and information science under
                        faculty supervision. 697. Independent Study and Research. Hours arranged. Not to be counted as credit toward a degree. Students actively working
                        on a thesis, consulting with the major professor, or using other resources of the
                        university may enroll in this course. 698. Thesis for Students in Dual Master's Program. 3-6 hrs. Students in dual master's program with library science should enroll in
                        this course to complete their LIS thesis requirements. Requires permission of director.   ONLINE = Courses taught completely online ARR = Arranged, special permission courses, individual, with special requirements School of Library and Information Science 129 Fritzsche-Gibbs Hall118 College Dr. #5146Hattiesburg, MS 39406 Campus Hattiesburg Campus Map EmailslisFREEMississippi Phone601.266.4228  118 College DriveHattiesburg, MS 39406-0001 601.266.1000 Contact Us Hattiesburg Campus Map 730 East Beach BoulevardLong Beach, MS 39560 228.865.4500 Contact Us Gulf Park Campus Map © 2024 The University of Southern Mississippi. All rights reserved. 