 A lump on the side of the neck could be a swollen lymph node caused by a bacterial or viral infection or a benign (non-cancerous) growth like a cyst, lipoma, or goiter. Swollen, infected salivary glands may also appear as lumps on the neck. On rare occasions, certain head and neck cancers can cause a lump along the neck or jawline.
  Though each of the conditions has distinct signs and symptoms, you may need to be seen by a healthcare provider who can diagnose the exact cause and prescribe the right treatment.
 Verywell / Jessica Olah  A lump in your neck may be caused by an infection or an immune reaction to the infection. It may involve an abnormal growth of tissues or changes in cells that lead to cancer. Some of these causes can be diagnosed by your primary care provider.
  Others may require a specialist in skin conditions called a dermatologist or a cancer specialist called an oncologist.
  One of the most common reasons for a lump in your neck is swollen lymph node. A swollen lymph node may appear as a pea-sized lump in the neck that moves. Some can be as large as a grape. Symptoms may include:
  These lumps can appear on the right or left side of the neck as well as the front and back.
  Lymph nodes are tiny organs found in clusters in the neck, armpits, chest, abdomen, and groin that are an important part of your immune system. They help filter disease-causing germs from fluids circulating through the body's lymphatic system.
  Lymph nodes are filled with defensive white blood cells called lymphocytes. If you have an active infection, these blood cells will activate to neutralize the germ. The ensuing inflammation causes the lymph nodes to swell and become warm, red, and painful.
  This is referred to as lymphadenopathy. If the cervical lymph nodes (located in the neck, jaw, and behind the ears) are involved, it is called cervical lymphadenopathy.
  Cervical lymphadenopathy can be caused by serious and non-serious infections like:
  Cervical lymphadenopathy can also be caused by autoimmune disorders like rheumatoid arthritis.Less often, cervical lymphadenopathy can be caused by blood cancers like ​non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Painless lumps on the left or right side of the neck are common in head and neck lymphoma. Cancer-related swollen lymph nodes tend to be hard, large, and immovable.
  Treatment for swollen lymph nodes (aka swollen glands) depends on the cause. For example, antibiotics will be prescribed for bacterial infection. Using a warm compress and a pain reliever like Tylenol (acetaminophen) or Advil (ibuprofen) can help with discomfort until you get better.
  A nodule is a general term for an abnormal growth of tissue anywhere in the body. Most cases are not cancerous. With that said, the term is sometimes used as a placeholder to describe any abnormal lump which may, after investigation, turn out to be cancer.
  One example of a nodule in your neck is a vocal cord nodule caused by the overuse of your vocal cords or persistent acid reflux.
 DermNet / CC BY-NC-ND  Lumps in your neck can also be fluid-filled sacs called cysts. These can form almost anywhere in the body. A cyst usually feels soft.
  Types of cysts in your neck include:
  Many cysts go away on their own. However, depending on their size and location, they may have to be surgically drained if they cause pain or become abnormally large.
 DermNet / CC BY-NC-ND  A lipoma is a benign lump filled with fat. Those found on the neck commonly develop on the fatty part of the back of the neck. They may also develop less commonly in the neck muscles (intramuscular lipoma) or the parotid gland situated in front of the ear.
  Lipomas are not cancerous. They may have to be surgically removed depending on their size and location. People with a family history of lipomas are more likely to get them.
  No there are rare fatty tumors called liposarcomas that are cancerous.
 DermNet / CC BY-NC-ND  Another common cause for a lump in your neck is an enlarged thyroid gland, also known as a goiter.
  Goiters appear in the front of the neck, usually on one side, and will move up and down when you swallow. They are usually a sign of a thyroid problem but can also appear if you have normal thyroid function.
  Goiters can often be treated with medications. These include Synthroid (levothyroxine) if you have hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) and radioactive iodine if you have hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid).
  In some cases, goiters have to be surgically removed.
 DermNet / CC BY-NC-ND  Sometimes, neck lumps are related to infections. A boil is a painful, pus-filled bump under the skin caused by a bacterial infection of a hair follicle. They can be deep, hard, and fairly large.
  Most skin boils are caused by Staphylococcus aureus, a common bacteria found on the skin and inside the nose. Boils develop at sites where the skin has been broken by a small injury.
  Neck boils are common in people with coarse beards who have ingrown hairs. Shaving can break the skin and provide S. Aureuas easy entry into ruptured hair follicles.
  Boils can be drained by a healthcare provider. Oral or topical antibiotics may be needed to resolve the underlying bacterial infection. Sometimes boils have to be drained by a surgeon using a procedure called incision and drainage.
 DermNet / CC BY-NC-ND  Mumps is a viral illness that can cause a swelling on your neck. When you have mumps, the salivary glands in the front of your neck and/or the parotid glands in front of the ears can become swollen and sore. The condition may also cause additional symptoms such as:
  Treatment for mumps typically includes home management strategies such as pain medication and fluids.
 Zay Nyi Nyi / Getty Images  Small, itchy lumps on the neck could be a sign of an allergic reaction to something your skin has come into contact with, such as a detergent or a personal care product. Insect bites on the neck may also cause small swellings/lumps.
  These types of allergic reactions are usually not serious and will resolve on their own within a few days. If you know what triggered the reaction, you should take steps to avoid it in the future.
  Cancer is a less common cause of a lump on your neck. These malignant tumors, while rare, fall under the larger category of head and neck cancers.
  Those involving the neck include:
  These tumors tend to be hard, irregular, rooted, and painless. Other possible symptoms include a change in your voice, pain with swallowing, and a persistent cough, sore throat, or earache.
 DermNet / CC BY-NC-ND Anxiety and stress can tax your immune system, but there is no evidence that they directly make your lymph nodes swell.  In some cases, a practitioner can determine if your neck lump is likely a cause for concern based on a physical examination and a review of other symptoms you may be experiencing. For example, if you have mono, you may also have a fever or sore throat.
  In others, testing will be needed to finalize the diagnosis.
  If a lump is not obviously due to a swollen lymph node or the practitioner notices features of the lump that are suspicious or undefined, diagnostic imaging tests will likely be done. An ultrasound, X-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can help your provider see whether or not the lump is solid or fluid-filled.
  Imaging tests can also measure how big the lump is and sometimes show whether the lump is affecting other organs and tissues nearby.
  If the lump is not caused by infection or filled with fluid, your provider might want to perform a biopsy. Sometimes fluid-filled lumps will also be biopsied because they can also be cancerous (for example, if it is cystic thyroid cancer).
  For a biopsy, a small amount of tissue is taken from the lump. A tissue sample can usually be taken using a needle, but some have to be taken surgically. Your provider will let you know if and when you need to have a biopsy and the best way to take the tissue.
  The sample is then analyzed in a laboratory to see what the lump actually is made of.
  Lumps in your neck are most likely not serious. The most common cause of neck lumps is that your lymph nodes are swollen. This commonly occurs when your body is fighting an infection, such as the flu, mono, or strep throat. As the infection clears up, your swollen lymph nodes should go back to their normal size.
  Neck lumps or nodules can also be caused by cysts, boils, lipomas, and goiters. These are not cancerous, but they may need to be surgically drained or removed by a provider.
  It's less common, but lumps on the neck can also be a sign of cancer. If the lump is getting bigger or not going away, tell your provider. They can figure out what the lump is and recommend the best way to treat it.
 Verma R, Khera S. Cervical lymphadenopathy: A review. Int J Health Sci Res. 2020;10:292-8. Weinstock MS, Patel NA, Smith LP. Pediatric cervical lymphadenopathy. Pediatr Rev. 2018;39(9):433-443. doi:10.1542/pir.2017-0249 Benaglio F, Vitolo B, Scarabelli M, et al. The draining lymph node in rheumatoid arthritis: current concepts and research perspectives. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015(1):1-10. doi:10.1155/2015/420251 Penn Medicine. Lymphoma of the head and neck. American Cancer Society. Signs and symptoms of non-hodgkin lymphoma. University of Michigan Health. Swollen lymph nodes. Won SJ, Kim RB, Kim JP, Park JJ, Kwon MS, Woo SH. The prevalence and factors associate with vocal nodules in general population: Cross-sectional epidemiological study. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016;95(39):e4971. doi:10.1097/MD.0000000000004971 Sabhalok S, Shetty L, Sarve P, Setiya S, Bharadwaj S. Epidermoid and dermoid cysts of the head and neck region. Plast Aesthet Res. 2016;3(1):347. doi:10.20517/2347-9264.2016.09 Johns Hopkins Medicine. Cystic hygroma. Sabhalok SS, Shetty LS, Sarve PH, Setiya SV, Bharadwaj SR. Epidermoid and dermoid cysts of the head and neck region. Plast Aesthet Res. 2016;3(suppl 1):347-50. doi:10.20517/2347-9264.2016.09 Suqati AA, Alherabi AZ, Marglani OA, Alaidarous TO. Bilateral combined laryngocele. Saudi Med J. 2016;37(8):902-3. doi:10.15537/smj.2016.8.15104 Hosri J, Yammine Y, Hadi NE, Aoun J, Mourad M, Hadi U. Intramuscular lipoma of the sternocleidomastoid muscle: A rare entity revisited. Clin Pathol. 2024;17:2632010X241260200. doi:10.1177/2632010X241260200 Virk JS, Verkerk M, Patel H, Ghufoor K. Massive lipoma of the posterior neck. BMJ Case Rep. 2016;2016(1):1-2. doi:10.1136/bcr-2016-214502 American Cancer Society. Signs and symptoms of soft tissue sarcomas. Hwang SM, Hwang JY, Moon JH, Yang I, Woo JY, Lee HJ. Children and adolescent patients with goiter and normal thyroid function: US findings related to underlying autoimmune thyroid diseases. Medicine (Baltimore). 2022;101(35):e30095. doi:10.1097/MD.0000000000030095 University of Michigan Health. Radioactive iodine for hyperthyroidism. National Health Service (UK). Ingrown hairs. Sukumaran V, Senanayake S. Bacterial skin and soft tissue infections. Aust Prescr. 2016;39(5):159-163. doi:10.18773/austprescr.2016.058 Johns Hopkins Medicine. Mumps in adults. National Cancer Institute. Head and neck cancer. American Cancer Society. Breast cancer signs and symptoms. University of Maryland Medical System. How does stress affect the immune system?. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. About infectious mononucleosis. Zhang J, Li Y, Zhao Y, Qiao J. CT and MRI of superficial solid tumors. Quant Imaging Med Surg. 2018;8(2):232-251. doi:10.21037/qims.2018.03.03 
By Kristin Hayes, RN

Kristin Hayes, RN, is a registered nurse specializing in ear, nose, and throat disorders for both adults and children.
  Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.