Noname Security, a provider of complete and proactive API security, is partnering with Wiz, a cloud security platform and growing software company, to help customers improve security posture. Together, Noname Security and Wiz will enable complete visibility, context, and control of infrastructure hosting mission-critical and highly sensitive APIs to minimize and remediate risk, according to the companies.   "Cybersecurity is an ecosystem play, nothing exists in a vacuum, and that is valid for API security as well. APIs run on infrastructure components, so understanding the security posture of those components allows us to see the link between these systems and provide more in-depth security for our joint customers. APIs are really an invisible overlay network atop of the infrastructure, and you need to understand the plumbing to fix the leak," said Filip Verloy, field CTO at Noname Security.  Noname’s API Security Platform is a modern and flexible solution that ties together all the critical capabilities in API security in one platform. Wiz’s cloud security platform connects in minutes to scan the full cloud environment without agents, finds toxic combinations of exposure that represent real risk and delivers accurate risk prioritization. “While APIs enable business, they require proper build, deployment, and maintenance to ensure viable security,” said Aner Morag, vice president of technology of Noname Security. “Wiz is a clear leader in cloud security and is the fastest-growing software company ever due to the company’s success in protecting and servicing hundreds of the world’s leading organizations. We’re proud to partner with their team to provide customers with visibility and intelligence across their API ecosystem to find, build, and maintain secure APIs throughout the entire lifecycle.” Modern cloud-based infrastructure is very dynamic, so the less time we need to spend after deployment to get visibility and start defending our environment, the better and an agentless approach allows us to move faster, Verloy explained. "Noname extends that capability in a similar agentless approach but dedicated to the API attack surface, which typically remains largely hidden in a traditional security approach. If we can provide security at the speed of infrastructure rollout, we can more confidently keep innovating instead of throwing up security roadblocks that could potentially slow down the business." With this partnership, customers of Wiz and Noname Security will be able to: Proactively improve security posture by: Find and fix breaches faster by: Ensure compliance with: “Together, Noname Security and Wiz provide security, application and cloud technology teams with complete visibility into their entire API ecosystem to ensure confidentiality, integrity, context and availability while also reducing time to market and increasing application uptime,” said Oron Noah, director of product management at Wiz. “We are proud to combine Wiz's Cloud Native Application Protection Platform with Noname Security's API security platform to provide customers with full cyber-risk coverage.” For more information about this news, visit https://nonamesecurity.com.  