The University of Oklahoma (“the University”) is committed to providing equal educational opportunity and full participation for qualified individuals with disabilities, as defined within the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), as amended. Consistent with those Acts, the University confirms that no qualified individual with a disability will be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or otherwise subjected to discrimination on the basis of disability under any program or activity offered by the University.  All employees, including students and graduate assistants, are expected to comply with this policy. Back to top    All employees, including students and graduate assistants, shall comply with the University’s electronic accessibility standards (“the Standards”).  The Standards reflect the principles of both the “State of Oklahoma’s Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility” (EITA) and the “World Wide Web Consortium’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines” (WCAG), Level AA. 
 Content need not meet the Standards if one or more of the following applies: The foregoing notwithstanding, any Content must be made accessible to accommodate a qualified person with a disability upon request of the qualified person (or on that person’s behalf.) The University has created or acquired auxiliary support aids and technology to assist in ensuring that Content that is not accessible will be provided in an accessible format.  If an accessible format is not possible, the University must offer Equally Effective Alternative Content or an Alternative Resource. The Disability Resource Center can provide additional information regarding such aids and technology. Back to top    The central point of contact for questions, comments, and requests regarding this Policy or the referenced Standards is the Accessibility and Disability Resource Center, which can be reached at adrc@ou.edu or (405) 325-3852. Back to top         