Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  It's early days in the rise of generative AI such as OpenAI's ChatGPT and many in the market remain unconvinced of how it will play out for the economy and society, if amazed at its tricks. Warren Buffett said in a recent interview with Becky Quick on CNBC's "Squawk Box" that while ChatGPT did "wonderful things" writing a song for him in Spanish, and that "it's an incredible technological advance in terms of showing what we can do," he wasn't convinced about the ultimate outcomes for the world. "I think this is extraordinary but I don't know if it's beneficial," he said. He did say the time-saving component of the tech is among the things that struck him. "It can tell you that it's read every book, every legal opinion. I mean, the amount of time it could save you, if you were doing all kinds of things, is unbelievable," Buffett said. That's where CEOs in the generative AI space are focused. OpenAI CEO Sam Altman told CNBC's Julia Boorstin in an interview after being named the No. 1 company on the 2023 CNBC Disruptor list this year that the legal profession is a good example. "What we're hearing from customers using our API for legal companies is that it is totally transforming the way they work and the efficiency that any one lawyer can achieve and the accuracy, freeing people up to do more of what they do really well, and having this new tool to sort of give them as much leverage as possible," Altman said. That backs up what tech executives working directly with legal firms have previously told CNBC, with one saying of his legal and accounting firm clients that the sentiment right now is not that AI replaces lawyers, but "lawyers using AI are gonna replace lawyers. ... Those professionals are going to be more effective, more efficient, they'll be able to do more," he said. "That is a pattern we're seeing again and again in many industries, and I'm super excited about it," Altman said. "I do think it will touch almost everything." There isn't much research yet to support these contentions, but early data does support the anecdotal evidence. A study released by MIT researchers in March showed that workers were 37% more efficient using ChatGPT. Aidan Gomez, CEO of generative AI startup Cohere, which ranked No. 44 on this year's Disruptor 50 list, pointed to that MIT study in a CNBC interview on Tuesday, saying, "The results are amazing," he said. "That's Industrial Revolution-level large. What the steam engine did for mechanical work, mechanical labor, this technology is going to do for intellectual labor."  Gomez stressed in his comments to CNBC that the research had not yet been peer-reviewed. The authors of the MIT research, Whitney Zhang and Shakked Noy, were unable to comment due to the research currently being in the process of submission to a journal for peer review and publication. Separately, a new study from researchers at Stanford University and the National Bureau of Economic Research found a 14% productivity increase, on average, when customer service agents for a retail company used generative AI-based conversational assistants. Cohere's platform lets developers and businesses of all sizes — even those without expertise in machine learning — integrate AI features like copywriting, search, conversational AI, summarization or content moderation in their company's mobile app or service platform. Cohere works with AI customer service tech vendor LivePerson and has cloud deals with Google, Amazon Web Services and Oracle. Salesforce is an investor in the company, one of the first investments the customer relationship management tech giant made this year in a new AI fund. Gomez, along with co-founder Nick Frosst, came from Google Brain, an exploratory deep learning artificial intelligence team that's now part of Google Research. While at Alphabet's Google, Gomez and other researchers helped to develop a new method of natural language processing — transformers — that enable systems to grasp a word's context more accurately. Comments like Gomez's have contributed to the debate about whether AI replaces human labor or augments it. In sectors such as education, those fears are already running high. Gomez, in keeping with the outlook from most AI executives, is sticking to the "augmentative" script. "What you're going to see is humans are going to become ten times more effective at what they do," he said. He did say we should be wary of companies pointing to AI as the reason for layoffs in the future. He expects that excuse to be made. But workers also have an advantage, for now, Gomez said: the time it will take to integrate AI technology into the existing technology stack. "The reality is this will be a slow process over the next half-decade and there will be time to adjust, and change your own job," he said. "And frankly, you're going to love it." His comments made clear that workers better get used to it. "We're pre the real deployment, so I think simmering underneath the water is all this work going on to just transform every product, every single company." The MIT study provided more of a mixed assessment of the eventual outcomes for workers and the labor market. The increases in productivity among college-educated professionals performing mid-level professional writing tasks were qualified as "substantial," and the study showed these workers executed tasks "significantly faster." Initially low-performing workers, meanwhile, saw output increase and time on task decrease. But the MIT researchers weren't sure that meant the outlook was good for preserving jobs. "The experimental evidence suggests that ChatGPT largely substitutes for worker effort rather than complementing workers' skills, potentially causing a decrease in demand for workers, with adverse distributional effects as capital owners gain at the expense of workers," they wrote. The researchers also pointed to limitations in their study. For one, the tasks were "relatively short, self-contained, and lack a dimension of context-specific knowledge, which may inflate our estimates of ChatGPT's usefulness." They could not draw conclusions about overall job satisfaction from the results, and, in capturing "only direct, immediate effects of ChatGPT on the selected occupations" they cannot account for many other factors that will weigh in labor markets and production systems as they adapt to new technologies like ChatGPT, or how AI will influence each occupation, task, and skill level.  The only conclusion they made with confidence in their paper: "For now, the evidence we provide suggests that generative AI technologies will — and have already begun — to noticeably impact workers." Watch the full CNBC Disruptor 50 interview above for more of this leading generative AI CEO's views on how the next few years of work will play out. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by