
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Frost & Sullivan)  Real-time Monitoring and the Ease of Data Retrieval Prompt the Adoption of Sensor Technologies
Security sensors integrated with other emerging sensor technologies provide safe and sophisticated security to critical assets San Antonio – Feb. 15, 2023 – Real-time monitoring and the ease of data retrieval for advanced physical and digital security drive the need for security sensors. According to Frost & Sullivan's recent analysis,  Sensor Technologies Impacting the Physical and Digital Security Market,  by 2025, there will be a significant increase in the use of contactless sensing technologies for physical and digital security applications, including cameras, LiDAR, and terahertz (THz) image sensing. Critical assets like personal identity and biometrics are protected by security sensors integrated with other emerging sensor technologies, like LiDAR and THz.
  For further information on this analysis,   please click here.  
“Sensor technologies, drones, robotics, and internet of things (IoT)-enabled devices will fuel the adoption of security systems, offering safety and security advantages,” said  Varun Babu, TechVision Industry Analyst at Frost & Sullivan  .“Additionally, security sensors integrated with other emerging sensor technologies, such as LiDAR and THz sensors, provide highly safe and sophisticated security to critical assets like personal identity and biometrics.”
Babu added:“Sensor technology providers must work closely with security software solution providers to build a robust, user-friendly security management system. Further, they should build strong partnerships and jointly develop video surveillance management systems to overcome internal technology development barriers in the next two or three years.”
Vertical markets' wide adoption of sensors in security applications will unlock vast opportunities for industry players:    Artificial Intelligence (AI)  : With AI, security professionals can pre-emptively spot defective equipment like security cameras and analyze alarms from defective devices. It helps lower the chances of cyberattacks.    Machine learning (ML)  : Physical and digital security manufacturers and service providers can create security and video monitoring systems that dynamically notify users of abnormal activity using ML.    Robotics and drones  : Mobile drone surveillance can monitor criminals on the road and help avoid or reduce deadly pursuits. Drones are also safer and offer a significant investment return over traditional surveillance.     Sensor Technologies Impacting the Physical and Digital Security Market  is the latest addition to Frost & Sullivan's  TechVision  research and analyses available through the Frost & Sullivan Leadership Council, which helps organizations identify a continuous flow of growth opportunities to succeed in an unpredictable future.
  About Frost & Sullivan  
For over six decades, Frost & Sullivan has helped build sustainable growth strategies for Fortune 1000 companies, governments, and investors. We apply actionable insights to navigate economic changes, identify disruptive technologies, and formulate new business models to create a stream of innovative growth opportunities that drive future success.   contact us: start the discussion  
  Sensor Technologies Impacting the Physical and Digital Security Market  
  DA82  
Contact:
María Celeste Bailo
Corporate Communications
E:  
About Celeste BailoMaría Celeste Bailo serves as a Corporate Communications and Marketing Executive. Her expertise covers PR management, media relations and advertising strategies. She covers key industries such as Healthcare, ICT, Aerospace and Defense.view all posts by celeste bailo | website  <MENAFN15022023005545012248ID1105580079 Security sensors integrated with other emerging sensor technologies provide safe and sophisticated security to critical assets San Antonio – Feb. 15, 2023 – Real-time monitoring and the ease of data retrieval for advanced physical and digital security drive the need for security sensors. According to Frost & Sullivan's recent analysis,  Sensor Technologies Impacting the Physical and Digital Security Market,  by 2025, there will be a significant increase in the use of contactless sensing technologies for physical and digital security applications, including cameras, LiDAR, and terahertz (THz) image sensing. Critical assets like personal identity and biometrics are protected by security sensors integrated with other emerging sensor technologies, like LiDAR and THz.   For further information on this analysis,   please click here.   “Sensor technologies, drones, robotics, and internet of things (IoT)-enabled devices will fuel the adoption of security systems, offering safety and security advantages,” said  Varun Babu, TechVision Industry Analyst at Frost & Sullivan  .“Additionally, security sensors integrated with other emerging sensor technologies, such as LiDAR and THz sensors, provide highly safe and sophisticated security to critical assets like personal identity and biometrics.” Babu added:“Sensor technology providers must work closely with security software solution providers to build a robust, user-friendly security management system. Further, they should build strong partnerships and jointly develop video surveillance management systems to overcome internal technology development barriers in the next two or three years.” Vertical markets' wide adoption of sensors in security applications will unlock vast opportunities for industry players:   Sensor Technologies Impacting the Physical and Digital Security Market  is the latest addition to Frost & Sullivan's  TechVision  research and analyses available through the Frost & Sullivan Leadership Council, which helps organizations identify a continuous flow of growth opportunities to succeed in an unpredictable future.   About Frost & Sullivan   For over six decades, Frost & Sullivan has helped build sustainable growth strategies for Fortune 1000 companies, governments, and investors. We apply actionable insights to navigate economic changes, identify disruptive technologies, and formulate new business models to create a stream of innovative growth opportunities that drive future success.   contact us: start the discussion     Sensor Technologies Impacting the Physical and Digital Security Market     DA82   Contact: María Celeste Bailo Corporate Communications E:  
About Celeste BailoMaría Celeste Bailo serves as a Corporate Communications and Marketing Executive. Her expertise covers PR management, media relations and advertising strategies. She covers key industries such as Healthcare, ICT, Aerospace and Defense.view all posts by celeste bailo | website  < About Celeste Bailo María Celeste Bailo serves as a Corporate Communications and Marketing Executive. Her expertise covers PR management, media relations and advertising strategies. She covers key industries such as Healthcare, ICT, Aerospace and Defense. view all posts by celeste bailo | website  MENAFN15022023005545012248ID1105580079 MENAFN15022023005545012248ID1105580079 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN