For recently-converted artificial intelligence enthusiasts, learning about the highly technical field can now be as easy as popping on a podcast during their morning commutes. Over the past months and years, a number of AI-focused podcasts have emerged, covering everything from prominent academic research to up-and-coming startups to everyday applications of the technology.  Here are the top podcast picks that every AI and machine-learning enthusiast should know: "Eye on A.I." host Craig Smith became interested in the field after interviewing Geoffrey Hinton, commonly known as the "godfather of deep learning," for a profile for The New York Times. And since then, he's been hooked. Although Smith has been writing about AI for a number of years, he tries to approach each "Eye on A.I." interview "as a novice," asking questions that listeners newer to the space might be interested in, he told Insider. On the podcast, he's featured a number of prominent AI researchers including Hinton, Yann LeCun, Yoshua Bengio, and others that have an up close and personal view of the most exciting advancements in the space. In upcoming episodes, Smith plans to cover the controversial AI pause letter, as well as legal issues around AI applications, he said. "In Machines We Trust" is a podcast from the MIT Technology Review that examines the effects of AI on people's everyday lives, from privacy issues in schools to the use of "digital twins." Host Jennifer Strong told Insider that the podcast differentiates itself in its "show me" element and fluid format. In one episode, Strong experienced aerial combat firsthand from inside a fighter plane flying over the Pacific Ocean to learn how AI is being used to train human pilots. "It was one of the wildest experiences I've ever had," she wrote in an email. "It was also an incredibly challenging way to make a podcast! Projects like these are a labor of love more than anything." Hosted by the cofounders of augmented reality startup XRAI Glass, Tim Scarfe and Keith Duggar, "Machine Learning Street Talk" interviews top AI scientists to learn more about bleeding-edge academic research in the field. Scarfe and Duggar's academic backgrounds allow them to "read the literature and provide in-depth analysis and find deep links between disparate lines of research," touching on ideas like reinforcement learning and philosophy of mind and AI, Scarfe told Insider. In upcoming episodes, the two plan to feature prominent AI researchers including the "father of modern linguistics" Noam Chomsky and Petar Veličković, a staff research scientist at Alphabet's AI lab DeepMind. "Me, Myself, and AI" addresses a common problem in tech, host Sam Ransbotham told Insider. "Too often, people portray technology as an actor with 'AI does X,'" he wrote in an email. "Our show recognizes that people use tools (e.g., AI), and with that use comes considerable choice and discretion." The podcast focuses on highlighting individuals from large organizations like Starbucks, Walmart, and Porsche and their personal experiences with AI, while also touching on their educational backgrounds and career paths for listeners interested in breaking into tech. Its co-hosts, Ransbotham and Khodabandeh, hail from Boston College and Boston Consulting Group, and their business-oriented backgrounds inform the podcast's focus on helping organizations glean real value from AI versus having an overly technical focus. Ransbotham told Insider that he's most excited about upcoming episodes focusing on how the World Wildlife Fund leverages AI for conservation efforts and how technologists from Amnesty International are thinking about some of the risks with AI adoption. As prolific investors in the space, "No Priors" co-hosts Sarah Guo and Elad Gil bring unique perspectives as market participants rather than outside observers, Guo told Insider. In addition to their investing chops, Gil's previous experience running AI-centric product organizations, like search at Twitter, advertisement targeting products at Google, and machine learning at Color Genomics, allows him to empathize with the startup point-of-view, he said.  In each episode, the two co-hosts interview leaders making impactful breakthroughs in AI, whether in industry like Hugging Face CEO Clem Delangue, academia like Transformers paper author Noam Shazeer, or specific vertical applications like Daphne Koller, founder and CEO of AI drug development company Insitro.  In future installments, "No Priors" will cover everything from "AI safety to hot startups to key research to the semiconductors used to power the industry," Gil told Insider. "Practical AI" hosts Chris Benson and Daniel Whitenack bring years of AI experience to the podcast. Benson has spent the last five years at Lockheed Martin, shaping the defense company's AI strategy, while Whitenack cut his teeth at Purdue gaining a PhD in math and computational physics before bringing his data science expertise to a number of startups.  "We focus on making artificial intelligence practical, productive, and accessible to everyone," Whitenack said. "Some podcasts tend to ride the hype cycle or produce AI clickbait, but we really want to create content that is useful for practitioners and those trying to apply AI in the real world." In recent episodes, the podcast has interviewed leaders from a number of up-and-coming AI startups like You.com, Cohere, and Banana, covering topics like AI-powered search and lawsuits in the space. Although NVIDIA's AI podcast has featured a number of guests across venture capital, startups, and academia, one common thread running through it all has been a people-first focus, NVIDIA chief blogger Brian Caulfield told Insider. In the past year, host Noah Kravitz has interviewed prominent investors like Sequoia Capital's Pat Grady and Sonya Huang, researchers utilizing AI-equipped drones to protect endangered black rhinos, and app founders leveraging AI to strengthen the relationship Muslims have with the Quran. NVIDIA has also been a hot name in AI recently, as one of the main beneficiaries of the field's boom as a leading chip-maker. If an AI enthusiast is looking for an in-depth, nuanced way to learn more about the quickly-developing field, Nathan Labenz and Erik Torenberg's "Cognitive Revolution" might be just the podcast for them. Labenz does extensive research ahead of episodes, even at one point gaining early access to OpenAI's GPT-4 model and testing it for months to provide listeners with his takeaways, he told Insider. The two aim to feature the "builders, researchers, and entrepreneurs who are shaping this moment" rather than "people analyzing from the sidelines," they explained.  In upcoming episodes, Labenz and Torenberg hope to dive into the question of who will take the lead in AI between incumbents and startups, especially in the context of which businesses have competitive moats now and in the future, they added. Although "Radical AI Podcast" hosts Dylan Doyle-Burke and Jess Smith "appreciate and respect advances in AI and machine learning," they also take a cautious and critical view of the technology, an approach that differentiates them from other podcasts, they told Insider. "We seek to interrogate how these technological advances might be limited, and how they may (intentionally or otherwise) perpetuate historical inequality, discrimination, oppression, and other imbalances of power," Smith wrote in an email. At the same time, "Radical AI Podcast" also highlights exciting leading-edge AI research and "hopeful, alternative futures" to design technologies towards, she added. In future episodes, the two co-hosts plan to explore topics around why AI ethics teams are often the first to go in tech layoffs, how ChatGPT will affect the workforce, and AI advancements at large tech companies and research labs, Smith said. "The Robot Brains Podcast's" Pieter Abbeel is no stranger to the world of artificial intelligence. When he's not hosting his podcast, Abbeel can be found leading his AI startup Covariant, teaching as an AI and robotics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, or investing in companies at AIX Ventures. Abbeel's unique experience across academia, entrepreneurship, and investing makes him a prime choice to host "The Robot Brains Podcast," where he interviews fellow researchers, entrepreneurs, and educators to discuss AI breakthroughs and trends and his guests' own personal career paths. In upcoming episodes, Abbeel plans to cover topics like artificial general intelligence, large language models, and the future of AI, he told Insider. "The TWIML AI Podcast" is one of the longer-running podcasts in the space. Host Sam Charrington told Insider that the podcast prides itself on its breadth, covering the field of AI from the perspectives of research, applications, and technologies and AI practitioners from a variety of backgrounds. His goal is to teach listeners about "trends in ML/AI before they become mainstream," he said. Like many others in the field, Charrington has been fascinated with new generative AI tech in recent times, and plans to continue covering the topic on the podcast. Not only will the podcast touch on core large language model technology, but it will also feature the tools and technologies needed to utilize and build on top of large models, such as vector databases like Pinecone and IT vendors like AWS and Google, he said.  
                                Read next
                               Jump to