LET US HELP Welcome to Capella Select your program and we'll help guide you through important information as you prepare for the application process. FIND YOUR PROGRAM    Connect with us A team of dedicated enrollment counselors is standing by, ready to answer your questions and help you get started.  CALL EMAIL  You can develop the skills to redefine your IT career with the online MS in Information Technology, General Information Technology at Capella. Choose courses that align with your goals in the field of IT, including: analytics, cybersecurity, project management, cloud computing, and more. Earning an MS in IT can help you attain a depth of knowledge to match your experience, interests, and unique professional needs. The curriculum is designed to help entry- and mid-level IT professionals increase their technical expertise and abilities in a dynamic field. Add practical IT experience to your résumé by working as an IT analyst on real projects and with actual company stakeholders. Capella offers eligible students certification exam vouchers from CompTIA, Cisco, and SAS. Gain real-world experience and demonstrate what you’ve learned before you graduate by working on live industry projects. Apply today with no application fee.  Enroll in a qualified program and apply for a $2.5K Capella Progress Reward, a scholarship to help fund your master’s degree. Eligibility rules and exclusions apply. Connect with us for details.  View all Courses *Course has prerequisite(s). See catalog for details. The MS in General Information Technology deepens your technical knowledge and practical skills in the diverse, challenging IT landscape. A flexible structure lets you focus on aspects of IT that match your experience, develop your interests, and line up with your professional goals. On successful completion of this program, you should be able to: Review the Capella career exploration guide to learn more about this program and career paths to explore. Program eligible for Experiential Learning Use your experience: bring your real-world projects into the courseroom to complete assignments and demonstrate what you're learning. The total cost of your degree will depend on academic performance, transfer credits, scholarships and other factors. See GuidedPath cost information below. A structured learning format with an active peer community and faculty guidance. We’ll set the schedule, you meet the deadlines.  $715 per credit, $175 resource kit fee, 48 total quarter credits,  12 max transfer credits  *This is only an estimate, effective July 8, 2024, and is subject to change. Your tuition amount will vary depending on your unique circumstances, such as your program specialization, transfer credits and any applicable tuition discounts. This estimate does not include the cost of books, course materials, supplies, equipment and other expenses. Tuition estimates shown for the GuidedPath learning format depend on the number of credits accepted for transfer. New or recently revised program tuition estimates are based on comparable programs.  Capella is committed to transparency in tuition and pricing. You will be responsible for costs in addition to tuition, which may include travel expenses and practicum costs. You will be charged $50-$200 each quarter or billing session for your resource kit, which includes required books, software and other course materials. Click here to review program-specific fee amounts in our University Catalog. Find out more about financing and payment options to help you complete your program. Federal aid also is available to help manage the costs of higher education. Learn more about financing your education. Contact an enrollment counselor. 83% of information technology alumni are satisfied with their Capella education. Alumni Outcomes Survey, 2022–2023 Your education is an investment in your future. There are more ways to save than you might think. Apply for a $2.5K Capella Progress Reward, a scholarship to help fund your master’s degree. Eligibility rules and exclusions apply. Connect with us for details. 10% military discount  Capella offers a tuition discount to active-duty service members, guard and reserve members, veterans, their spouses** and dependents. **Starting in July, spouses of veterans can now benefit from a 10% discount on eligible certificates, master’s and doctoral programs and a 15% discount on eligible bachelor’s programs. Potential savings* of $14,250 on your Master of Science in Information Technology in the GuidedPath learning format with your CISSP® – Certified Information Systems Security Professional. See what you could save on your IT degree. *Exclusions and conditions apply. Additional fee of $50 assessed each quarter you request documented credit. Accreditation and recognitions provide evidence that we meet standards for quality of faculty, curriculum, learner services, and fiscal stability. See all our accreditations and recognitions. Admission requirements Applicants to the MSIT in General Information Technology program must provide the following information for admission: GRE and GMAT are not required for admission. International student requirements  If you completed your most recent academic coursework, degree, or credential at an institution outside the United States, regardless of your citizenship or where you currently live, you are considered an international applicant. In addition to the above admission requirements, you will need to submit these materials: Learn more about international student admissions. Our programs are designed to meet the unique needs of bachelor’s students. We’ve structured the experience in manageable pieces to help you earn your degree with support from faculty, staff and online resources. Faculty Our courses are taught by distinguished faculty members who hold top credentials and have hands-on expertise in their fields. Academic advisors These specialists can help tailor a program to your goals and experiences, and help make sure you stay on track to meet program requirements. Career services Managing your career is a lifelong endeavor. Our career services team can help you navigate the path toward your academic and professional dreams. Learn more about support from Capella Expand your perspective on academic and career topics with articles and resources from Capella University. Pursuing a degree in Information Technology (IT) or Computer Science may be a good idea for your future career.  Get the details on every IT program offered at Capella University – including learning formats, financing options, and more, all in one place. See what you may be able to save with previous learning and certifications. Your education can help you reach your professional and personal goals. While Capella cannot guarantee that a graduate will secure any specific career outcome, such as a job title, promotion, or salary increase, we encourage you to explore potential jobs and employment settings. Here are some ideas and examples for a graduate with an MSIT in General Information Technology. *These are examples intended to serve as a general guide. Some positions may prefer or even require previous experience, licensure, certifications, and/or other designations along with a degree. Because many factors determine what position an individual may attain, Capella cannot guarantee that a graduate will secure any specific job title, a promotion, salary increase, or other career outcome. We encourage you to research requirements for your job target and career goals. Take the first step toward earning your degree and achieving your goals. {page-tel}    