Thousands of community leaders, business owners and public officials gathered Monday morning at the Phoenix Symphony Hall for the Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce's 27th annual DATOS event. Every year, the chamber publishes a comprehensive report that analyzes the impact of Arizona's Hispanic population in the state's business market growth. Each edition of the report, titled DATOS: The State of Arizona's Hispanic Market, also takes a closer look at a specific element, and the results are released annually during the DATOS event. This year, the report focused on transportation, bringing in Latino leaders as well as state and city officials, who spoke at the event to address the impacts of transportation on Arizona's growing Hispanic community and on the state's economic growth. Monica Villalobos, president of the Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, told The Arizona Republic that transportation is a pressing issue that demands increased attention as the state's growing communities show a greater need to rely on resources like public transit and walkable streets. "With the growing population that we have, we have a greater need for infrastructure, for growth, for housing, for everything, and transportation is a critical piece of that," Villalobos said. "The data that we provide is meant to be a guide for those that are looking for resources, and for folks that are making decisions at a state level." The elements addressed at each DATOS report are selected from 12 elements that the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, in partnership with Vitalyst Health Foundation, found to be social determinants of a healthy community. Other topics addressed at previous DATOS events include economic opportunity, housing, education, health care and community safety. Monday's keynote speakers and panelists included Jennifer Toth, director of the Arizona Department of Transportation; Christopher Díaz, chief of staff with the Office of the Secretary of the Navy; Mario Paniagua, deputy manager with Phoenix; and Jorge Mendoza Yescas, consulate general of Mexico in Phoenix, among others. Marisol Flores-Aguirre, southern Arizona office director for Gov.r Katie Hobbs' administration, also spoke at the conference and awarded Villalobos with a proclamation on behalf of Hobbs. The recognition, which is a declaration to acknowledge a civic cause or issue, was given in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month. "The state of Arizona is a hub of diverse histories, cultures and contributions from members of the Latino and Hispanic Community with deep ties to the Americas," Flores-Aguirre said. "Today, we credit them one-third of the state's population. The Latino and Hispanic communities' unwavering belief and investment on the American dream has an invaluable impact on Arizona's economic market power, business innovation and entrepreneurship." It's here:Why does Hispanic Heritage Month start in the middle of September? Toth highlighted the significance of transportation for Arizona residents, emphasizing that it plays a pivotal role in driving the state's economy. "Transportation is really about more than just getting from point A to point B," Toth said. "Transportation is how we get to work, school, sporting events, health care, shopping centers, and then that call again, every single day. As our state continues to experience rapid growth, ADOT knows that Arizona's transportation network is vital to everybody's quality of life." Toth also addressed a developing project to facilitate transportation at the Mexico-U.S. border in southern Arizona, allowing for trade to grow and increasing Arizona’s economic development. Villalobos said there are many cross-border infrastructure projects under development that would help binational commerce. "Multiple entry points means more traffic, more flow, more business," she said. Villalobos also addressed the importance of working on reliable forms of public transportation for Arizona's residents. Only about 2.4% of workers in Phoenix rely on public transportation, Villalobos said. "I think that's an issue of availability," Villalobos said. "As we get more availability of light rail routes, bus routes, those numbers will increase." The full DATOS report is available at issuu.com/azhcc/docs/daz23_book. Hispanic Heritage Month 2023:Ultimate guide to celebrating Latino culture in Arizona