By Ruth Francis For Mailonline   Published:  20:02 EDT, 30 September 2023   |  Updated:  20:38 EDT, 30 September 2023      1 View  comments  Lucy Hale and Caroline Daur led the celebrity arrivals at the Elie Saab catwalk show during Paris Fashion Week on Saturday night. American actress Lucy, 34, showed off her sophisticated sense of style in a strapless black dress for the event in the French capital. While German fashion blogger and model Caroline, 28, looked typically chic in a smart black coat and heels. Under her long sleek coat Caroline wore a black roll neck with silver detailing dotted all over and sheer leggings that showcased her toned legs. She boosted her height with the black pointed heels that featured ankle straps and toted a small patent bag over her shoulder. Fashion: Lucy Hale (pictured left) and and Caroline Daur (pictured right) led the celebrity arrivals at the Elie Saab catwalk show during Paris Fashion Week on Saturday night Caroline wore her long blonde tresses in a sleek updo and opted for dark eyes and a red lip. Meanwhile Lucy, who has been attending other shows at PFW, teamed her lace dress which featured flowers all over with a black bag that had matching flowers and a silver chain strap. She left her dark hair loose and chose a striking makeup look with a brown smokey eye. As she posed for the cameras, she waved to fans making her way into watch the Spring/Summer 2024 showcase. Also in attendance was socialite Lady Mary Charteris. The model and singer made sure all eyes were on her as she turned up in a showstopping ensemble – black cycling shorts and a sheer black top with silver sequins emblazoned all over. She wore thigh-high tanned boots and kept her pink hair down so it flowed freely over her shoulders. Mary is the youngest child and only daughter of James Charteris and his first wife Catherine, who is the daughter of Guinness heir Jonathan Guinness, 3rd Baron Moyne. Beauty: German fashion model Caroline, 28, looked typically chic in a smart black coat and heels for the event in the French capital  Stylish: Under her long sleek coat Caroline wore a black roll neck with silver detailing dotted all over and sheer leggings that showcased her toned legs Smile: She boosted her height with the heels that featured ankle straps and toted a patent  bag over her shoulder The look: While beauty Lucy, 36, showed off her sophisticated sense of style in a strapless lace dress featuring flowers all over Friendly: Lucy teamed her stand out dress with a black bag that featured flowers and a silver chain Pretty: American actress Madison Bailey (pictured left) was also in attendance and sat next to Lucy Hale during the presentation Friendly: Lucy Hale (pictured left) and Italian actress Beatrice Granno (pictured right) were pictured looking as thick as thieves as they watched the womenswear fashion collection Stylish seats: Blogger Tamara Kalanic (pictured left) , Caroline Daur (pictured centre) and blogger Chriselle Lim (pictured right) attend the Elie Saab Womenswear Spring/Summer 2024 show as part of Paris Fashion Week Rocking it: Also in attendance was Lady Mary Charteris who made sure all eyes were on her in a sheer black top with silver sequins and thigh high boots She has modelled for the likes of Tatler, Vanity Fair, Vogue and Love, and is now best known as a DJ and member of electronic rock band The Big Pink. It was in her teens that she got into modelling after being introduced to the world Storm Models by the magazine editor and fashion muse Isabella Blow. In her early twenties, Lady Mary met Robbie Furze from the band The Big Pink and in 2012, the couple married at her family estate in Stanway in Gloucestershire. The pair welcomed their daughter Wilde Jessie Furze on May 21 2021. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group