Kate Garraway's husband Derek Draper is back in hospital after watching her receive her MBE from Prince William. The Good Morning Britain presenter was delighted to have Draper, 55, support her at the ceremony at Windsor Castle, where she was honoured for her services in broadcasting, journalism and charity work. Garraway, 56, shared on social media: "Well what a week, that started with Derek in hospital and ended with Derek in hospital, but with this extraordinary day in the middle. Read more: Kate Garraway breaks down in tears over Sam Ryder's Good Morning Britain performance "It was so wonderful to see Derek’s determination to be there, so kind of the Prince of Wales, to make it special for him & to recognise the work of Jake our incredible carer, who represents all those who make Derek’s daily life possible, and of course my long-suffering, Mum and Dad!"      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Kate Garraway (@kategarraway) She went on: "Tomorrow Derek is back in hospital and of course the daily struggles go on – but the fact that he was able to be part of Wednesday is to be treasured & can’t thank everyone in the @NHS and all around him who love him for making it possible." Draper first fell ill with the coronavirus in March 2020. He has been left with significant brain injuries and spends a lot of time in bed, using a wheelchair to go out. He returned home to live with Garraway and their two children, Billy, 13, and daughter Darcey, 17, over a year later in April 2021 and requires round the clock care. In 2021 he travelled to Mexico to take part in a new medical trial. And since ever since his return home he has been in and out of hospital. Draper developed sepsis in the summer of 2022 after taking an 'unexpected and frightening turn for the worse' which led to another spell in hospital 'fighting for his life'. And in October 2022 he developed the severe infection again. In January 2023 Draper was hurt when he slipped out of his wheelchair while returning home from hospital in a taxi. In April Garraway and Draper were able to share a night out together to see Sir Elton John on his Farewell Yellow Brick Road tour. He returned to hospital again shortly afterwards, but then was home in time for Earth Day to enjoy time in the garden with his family. In 2022 the TV star revealed she had turned her back garden into a wellness space to help husband Draper's recovery, with sensory plants to relax him and medicinal plants to make into tea. In June 2023 Garraway revealed Draper speaks in a whisper and is still unable to engage in a full conversation. But she shared the joy of sharing "fantastic moments" when he did communicate out of the blue. Garraway admitted: "It's things like that that really lift you up. But then the next day he just is completely still." Read more: Kate Garraway says husband Derek Draper has 'long road ahead' in health update Garraway and former political lobbyist Draper married in 2005. Watch: Derek Draper was able to watch Kate Garraway receive her MBE from the Prince of Wales But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend Nina and James, a boomer couple, face financial struggles after unexpected emergency expenses despite retiring with pensions in 2012.