A New York City hospital employee was placed on leave after a viral video appearing to show her trying to take a rental bike from a group of young Black men garnered millions of views online. The incident, which was first posted to Twitter on Saturday, appears to show a white woman in NYC Health + Hospitals scrubs arguing with a young man over a Citi Bike that he says he has already rented. The man has his hand on the bike while the woman screams, "Please help me." NYC Health + Hospitals operates Bellevue Hospital. It's unclear what happened before the minute-and-a-half video began, but the young man doesn't appear to touch the woman in the posted clip, nor does he appear to verbally threaten her. At one point, the woman takes off her work identification badge and tries to push the man off the bike with her body. "This is my bike. It's on my account," the man holding the bike says. The woman also appears to cry, although another person on the video accuses her of faking it. "You're acting," the man recording the video says. "She's fake-crying. Stop fake-crying." At one point a bystander can be seen trying to intervene. About a minute into the video, the woman steps away from the bike, and the recording stops. The woman was not identified by Bellevue Hospital, which is operated by NYC Health + Hospitals. Bellevue apologized in a statement the day after the video was posted and said it was reviewing the incident. In a follow-up Tuesday, the hospital called the video "disturbing." "The provider is currently out on leave and will remain on leave pending a review," the hospital's statement Tuesday said. "As a health system, we are committed to providing an environment for our patients and staff that is free from discrimination of any kind." The video had been viewed on Twitter more than 40 million times by Wednesday afternoon, with many social media users pointing out the risk placed on the young Black men being accused of wrongdoing in situations involving white women. Civil rights attorney Ben Crump was among many who posted the video and commented on Twitter. "She grossly tried to weaponize her tears to paint this man as a threat," Crump wrote. "This is EXACTLY the type of behavior that has endangered so many Black men in the past!" NBC New York tried to reach the woman at her Brooklyn apartment, but no one answered or returned calls for comment. The man who posted the video did not immediately respond to a request for comment. This article was originally published on NBCNews.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.