TGN - Tabletop Gaming News Knowing what you’re facing on the battlefield is a key component to victory. And Catalyst Game Labs is here to help. The next in their IlClan Recognition Guides is available now. It’s Volume 29 and you can get your copy now. From the website: The march of technology across BattleTech’s eras is relentless—but some war machines never die. This PDF-only series includes brand-new BattleMechs and OmniMechs, alongside Classic ’Mechs and combat vehicles from both the Inner Sphere and the Clans rebuilt with the latest technology to keep them competitive on modern battlefields. This series also includes in-universe development notes, battle histories, notable pilots, and record sheets for each unit. Source Daniel Kling Lorentsen is the editor at Tabletop Gaming News. His fascination with tabletop gaming started in the '90s when he first played games like D&D and Warhammer. Over the years, he's developed a rich background in the gaming industry, from working in a notable gaming store to illustrating for RPG books and board games. Today, Daniel applies his understanding of all things gaming and his creative skills to keep readers informed and engaged with the latest in tabletop gaming news. Fans of the science fiction roleplaying game Coriolis – The Third Horizon will be excited to learn that the final chapter of the Mercy of the Icons campaign trilogy, Wake of the Icons, is set to be released on June 7. The highly anticipated expansion includes a range of new scenarios, rules, and ship types,… 

Read More Wake of the Icons: Final Chapter of Mercy of the Icons Campaign for Coriolis – The Third Horizon Set to Release on June 7Continue
 
 Grotz. Gretchin. Gobbers. Gitz. Ambulatory Field Rations. These little fellas have been known by a lot of names over the years. They’re getting themselves a new battletome for Age of Sigmar this weekend, and Games Workshop has a bit of a preview of what you can expect in it. From the article: Grots of the… 

Read More Games Workshop Posts New Gloomspite Gitz PreviewContinue
 
 He who controls the worms controls the spice. And everyone knows that I like spicy things. That would make Dune a lot different if it was just powdered capsaicin. Anyway, those wanting to get into the sci-fi action and political intrigue (or just wear a metal bikini like Sting), you’ll want to keep your December… 

Read More Modiphius Announces Pre-Order Date for Dune RPGContinue
 
 There’s a new standard bearer for the Ultramarines available to order from Forge World. And it’s not just any standard bearer, it’s Remus Ventanus, the savior of Calth. Head over and get your name on the list for yours now. From the article: This week, Horus Heresy players can add Remus Ventanus, the saviour of… 

Read More New Ultramarines Standard Bearer Available From Forge WorldContinue
 
 A centerpiece of your The Horus Heresy army, Ka’bandha is quite a force to be reckoned with on the battlefield. Oh? You don’t know his rules? Well, you can find out by clicking through and checking out the .pdf of them just below. From the article: A crimson shadow descends on the galaxy. Ka’bandha, among… 

Read More Games Workshop Posts Rules for Ka’bandha in The Horus HeresyContinue
 
 WizKids is letting you boldly go where nobody has gone before with some new Star Trek Attack Wing sets. They’re new faction packs for the game and you can get your name on the list to get them as soon as they’re available. From the announcement: PRE-ORDER TODAY! STAR TREK: ATTACK WING FACTION PACKS: SHIPS… 

Read More New Star Trek Attack Wing Sets Available to Pre-OrderContinue
 
 Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website  Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ © 2024 TGN - Tabletop Gaming News About & Contact Privacy Policy