Jan 17, 2023 Two Mahoning Valley mayors are in the nation’s capital this week for the 91st Winter Meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors.  More than 260 mayors have registered for the four-day event, which begins today and goes through Friday. Mayors Jamael Tito Brown of Youngstown and Doug Franklin of Warren will be there along with the mayors of Columbus, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dayton, Akron and more. Also, Nikki Posterli, Brown’s chief of staff and director of Youngstown’s Community Planning and Economic Development Department, is at the conference. Brown and Franklin will be among those meeting Friday with President Joe Biden at the White House.  “I’m also a member of the Ohio Mayors Alliance,” Franklin said. “There are actually 15 of us going from the state of Ohio. We are organized. We have an agenda of what our delegation will be lobbying for.” Nan Whaley, former Dayton mayor and the failed 2022 Democratic gubernatorial candidate, also will be there as the director of membership for the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the most-recent past president. Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther currently serves as second vice president under Miami Mayor Francis Suarez. While there, Brown and Franklin said they will take advantage of the opportunity to meet with leaders across the country to see what other cities are doing, and see what federal initiatives and opportunities are making their way down to cities.  Franklin and Brown are particularly interested in discussing electric vehicles, specifically EV infrastructure. Brown is co-chairman of the conference’s task force on electric vehicles. Franklin noted that General Motors has promised to be fully electric by 2035, so he said cities must work to put in infrastructure to support these types of moves towards EV. Warren currently has two public charging stations.  Brown said of the conference: “We are going to focus our discussion on the issues of affordable and quality housing, infrastructure opportunities, mental health and electric vehicles industry and charging station equity.” MORE TOPICS Other topics Franklin said he is interested in are gun violence reduction, police recruiting, and technology and communication.  Franklin said he is also hopes to learn how other cities are using American Rescue Plan Act funds and the best practices they have implemented for doing so. He said he is looking to get some new ideas on where Warren’s remaining funds could be spent. Franklin pointed out that mayors have succeeded in the past at making their priorities heard by banding together.  “The U.S. Conference of Mayors and the Ohio Mayors Alliance sort of spearheaded the effort to get a lot of the ARP dollars funded directly to cities, instead of having to go to the state. That’s what we’ve done in the past,” Franklin said.  The main priorities for the entire conference include mental health, public safety, technology and innovation, infrastructure and jobs, according to the U.S. Conference of Mayor’s website. The mayors meet Friday with Biden. THIRD VISIT This will be Brown’s third trip to the White House in the past year. Brown was part of a group of Ohio officials that met Sept. 7 with Biden Cabinet members to discuss the Democratic president’s initiatives and the benefits achieved through ARP. Youngstown received $82,775,370 in ARP funds. Among the money allocated is $3 million to help stimulate business growth in the city, $10.5 million for park and recreation projects and $2.3 million to replace lead water pipes in a West Side neighborhood. Brown was among about 175 guests at the White House last May 9 for an announcement by Biden and his administration about discounted high-speed internet access for low-income families. Brown briefly spoke with Biden at that event.  Today's breaking news and more in your inbox Two Mahoning Valley businesses — one in Trumbull County and the other in Mahoning County — received nearly ... PITTSBURGH — It shouldn’t be a surprise that Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band played “Youngstown” ... YOUNGSTOWN — A Warren man was sentenced to one year in prison Monday after pleading guilty Thursday to attempted ... Former Foreigner lead singer Lou Gramm will perform Nov. 30 at the Robins Theatre in Warren.

Gramm is the voice ... YOUNGSTOWN — The replacement project for the fire escape at Youngstown City Hall — which has met with numerous ...  Copyright © The Vindicator | https://www.vindy.com | 240 Franklin Street SE, Warren, OH 44482 | 330-841-1600 | Terms of Service