A passenger who took a train from Taitung City to Kaohsiung on Thursday was poked by a needle left between the cushions of the seat where they were sitting, the passenger said in a post to social-media platform Dcard.  Commenting on the incident, the Taiwan Railways Administration (TRA) on Friday said a syringe was found between the seat cushions, which they believe was left by a passenger. The TRA said it has reported the incident to the police for further investigation, and said it would continue to follow up with the passenger.  Photo: screen grab from Dcard via CNA  In the post, the passenger alleged that after reporting the incident to TRA staff they were told that the TRA would need to clarify responsibility and that it “could not guarantee compensation.”   Separately, Railway Police Bureau official Lin Jung-hsiang (林榮祥) on Friday told reporters that the bureau has not yet received a report on the incident from the affected passenger. However, he has already contacted the passenger through the Dcard post, and after getting more details he would work with the TRA to further investigate the incident, he said. 

                                                                                The Kaohsiung Museum of Fine Arts yesterday apologized for forbidding children from copying paintings by freehand drawing, saying it welcomes visitors to make sketches of paintings on drawing tablets or sketchpads.
The museum issued the remark after a museumgoer nicknamed “Mickeyelk Gesner” on Thursday posted on Facebook that her son had been sketching a painting by Pablo Picasso on a tablet computer at the exhibition “Capturing the Moment” on Wednesday when a museum worker told him to stop drawing.
“The staff told us, ‘Only taking photos is allowed. No copying. This is a rule,’” she quoted the worker as saying.
Physician Lee Chia-yan                                     

                                                                                A magnitude 5.7 earthquake struck off the coast of Yilan County at 5:06pm yesterday, the Central Weather Administration (CWA) said.
The earthquake occurred offshore, 38.3km south-southeast of Yilan County Hall, at a depth of 9km, CWA data showed.
The quake’s intensity, which gauges the actual effect of a seismic event, was highest in parts of Yilan County, where it measured a “weak 5” on Taiwan’s 7-tier intensity scale.
The temblor recorded an intensity of 4 in parts of Hualien, Taoyuan and New Taipei, and 3 in parts of Taichung, Nantou, Taipei, Hsinchu and Miaoli, CWA data showed.
There were no immediate reports of damage                                     

                                                                                China’s travel booking platform ctrip.com has removed the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Shanghai from its listings after the chain’s Paris venue banned the Chinese national flag during the 2024 Summer Olympics, sparking an Internet furor.
The story — which had garnered 110 million views on Sina Weibo — had since been removed from the platform’s list of most popular posts.
On Monday, a Chinese influencer known as Instructor Zhang (張教官) accused the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Paris of refusing his request for the Chinese flag to be displayed at the venue in a video uploaded to TikTok.
A person purported to be a                                     
HUGE UPGRADE: 
                                        Once Terminal 3 is completed, the airport’s passenger service capacity would expand to 82 million travelers per year from 37 million, an official said                                        The north concourse of Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport’s Terminal 3 is scheduled to begin operations in the middle of next year, Taoyuan International Airport Corp (TIAC) said yesterday.
The Terminal 3 project was launched as the number of air travelers accessing the nation’s largest international airport each year has already exceeded the combined capacity of terminals 1 and 2.
The two existing terminals were designed to be accessed by 37 million air travelers per year. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, about 48.36 million accessed the airport in 2019.
The airport operator yesterday organized a field trip for reporters to see Terminal 3 construction                                    