A student in National Chengchi University’s (NCCU) College of Law yesterday apologized after an escort service he founded created a backlash among classmates and alumni. The student promoted Sigma Co on the social media platform Dcard, saying it provided “entertainment services and lessons on picking up women.” However, on Instagram — where the student also advertised the venture — he described the company as providing the opportunity for men to “hug, caress and French-kiss women, and touch their breasts,” providing customers the “rare experience of dating a woman.” Photo: Screen grab from Dcard The posts also said the company was recruiting NCCU students to provide the services. Students complained to the university administrators, saying that the posts were proof that Sigma was advertising prostitution. Responding to comments on Dcard, the company founder said that Sigma helps with planning dates and provides “rent-a-girlfriend” services, but it does not sell sex. The company founder said his description of intimate acts in the Instagram post was to “protect the safety of women, as it delineated the maximum amount of physical contact a woman working for the company would be willing to accept,” adding that clients who exceeded those limits would be “committing sexual harassment.” In his apology, the founder said that he had “used words in his advertisements that were disrespectful toward women to attract potential clients, which disgusted everyone,” and said he would “reflect on his actions.” He also apologized for promotional material that depicted the NCCU campus, saying that he did not receive permission from the university to do so, and that he was “willing to accept punishment from the school.” The NCCU law department yesterday said it would investigate the incident, and would submit its findings to the university’s review committee. If the student who set up the company is found to have contravened any part of the Gender Equity Education Act (性別平等教育法), he would be punished in accordance with regulations, it said. The Sigma founder said he had hired a lawyer to handle any legal issues that arise. 

                                                                                The Kaohsiung Museum of Fine Arts yesterday apologized for forbidding children from copying paintings by freehand drawing, saying it welcomes visitors to make sketches of paintings on drawing tablets or sketchpads.
The museum issued the remark after a museumgoer nicknamed “Mickeyelk Gesner” on Thursday posted on Facebook that her son had been sketching a painting by Pablo Picasso on a tablet computer at the exhibition “Capturing the Moment” on Wednesday when a museum worker told him to stop drawing.
“The staff told us, ‘Only taking photos is allowed. No copying. This is a rule,’” she quoted the worker as saying.
Physician Lee Chia-yan                                     

                                                                                A magnitude 5.7 earthquake struck off the coast of Yilan County at 5:06pm yesterday, the Central Weather Administration (CWA) said.
The earthquake occurred offshore, 38.3km south-southeast of Yilan County Hall, at a depth of 9km, CWA data showed.
The quake’s intensity, which gauges the actual effect of a seismic event, was highest in parts of Yilan County, where it measured a “weak 5” on Taiwan’s 7-tier intensity scale.
The temblor recorded an intensity of 4 in parts of Hualien, Taoyuan and New Taipei, and 3 in parts of Taichung, Nantou, Taipei, Hsinchu and Miaoli, CWA data showed.
There were no immediate reports of damage                                     

                                                                                China’s travel booking platform ctrip.com has removed the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Shanghai from its listings after the chain’s Paris venue banned the Chinese national flag during the 2024 Summer Olympics, sparking an Internet furor.
The story — which had garnered 110 million views on Sina Weibo — had since been removed from the platform’s list of most popular posts.
On Monday, a Chinese influencer known as Instructor Zhang (張教官) accused the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Paris of refusing his request for the Chinese flag to be displayed at the venue in a video uploaded to TikTok.
A person purported to be a                                     
HUGE UPGRADE: 
                                        Once Terminal 3 is completed, the airport’s passenger service capacity would expand to 82 million travelers per year from 37 million, an official said                                        The north concourse of Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport’s Terminal 3 is scheduled to begin operations in the middle of next year, Taoyuan International Airport Corp (TIAC) said yesterday.
The Terminal 3 project was launched as the number of air travelers accessing the nation’s largest international airport each year has already exceeded the combined capacity of terminals 1 and 2.
The two existing terminals were designed to be accessed by 37 million air travelers per year. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, about 48.36 million accessed the airport in 2019.
The airport operator yesterday organized a field trip for reporters to see Terminal 3 construction                                    