Stifel Nicolaus analyst Selman Akyol maintained a Buy rating on Plains GP Holdings (PAGP – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $17.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $13.20. According to TipRanks, Akyol is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 3.8% and a 59.29% success rate. Akyol covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as CSI Compressco, Dcp Midstream Partners, and Global Partners. Plains GP Holdings has an analyst consensus of Strong Buy, with a price target consensus of $15.20, which is a 15.15% upside from current levels. In a report released yesterday, Raymond James also reiterated a Buy rating on the stock with a $16.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> The company has a one-year high of $13.66  and a one-year low of $8.86. Currently, Plains GP Holdings has an average volume of 2.64M.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Plains GP Holdings LP owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and provides logistics services primarily for crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas through its indirect investment in Plains All American Pipeline, L.P.The firm operates through the following segments: Transportation, Facilities and Supply and Logistics. The Transportation segment consists of fee-based activities associated with transporting crude oil and NGL on pipelines, gathering systems, trucks and barges. The Facilities segment consists of fee-based activities associated with providing storage, terminalling and throughput services primarily for crude oil, NGL and natural gas, as well as NGL fractionation and isomerization services and natural gas and condensate processing services. The Supply and Logistics segment consists of storage of inventory during contango market conditions and the seasonal storage of NGL, purchase of NGL from producers, refiners, processors and other marketers, extraction of NGL from gas processed at the facilities. Plains GP Holdings LP was founded in July 2013 and is headquartered in Houston, TX.  Read More on PAGP: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks