Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  WTI Sheds Nearly 3% as China Demand Dulls 
Find us on:







  The International Energy Agency has… Iran's Central Bank is reportedly… Julianne Geiger Julianne Geiger is a veteran editor, writer and researcher for Oilprice.com, and a member of the Creative Professionals Networking Group. More Info Libya’s revenues from crude oil in the first half of the year fell to $6.95 billion (33.4 billion Libyan dinars)—down from 37.3 billion dinars in H1 2022, according to a Thursday statement from Libya’s central bank. 


 Libya’s crude oil production in the first part of this year is higher than it was during the same period last year. In Q1 2023, Libya’s crude oil production averaged 1.157 million bpd, according to OPEC’s secondary sources, rising only slightly to average 1.169 million bpd by May of this year. This is an increase on 2022, when 1st quarter production averaged 1.063 million bpd, with May 2022 production averaging just .707 million bpd.


 But Brent crude oil prices are down nearly $30 per barrel from May 2022 to May 2023. Libya relies on oil for almost all of its exports and fiscal revenues. Those revenues have been the subject of controversy among the country’s multiple governments. Earlier this week, the leader of the Libyan National Army, General Khalifa Haftar, threatened to use force unless the country’s political leaders agreed on a way to distribute oil revenues fairly, citing a deadline at the end of next month. Haftar has proposed setting up a committee to distribute revenues from oil, most of which is produced in eastern Libya. If the authorities fail to do that, the LNA will use force to make its argument. Last month, the Government of National Stability in Libya said it would stop the flow of oil and gas unless the western-based Government of National Unity appointed an eastern-government representative to oversee the National Oil Corporation (NOC). Meanwhile, Libya is struggling to attract foreign investment into its oil sector. By Julianne Geiger for Oilprice.com More Top Reads From Oilprice.com: Join the discussion | Back to homepage Previous Post EU Could Use Newly Launched Gas Cartel To Purchase Hydrogen Next Post EU Moves Closer To Exiting Energy Investment Pact 
	            Julianne Geiger is a veteran editor, writer and researcher for Oilprice.com, and a member of the Creative Professionals Networking Group.	           More Info SunPower Declares Bankruptcy Nigeria Loses $1,000 per Barrel of Crude Oil It Exports U.S. Crude Oil Inventories Continue to Fall U.S. Gasoline Prices Continue to Drop U.S. To Buy 4.65 Million Barrels for The SPR, But There’s A Problem ADVERTISEMENT Oil Prices Tank on Fears China’s Rate Cuts Herald Demand Weakness Texas Earthquakes: Uncovering the Link to Oil and Gas Extraction Chevron Ditches California for Texas Global Demand for Renewable Energy Is Set to Surge 





 © OilPrice.com The materials provided on this Web site are for informational and educational purposes only and are not intended to provide tax, legal, or investment advice. Nothing contained on the Web site shall be considered a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to buy or sell a security to any person in any jurisdiction. Merchant of Record: A Media Solutions trading as Oilprice.com