We’ll deliver breaking news directly to your inbox. Sign up today. GENESEE COUNTY, MI -- The county is in the process of hiring a company to manage the demolition of the old McDonald Dairy site in Flint because of potential environmental concerns at the Chavez Drive property. Members of the county Board of Commissioners gave initial approval on July 12, to a $79,800 contract with Mannik & Smith Group of Maumee, Ohio, and could cement the deal when they meet next week. County officials have been considering using the site as a permanent recycling drop-off center for household hazardous waste. The property was lost to the county during the tax foreclosure process after Country Fresh, which had acquired it in the mid-1980s, shut down Flint production in 2009. “The property has dilapidated facilities and potential environmental concerns that may need to be remediated,” county Planning Commission Director Derek Bradshaw said in a memorandum to commissioners. “Due to this, (the Planning Commission) is proposing to hire MSG to oversee the demolition process including selecting a qualified demolition contractor; preparing a budget and timeline for abatement and demolition; managing the abatement and demolition process; ensuring activities are properly completed by the demolition contractor; and conducting air quality monitoring.” Bradshaw said in an email to MLive-The Flint Journal that an environmental assessment of the site is continuing but initial work has identified various underground storage tanks -- some of which have been removed and some that may remain, hazardous substances such as petroleum products that may have impacted the subsurface of the soil from the underground storage tanks, and other potential contamination including asbestos-containing materials. The McDonald Dairy was built on the property in 1929, according to Flint Journal files. Throughout its history, the plant produced milk, ice cream mix, orange juice, cottage cheese and yogurt. After it was acquired by Country Fresh, production from Flint eventually shifted to other Dean Foods Co. plants in Livonia and Grand Rapids. Dean was the parent company of Country Fresh. In addition to using the property as a permanent drop-off point for waste such as automotive fluids, batteries and electronics, county officials have said the property could also be used as a warehouse facility for the Genesee County Community Action Resource Department (GCCARD) and for county motor pool operations. Want more Flint-area news? Bookmark the local Flint news page or sign up for the free “3@3 Flint” daily newsletter Read more at The Flint Journal: Genesee County considers buying old McDonald Dairy in Flint Flint blocks volunteers from repainting Black Lives Matter mural One Flint City Council recall approved, another rejected by election panel Flint might inspect every sidewalk in the city before spending $2M on repairs If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.