We've made some important changes to our Privacy and Cookies Policy and we want you to know what this means for you and your data. We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and collect browsing data to give you the best online experience and to personalise the content and advertising shown to you. Please let us know if you agree. These settings apply to AMP pages only. You may be asked to set these preferences again when you visit non-AMP BBC pages. The lightweight mobile page you have visited has been built using Google AMP technology. To make our web pages work, we store some limited information on your device without your consent. Read more about the essential information we store on your device to make our web pages work. We use local storage to store your consent preferences on your device. When you consent to data collection on AMP pages you are consenting to allow us to display personalised ads that are relevant to you when you are outside of the UK. Read more about how we personalise ads in the BBC and our advertising partners. You can choose not to receive personalised ads by clicking “Reject data collection and continue” below. Please note that you will still see advertising, but it will not be personalised to you. You can change these settings by clicking “Ad Choices / Do not sell my info” in the footer at any time. Image source, GMP A relative of one of Harold Shipman's victims has condemned a life insurance firm for using an image of the serial killer in a social media advert.   DeadHappy used the image with the tagline: "Life Insurance. Because you never know who your doctor might be." Shipman is believed to have murdered up to 260 people during his time as a GP in Hyde, Greater Manchester. Tim Hill, the great-grandson of one of Shipman's victims, said the "trauma" of the ordeal was still with his family. He said: "My family, most practically my mother, went through a lot of trauma during the inquiry. "This isn't something that's in the distant past or outside living memory. It's not something that should be joked about.  "The company should be held accountable, their their modus operandi seems to be to cause offence and create public outrage." Hyde MP Jonathan Reynolds said he was "disgusted" by the ad. Mr Reynolds told the BBC that constituents began contacting his office on Monday night when the advert began appearing in their Facebook news feeds.  The MP contacted the Leicester-based firm on Tuesday asking that it be taken down, which it eventually was. DeadHappy apologised, saying it was "of course never our intention to offend or upset people". Mr Reynolds said: "I am absolutely disgusted that DeadHappy thought it appropriate to use an image of Harold Shipman in their marketing campaign, making light of what was and remains an incredibly painful period for our area.  "My thoughts are with the bereaved families for whom this gross insensitivity has opened wounds that are still healing.  "DeadHappy call themselves industry disruptors. I call them downright disrespectful. I'll be choosing insurance providers with a little dignity and empathy." The Advertising Standards Authority said it was reviewing more than 70 complaints about the ad. Shipman was found guilty of murdering 15 patients under his care in January 2000, sentenced to life imprisonment with a whole life order. He was found dead in his cell in Wakefield Prison in 2004.  Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk Content is not available © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.