Celebrate with a "wake to end all wakes" and Zombie cocktails. Dead Island 2 has teamed up with a UK insurance company to launch a "deathwish" policy that ensures your friends and family will arrange a "blowout in Los Angeles" when you die.
 The initiative – which "instructs loved-ones to both zombie-proof the recently deceased and toast their passing with a blowout in Los Angeles before the city becomes the Hell-A we see in the game" – is an insurance policy to provide "a wake to end all wakes with nearest and dearest raising a Zombie cocktail during a celebratory Californian getaway".
 Check out the cheeky infomercial below:
 The Deathwish hails from DeadHappy, a company which is focused "on changing attitudes to passing away and promoting positive ways to remember loved ones".
 The accompanying press release makes the curious claim that 40 per cent of 2000 adults said they" really don’t want to return from the dead as a flesh-eating zombie", which suggests 60 per cent would be fine with it. That said, even fewer people fancied returning as a spider (argh), a vampire, or a pigeon as the least-popular afterlife option. 
 I thought Dead Island 2 was bloody good fun, but Edwin was a little more critical in the Eurogamer Dead Island 2 review, saying: "If you've somehow yet to play an undead-themed action-RPG or you have an appropriately on-brand mindless hunger for the subgenre, Dead Island 2 might be worth your while. It's certainly got the zombie disassembly part down pat. 
 "If you are neither of those things, all the sturdy design and flying organs in the world can't hide the shortage of lingering excitement here. Dead Island 2 isn't a bad game, but it does feel superfluous, which is a sad thing to conclude about a project that's been in development for almost a decade. Still, at least they spared us the zombie booby merchandise this time."
 
Dead Island 2
 
PS4, 
            Xbox One, 
            PC
 
        From Assassin's Creed to Zoo Tycoon, we welcome all gamers
       
        Eurogamer welcomes videogamers of all types, so sign in and join our community!
       

Feature |


What we've been playing                    
 

Dead Island 2 roadmap reveals two gore-ful sounding expansions                    
 

Embracer shares plummet after proposed $2bn partnership collapses                    
 

Jelly Deals |


Save 20% on games and accessories from The Game Collection on eBay                    
 

Digital Foundry |


Dead Island 2 PC tech review: a capable UE4 port that's smooth and stutter-free                    
 

Dead Island 2 shifts 1m copies in its first weekend of release                    
 

Digital Foundry |


Dead Island 2 delivers solid performance and image quality on all consoles                    
 

Game of the Week |


The warm, orienting rituals of Coffee Talk 2                    
 Bad puns and video games since 1999. Eurogamer.net is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.