Business | Business News Our unmissable weekly email of all the gossip, rumours and covert goings-on inside the Square Mile  I would like to be emailed about offers, event and updates from Evening Standard. Read our privacy notice. Ads for a life insurance firm that joked about serial killer Harold Shipman have been banned for causing serious and widespread offence and distress. The Facebook and Instagram ads for DeadHappy, seen on January 23, featured images of Shipman and the text: “Life insurance… Because you never know who your doctor might be.” Shipman murdered between 215 and 260 of his patients during his time as a GP in Hyde, Greater Manchester. The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) said it received 115 complaints that the the ads irresponsibly caused serious and widespread offence and unjustified distress. DeadHappy apologised, saying the ads first appeared at 2pm on January 23 and were taken down at 8am the next day when it became clear they were causing offence. The firm said it was reviewing its processes in relation to the creation and approval of ads “and would endeavour to make better informed decisions going forward”. Facebook and Instagram acknowledged the complaints but made no comment. The ASA said the ads “trivialised and made light of the murders committed by Harold Shipman, such that they were likely to cause both serious and widespread offence to those who saw them”. It added: “We further considered that any reference to the murderer in advertising material was likely to be distressing, particularly for those who had lost family members or friends at Shipman’s hands and that, in the context of an ad promoting life insurance, the distress caused was unjustified. “We concluded that the ads were not prepared with a sense of responsibility to consumers and to society and did not comply with rules on issues of harm and offence. “We welcomed DeadHappy’s assurance that they would not be repeated.” Watchdog could block sugar deal between Tate & Lyle and Whitworths makers Matches Fashion to enter administration after making ‘material losses’ Sexism in the City "still rife" as MPs report that reform is moving at "snail's pace" First look at exceptional new London properties for sale in 2024 In a statement, DeadHappy founder Andy Knott said: “We are sorry. In our attempt to be provocative and make people really stop and think about their need for life insurance, we have made a mistake and for this we apologise. “We will now go away and immediately review all of our current and future marketing campaigns to ensure that we learn from this mistake.” Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Football Transfer news LIVE! Chelsea double deal; Arsenal agree personal terms, Toney update; Man Utd in Berge blow 3 Comment We need to talk about All Points East: why is everyone at festivals suddenly so hot? 4 Music Katy Perry's 143 album launch failures: The full timeline as Lifetimes single is panned 5 Football Man City injury update: Rodri, Savinho, Oscar Bobb latest news and return dates