NEW - Sign up for exclusive insights and views in our brand new newsletter from chief Manchester United writer Samuel Luckhurst We have more newsletters NEW - Sign up for exclusive insights and views in our brand new newsletter from chief Manchester United writer Samuel Luckhurst We have more newsletters Manchester United will not make a decision on Dean Henderson's future until the end of his season-long loan with Nottingham Forest. Henderson, 25, criticised former manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer for reneging on his pledge to install him as No.1 goalkeeper ahead of David de Gea, describing the Norwegian's handling of him as "criminal". The academy graduate has not spoken to manager Erik ten Hag, whom Henderson refused to train under out of fear he would be prevented from joining Forest. The United goalkeeping coach Richard Hartis has been in contact with Henderson this season. Also read: United risked getting it wrong with Phillips but got it right with Casemiro Henderson is under contract at United until 2025 but the club are open to negotiating a new deal with De Gea, which would appear to indicate Henderson will have to leave permanently. Ahead of Forest's first match at Old Trafford in 24 years, which Henderson is ineligible for, Ten Hag said of Henderson's future: "No, I wouldn't give that decision already now. I think he is on a loan for one season. During the season, when the season is coming to an end, we will take a decision and that depends on a lot of factors. He is playing really well at Nottingham Forest." Henderson has embarked on six loans since he joined United as a schoolboy in 2011 and he has only played 29 times for his parent club. Two of Henderson's three appearances last season came under interim manager Ralf Rangnick and Henderson is believed to have personally told Solskjaer he did not relish making tough decisions. Newcastle were interested in signing Henderson in the summer but opted for Nick Pope, who was available on a permanent deal. United were reluctant to sell Henderson and his wages are being covered in full by Forest. De Gea is approaching the final six months of his contract but the club has the option of an additional year. De Gea is not as in demand as he was in previous summers and he has outlined his wish to spend the rest of his career at United. With the European Championship in Germany only 18 months away, Henderson would likely demand a Premier League move in the summer to regain his place in the England squad. READ MORE: 