Dairy industry leader brought in as Sofina founder Michael Latifi steps back from European executive role We have more newsletters We have more newsletters Young’s Seafood’s parent company has a new chief executive. Ash Amirahmadi OBE has been appointed to lead Sofina Foods Europe, with the Grimsby headquartered market leader now under his watch alongside North Yorkshire pork specialist Karro. He joins from Arla UK, Britain’s largest dairy co-operative, where he has been managing director since 2018. Young’s and Karro were brought together in a merger in 2019, two years prior to Canadian food giant Sofina’s swoop. They both produce branded and own-label for retail. Read more: £75m salmon farm proposal put to the public Mr Amirahmadi takes over from Michael Latifi, Sofina’s founder, who created the role following the buy-out of Eight Fifty Food Group in March 2021. He remains chairman and chief executive of Sofina Foods Inc. Mr Latifi said: “We are delighted to welcome Ash to the Sofina family. I am confident that Ash’s deep experience and reputation within the grocery and farming sectors will help us deliver ongoing success across our European operations and demonstrate our continued commitment to quality and innovation. “Ash joins us at an important time for the industry. He will help Sofina Foods Europe lead the way in developing a more sustainable supply chain, capable of producing great-tasting, affordable and high-quality products for consumers and greatly contribute to our vision.” Simon Smith, who had been chief executive of Young’s prior to Sofina’s purchase, is vice chair of Sofina Foods, with a strong handle on seafood operations. He also chairs the Grimsby seafood cluster body. Recognised for services to the dairy industry in the 2023 New Year’s Honours, Mr Amirahmadi is the current chair of the boards of both Dairy UK and the Institute of Grocery Distribution. He said “I am delighted to be joining Sofina Foods and relishing the opportunity to work with Michael Latifi and the Sofina Foods Europe team to build on their significant progress in transforming the business towards category leadership. “Sofina Foods has a track record of working in partnership with its customers and suppliers, developing sustainable and resilient supply chains, investing in its people, adding value to categories, and long-term commitment to social responsibility across multiple stakeholders. My experience in the UK grocery sector mirrors these values and therefore I am honoured to lead Sofina Foods Europe on the journey ahead. “We are operating in a complex and challenging global market. I am humble and respectful of the task ahead and committed to playing my part, together with the Sofina family, to transform the food system.” Alongside Young’s and Karro is the Greenland Seafood subsidiary, and together the businesses have operations in the UK, Ireland, France and Germany.  Read next: Grimsby seafood cluster backs £75m onshore salmon farm planHilton gets seafood back on track after price pressure put brakes on profits£3m investment to create 100 more jobs as new Scunthorpe green packaging plantABP secures long term deal for use of Hull's unique All Weather TerminalAll your Humber business news in one place - bookmark it now 