Whole-foods, plant-based diets prioritize plant foods and minimize processed ingredients and animal products. This eating pattern is environmentally friendly and may be associated with several health benefits. There are many arguments about which diet is best for you. Nevertheless, health and wellness communities agree that diets emphasizing fresh, whole ingredients and minimizing processed foods are superior for overall wellness. The whole-foods, plant-based diet does just that. It focuses on minimally processed foods and prioritizes plants. Studies show that plant-based diets are effective at stimulating weight loss and improving health (1, 2). This article reviews everything you need to know about the whole-foods, plant-based diet, including its potential health benefits, foods to eat, and a sample meal plan. There is no clear definition of a what constitutes a whole-foods, plant-based diet (WFPB diet). The WFPB diet is not necessarily a set diet — it’s more of a lifestyle. This is because plant-based diets can vary greatly depending on the extent to which a person includes animal products in their diet. Nonetheless, the basic principles of a whole-foods, plant-based diet are as follows: For these reasons, this diet is often confused with vegan or vegetarian diets. Yet although similar in some ways, these diets are not the same. People who follow vegan diets abstain from consuming any animal products, including dairy, meat, poultry, seafood, eggs, and honey. Vegetarians exclude all meat and poultry from their diets, but some vegetarians eat eggs, seafood, or dairy (3). The WFPB diet, on the other hand, is more flexible. Followers eat mostly plants, but animal products aren’t off limits. While one person following a WFPB diet may eat no animal products, another may eat small amounts of eggs, poultry, seafood, meat, or dairy.  The whole-foods, plant-based diet emphasizes plant-based foods while minimizing animal products and processed items. Obesity is an issue of epidemic proportions. In fact, it’s estimated that nearly 31% of adults have overweight, while over 42% have obesity (4). Fortunately, making dietary and lifestyle changes can facilitate weight loss and have a lasting impact on health. Many studies have shown that plant-based diets are beneficial for weight loss. The high fiber content of the WFPB diet, along with the exclusion of processed foods, is a winning combination for shedding excess pounds. A review of 12 studies that included more than 1,100 people found that those assigned to plant-based diets lost significantly more weight — about 4.5 pounds (lbs), or 2 kilograms (kg), over an average of 18 weeks — than those assigned to non-vegetarian diets (5). Adopting a healthy plant-based eating pattern may also help keep weight off in the long run. A study in 65 people with overweight or obesity found that those assigned to a WFPB diet lost significantly more weight than the control group and were able to sustain that weight loss of 25 lbs (11.5 kg) over a 1-year follow-up period (6). However, it’s unclear whether the control group received nutrition advice or made any changes to their diet (6). Regardless, simply cutting out the processed foods that aren’t allowed on a WFPB diet like soda, candy, fast food, and refined grains is a powerful weight loss tool itself (7, 8). Many studies have demonstrated that whole-food, plant-based diets are effective for weight loss. They may also help you maintain weight loss in the long run. Adopting a whole-foods, plant-based diet not only benefits your waistline, but it can also lower your risk and reduce symptoms of certain chronic diseases. Perhaps one of the most well-known benefits of WFPB diets is that they are heart-healthy. However, the quality and types of foods included in the diet matter. A large study in over 200,000 people found that those who followed a healthy plant-based diet rich in vegetables, fruits, whole grains, legumes, and nuts had a significantly lower risk of developing heart disease than those following non-plant-based diets (9). However, less nutritious plant-based diets that included sugary drinks, fruit juices, and refined grains were associated with a slightly increased risk of heart disease (9). Similarly, several other studies suggest that people following a healthy plant-based diet may have a lower risk of heart disease compared to meat eaters (10, 11). Consuming the right kinds of food is critical for heart disease prevention when following a plant-based diet, which is why adhering to a WFPB diet is the best choice. Research suggests that following a plant-based diet may reduce your risk of certain types of cancer. A study in over 76,000 people found that following a healthy plant-based diet could be associated with a lower risk of breast cancer (12). Similarly, another recent study showed that greater consumption of nutritious plant-based foods was linked to a lower risk of aggressive forms of prostate cancer, especially in men under 65 years (13). Furthermore, a 2022 review concluded that plant-based diets could be tied to a lower risk of digestive system cancers, including pancreatic, colon, rectal, and colorectal cancers (14). Some studies suggest that diets rich in vegetables and fruits may help slow or prevent cognitive decline and Alzheimer’s disease in older adults. Plant-based diets have a higher number of plant compounds and antioxidants, which may help slow the progression of Alzheimer’s disease and reverse cognitive deficits, according to some test-tube and animal studies (15). In many studies, higher intakes of fruits and vegetables have been strongly associated with a reduction in cognitive decline. A review of nine studies including over 31,000 people found that eating more fruits and vegetables led to a 20% reduction in the risk of developing cognitive impairment or dementia (16). Other studies in older adults have found that plant-based eating patterns may be associated with a reduced risk of cognitive impairment, along with a slower decline in brain function (17, 18). Adopting a WFPB diet may be an effective tool in managing and reducing your risk of developing diabetes. A study in more than 200,000 people found that those who adhered to a healthy plant-based eating pattern had a 34% lower risk of developing diabetes than those who followed unhealthy, non-plant-based diets (19). Another study demonstrated that plant-based diets could be beneficial for the prevention of type 2 diabetes, especially when they included nutritious plant-based foods like fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, and legumes (20). Plus, plant-based diets have been shown to improve blood sugar control, body weight, and cholesterol levels in people with diabetes (21). Following a whole-foods, plant-based diet may reduce your risk of developing heart disease, certain cancers, cognitive decline, and diabetes. Switching to a plant-based diet not only benefits your health — it can help protect the environment, as well. People who follow plant-based diets may have smaller environmental footprints. Adopting sustainable eating habits can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and land used for factory farming, which are all factors in global warming and environmental degradation. A review of 63 studies showed that the largest environmental benefits were seen from diets containing the least amount of animal-based foods such as vegan, vegetarian, and pescatarian diets. The study reported that a 70% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and land use and 50% less water use could be achieved by shifting Western diet patterns to more sustainable, plant-based dietary patterns (22). What’s more, reducing the number of animal products in your diet and purchasing local, sustainable produce helps drive the local economy and reduces reliance on factory farming, an unsustainable method of food production (23). Plant-based diets emphasizing local ingredients are more environmentally friendly than diets that rely heavily on mass-produced animal products and produce. From eggs and bacon for breakfast to steak for dinner, animal products are the focus of most meals for many people. When switching to a plant-based diet, meals should center around plant-based foods. If animal foods are eaten, they should be eaten in smaller quantities, with attention paid to the quality of the item. Foods like dairy, eggs, poultry, meat and seafood should be used more as a complement to a plant-based meal, not as the main focal point. If supplementing your plant-based diet with animal products, choose quality products from grocery stores or, better yet, purchase them from local farms. Examples of animal products that can be enjoyed in moderation include: While you can consume conventional animal products, some people may choose pasture-raised, grass-fed, wild-caught, or organic products for environmental reasons or personal preferences.  A healthy, WFPB diet should focus on plant foods like vegetables, fruits, whole grains, legumes, nuts, and seeds. If animal products are eaten, they should be eaten in smaller quantities compared to plant foods. The WFPB diet is a way of eating that focuses on consuming foods in their most natural form. This means that heavily processed foods are excluded. When purchasing groceries, focus on fresh foods and, when purchasing foods with a label, aim for items with the fewest possible ingredients. While healthy animal foods can be included in a WFPB diet, they should be minimized. These include: When following a WFPB diet, highly processed foods should be avoided and animal products minimized. Transitioning to a whole-foods, plant-based diet doesn’t have to be challenging. The following 1-week menu can help set you up for success. It includes a small number of animal products, but the extent to which you include animal foods in your diet is up to you. Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday As you can see, the idea of a whole-foods, plant-based diet is to use animal products sparingly. However, many people following WFPB diets eat more or fewer animal products depending on their specific dietary needs and preferences. You can enjoy many different delicious meals when following a whole-foods, plant-based diet. The above menu can help you get started. A whole-foods, plant-based diet is a way of eating that celebrates plant foods and minimizes animal products and highly processed foods. Plant-based diets have been linked to a number of health benefits, including reducing your risk of heart disease, certain cancers, obesity, diabetes, and cognitive decline. Plus, transitioning to a more plant-based diet is an excellent choice for the planet. Regardless of the type of whole-foods, plant-based diet you choose, adopting this way of eating is sure to boost your health. Share this article This article is based on scientific evidence, written by experts and fact checked by experts. Our team of licensed nutritionists and dietitians strive to be objective, unbiased, honest and to present both sides of the argument. This article contains scientific references. The numbers in the parentheses (1, 2, 3) are clickable links to peer-reviewed scientific papers. Real food is whole, single-ingredient food that is low in additives and rich in nutrients. Learn 21 reasons why real food is the key to good health. To lose weight long-term, you don't need crash diets or boot camp. Instead, start by simply replacing processed foods with real foods. Protein is an important nutrient for optimal health, but not all protein sources are equal. This article compares animal and plant proteins. A vegan diet can have some impressive effects on your health. This article looks at the science behind these benefits, and vegan meal ideas to get you… Just because you’re not eating meat doesn’t mean you’re eating right. For a healthy vegetarian or vegan diet, make sure you avoid these 12 pitfalls. A few nutrients are either difficult or impossible to get in adequate amounts from plant foods. This article reviews 7 nutrients commonly lacking in… Omega-3 fatty acids are very good for your health, but it can be hard to get enough if you don't eat fish. Here are the 7 best plant sources of… While vegan diets can offer health benefits, they may be low in certain nutrients. Here are 7 supplements that you may need on a vegan diet. OUR BRANDS