
   
  
            Have your say in the UK's largest Business Survey!
      
   
   
  
            System C writes: We supported AiSentia, a spinout from Oxford University, to develop a medical device quality prototype and website that enables doctors to digitally add contrast to CT images. Our team transformed research-quality code written by a medical student to improve performance...
   
   
  
            Cambridge’s Centre for Computing History is thrilled to have been awarded a £4,000 Community Grant from MathWorks, a leading developer of mathematical computing software for engineers and scientists. This generous grant will support the Centre's Education programme, helping young people...
   
   
  
            Darktrace Defenders Partner Program builds upon strategic investments to accelerate partner-first go-to-market strategy.
      ...
   
   
  
            Darktrace announces it has won the UK 2024 Microsoft Partner of the Year Award.
      
   
   
  
            Prism Corporate Broking are pleased to announce that our team have advised on the sale of health screening workflow software developers, Thomson Screening Solutions Ltd, to healthcare platform CCube Solutions which is backed by software-focused investors, Tern Capital.
      ...
   
   
  
            Investment in state-of-the-art imaging suite to accelerate data generation with physiologically-relevant in vitro models for deeper insights on drug effects in vivo 
	Launch of advanced lung FMT assay provides extensive critical efficacy and safety data
Newcastle, UK - Newcells Biotech ...
   
   
  
            What makes for a good internship?
      
   
   
  
            This podcast is part of the Life Sciences 2030 initiative that explores ethics of artificial intelligence (AI) in the life sciences industry. Moderated by Kristen Backor with panelists Michelle Guo, Travis Ruch, and Artes Haderi, the discussion highlights AI’s potential to revolutionize...
   
   
  
            In the fast-evolving world of 3D printing, staying ahead of the curve means not only keeping pace with current trends but also pioneering new technologies. At IPFL (Industrial Plastic Fabrications Ltd), our unwavering commitment to innovation is evident in our rich history of over 55 ye...
   Cambridge Network Limited is a company registered in England under company No. 3400152 The Hauser Forum, 3 Charles Babbage Road, Cambridge, CB3 0GT Email: enquiry@cambridgenetwork.co.uk, Tel: 01223 746801  © 2024 Cambridge Network. All Rights Reserved. Website by KISS