Get opinion pieces, letters and editorials sent directly to your inbox weekly! The loss of a Bismarck milk production facility has local producers pondering their futures, and the outlook isn’t rosy. Owners of Prairie Farms Dairy Inc. will use the facility just for distribution. The Edwardsville, Illinois-based company said the production employees lost their jobs. It also means the closest milk production facilities are in Pollock, South Dakota, and Perham, Minnesota. It’s 247 miles from Bismarck to Perham. From Bismarck to Pollock it’s 67 miles going southeast or 104 miles using the U.S Highway 83 route. Either way, to Perham or Pollock, adds miles for transporting the milk, which means additional costs for the producers. The dairy business was already challenging for producers without additional costs. Jennifer and Andrew Holle, who operate Northern Lights Dairy near St. Anthony, recently added 300 cows to their herd of 600 after assurances that Prairie Farms Dairy was viable. Jennifer Holle said they were disappointed by the Prairie Farms Dairy decision. That seems like an understatement. The dairy business requires long hours seven days a week. The Holles’ son, Dawson, was the youngest person elected to the North Dakota Legislature. He was 19 when he won a seat in the 2023 House. Being aware of the challenges faced by dairy farmers, he introduced a number of bills to help them.   One bill passed into law allows dairy producers to sell raw milk at their farms. Another bill provided a definition of milk. These bills may be helpful, but they won’t make up for the increased transportation costs. The North Dakota Milk Producers Association, which the Holles belong to, has promised to pursue a solution. The association says it is “confident” of a reasonable outcome. That would be appreciated by all the dairy producers. The Tribune Editorial Board isn’t sure what a reasonable outcome would be. Hopefully, the association can deliver on its promise. The Holles took a risk when they expanded their herd based on assurances that proved unreliable. They deserve our support. It isn't getting any easier for the Holles and other North Dakota producers. A group of producers planned to meet with representatives of Land O’Lakes to discuss possible solutions. Land O’Lakes used to own the Bismarck facility before it was sold to Dean Foods and later purchased by Prairie Farms. If the meeting results in some positive ideas, the state should provide as much support as possible. It’s a tough business, but dairy producers believe in it. We should believe in them.  Get opinion pieces, letters and editorials sent directly to your inbox weekly! If you look up the definition of nationalism in Merriam-Webster’s, it can appear harmless but also extreme in the context of jingoist patrioti… The decision by two partners in the proposed Heartland Hydrogen Hub to pull out demonstrates that residents should be skeptical about big prom… "When the water started to move from north to south, it hit a flat spot on Main Avenue, and water came down sidewalks and underneath the busin… As the result of bipartisanship, the Montana Department of Commerce has been granted $700 million, most of which will go toward building a 415… "Our big (electricity) consumers were often eight to 10 megawatts -- that was a big user that probably got a special (fee) in the (rates) that… Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.