By Ray Massey Motoring Editor For The Daily Mail   Updated:  09:12 EDT, 22 April 2023      32 View  comments  The world's first facial recognition technology on a car made its European debut at Salon Privé London this week. It is available exclusively on the all-electric Genesis GV60, an upmarket marque from the Hyundai stable. The new Face Connect system from the Korean giant is part of a keyless biometric vehicle entry and engine start system, adapting technology already available on millions of smartphones.  Looking ahead: Facial recognition is available exclusively on the all-electric Genesis GV60, an upmarket marque from the Hyundai stable So no key is needed to lock, unlock and drive the GV60. Amid concerns about Big Brother technology and the surveillance society, Genesis insisted: 'Drivers can be reassured that at no point is any biometric data uploaded and stored remotely.' Priced from £53,905 the all-electric GV60 has a range of up to 321 miles. Genesis explained: 'Face Connect gives drivers the ability to access their car using their face alone – technology that is already available on millions of smartphones worldwide. 'Using a facial recognition sensor in the b-pillar of the car with a deep-learning image processing controller, the GV60 can be both locked and unlocked without the need for a physical key.'    It added: 'Drivers just need the physical key once to set up their profile for face recognition entry and then the car is started using their fingerprint. 'All information stored securely via encrypted software in the vehicle.' Andrew Pilkington, managing director of Genesis Motor UK said: ‘This application of facial recognition and biometric technology on the Genesis GV60 is bringing not just Genesis but the entire industry into the next generation of motoring.’ The GV60 is Genesis’ first all-electric car with a range of up to 321 miles, 0-62mph acceleration in just four seconds and with the ability to charge from 10% to 80% in 18 minutes. The GV60 is Genesis’s first all-electric car and accelerates from 0 to 62mph in in just four seconds with the ability to charge from 10% to 80% in 18 minutes. It is on sale now is on sale now in Premium, Sport or Sport Plus versions. Some links in this article may be affiliate links. If you click on them we may earn a small commission. That helps us fund This Is Money, and keep it free to use. We do not write articles to promote products. We do not allow any commercial relationship to affect our editorial independence. MORE HEADLINES This is Money is part of the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday & Metro media group