IT Services is launching a professional development SharePoint site accessible to all U of A accounts. The new site features a variety of learning resources, including but not limited to, Microsoft Learn, Educause, LinkedIn Learning - which will be featured more heavily in Arkansas News later this week - and UARK Libraries. The IT Professional Development site (ITPD) is designed to help anyone interested in learning a new skill, brushing up on an old skill or opening opportunities for advancement. While many of the resources and training lessons available are centered around technology, there will also be various general resources listed as they become available. The ITPD site is a useful resource for creating a professional development plan - whether updating it or just getting one started. Templates are available on the site to be used as a guide for creating an individualized path to professional development. The university invites employees to engage in professional development opportunities to strengthen and build their own skillset and knowledge. The ITPD site will be updated regularly to accommodate new courses and resources that become available, so be sure to visit frequently for the most recent and up-to-date content. Recommendations for professional development training materials or resources to be included on the site can be sent to Shelly Walters, technology solutions manager, at saw034@uark.edu. 
                                            Ele Powell, assistant director of administrative communications
                                            
                                            Vice Chancellor - Finance and Admin
                                            
                                            479-718-1918,
                                                elep@uark.edu
 Fayetteville Mayor Lioneld Jordan has proclaimed Aug. 19 "WE CARE Day" in honor of the College of Education and Health Professions, and the college is celebrating all week. Here's the deep dive into making your way around campus and beyond, helpful venues for getting started, best options for staying hearty and healthy, basics for staying safe and how to stay connected to campus news. The Sam M. Walton College of Business is honoring the remarkable career of Professor Paul Cronan on Thursday, Aug. 22. Selom Ametepe, an international doctoral candidate in the Cell and Molecular Biology Program, recently received the DeLill Nasser Travel Award for Professional Development in Genetics. Allie Primm Blackford, Peter Perry, Todd Walters, Katie Winkler and Nigel York were selected as the five outstanding employees as the Employees of the 4th Quarter for the 2024-25 academic year.