 87 °F At least five groups across the United States will be awarded grants from the Tech Hub program by this fall. A local non-profit is applying for a U.S. Department of Commerce grant to create a sustainable technology hub in the Houston area. An estimated 20 regional hubs will be created with grants from the CHIPS and Science Act. The act created the Tech Hubs program, which will be funded with $10 billion over the course of five years.  Nexus Houston is a consortium working to partner with the University of Houston, Texas Southern University, Rice University, the University of St. Thomas, and Houston ISD to support the effort. Veronica Juarez, president of Nexus Houston, said the grant would go toward various areas to cultivate technology in Houston. "The development of technology, invest in the region's capacity to manufacture, to commercialize, to deploy that technology. You have to invest in the educational ecosystem," she said. Juarez said in order to build a sustainable tech hub in the Houston area, students have to be prepared. "To ready students for eventual careers in tech, we have to continue to invest in that system and STEM education particularly," she said. "So that they can compete for these very competitive tech roles." John Andell is the director of finance at Nexus Houston. He said the diversity of the Houston area is beneficial for a tech hub. "With different cultures come different ideas," he said. "We have the ability to take advantage of our low cost of living (too). That is a huge benefit for companies that might have potential of relocating." At least five tech hubs across the nation will be awarded grants from the Tech Hub program by fall. Each tech hub will receive approximately $15 million, according to the Economic Development administration. Know more about Patricia Ortiz More Articles by This Author   Houston Public Media is supported with your gifts to the Houston Public Media Foundation and is licensed to the University of Houston © 2024 Houston Public Media