Takoradi Technical University (TTU) has officially launched the maiden edition of its Technology and Innovation Fair 2023. Themed ‘Think smart, be innovative and create wealth’, the four-day fair seeks to provide a platform for students and staff of the university to showcase innovative ideas to make the world a better place and more sustainable. Also, it is to ensure that the ideas students have acquired through their studies are transformed into viable projects, with the intention of unearthing the entrepreneurial potential of students and thereby impacting positively on society. The fair will among other things ensure students are challenged to think smart with their innovative ideas in order to create wealth. Again, the fair is to identify potentially viable works so as to patent and scale them up. Some of the innovations on show include a car theft and arrestor and locator system with SMS notification; an automated railway level-crossing system; a door key that controls electrical appliances; solar powered traffic lights; and a multi-purpose watering machine. Others are a coconut-peeling machine, a canoe puller and an oil-leakage detector.  Vice Chancellor Rev. Prof. John Frank Eshun, Vice Chancellor TTU, announced that from next academic year the institution will focus more on innovation and industrialisation. He explained that TTU aims at venturing into outcome-focused development activities toward a competitive, modern and industrialised Ghana. This, he added, will be achieved by developing solutions to daily challenges faced by people. He noted this will help retool and revive industry using the latest technology. “TTU is committed to seeing to it that the country’s education system spurs it toward achieving upper middle-income status by riding on technological advancements and industrialisation. Research and innovation funds will be created to support this agenda, and we are appealing to the corporate world to also support TTU in this direction. The university intends to have this fair bi-annually, and your support will be highly welcome to create job opportunities for our youth,” the Vice Chancellor added. CTVET Peter Antwi Boasiako, Deputy Director at the Commission for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (CTVET), stated that over the past five years Ghana has seen huge investments going into technical and vocational education. He explained that over GH¢13billion has so far been invested in all 10 technical universities across the country. He pointed out that technical and vocational education training is what holds the world together, and praised TTU for being the best technical university in Ghana and beyond… and challenged it to go higher. “Anyone who passes through this university should be the best product out there, because you have what it takes for the growth of industrialisation” he added. Kantanka Group Francis Kojo Kudjorji, General Manager-Kantanka Group, said his outfit is seeking TTU collaboration to develop the manufacturing of automotive tyres, since rubber is one of the resources found in the Western Region. “Let us look at the emerging trends and innovate by looking at where the trend is moving; be smart and innovate by looking at other jurisdiction.” he said, adding that the doors of Kantanka Group is always open to students of TTU – especially those studying mechanical engineering. Background Technical universities are mandated to use a competency-based practice-oriented approach in the teaching and delivery of courses. They are to develop strong links and collaboration with industries businesses, professional bodies and technical experts in the design and delivery of curricula. The exhibition, TTU explains, seeks to support efforts toward achieving its mandate and in line with the university’s strategic plan, spanning from 2021 to 2025.     
 Read Today's E-Paper
