June Sugiyama is the Director of Vodafone America's Foundation. She has worked in STEM fields for almost 30 years and is a leader in technology for good - using her experience to be a thought leader in corporate social responsibility, philanthropy and social impact. How I Started In STEM with June Sugiyama Vodafone is a global technology company, and I work in the nonprofit arm or the charity arm. I would say I started in the technology foundation field about 22, 23 years ago, but I've always been in the tech company for about 30 years. I worked myself up. I changed jobs positions in between. I think the reason I'm here is because I really enjoy talking to young people who have aspirations to be in tech and be in STEM. I believe I'm a very oddball kind of example, in that I don't have an engineering background. I didn't study computer sciences or engineering in my academic career, but because I worked for a technology company, I was able to combine my past skills in community development and training as a teacher with what the company has to offer in technology to make a difference in the world. When did you know you loved STEM? We found that by using mobile, so your cell phone, we could do all kinds of things to help make the world a better place. And that's how I got started. Our company has oodles and oodles of people who have technology background and so I was able to leverage their knowledge together with my knowledge and community development and start a competition called the wireless innovation project. And that was really my most aha moment, the most exciting moment in my career in STEM in that not only myself, but our company and the people who are within our company, like the engineers, were able to really make a difference and help entrepreneurs and startups that had solutions to make the world a better place. What passion still drives you in STEM? You know, what excites me are the things that are out there that I never even imagined. And this opportunity that I have right now, being able to talk to young people and to let them know that, you know, yeah, I think it's really wonderful to strive for an engineering degree or computer sciences degree. But, you know, if that's not what you have, there are opportunities to use what you have. If you excel in art or music, there are great opportunities to use those skills together with other folks that have the engineering degrees to create some tool or some incredible solution that makes the world a better place. Top tip for a career in STEM? Women tend to limit themselves. You know, I don't have a degree, so I can't really pursue this job or engineering is way too big for me and so I'll have to limit myself. There are people out there who can help you. If that's the career path that you want to follow, there are lots of mentors out there, organizations - one of which, you know, is hosting me today - you know, you can look them up and ask for help. There are people, once you start working within a company that might be able to help you. Don't limit yourself, I think, is the number one advice that I'd like to give you. Advice for job seekers in STEM? A tech career or a STEM career does not necessarily mean you wear a white lab coat and you're in a desk free lab or that you're sitting in a big office, communal office and code all day. A STEM career doesn't mean any of that. I see entrepreneurs who excel in STEM, who are out in the field in the riverside collecting water samples and finding ways to make community citizens, to be able to use the mobile to broadcast when there's pollution in their nearby water source. I see entrepreneurs who are working with kids and finding better ways for kids to learn who don't have the means to have computers. So what you might imagine STEM to be might not be. So my recommendation is to expand your mind and really find creative ways to follow your career path, whatever that you may imagine it to be and what you like. Importance of representation and diversity in STEM? The importance of diversity is really obvious, you know, especially in the technology field. You find that there's a lack thereof, so you rarely see people of color. But diversity's not only, you know, the sense of color in the office, but also diversity amongst the type of people you help. If you go into solutions using technology, making sure that you include all kinds of people and the solutions themselves, that you have a diverse solutions, not just one, but maybe different ways to approach a problem. So diversity not only comes in all colors, but diversity comes in all kinds. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.