DETROIT -- Jameson Williams was scheduled to start in his NFL debut. Just not at the position you might think. The Detroit Lions intended to start their prized first-round pick at gunner to help him ease back from an 11-month layoff. The problem, of course, is they never actually punted in their 40-14 bloodletting against the Jacksonville Jaguars on Sunday at Ford Field. “We felt like that was the biggest impact he could have today,” head coach Dan Campbell said. “We knew just outright he can run, and he can (play gunner). He’s tough, he’s physical, and he was all for it. But we didn’t punt.” The Lions scored on all eight possessions before taking a couple knees to bleed what remained on the clock, perhaps the most dominating effort from one of the league’s best offenses this season. They’ve now surpassed 30 points six times, which leads the league and is just one off the franchise record. Quarterback Jared Goff threw for 340 yards against Jacksonville, his second-best day since arriving in Detroit last year. And they did all of it with their prized rookie limited to a decoy role on six offensive snaps. Four of those plays were runs, and Williams was targeted with just one pass, a well-guarded play where Goff threw the ball at his feet.  All of which leaves everyone wondering: If this offense couldn’t be stopped by Jacksonville even once, how good could they become when Jameson Williams -- one of the fastest, most electric players in college football at Alabama -- is actually ready to enter the rotation? “He just started practicing, you know?” wideout DJ Chark said. “And to see him already on the field is great. Like I told him, it’s way more coming. And when it comes, it’s going to be explosive. I know for a fact once you get into your rhythm, it’s hard to be stopped, and he’s that type of player. So once we can implement him in more, it only helps the rest of us. When we have games like this, and then you add him into the mix, it’s kind of like, who are you going to guard?” That day is coming, although it hasn’t yet arrived. Williams spent almost 11 months recovering from surgery to repair the ACL he tore in the national championship game in January, and didn’t participate in his first practice until this week. He got in three straight days of work, but mostly on the scout team. He didn’t run his first full-speed route for Goff until Wednesday, and there just wasn’t enough time to get Williams enough reps for him to be a part of the game plan. But the speed on the practice field has been astounding, no doubt about that. There hasn’t been anything like it in that building in years, if ever. And as the Lions make a late postseason push, winning four of their last five games, they know Williams can still help them this season even if he doesn’t reach full speed until 2023. So the Lions used the Jaguars game as an opportunity to ease Williams into the mix, no matter how loud the chants of “WE WANT JA-MO! WE WANT JA-MO!” grew in the fourth quarter. A foundation has been laid, and more can be expected as soon as next week against Minnesota.   “Today was just about getting his legs under him,” Campbell said. “Go through pregame, be on the sideline, you got your pads on, run into a huddle, run out, line up, wrestle with someone one-on-one a little bit. It was really that, just to get him somewhat acclimated, very much like we did Jerry Jacobs in Dallas. That’s really what this was. “He’s going to get a little bit more next week. This was just primer for him.” Williams played six offensive snaps in all, four of which were spent clearing out defenders for running plays. He was part of Goff’s progression on his first passing play at the start of the second half, but lost his footing and never had a shot to get open. He was finally targeted with his first pass late in the third quarter, but was well-defended on a go route up the right sideline and the pass landed at his feet.  He finished with no catches on one target, and a whole lot of hearts ready for more. “Had the one shot on the go-ball, wish I could connect it,” Goff said. But it was good to get a rep with him there. Yeah, it’ll progress from here. It’ll (be) more probably next week. How much, I don’t know, but make sure he’s dialed in on his packages, and he’ll do a great job.  “He’s, as you said, a thoroughbred. A guy that, as good as we are at receiver right now, and the health we have, can add to that group and make it even more explosive.” That day is coming, perhaps as soon as next week. And if Williams is as good as they say he is, it’s impossible to understate the possibilities for an offense that was never stopped with him as a decoy. “He looks healthy, he feels healthy, he looks great,” Goff said. “I think as a rookie, he’s going to want to come out and light the world on fire as we all do want him to. But he’s going to have his plays that he’s going to know and he’s going to be good at, and we’re going to roll with him on those, whatever that may be. I just don’t want you guys to set expectations so high. He’s a rookie. He hasn’t had any reps, and as time goes, he will be That Guy. He really will be.  “He’s got everything it takes to be That Guy, that premier threat in this league, and I’m excited to watch him grow into that.” Buy Lions gear: Fanatics, NFL Shop, Amazon, Lids    Buy Lions tickets:  StubHub, SeatGeek, Ticketmaster    Stream Lions Games Live: fuboTV, Hulu + Live, Sling  If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices