ROYAL FAMILY Since moving to sunny California, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle first made headlines with their Oprah interview, then their recent Netflix documentary ‘Harry & Meghan’, and now with Prince Harry’s book ‘Spare.’ Despite the news surrounding these releases, the couple has made select public appearances, with interviews done sporadically. But after being spotted at Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi’s surprise vow renewal party during the latter’s 50th birthday party, royal commentators have begun speculating whether the royal couple will be attempting to connect more with the A-List Hollywood lifestyle and possibly even attend this year’s Met Gala. For Christine Ross and Christina Garibaldi, hosts of ‘Royally Us’, an Us Weekly podcast, it’s clear what Prince Harry and Meghan are trying to achieve since their appearance at the vow renewal party, with stars Gwyneth Paltrow, Jennifer Aniston, Katy Perry, Orlando Bloom, and more present. “It was definitely an A-List Hollywood guest list and I think that’s where Harry and Meghan want to find themselves — on that A-List Hollywood circuit,” said Garibaldi. “I think this is the first of many times we’re going to see Harry and Meghan in these A-List circuits. I would keep an eye out on things like the Met Gala, the big red carpets this year, to see where they are going to find their place in the celebrity minefield.” That’s when Ross chimed in: “I totally agree with you. I think they are going to be making their Met Gala debut this year, for sure. At the vow renewal party, Prince Harry and Meghan were reportedly introduced to Adam Lilling by DeGeneres. Lilling is a venture capitalist who founded Plus Capital, and worked with DeGeneres in investing in Pachama, a tech company that focuses on reforestation initiatives. Lilling’s Plus Capital also works with BetterUp, a non-profit organization that focuses on virtual coaching to help people improve their lives, and for which Prince Harry is Chief Impact Officer. ROYAL FAMILY Royal Family The Met Gala takes place on the first Monday in May, and this year, that means it’s five days before King Charles III’s coronation. With the recent talk of whether Prince Harry and Meghan will attend the coronation, the conditions placed on them, and King Charles’ refusal to speak to his son, the question is still up in the air on whether the couple will attend the king’s historic day. ENTERTAINMENT HOLLYWOOD MUSIC DAZN Enjoy live and on-demand online sports on DAZN. Activate your account NBA Pass League Now you can watch the entire NBA season or your favorite teams on streaming.