
	Cryptocurrency exchanges will be required to issue 1099-B tax forms to investors, and the Internal Revenue Service, starting in 2024.
 Credit: Getty Images / DaniloAndjus    For more than a decade, the number of people buying and selling cryptocurrency grew and grew. Tax revenue from earnings on sales of those investments? Not so much. That may finally change — but not until next year.   When it comes to stocks and other traditional investments, investors know they have to pay capital gains taxes and follow through because every traditional brokerage each year must send its customers — and the Internal Revenue Service — a tax form, called a 1099-B, showing customers’ gains and losses. Authorities would know if a taxpayer failed to report those earnings.   Crypto traders are just as legally bound to pay taxes on their gains, but cryptocurrency exchanges have not been required to send those forms and won’t be required to do so until 2024. Without the forms, the IRS has had no way of knowing what those gains are short of going to court — or the taxpayer voluntarily reporting it.   The amount of revenue not collected is hard to calculate, given the purposely anonymous nature of cryptocurrency and the IRS’ opacity. But the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the new reporting requirement for the cryptocurrency exchanges will result in $28 billion in taxes collected over the decade after it takes effect in 2024.   “That certainly will be a huge amount of reporting — and presumably increase in revenue,” said Joseph Riley, a New York City tax lawyer who has focused on cryptocurrency, because taxpayers will “know that a copy has gone to the IRS.”  George Santos pleads guilty  Former LI Congressman George Santos is expected to plead guilty in connection with a federal criminal case. Watch NewsdayTV's live coverage. Get more on these and other NewsdayTV stories George Santos pleads guilty  Former LI Congressman George Santos is expected to plead guilty in connection with a federal criminal case. Watch NewsdayTV's live coverage. Get more on these and other NewsdayTV stories The Newsday app makes it easier to access content without having to log in. Unlimited Digital AccessOnly 25¢for 5 months Privacy Policy |Terms of service |Subscription terms |Your ad choices |Cookie Settings |California Privacy Rights |About Us |Contact Newsday |Reprints & permissions |Advertise with Newsday |Help Copyright ©2024 Newsday. All rights reserved.