First, AI can provide more user-friendly interfaces and tools for interacting with blockchain networks and smart contracts. Chatbots can guide users throughout their journey in the blockchain world, assisting in the process of creating and managing on-chain transactions, answering questions and providing assistance in real time. Dune, a blockchain data analytics platform, has launched a new feature called “explain query”. This feature uses AI to simplify complex Structured Query Language (SQL) queries and enables users to obtain a natural language explanation of any SQL query with just one click. Eventually, users should be able to use natural language to get the information they need from databases. Fortunately, AI can provide intelligent code generation tools that automatically generate smart contract code based on user inputs. These tools can also analyse existing smart contracts for potential vulnerabilities and suggest improvements, ensuring the security and efficiency of the contracts. It is exciting to envision a future where smart contracts are democratised, enabling anyone to write and use them to facilitate collaboration with others. What is more, it seems highly likely that AI agents will become the norm soon and take over all sorts of online activities, from managing finances to booking travel and entertainment. AI agents cannot establish social media or financial accounts like humans do, but in this new world, cryptocurrency wallets might become the primary means for AI agents to establish online identity and conduct transactions under their owners’ delegation. What I have discussed so far only scratches the surface of the promising synergy between AI and cryptocurrency. I have always felt that the previous narrative of Web3 was a bit empty – tokens alone will not bring about the next generation of the internet. However, the promise of Web3 might finally be realised thanks to the combined transformative power of AI and cryptocurrency, which will empower users and builders in unprecedented ways. The intersection of AI and cryptocurrency is a dynamic, rapidly evolving field with enormous potential for growth and innovation. This offers investors and entrepreneurs a wealth of opportunities. It is an exciting time to be at the forefront of these cutting-edge technologies. Lily Z. King is chief operating officer of Cobo, a leading global cryptocurrency custodian service provider and blockchain infrastructure developer. She is licensed to practice law in both the US and China