UK Edition You probably saw the exciting news that secret letters written in a complex cipher by Mary Queen of Scots during her imprisonment have been discovered and decrypted by a crack team of codebreakers. Apparently, the team’s next project will be to decipher Nicola Sturgeon’s tortuous obfuscation when commenting on both the sex of a trans rapist sent to a female prison and the financial largesse of her husband Peter Murrell. I daresay that if, like the first minister, I was sitting on a £500,000 pension pot, I might also struggle to recall the moment my better half mentioned handing over more than £100,000 to friends. How the other half lives. Public service certainly has its rewards in Scotland. For the rest of us, particularly Scottish businesses, the events of last week encapsulate Sturgeon’s politics. Quite why anyone is surprised at the mess she has made of gender-recognition reform is a mystery. Sturgeon’s sole talent is for talking big. Whenever her government actually attempts to do anything, it turns into a disaster. In the past couple of weeks alone, we have witnessed her government’s inability to create a simple bottle deposit return scheme, its failure to deliver on a pledge to make some of the A9 trunk road a dual carriageway after managing to upgrade just 11 miles in 10 years, and its plans to effectively ban Scotland’s national drink from marketing itself in, er, Scotland. That’s along with the debacle of a rapist being sent to a female prison before common sense prevailed. The failure to dual the A9 is not lost on businesses that have spent years calling for the SNP to work with Westminster and upgrade the A75 and A77, the trunk roads that carry 40 per cent of Northern Ireland’s exports to the UK from the ports of Cairnryan and Stranraer in the southwest of Scotland. Transport is devolved to Holyrood. However, Westminster allocated £20 million in funding for preparatory work to make the A75 and A77 dual carriageways following a review of UK connectivity. Unsurprisingly, the Scottish government has said the funding offer from Westminster represents a “power grab” of devolved powers. This is how far narrow dogma has come to pollute our politics and hinder Scottish businesses. The other side is always the enemy. It was noticeable that last week Sturgeon even blamed Westminster for the trans debacle, but laughingly confused the UK Equality Act with the earlier UK Gender Recognition Act. That said, transport minister Jenny Gilruth managed to go one better when she blamed Vladimir Putin for her failures on the A9. They’ll be blaming it on the boogie next. Those who criticise the Scottish government’s failures are perennially accused of talking Scotland down, or worse. As the first minister reminded us all recently, if you oppose her stance on the Gender Recognition Reform bill, you are a trans hater, misogynist etc. Based on her narrow world view, you would also have to conclude that those who want roads widened and made safer clearly hate the environment, and that anyone who wants to continue heating their home with a reliable and accessible energy source must hate the planet. If we applied Sturgeon’s criteria to her own decisions, one would have to conclude she hates business, entrepreneurs and wealth creation — oh, and English people. Remember when the first minister blamed people travelling from England for “reseeding” Covid-19 in Scotland at a time when she claimed to have “almost eliminated” it? No one in business needs reminding of the circa £55 million of taxpayers’ money spent on BiFab before the SNP abruptly decided to sink it, or the several hundred million pounds thrown at the nationalised Ferguson Marine shipyard, which has produced nothing other than a bumper bank account for its former “turnaround” guru, Tim Hair. There are also the millions given to Sanjeev Gupta’s business empire, which generated more photo opportunities for the first minister than jobs for Scots. And don’t forget the unwanted Prestwick airport, which Scotland’s Auditor General warned last month still needs millions more of the public’s pounds to remain open after more than a decade of public ownership. And anyone else remember Holyrood’s decision to squander almost £500,000 of taxpayers’ cash on Sturgeon’s cock-and-bull promise to create “a publicly owned, not-for-profit energy company” that never existed? No one is ever accountable for these failings, for while Sturgeon loves publicity, she hates transparency. The first minister’s obscure and unintelligible responses to questions last week have been the new normal for too long. And it is shameful. @Glackinreports © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.