The Pentagon has released footage of what it says was a Russian aircraft pouring fuel on a US Air Force surveillance drone and clipping its propeller in international air space over the Black Sea. The 42-second video released by the US on Thursday shows a Russian Su-27 approaching the back of the MQ-9 drone and beginning to release fuel as it passes, the Pentagon said, in an apparent attempt to blind its optical instruments and drive it out of the area. On a second approach, either the same jet or another Russian fighter struck the drone’s propeller, damaging one blade, according to the US military. The military said it ditched the MQ-9 Reaper in the sea after what it said was an unsafe intercept of the unmanned aerial vehicle. The downing of the American spy drone on Tuesday has sparked rising tensions between the US and Moscow, and has led the UK to urge Russia to respect international airspace. The US said it marked a “brazen violation of international law” by Russia. Moscow has denied hitting the drone, saying it manoeuvred sharply and crashed into water following an encounter with Russian fighter jets scrambled to intercept it near Crimea. The footage released on Thursday does not show events before or after the apparent fuel-dumping confrontation, which is said to have happened just after 6am GMT on Tuesday. US defence secretary Lloyd Austin and Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman General Mark Milley have spoken to their Russian counterparts about the destruction of the drone. The calls with Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu and Chief of Russian General Staff General Valery Gerasimov on Wednesday were the first since October. While intercept attempts are not uncommon, the incident amid the war in Ukraine has raised concerns it could bring the US and Russia closer to direct conflict. The Russian Defence Ministry said in its report of the call with Mr Austin that Mr Shoigu accused the US of provoking the incident by ignoring flight restrictions the Kremlin had imposed because of its military operations in Ukraine. Moscow also blamed “the intensification of intelligence activities against the interests of the Russian Federation”. Such US actions “are fraught with escalation of the situation in the Black Sea area”, the Defence Ministry said, warning that Russia “will respond in kind to all provocations”. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... The answer may not be what you’re expecting. The 29-year-old went for one of her most daring looks while out with her sister. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. An Australian has captured a chilling detail in a video of a family canoeing across a seemingly harmless lake. The TLC star has certainly come a long way. Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’s running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said wit Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. Ayman Mohyeldin explained why this message is especially effective right now. Souths are set to come down hard on Latrell Mitchell and demand change. Read more here. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process "He's so stupid." A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend Police have seized a loaded shotgun from an unusual place in an investigation into criminal gang activities, with the gun taken for forensic examination. Home and Away's Emily Weir has stepped out in a sheer Logies 2024 dress which left very little to the imagination. Read more. Harley Reid has been called out after the brutal Eagles loss to Carlton. Find out more here. The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC.