On April 12, human resources startup Velocity Global, which helps companies hire internationally as an "employer of record," said tech industry veteran Frank Calderoni, right, the former CEO of Anaplan and CFO at Cisco and Red Hat, would become CEO. Velocity Global founder Ben Wright, left, will remain as executive chairman. (Photo via Velocity Global) When Ben Wright decided it was time to pass the baton at Velocity Global, the H.R. startup he founded, one name kept coming up as he spoke to executives in his network: Tech industry finance veteran Frank Calderoni. The former CFO at Red Hat, Cisco Systems and SanDisk, who’d also held operational roles, had a resume filled with helping manage companies at scale. Second, as the former CEO of planning software firm Anaplan, Calderoni, who Velocity Global announced Wednesday it had named CEO, had led a company with a similar profile to IPO in 2018 before it was taken private last year. “And then three, I bought his book,” Wright says of the tech veteran’s pandemic project, a leadership book called Upstanding that links strategy, culture and individual character. “The world is littered with some of these CEOs who just have a scorched earth policy” that burns people out, Wright says. However much that culture focus was reassuring to a founder who’d bootstrapped his Denver-based company for its first seven years, so was Calderoni’s experience as a CFO at large public companies and as a chief executive who’d led an IPO. “It became very clear to me that I think we'd be able to accelerate faster” with a more seasoned CEO, says Wright, a CPA by training who’d led business development in professional services firms and financial consulting practices earlier in his career. Wright said in an interview that the decision was his and that his board was initially surprised, but after two years of due diligence for funding rounds and acquisitions, it was time for a handoff. “If I look at the next three to five years where the business is going and what it needs out of the seat of the CEO … I was increasingly finding conflict” between professional and personal demands, says Wright, who will remain executive chairman. Velocity Global, which has flown under the radar compared to high-profile competitors like Deel and operates in a crowded market of payroll and HR tech startups, primarily operates as an “employer of record” for mid-sized companies that want to quickly hire globally. That business has been turbocharged by the pandemic, which spurred more companies to warm not only to remote work, but to filling needed jobs from far-flung locales. An employer of record hires employees on behalf of a client, assuming legal responsibility and navigating local regulations, benefits and taxes—in Velocity Global’s case, in more than 185 countries around the world. Calderoni’s hiring would appear to mark a new chapter in the maturing of these high-flying payroll and employer of record startups, most of which are still founder-led. As a group, they represent many of the largest venture capital deals in the H.R. tech category in recent years: Last March, Velocity Global, which also offers services like multi-country payroll and supplemental benefits, scored a $400 million Series B funding round led by Eldridge and Norwest, second only among H.R. tech deals since the pandemic’s start to Deel’s $425 million 2021 round, according to PitchBook data. Last month, the company announced it had reached $200 million in annual recurring revenue, a 40% increase from the year prior and up from $30 million in 2019, and a self-reported $2 billion valuation. That’s smaller than Deel, which has been valued at $12 billion and has said it is nearing $300 million in ARR. Founded in 2014, Velocity Global reported it had been profitable each year until 2022, when it boosted investments in product improvements and sales teams; earlier this year, it let go about 10% of its staff as it restructured its business. “IPO is not necessarily an objective or a goal,” says Calderoni, who served as CFO under long-time former Cisco CEO John Chambers. “The goal is to really grow and develop the company. If the appropriate market opportunity's there for the company to go public, similar to what I did with Anaplan, I will look for that opportunity.” Calderoni takes over at the very moment when employers are pulling back on hiring amid an uncertain economy and when the work-from-anywhere ethos appears to be fading at many firms. A publication by Gartner last fall noted that the shift to hybrid work that has given rise to what it calls “next-generation” employer of record companies has made concentrated hiring in specific job categories popular, but “it remains to be seen whether organizations continue the ‘borderless’ hiring trend in the long term.” One risk for startups in this space, says human resources industry analyst Josh Bersin, is that bigger traditional players like Workday or SAP could move in on their turf. “They’re probably watching this out of the corner of their eye to see what they should do with it,” says Bersin. A Velocity spokesperson says that has not been a concern so far. Calderoni says he sees Velocity Global’s advantage in the market as “compliance, compliance, compliance”—avoiding any legal or regulatory risk customers take when hiring in other markets—and that will continue to be a focus. “That's what I want to use as a platform to now take to those next levels,” he says, with plans to expand partner software integrations and expand to working with more complex businesses. Despite the pullback in hiring at many companies, demand for H.R. tech is still reportedly strong as companies look to save money and sift through data that helps with headcount and pay decisions. A Gartner survey last fall of 118 H.R. leaders found that 46% planned to increase their spend on H.R. tech this year. And employers more comfortable with remote work could also become more comfortable moving more office jobs overseas. “Almost every conversation I'm having right now with CFOs of organizations [is] ‘once this hiring freeze is over … help me educate my team on smarter ways to hire going forward, so that once it is time to start hiring, let's not fall back into the old trap of hiring the same people in the same geography at the same pay rates,’” Wright says. The company says the number of employees it supports globally is up 40% over the past year, and Wright sees potential upside in a downturn. “When I started [Velocity Global], I always thought that actually, this model would do really well in a recessionary environment because it creates ultimate flexibility,” he says. “You can truly employ people anywhere.”  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.