We’re sorry, this feature is currently unavailable. We’re working to restore it. Please try again later. This was published 1 year ago Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time. Selections based on a soft track. 5. Bonita Queen is on debut for the Bjorn Baker stable and she’s been tuned up for this with two barrier trial victories. She scored narrowly at Kembla Grange last month before winning with ease at Canterbury on August 1. She’s drawn to advantage in this and can begin her racing career with a victory. Hawkesbury is hosting an eight-race card on Thursday.Credit: Getty Dangers: 6. Dear Prudence debuts here for trainer Joseph Pride and she improved on her initial trial when finishing fourth in a Warwick Farm heat last time out. 7. Hampton Queen and 8. Roman Miss are also both on debut here and they have done enough in their respective barrier trials to suggest they can run well.How to play it: Bonita Queen WIN. 10. Reasonable has her first race start here on the back of a couple of solid trial efforts. The filly is a daughter of Justify and is in the care of trainers Ciaron Maher and David Eustace. Jason Collett, who rides in this, was aboard in Reasonable’s first trial in which she had no room in the straight. Last time out when she hit the line powerfully under her own steam at Canterbury.Dangers: 4. Betsy’s Flag ran well at her only race start when finishing third behind Jewellery at Canterbury last November. She’s had two trials to prepare for this return and is primed for a bold showing. 9. Kimono has been fitted for her debut with a number of trials and can run well here while 5. Champ De Mars has performed well enough to be rated a chance in this.How to play it: Reasonable WIN. 1. Stanczyk has had three starts and has finished second in each of them. He’s had two runs back from a spell at Grafton and the Sapphire Coast and this race looks to be well within his grasp.Dangers: 9. Lady Townson had been racing well when placed in each of her three starts before being spelled and she resumed with a sixth at Newcastle. She strips fitter for this and the step up to 1500m looks like it will suit. 10. Platinum Asset has run well enough in two runs back from a break at Taree and Forbes to indicate she can figure in the placings here.How to play it: Stanczyk WIN. 10. August Bloom contested three races in her initial campaign and ran well in each against good grade. She debuted with a fourth behind Bases Loaded before running in the Sweet Embrace and Magic Night Stakes when fourth and third respectively. August Bloom has had two trials to prepare for this return and is drawn ideally in barrier three.Dangers: 3. There There ran well at Canterbury two starts ago when narrowly beaten by Pereille. She then struck trouble and raced keenly at Canterbury last time out when well beaten as favourite but she can bounce back here with the blinkers off. 7. Fiddlers Green has had four trials to prepare for his debut and the latest effort when second at Warwick Farm was sound.How to play it: August Bloom WIN. 6. Classic Deel has had two runs back from a spell and improved on the resuming effort with a last start sixth at Kembla Grange. She steps up to 1800m here which is to her advantage and she is capable of figuring prominently.Dangers: 2. Nyota did the job well to score at this track and distance last time out and she is proven on soft tracks. 4. Monfelicity drops significantly in grade here and has the talent to give this a shake having only been beaten 4.5 lengths in Saturday city grade last time out.How to play it: Classic Deel EACH WAY. 3. Coco Dreaming settled off the pace when on debut at Wyong, but she powered to the line after getting a good run through the field to score impressively. While this is harder, Coco Dreaming has the services of James McDonald which is a good pointer to her chances.Dangers: 1. Flying Destiny is a a consistent gelding resuming here with the benefit of two barrier trials. He has one win and four placings from just the five starts so he must be considered against these. 5. Everyone’s A Star was a winner at this track over 1000m four starts ago and her form since then has been solid. She has each-way claims here.How to play it: Coco Dreaming WIN. 5. Bold Mac is hard fit having won his last two starts at Randwick and Rosehill over 1800m. He takes on a number of resuming runners here and is adept on rain-affected ground.Dangers: 12. Ruby Flyer has been racing well with four wins from his last five starts and while this is harder, he has the benefit of barrier one. 8. Logan Street Lion is fitter for two recent runs and a bold showing would not surprise, while 2. Protagonist is resuming for new trainer Kris Lees and is capable of showing up while fresh.How to play it: Bold Mac EACH WAY. 6. River Snitty was narrowly beaten at his latest two starts before a spell. His only win was on a soft track when resuming, and he gets similar conditions here.Dangers: 14. Razors resumed from a spell with a strong victory at Wyong. He’s been given a tick over trial leading into this and the step up to 1300m should suit. 8. Typical You ran well at Kembla Grange when resuming for a new stable and she is a winner over this distance.How to play it: River Snitty EACH WAY. Best Bets: Race 2 (10) Reasonable; Race 4 (10) August Bloom.Best Value: Race 5 (6) Classic Deel. Supplied by Racing NSW Full form and race replays available at racingnsw.com.au Sports news, results and expert commentary. Sign up for our Sport newsletter. Copyright © 2024