A David Payne-trained gelding looks well placed stepping up to the mile. BEST BETS, INSIDE MAIL Don't miss out on the headlines from Horse Racing. Followed categories will be added to My News. Form analyst Mitch Cohen gives his best bets and runs the rule over every race for Gosford. The Form: Complete NSW Racing thoroughbred form, including video replays and all you need to know about every horse, jockey and trainer. Find a winner here! BEST BET Race 2, No.4: STATE OF AMERICA A promising David Payne-trained galloper. Steps up to the mile second-up and will be doing his best work late. NEXT BEST Race 6, No.7: SECRET SPY Well supported and finds a very winnable race at his second race start.  VALUE BEST Race 7, No.4: ALLUSIONIST From the in-form Richard and William Freedman yard. Capable of producing a strong showing first-up. QUADDIE  Race 4: 2, 4 Race 5: 1, 2, 3, 5 Race 6: 7 Race7: 2, 3, 4, 9 JOCKEY TO FOLLOW Ashley Morgan, last season’s NSW premiership winning rider, can bookend the card. RACE 1 Private Detective boasts more wins than his three main rivals in betting combined and continues to race well this preparation. The Greg Hickman-trained six-year-old was a winner two back at Orange before working home strongly for fifth at Kembla over 2400m. He hit the line like a horse that will enjoy 2600m. Chappelli had them all off the bit and chasing in the Kembla event after making a mid-race move. The Adelaide gelding is more than capable if he can preserve a bit more fuel. Classic Deel has put together two on the bounce in the country while Celestial Fury was doing his best work late in a 2100m event at Wyong last time. Bet: Private Detective to win.  RACE 2 State Of America was a $61 outsider first-up from a break but punters won’t get a fraction of those odds this time. Taken back from a wide draw, the David Payne-trained gelding worked home nicely for third in Wednesday grade at Warwick Farm. Stepping up from 1400m to mile looks ideal for him second-up. You can put a line through Chouilly’s run in the same Warwick Farm race. Jockey Tommy Berry got caught in traffic on the fence with a check all but ending his chances. Pierro Warrior and Burnt By Bernie came through the same event as State Of America but were dourer.  Bet: State Of America to win. RACE 3 We Don’t Roam showed enough in her debut prep and recent trials to suggest she will be very competition first-up from a break. The daughter of Territories returns from a 202-day lay-off and trainer Bjorn Baker looks to have her ready for a first-up kill. Bespangled should settle in the perfect position again from barrier four. The Kris Lees-trained filly should be rock-hard fit third-up. A former $1.15m yearling purchase, Zambezi River has found a new home with Jarrod Austin. Recent trials have been good and he gets the gun draw barrier two. Announcing is the best of the debutants and has to be consider a hope on debut. Bet: We Don’t Roam to win. RACE 4 Putt For Dough holed out in quick time for new trainer Mick Attard. The Winning Rupert gelding has only had three starts and two of those have been strong showings for Attard. He got the maiden out of the way with a three and a quarter-length romp at Wyong last time and gets the chance to back it up here. Chipper was a beaten $1.70 pop at this track recently but was far from disgraced. Punters will have to take around the same quote again for him to bounce back. Martini Crusader has won once and placed six times in 12 starts and showed be included in wider exotics.  Bet: Putt For Dough, Chipper quinella.  RACE 5 Grecian Lass is out of Sacred Eye who ran in three Oaks and was a Group 3 winner over 2000m. This mare is yet to reach the same heights but another win doesn’t appear far away. The Kris Lees-trained mare led the field up last start over 1550m when fourth at Canterbury and gets the chance to do similar from an inside draw in an easier race. Wild Irish Rover hasn’t put a foot wrong this prep, winning once and placing twice. He steps out to the mile for the first time now. Nullify finally got the maiden out of the way last start after 19 starts having placed 10 times before that. The Epaulette mare is suited by another mile assignment.  Bet: Grecian Lass to win. RACE 6 Secret Spy was $4.40 into $2.40 when markets opened for his second-up assignment and it’s easy to see why. The Greg McFarlane-trained gelding doesn’t find the strongest event in his second race start after producing a reasonable debut third at Muswellbrook earlier this month. The runner up in that 900m event has since come out and won his maiden convincingly. Noble Legend has placed in three of his seven starts including at this venue first-up from a break. He’s third-up now and should be ready to peak over the 1100m. Sacred Field drops back from city grade and is best of the rest in a race with a long tail. Bet: Secret Spy to win. RACE 7 Father-son team Richard and William Freedman are having an excellent time of it lately and Allusionist is well-placed to continue their hot run. He was beaten less than half a length by the stakes placed mare Sneaky Paige first-up last prep and returns over a similar 1100m trip. Oryx deserves another chance after struggling on a heavy track at Canterbury. The Godolphin gelding will go forward and enjoy drier conditions. I’ll Tell You Now won at this track and trip two starts ago but lacked the same explosion last time under the 61.5kg. Safado is also nominated for Newcastle on Saturday. If he runs here from the wide draw, include in all exotics.  Bet: Allusionist to win. Originally published as Race day focus: Best bets, inside mail for Gosford The death of iconic Australian champion racehorse Black Caviar has taken an even sadder twist days after her shock death at 17. Trainer Noel Mayfield-Smith has given talented apprentice Mollie Fitzgerald the perfect opportunity to win the race named in her honour at Grafton on Tuesday Our Apps