The CDC and FDA announced on Friday that their surveillance system flagged a possible link between the new Pfizer-BioNTech bivalent Covid-19 vaccine and strokes in people aged 65 and over, but said they were continuing to recommend the shots. The surveillance “raised a question of whether” stroke risk was elevated in the 21-day period post-vaccination versus 22 to 44 days post-vaccination, according to a statement on the CDC website. The agencies said other data from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Department of Veterans Affairs and other sources haven’t shown an elevated risk of stroke. “Although the totality of the data currently suggests that it is very unlikely that the signal … represents a true clinical risk, we believe it is important to share this information with the public, as we have in the past, when one of our safety monitoring systems detects a signal,” the statement said. The real-time surveillance system, CDC’s Vaccine Safety Datalink, met criteria warranting further investigation into whether the bivalent Pfizer vaccine led to a higher risk of ischemic stroke, which occurs when arteries pumping blood to the brain are blocked by a blood clot. Pfizer and BioNTech said in a statement that there is “there is no evidence to conclude that ischemic stroke is associated with the use of the companies’ COVID-19 vaccines.” The announcement prompted a response from House Energy and Commerce Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), who said CDC and FDA will testify before her committee. “These agencies must rapidly investigate, in an open and transparent manner, whether or not the vaccine may have contributed to the reported strokes,” McMorris Rodgers said in a statement. “If there’s one lesson that the CDC and FDA should have taken away from the pandemic, it’s the importance of providing honest, clear, precise, and timely information to the American people about the potential risks and benefits of COVID-19 interventions, including vaccination.” The announcement comes as the Biden administration has aggressively promoted the updated vaccine to older Americans. Individuals over 65 are most at risk for serious illness from Covid, including hospitalization and death, and CDC data shows that 70 percent of average new daily hospital admissions of patients with confirmed Covid-19 over the last week were 60 and older. Less than 40 percent of people over 65 have gotten the booster shot that became available in the fall, according to the CDC, despite the administration’s six-week push to increase vaccination in that age group ahead of the holidays. Ninety-four percent of seniors have gotten the two primary series messenger-RNA shots. Millions of doses of the messenger-RNA Covid vaccines made by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna — the agencies said the Moderna shot was not flagged by its surveillance — have been administered in the U.S., and federal health officials have repeatedly deemed them safe and effective for use in anyone 6 months of age and older. Still, rare but serious side effects — which can occur with any pharmaceutical product — have arisen since the vaccines’ debut. Data has shown an elevated risk of myocarditis and pericarditis — inflammation of the heart muscle and membrane, respectively — after the second mRNA vaccine dose among males ages 12 to 39, with those in their late teens and 20s most affected. The condition can also occur after infection with Covid and other ailments and tends to be more severe in those cases, and the FDA and the CDC say the benefits of vaccination outweigh the risks. Federal officials paused use of the Johnson & Johnson single-dose Covid vaccine for 10 days in April 2021, just weeks after its debut, after vaccine adverse event surveillance systems detected a possible link between a serious blood-clotting condition and the shots. The FDA later found that about 15 percent of the cases of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome, known as TTS, were fatal, with the highest reporting rate among women ages 30 to 49. That vaccine, made with a different technology, has largely fallen out of favor in the U.S. in favor of the mRNA shots, with the FDA limiting the J&J vaccine’s use in May 2022 to adults who are unable or unwilling to get the Pfizer or Moderna products. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.