Deep frying food is a Scottish favourite but this chippy has people questioning whether they're gone too far with a deep fried Creme Egg, sold in time for Easter As supermarkets bring out all the Easter chocolate, many of us find ourselves picking up the odd mini egg or Creme Egg in the lead up to the holiday - even if our New Year's resolution is healthy eating. One chippy decided to combine their love of Easter chocolates and the Scottish tradition of deep frying everything from fish to chocolate to create the deep fried Cadbury's Creme Egg.  Aldo's Fish & Chip Shop posted the creation to their Facebook page, in all it's battered glory. They captioned the picture: "It's back, deep fried Creme Egg! It's only 81 days till Easter." Discover, learn, grow. We are Curiously. Follow us on TikTok, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Customers seem to be eager to give these a go, with one commenter saying: "Kinda intrigued, kinda grossed out lol." Another added: "Who has tried these and is it good. I have loved Creme Eggs for 60 years at least." This isn't the first time the Ayrshire chip shop has done this, with last years Creme Eggs a surprising hit with customers according to their Facebook. On this post the comments were flooded with people tagging their friends to try the snack - although nobody seemed to have actually taken a bite. One fan said: "Oh no Aldo's you've done it now!!" with a heart emoji but others were less convinced, with one commenter responding to their friend: "gads no thanks."  Another wrote: "you liked the mars bar, how about this?!" to which their tagged partner joked: "you're after the life insurance aren't you". The shop has also deep fried snickers to compare them to the classic deep fried mars bar. They also take some deep frying requests and have deep fried pickled onions too. Deep frying odd food is not uncommon in Scotland, with Scottish Youtuber Darren 'Dazza' Dowling creating a whole channel dedicated to the culinary art.  He posts a series called Does It Fry, with the latest video deep frying a Five Guys wrap to surprising success. The Glasgow based star has deep fried some odd food such as a Chinese takeaway, a Big Mac and a pot noodle. Darren told the Scottish Sun: "Scots are known for their love of deep fried food - and I love batter. I've deep fried all sorts of things and a lot haven't tasted great.  "But every so often I will batter something that you would think would come out horrible, but actually tastes amazing." He also appeared on an episode of Come Dine With Me, on which he deep fried a lasagne for his main. The other courses were also deep fried with guest Robert later admitting: "I felt like spitting it out was the only option because it was really salty and it was really chewy."  Chef Gordon Ramsay isn't a fan of the deep fried meals though as last year he slammed @Gugafoods on his Ramsay Reacts TikTok series for deep frying a Wagyu tomahawk steak.  He said: "Oh come on, you have got to be kidding me. You never ever deep fry a tomahawk steak!" and called it a "crime against Wagyu." Do you have a story to share? We pay for stories. Email us at yourmirror@mirror.co.uk Serve the food you really want to eat by signing up for our tips and recipes and never be bored by your cooking again