Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Entrepreneur Store
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Jason Fell
              


            May 26, 2023
          
 
          Share         
          Disclosure: Our goal is to feature products and services that we think you'll find interesting and useful. If you purchase them, Entrepreneur may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners.
       According to a Deemples article, one in three golfers typically do business on the course. So whether you're an experienced player or new to the sport, golf is a great way to connect, network, and advance your career as an entrepreneur. And thanks to technology, you can improve your game from the comfort of your home — in any weather — with a golf simulator. TruGolf Mini Golf Simulator recreates the physics of the same in your living room or backyard while offering extra benefits like analyzing your swing. And you can currently score this fun and helpful at-home simulator for just $199.97, the best price online, during the Memorial Day sale. TruGolf Mini Simulator helps you work on your game of golf at home. It's paired with E6 CONNECT software that provides a major advantage, too — the opportunity to analyze your swing data after every shot so that you better understand the game. After each swing is taken, the software provides an in-depth analysis of all club and ball Data. It captures four critical swing characteristics: the club face angle, the angle of attack, the swing tempo, and the club path, so you learn more as you play. The TruGolf weighted swing trainer lets you practice your swings while creating an authentic impact sensation with each hit, making it feel like a real round of golf. And with 97 golf courses and mini-games to choose from, you can play and practice on 3D-rendered versions of actual world-famous courses for a surprisingly realistic experience. And if you fancy yourself a pro, you can still gain something from the TruGolf Mini Simulator, as there are skill-building challenges and exercises that can help out everyday golfers. All golfers will love getting a round of golf in at home with the TruGolf Mini Golf Simulator, now on sale for just $199.97 (reg. $249) through May 31 at 11:59 p.m. PT during the Memorial Day sale. Prices subject to change. Entrepreneur Leadership Network® Contributor Entrepreneur Store 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          What's real in the age of AI and deepfakes? 
         
          For startup founders under a plethora of challenges like timing, investors and changing market demand, it is extremely hard to hire programmers who can deliver.
         
          "Do what you can, with what you have, where you are."
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          Eligible users have until November 18 to claim a part of the cash.
         
          The company announced its plans during its annual fan convention D23 in California.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
