Our reviewers have gathered the best telescopes for deep space into this guide, with options for beginners and advanced astronomers alike.  
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Glimpse some of the wonders that lie outside our own solar system through one of the best telescopes for deep space. These specialist scopes are designed with large apertures that absorb more light than traditional telescopes, making it possible to detect fainter objects that appear much further away from Earth. Since this tends to appeal to real space enthusiasts, they often come with fantastic optics and some of the latest technological developments as well. All of this can make these telescopes pricey (although we have been careful to include some more budget-friendly models) so it's worth exploring your options fully before deciding on such a significant investment. Our reviewers have tested a range of different scopes that are suitable for deep-space observation, including telescopes with smart technology that are easy to use for beginners as well as pro models for more experienced users. Check out our top picks below. If you're after a more generalist scope, take a look at our guide to the best telescopes, and if you're more focused on viewing our own solar system we also have a list of all the best telescopes for seeing planets. Beginners may wish to check out our guide to the best beginner telescopes, and if you're working to a tight budget, we also have a list of all the best telescopes under $500. Below we've summarized our top picks of the best telescopes for deep space, including their main characteristics, who they might be suited for, and where to purchase them. If you're after more information, click the links to read more in the boxes below, and you'll be taken to more in-depth reviews. Best overall  Best overall The Celestron NexStar 8SE is no small investment, but this feels like a telescope that is really built to last, with edge-to-edge sharpness across the field of view and a superb design. Read more below Best smart telescope  Best smart telescope The eVscope 2 is an unusual type of smart telescope that makes it easy and convenient to navigate the night sky even without any prior astronomy experience. Read more below Best value  Best value For those looking for quality deep-space viewing on a budget, this offers fantastic value for money with brilliant optics and one of the best aperture-to-price ratios on the market. Read more below Best premium telescope  Best premium telescope If you're a serious amateur astronomer who wants to stargaze and test out your astrophotography skills, then the Celestron Advanced VX 8 Edge HD is a great premium option. Read more below Best for serious observers  Best for serious observers If you're a seasoned sky-watcher looking to upgrade your kit, the Sky-Watcher Flextube comes equipped with a 16-inch aperture to give users an astonishing view of deep space.  Read more below Best compact smart telescope  Best compact smart telescope For tech-savvy sky-watchers looking for a modern way to view the night sky, this telescope is a very nifty bit of kit that can capture stunning images of deep sky objects. Read more below Load the next 2 products ↴ Best for versatility  Best for versatility While probably best for planetary and lunar observations, this scope acts as a great all-rounder. At less than $1000, it's a reasonable price for some top-quality stargazing equipment. Read more below Best for traditional astrophotography  Best for traditional astrophotography If you want to jump into deep sky photography, capturing star clusters, nebulas and galaxies and you're shopping on a budget, this telescope might be a great choice for you. Read more below Tom Kerss F.R.A.S. is a London-based astronomer, astrophotographer, author and consultant. Having previously worked at the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, he is the founder of Stargazing✦London, which delivers world-class online astronomy and space courses with subject experts. Tom is also the host of the Star Signs podcast, providing updates from the world of space news, as well as what to look out for in the night sky. Why you can trust Space.com 


Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out more about how we test and review products. Our expert review: ✅ You want excellent optics: this telescope provides sharpness across the entire field of view. ✅ You want to get the best bang for your buck: considering the quality you get with this telescope, it offers great value. ✅ You want a portable telescope: at just 32 lbs, this is one of the more lightweight models. ❌ You're on a budget: while it's good value, it's not cheap, and the outlay is expensive too. ❌ You want the fastest speeds: there's a little lag while slewing which could get in the way for some. ❌ You're going to use it on the go: this telescope is so power-hungry we recommend you use it with mains power. 🔎 The Celestron NexStar 8SE is a fantastic telescope and one that would suit a beginner, intermediate or advanced skywatcher. Something simple enough for a beginner to get to grips with, but also please an advanced sky watcher is quite hard to come by. ★★★★½ Design: The Celestron NexStar 8SE is a beautifully designed telescope featuring high-quality Schmidt-Cassegrain optics, a motorized single fork arm mount and a tactile handheld remote control. It looks striking in Celestron's signature orange color and feels extremely sturdy and reliable, meaning it should last you for many years to come. The catadioptric construction (which incorporates both refraction and reflection) has allowed Celestron to fit a huge amount of power and a long focal length into a short tube, so the whole telescope is relatively compact for carrying with you to less light-polluted skies. Performance: The large 8-inch aperture makes this telescope ideal for deep space since it can soak up a phenomenal amount of light. In our Celestron NexStar 8SE review we were seriously impressed by its optical prowess, which gave us consistently bright and sharp views across a range of different targets. Despite a short lag between pushing a button on the remote and the motor beginning to turn, we found the slewing and object tracking to be incredibly accurate, and its smoothness would make this scope fantastic for long exposure astrophotography as well. Functionality: The scope is quick and easy to set up and align, even for beginners, and once aligned, the viewing experience is entirely automated. Simply select the celestial object you wish to view, punch the number in on the remote and the mount will automatically slew to your desired target. The only real downside is that it requires a whopping 8 x AA batteries, so we'd recommend kitting yourself out with a set of rechargeable batteries and a battery charger to keep the ongoing costs down. Our expert review: ✅ You're a beginner: the setup is really simple and effortless. ✅ You care about the looks: the design of this telescope is super sleek.
✅ You want a good app: this one is well-designed and intuitive. ❌ You are used to the highest quality: the 7.7MP resolution isn't as good as what you can get with traditional telescopes.  
❌ You're a purist: the smart functions and tech may not appeal to traditional sky-watchers. ❌ You're on a budget: this telescope is one of the more expensive ones on this list.
 🔎 Photographers will absolutely love the eVscope 2 because it looks and feels much more like a premium photography kit. Purist astronomers who are used to using finder scopes, alignment processes and slightly dated handheld control remotes may find it a little jarring to start with, but the speed and beauty of the eVscope 2 is definitely worth trying out. ★★★★½ Design: We loved the sleek and minimalist design of the Unistellar eVscope 2. There is just a single power button on the main body of the telescope, with the rest of the controls being accessed via the Unistellar app. It's an appealing option for those looking for an innovative way to view and photograph the night sky. This scope is an incredibly sophisticated device that merges a telescope with a camera, so you don't need extra camera gear. It has a 4.5-inch reflector and a built-in camera with a 7.7MP image sensor, making it simple to take and share pictures. Performance: If you prefer traditional telescope gear, you'll like the Nikon eyepiece that comes with the set. But if you're into modern tech, there's also an electronic eyepiece available. This one features an OLED screen similar to what you find on mirrorless cameras. It's different from the optical view and can't be swapped with Barlow lenses or other magnifiers. Still, we like using it because the screen is excellent quality, with fantastic contrast and deep blacks. If you're primarily using the Unistellar eVscope 2 as an astrocamera, you might find its 7.7MP sensor a little restrictive compared to a true DSLR or mirrorless camera. You won't be able to blow up photos very large for display. That said, we've found that the eVscope 2 performs valiantly compared to many dedicated astrocameras, and using it is very straightforward, taking out a lot of the hassle. If you're a beginner astrophotographer, then, this is a great place to start. Functionality: The eVscope 2 is incredibly easy to set up. It aligns itself automatically once it's been powered up and connected to the app, so it requires no previous knowledge of the night sky. The app is intuitive, allowing for manual or automatic navigation via the Explore mode. The only downside for beginners is the price, as all this technology makes this one of the most expensive telescopes on our list.  Our expert review: ✅ You want immersive deep-sky views: this telescope accepts 2-inch eyepieces. ✅ You want great aperture on a budget: this telescope offers an unrivaled aperture-to-price ratio.

✅ You want a sturdy scope: the mount on this model feels particularly strong.
 ❌ You want the most ergonomic telescope: it can be uncomfortable at some angles. ❌ You want electronic go-to functions: this telescope is not equipped with them. 🔎 For those looking for high-quality deep-space on a budget, the Sky-Watcher Skyliner 200P Classic is a fantastic choice. ★★★★½ Design: A telescope with a slightly bigger aperture can gather a lot more light, making images appear brighter. For instance, an 8-inch mirror gathers 77% more light than a 6-inch mirror, even though it's only 33% wider. The Sky-Watcher Skyliner-200P is the best affordable choice for deep-sky stargazing in this category. It focuses on giving you great performance without unnecessary fancy features. The Skyliner-200P is a weighty telescope at 24kg, but its compact footprint of 54cm makes it easy to fit in tight storage spaces when stored upright. It is also quick to set up and pack away compared to other telescopes of this size. Performance: The telescope features a dual-size focuser, which can accept 2-inch eyepieces — a must for anyone seeking the most immersive deep-sky views. 2-inch eyepieces have the advantage of being able to achieve wider fields of view at lower magnifications, enhancing the vistas on offer for the specs.   Although the basic Dobsonian mount does not automatically locate or track celestial objects, its smooth movements make manual tracking easy. The 50mm finder, essentially a small telescope, can initially locate and center objects before observation with the primary mirror. Functionality: If you want to explore deep space without breaking the bank, this telescope is a great deal. It's a sturdy, classic model that traditionalists will appreciate. But if you're interested in electronic features, you might want to check out the Flextube Synscan Go-To version of the same telescope. It has the same excellent optics but comes with user-friendly electronic functions. Our expert review: ✅ You want some smart features: you get automatic alignment with StarSense. ✅ You want to take it on the go: this telescope has a built-in rechargeable battery. ✅ You want a portable telescope: this one is compact and easy to store. ❌ You're on a budget: this telescope is not the cheapest on this list. ❌ You want more aperture: this telescope is pricey considering its limited aperture. ❌ You want to use it for professional long-exposure photography: it needs a more robust mount. 🔎 If you're a serious amateur astronomer developing a deep understanding of both the sky and the telescope, then the Celestron Advanced VX 8 Edge HD is a good option. The telescope is as good as you could wish for in its size range. ★★★★★ Design: The Celestron Advanced VX 8 Edge HD features an improved Schmidt-Cassegrain optical design with additional lens elements intended to aid with astrophotography. Its computerized mount combines Celestron's NexStar firmware with a German-style equatorial mount that not only slews to your desired celestial object but is also compatible with a range of other cameras and telescopes using Vixen or Losmandy dovetails. This makes it an excellent choice for those who want to gain good views of the night sky with the option of dabbling in astrophotography at the same time. Performance: The 8-inch aperture on this telescope offers extremely sharp views, even away from the center of the field. You'll be able to achieve majestic views of Saturn and Jupiter, see globular clusters resolved into stars and easily view Messier Objects. In extremely dark skies it can even bring out galaxies down to 12th magnitude. The supplied 40mm eyepiece offers 50x magnification but we'd recommend investing in an additional 20mm eyepiece with 100x magnification for general purpose and a 10mm eyepiece with 200x magnification for viewing the moon and planets. Functionality: In our Celestron Advanced VX 8 Edge HD review, we particularly enjoyed stacking images of Jupiter to produce a view that was even better than you could hope to achieve by eye. However, we think you'd need a heftier mount for any serious long-exposure photographs of nebulas and galaxies. The equatorial mount finds and tracks objects extremely well, though it requires a bit of knowledge to be able to align it correctly, so it's aimed more at intermediate to advanced astronomers than beginners. It's fantastic for attaching all manner of cameras to take pictures of the moon, planets and deep sky objects.   Our expert review: ✅ You want great optical quality: the performance of this telescope is unbeatable, especially with deep-sky views. ✅ You want a portable telescope: this one is fairly light and easy to disassemble.  ✅ You want smart features: this telescope has built-in go-to and tracking. ❌ You're a beginner: this telescope is quite complex and not the most intuitive. ❌ You don't have much space: this telescope is very large when fully assembled. 
❌ You're after super precise kit: the tracking performance isn't the most accurate. 🔎 The Sky-Watcher Flextube 16-inch 400P Synscan will best suit seasoned astronomers who are well-used to handling complex pieces of kit and don't need very accurate tracking. ★★★★½ Design: When it comes to seeing the incomparable beauty of the deep sky, nothing compares with the experience of looking through a giant Dobsonian telescope — even if you need a step ladder to get up to the eyepiece! The imposing Sky-Watcher Flextube 16-inch 400P Synscan has a 16-inch aperture to give users an astonishing view of celestial objects in deep space.  You can power it using a DC plug or an external power tank, and it provides pretty accurate location and tracking capabilities through the Sky-Watchers Synscan computer handset. The telescope's truss tube design is really smart. You can dismantle it in around 20 minutes, and despite its size, it's not overly heavy. Also, you have the option to use a fabric shroud to cover the truss assembly, which helps block out extra light and keeps the mirrors safe and protected. Performance: You likely won't find anything to rival this telescope in terms of optics. It's one of the best we've seen in terms of performance and offers spectacular views of the deep sky. With built-in Go-To and tracking technology, you'd think the Sky-Watcher Flextube should be easy enough to use. But in fact, it's rather complex. It's not the most intuitive telescope on the market, so we wouldn't recommend it for beginners. Its tracking performance also isn't the best, and if precision is important to you, it's probably one that's best to avoid. Functionality: With dual-encoder technology, you can slew the telescope manually without having to reposition it. Each axis remembers its position, so you can switch between celestial objects smoothly while keeping tracking intact. This telescope provides an impressive experience for viewing deep-sky objects, thanks to its large mirror, especially when you're observing galaxies and nebulas under dark skies. Still, it's not as intuitive for beginners as some of the other options, so we'd say that it's probably best to start with something less complex and work up to this one if you catch the deep sky bug. Our expert review: ✅ You want an automatic telescope: you can operate this one all in the app. 
✅ You live near a city: this telescope can cut through light pollution.

✅ You want social features: this telescope allows you to connect with other users. ❌ You're a purist: if you're a traditionalist sky-watcher, this isn't the one for you. ❌ You're on a budget: this is one of the most expensive telescopes on this list. ❌ You want the sharpest optics: what it has in smart features, this scope lacks in sharpness. 🔎 The Vaonis Vespera is a new and impressive, albeit very expensive, way of glimpsing deep-sky objects such as galaxies and nebulae even from a light-polluted city. It's easy to use and exceptionally travel-friendly. ★★★★½ Design: The Vaonis Vespera Observation Station offers a sleek and modern twist on traditional telescopes, focusing on exploring deep space. It's essentially a camera that uses live image stacking to send images to up to five smartphones or tablets via the Singularity app, instead of using an eyepiece. This allows it to have a compact white body, weighing only 10 lbs / 5 kg and measuring 15 x 8 x 3.5 inches / 40 x 20 x 9 cm, making it easy to store at home. The Vaonis Vespera is a fantastic option for those who live in light-polluted cities to get a better look at the night sky, especially if you buy the optional light pollution filter for an extra $199/£158. It's fully automated and easy to use, making it a great option for beginners and those with less experience too. Performance: Despite claiming to be 'ultra HD', it's worth noting that the images produced by the Vespera are relatively low in resolution, with a maximum of 1920x1080 pixels. We also found the images a little soft and you won't be able to zoom in too close on the details. Still, for beginners and anyone on a budget, it's certainly adequate. The Vespera's image sensor, a Sony IMX462, takes multiple images and stacks them on top of one another, and you can watch this whole process taking place through the app. The app will tell you how long you need to photograph your target to get the best results — this varies depending on the object you're targeting.   Functionality: Setting up the Vaonis Vespera couldn't be simpler. Its star recognition software is incredibly advanced, automating the entire process. You'll just need your smartphone nearby, as it uses its GPS to calibrate itself. Plus, it automatically tracks targets and adjusts itself for the Earth's rotation while also determining the best focus settings for different situations. Its price point means it's out of the budget of most beginners, unfortunately, but if you are a newcomer to astronomy who can stretch to its $1400+ price tag, you'll absolutely love how easy this telescope is to use.   Our expert review: ✅ You want want an all-rounder telescope: it can do planetary and lunar observations as well as deep-sky observing. 
✅ You want a lightweight telescope: at 12.5 lbs, this is one of the lighter models on this list. ✅ You want high-quality optics: this telescope renders no chromatic aberration or fringing. ❌ You are a beginner: complete novices may struggle with this complex telescope.

❌ You want a wide field of view: this telescope has a smaller one than some others on this list. 🔎 The Sky-Watcher Skymax 150 is a versatile telescope offering excellent optics. For the price, it's a great mid-field telescope, suitable for seasoned sky-watchers. ★★★★ Design: The Sky-Watcher Skymax 150 is a versatile telescope perfect for observing planets, the moon, and deep space objects. Priced at under $1000, it provides fantastic value for good quality stargazing equipment. However, it's important to note that sometimes it comes with a tripod, and sometimes it doesn't, depending on where you buy it. So, it's a good idea to do some research before making your purchase. Performance: The Skymax 150 excels in optics, delivering exceptional performance with no chromatic aberration or color fringing. The sharpness remains consistent across the entire field of view, and you can even achieve high-contrast images if that's what you're aiming for. The main downside of the Skymax 150 is its somewhat narrow field of view. Although nebulas and clusters look amazing, getting them fully in view can be a bit tricky. Still, you can see galaxies and some planetary nebulas with it. Functionality: If you're a newcomer, there's a good chance you'll find the  Sky-Watcher Skymax 150 a little unwieldy to use. It's rather complex, and while it's not completely unintuitive, its lack of comprehensive instructions may be off-putting to beginners. However, as far as all-rounder telescopes go, the Skymax 150 does a great job of offering fantastic views thanks to its high-quality optics. It's super lightweight, too, which makes it a great choice for traveling with or taking out into the field.   Our expert review: ✅ You're after precision optics: the mechanics on this telescope are impressive.  ✅ You're a sky-watching purist: this traditional astrograph will suit you. ✅ You're on a budget: this delivers great optics at an affordable price. ❌ You want a bundle of accessories: Orion doesn't sell this with a mount. ❌ You don't already own eyepieces: none are included with this telescope.

❌ You want smart features: this astrograph is a traditional piece of kit. 🔎 The Orion 6-inch f/4 Newtonian Astrograph is a great telescope for purists who know their way around traditional telescopes. It delivers precision optics at an affordable price. ★★★★ Design: Designed for astrophotography, the Orion 6-inch F/4 Newtonian Astrograph can be used as a traditional telescope thanks to the included extension tube, but you'll need to supply your own eyepieces. You'll also need to supply your own mount as Orion doesn't sell this telescope as a bundle, but there are plenty of excellent computerized equatorial mounts to choose from.  The Orion 6-inch F/4 Newtonian Astrograph also comes with a straight-through optical finder that has a standard mounting bracket. This finder can be used to attach a guide scope later on, which will help you achieve more precise tracking for those longer exposure shots. Performance: If you're on a budget and want to start deep sky photography, capturing star clusters, nebulas and galaxies, this telescope might be a great choice for you. Pairing excellent mechanics with fast, bright optics, it's a no-nonsense astrograph — a telescope engineered specifically with astrophotography in mind.  Functionality: Orion has strengthened the focuser to support the weight of a camera and filter assembly mounted on the side of the tube, allowing it to work with any camera, including DSLRs and Mirrorless bodies. Its compact and lightweight build means you don't need a huge mount, making it a great option for beginners and serious deep-sky photographers alike. The Celestron NexStar 8SE is the best telescope for deep space observation due to its huge 8-inch aperture which drinks in dim starlight, its 2032mm focal length in a small, compact Schmidt-Cassegrain catadioptric design and the fact it lends itself well to eyepiece and telescope accessory upgrades. The Sky-Watcher Skyliner-200P Classic offers fantastic value for money and due to its Dobsonian design, it's straightforward to use. Great, sharp optics combined with a detailed 2-inch eyepiece will give immersive deep-space views, though it's pretty hefty at 52 lbs (23.6kg) so only serious skywatchers will want to travel with it. For speed and simplicity, the Unistellar eVscope 2 is undoubtedly the best deep space telescope for imaging. Set up with the smartphone app and the smart telescope automatically aligns itself within just a few moments.  The number one factor in determining the relative deep-sky performance of any two telescopes is the aperture of the objective. Larger apertures collect more light, allowing fainter objects to become visible in the field. In general, mirrors are less expensive than lenses, so reflecting-type telescopes offer more bang for your buck when it comes to deep-space views. For astrophotography, highly corrected fast optics are more important, as well as sturdy and accurate mounts that can track the sky. Computerized mounts are a must for imagers, and they also have advantages for visual observers. If you're new to the deep sky, consider a telescope that helps you find these faint objects that don't pop out as readily as the planets or bright stars. It could be a push-to system, which tells you how hot or cold you are, or a fully-fledged go-to system that steers itself to your preferred target. Here are some of the best telescopes for deep space exploration and photography. You can experience deep space on a budget, or invest in a no-compromise giant home observatory. Be sure to consider models which prioritize aperture and light grasp, as this will be essential for picking out the faintest targets, and if you intend to enter the world of astrophotography, choose something that's going to be suitable from the beginning, even if you don't have the equipment you need yet. A sturdy equatorial mount with built-in go-to and tracking will unlock the longest exposures, allowing you to maximize the potential of your optical tube assembly. These larger, mirror-type telescopes usually require more maintenance than their smaller, more robust lens-type counterparts, but there's nothing you can't do yourself without some practice and understanding. At times it can seem unforgiving compared to the simplicity of looking at the moon, but the deep sky is worth the investment. Have fun exploring the wonders of the Universe! At Space.com, we take our telescope reviews seriously. To guarantee that you get the most honest and up-to-date recommendations on the best telescopes for deep space, we subject each instrument to a thorough and rigorous review process. Our expert staff and knowledgeable freelance contributors conduct these reviews and consider various aspects, such as construction, design, optical performance and field performance. This ensures that our reviews are fair and backed up with real-life experience. We take into account factors such as price, intended use, and class during our reviews. For instance, while a 10-inch Dobsonian and a 2.76-inch refractor may be the best picks in their respective classes, comparing them would be inappropriate. We evaluate the ease of setup, reliability, and noise level of computerized or motorized mounts, as well as whether a telescope comes with appropriate eyepieces and tripods. We even suggest additional equipment if it would enhance your experience. At Space.com, we are committed to providing reliable and transparent buying guides and reviews. With complete editorial independence, you can trust us to provide you with the best buying advice on telescopes and whether you should purchase a particular instrument or not. Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Tom Kerss is an astronomer and the author of numerous best-selling books about the night sky for both adults and children, including Northern Lights, Diamonds Everywhere and the Starry Stories Series. He shares his passion for the stars with people all over the world, delivering courses, podcasts and media interviews. Having worked in Hawaii, Chile, Namibia, Iceland and Norway, Tom loves nothing more than to seek out the darkest and most beautiful skies on Earth, escaping his light-polluted home of London. He has a background in astrophysics and formerly worked at the Royal Observatory in Greenwich. Google Pixel 8a review Celestron Outland X 10x50 monocular review Nikon Trailblazer 8x25 ATB compact binoculars review Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 