Not only the worst propagandists in the world, but also the laziest. Internet sleuths took barely seconds to start their ridicule. So the Russians spent around $1.2mil to fire an R-77-1 air-to-air missile at a tractor. Source: The Drive The Russian Ministry of Defense has released a video that it says shows Ukrainian armored vehicles, including at least one German-made Leopard tank, being destroyed. However, the footage, which appears to have been shot via the targeting system on a Ka-52 Alligator attack helicopter, shows anti-tank guided missiles being fired on civilian farming equipment. This would not be the first time Russian officials have tried to pass off sloppy propaganda like this. The footage, seen in the Tweet below, was released along with the official claims via Russian state media outlet RIA Novosti earlier today. The complete video contains two distinct clips. The first shows a number of vehicles in an open field, one of which is then targeted and destroyed by a missile. The second shows an indiscernible object also blown apart by a missile. Though the clips are very low quality, experts and observers were quick to point out visible and distinctive features on the vehicles in the first portion of the footage that shows them to be combine harvesters and agricultural sprayers. The object in the latter portion of the video is more difficult to conclusively identify, but it appears small and certainly does not look like a tank.
 The Russian Ministry of Defense has released a video showcasing the destruction of foreign armored vehicles, with Russian media asserting that Leopard 2A4 tanks are among them. However, verifying the accuracy of this information proves challenging. pic.twitter.com/AZLESDQOhj — 301 Military (@301military) June 6, 2023 #Ukraine:The 🇷🇺MoD claimed the destruction of Ukrainian Leopard 2 tanks during the recent counter-offensive- hitting a new level of cope.The vehicles targeted by ATGM from Ka-52 not only don't resemble tanks but are in fact innocent agricultural equipment- a sprayer & combines. pic.twitter.com/a33ZJJcZgt — 🇺🇦 Ukraine Weapons Tracker (@UAWeapons) June 6, 2023 For nearly 20 years we have been exposing Washington lies and untangling media deceit, but now Facebook is drowning us in an ocean of right wing lies. Please give a one-time or recurring donation, or buy a year's subscription for an ad-free experience. Thank you. To become an ad-free subscriber please select one of the following two options. Once you click your selected plan a window will open taking you to Admiral, our ad-free partner. If you don't mind the ads and would rather donate, please select one of the options below: