Following California’s groundbreaking legislation to phase out gas-powered cars and trucks by 2035, the state now turns its attention to another significant source of emissions: millions of gas-powered lawn mowers and small construction equipment.  Don't Miss: Why Silicon Valley Elites Are Betting On This Startups Vision For Re-Uniting American Families With its status as the world’s fourth-largest economy and a population of 39.4 million people, California is poised to implement Assembly Bill 1346, a new law designed to gradually eliminate small, off-road engines (SOREs) by banning the sale of gas-powered lawn equipment in the coming months. As traditional companies like Deere & Company DE continue to move forward with goals of creating all-electric construction and lawn care equipment, some startups are already getting a headstart. The California Air Resources Board, which is responsible for overseeing the implementation of this legislation, highlights the startling environmental impact of these machines. A typical leaf blower emits the equivalent amount of CO2 as driving a 2016 Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles, while operating a commercial lawn mower for one hour of operation emits smog-producing pollution comparable to a Toyota Camry driven for 300 miles. To achieve its ambitious goal of carbon neutrality by 2045, California recognizes the imperative to address these millions of polluting SOREs. Of course, a ban on a nearly universal product for tens of millions of people will face resistance, as seen with the controversy surrounding the Biden administration’s consideration of banning gas stoves. But as this transition happens, one company has emerged to fill the void left by gas-powered small construction equipment and lawn mowers, potentially revolutionizing the experience for operators. Leading the charge in electric machinery is VOLTEQ, the U.S. exclusive brand that is developing lithium-ion powered equipment meeting all market needs. VOLTEQ aims to accelerate access to battery-powered construction equipment for contractors, farmers and government entities, aligning with sustainability and emission objectives in a market projected to reach $100 billion annually.  To stay updated with top startup news and investments, sign up for Benzinga's Startup Investing & Equity Crowdfunding Newsletter Unlike competitors who retrofit or adapt existing gas or diesel-powered machines, VOLTEQ started from scratch to develop realistic solutions for achieving net-zero emissions. This approach allows VOLTEQ to bypass the constraints of outdated machine designs and emerge as a key player in the electric machinery market. As California takes significant steps toward a greener future, VOLTEQ is looking to lead the charge, offering cutting-edge electric machinery solutions that address environmental concerns while meeting the evolving needs of today’s market. See more on startup investing from Benzinga. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.