Beetlejuice was an instant hit when it was released back in 1988, with Warner Bros. now announcing a sequel is officially in the works and fans are delighted  Beetlejuice 2 is officially in development, Warner Bros. have confirmed.   After years of waiting, fans have finally been given the news they wanted as the studio announced the sequel during their panel at CinemaCon 2023.  The news comes 35 years after the release of the original hit horror-comedy.  Fans have flocked to Twitter to share their delight over Beetlejuice 2.  "Finally, the news we've all been waiting for! I can't wait to see what shenanigans Beetlejuice gets up to in the sequel," one fan wrote. Another said: "Great news. Hope they can pull it off," while a third fan joked: "So excited, I just randomly danced the Calypso," referencing the iconic dance scene from the first movie. "Oh great news ! Hope it'll be great & we can have Tim Burton, Johnny Depp & Wynona Rider back together for this," another fan wished. The announcement comes a month after it was rumoured Netflix's Wednesday star Jenna Ortega has "lined up" to reunite with director Tim Burton for the Beetlejuice sequel.  The actress is understood to have nabbed the role of the daughter of Lydia Deetz (played by Winona Ryder in the original).  Beetlejuice became a hit when it was released and stars Michael Keaton as the titular character. It is not yet known whether Alex Baldwin, Geena Davis, Catherine O'Hara and Jeffrey Jones will return for the sequel. According to reports, Warner Bros. are hoping to start production in May or June this year. The budget has not yet been set.  As reported by the Hollywood Reporter, Michael is expected to be reprising his iconic role.  The original Beetlejuice film follows the recently deceased married couple Adam (played by Alec) and Barbara (Geena) as discover that a new family moved into their house. Using the Handbook for the Recently Deceased, they summon the spirit known as Beetlejuice to scare the family off the property.  All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.  * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.  Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox