Flickering Myth Geek Culture | Movies, TV, Comic Books & Video Games March 10, 2023 by EJ Moreno   Jenna Ortega continues her mission to capture every goth iconic she can. Not only has she been labeled a scream queen for her work in slashers, but Ortega is playing the iconic Wednesday Addams with much success. Now, rumors are swirling that Jenna Ortega will star in a new follow-up movie of the cult classic Beetlejuice. There have been two recent cases of Ortega landing the role of Lydia Deetz, Winona Ryder’s daughter, in Tim Burton’s Beetlejuice 2. First, industry scooper Grace Randolph teased Ortega landing a significant role, similar to Wednesday, in a recent video. Now according to insider Jeff Sneider via John Rocha’s The Hot Mic in a new video, Jenna Ortega is rumored to have entered talks.  Also, we’ve had reports from outlets that Jenna Ortega will join 1988 original cast members, including Michael Keaton, Winona Ryder, and Catherine O’Hara. Though Sneider reports an “aging action star” is in talk to play one of the ghosts and is described as “someone who is a little bit past their prime.” Jenna Ortega is on a recent string of horror-related hits. The young actress had a busy 2022 with three films: Scream, X, and Studio 666. She then closed the year with Netflix’s Wednesday, a Tim Burton-helmed Addams Family adaptation. She is now starring in Scream VI, the latest in the Scream franchise, and is set to have a strong opening weekend after a positive critical reception. Stay tuned for confirmation of Ortega’s role in Beetlejuice 2.  Scream VI is directed by Matt Bettinelli-Oplin and Tyler Gillett, who reunite with Scream 2022 cast members Melissa Barrera, Jasmin Savoy Brown, and Mason Gooding. Franchise mainstay Courteney Cox and Scream 4’s Hayden Panettiere also return, alongside new additions including Samara Weaving (Ready or Not), Dermot Mulroney (Hanna), Jack Champion (Avatar: The Way of Water), Liana Liberato (The Beach House), Devyn Nekoda (Ghostwriter), Josh Segarra (Arrow), Henry Czerny (Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part 1) and Tony Revolori (Spider-Man: No Way Home).  Filed Under: Movies, News Tagged With: Beetlejuice, Beetlejuice 2, Jenna Ortega, Tim Burton EJ Moreno is a film and television critic and entertainment writer who joined the pop culture website Flickering Myth in 2018 and now serves as the executive producer of Flickering Myth TV, a YouTube channel with over 27,000 subscribers. With over a decade of experience, he is a Rotten Tomatoes-approved critic who is also part of the Critics Choice Association and GALECA: The Society of LGBTQ Entertainment Critics.  

© Collinson Media Limited. All rights reserved. The reproduction, modification, distribution, or republication of the content without permission is strictly prohibited. Movie titles, images, etc. are registered trademarks / copyright their respective rights holders. Read our Terms of Use and  Privacy Policy. If you can read this, you don't need glasses.  
