Ryan Reynolds wants to bring back the Biker Mice From Mars. Meet Ice Cube’s Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem villain. Gamera gets ready to rumble in a new look at Netflix’s latest Kaiju anime. Plus, what’s coming on Riverdale. Spoilers now!  During a recent interview with Comic Book, Thomas Hayden Church revealed he’s “heard rumors” Sam Raimi may return to direct another Spider-Man movie starring Tobey Maguire. There’s always been some kind of…I’ve heard rumors…that Sam Raimi was going to do another [Spider-Man movie] with Tobey [Maguire], and if that happens, I would probably campaign to maybe at least do a cameo. According to the Vermont State Police, one of Delia Deetz’s most famous sculptures has been stolen from the set of Beetlejuice 2. We tried saying the name of this stolen statue three times, but it didn't come back! We're investigating the theft of this 150-pound sculpture from the "Beetlejuice 2" set in E. Corinth, along with a lamppost topped with a pumpkin decoration. Call 802-748-3111 with any info. pic.twitter.com/3NmKEml1AG — Vermont State Police (@VTStatePolice) July 21, 2023  Ice Cube’s Superfly meets the TMNT in new clip from Mutant Mayhem. We also have a trailer for the new Ernest & Celestine sequel, A Trip to Gibberitia. Deadline reports Ryan Reynolds has signed on to co-produce the upcoming Biker Mice from Mars reboot from Nacelle. In a press release, Reynolds stated: Some people know that I am a motorcycle enthusiast, so it was only natural for us to jump on board Biker Mice from Mars. Maximum Effort and Fubo look forward to putting a new spin on this cult classic with our friends at Nacelle. During a recent interview with TV Line, Will Arnett stated that although the Twisted Metal TV series deviates from the game’s storyline, his Sweet Tooth is still a maniac who would “love to kill you.” The original framework is still there. Michael Jonathan Smith, who wrote the scripts, and [executive producers] Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick did an awesome job of helping Michael breathe some additional life into this world. I just hope that people who are true devotees of the game will allow us that, because we had to in order to tell a story that had some legs to it and could sustain a series. Yes, to be clear, he still wants to kill you. In an array of different ways. [Pauses] Let em rephrase that: He would love to kill you. Oh, he still loves frozen treats. I will say, this has reframed the way I look at ice cream trucks! Nadja “gives back to her community” in the synopsis for “Hybrid Creatures,” the seventh episode of What We Do in the Shadows’ fifth season. Nadja gives back to her community. Laszlo’s experiments have some unexpected results. [Spoiler TV] Comic Book has three photos of Polly, Betty, Toni and Cheryl in “Stag,” tomorrow’s new episode of Riverdale. The cast of Netflix’s live-action One Piece show behind-the-scenes photos from their phones in a new featurette. Finally, the latest trailer for Gamera: Rebirth confirms the “five kaiju” everyone’s favorite (giant, flying) mutant turtle will square off against are Gyaos, Zigra, Viras, Jiger and Guiron. Here’s hoping poor Barugon makes a cameo… Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who. 
          Hayley Atwell lends her voice to Lara Croft in the new Tomb Raider animated series at Netflix, out October 10.
         
          The release of Ultraman: Along Came a Spider-Man and Ultraman x Avengers this week gives us a look at differing approaches to the superhero crossover.
         
          One of the editors on the Marvel film breaks down the final sequence's different music, alternate edits, and more.
         
          This list of 8 includes standout new arrivals and imminent departures—plus a few titles with fresh interest thanks to pop culture of the moment.
         
          A violent new trailer for Sony's Kraven the Hunter is here to do two things: inject itself with rhinoceros DNA and spring traps. And it's all out of rhinoceros DNA. 
         
          At D23 2024, Disney announced new Avengers, Iron Man and Spider-Man rides for its parks.
         We may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites.
©2024 GIZMODO USA LLC. All rights reserved. Mode 
                Follow us
               Mode 
                Follow us
              