Julia Kagan is a financial/consumer journalist and former senior editor, personal finance, of Investopedia. Investopedia / Joules Garcia  A digital wallet (or electronic wallet) is a software-based system or an application that runs on any connected device. It stores your payment information and passwords of numerous payment methods and websites. Digital wallets run primarily on mobile devices but may be accessible from a computer — mobile wallets, which are a subset, are primarily used on mobile devices.
  Digital wallets allow you to pay when you're shopping using your device so that you don't need to carry your cards around. You enter and store your credit card, debit card, or bank account information and can then use your device to pay for purchases.
  Digital wallets can also store:
  Learn more about digital wallets, how they work, and how you can use them.
  Digital wallets are applications designed to take advantage of the abilities of mobile devices to improve access to financial products and services. Digital wallets essentially eliminate the need to carry a physical wallet by storing all of a consumer's payment information securely and compactly.
  Digital wallets use a mobile device's wireless capabilities like Bluetooth, WiFi, and magnetic signals to transmit payment data securely from your device to a point of sale designed to read the data and connect via these signals.
  Currently, the technologies used by mobile devices and digital wallets are:
  The card information you've stored in your wallet and choose to use for a transaction is transmitted from your device to the point-of-sale terminal, which is connected to payment processors. Then, through the processors, gateways, acquirers, or any other third parties involved in credit and debit card transactions, the payment is routed through the credit card networks and banks to make a payment.
 When you hold your phone over a point of sale to make a purchase, you're using your digital wallet to conduct the transaction.  Because cryptocurrency has become a part of the financial system, companies like Coinbase, offer cards that let you pay with cryptocurrency. Coinbase's card is issued by Visa. Digital wallets like Apple Pay allow you to add a crypto debit card. The card converts cryptocurrency to dollars at the current market value, which your wallet then uses to pay for your purchase.
  There are several digital wallets available. Here are some of the most well-known:
  Most wallets attempt to distinguish themselves from their competitors with different methods. For example, Google's digital wallet service allows you to add funds to the wallet on your phone or device.
  Apple, on the other hand, entered into a strategic partnership with Goldman Sachs to issue Apple credit cards and expand its Apple Pay services.
  Most makers of digital wallets place age restrictions on young users. For example, if you're not yet 18, you can't open your own Apple Pay account; however, Apple does offer "Apple Cash Family," where children or teens as part of a family can send or receive money with Messages and Wallet and make purchases with Apple Pay. Parents would need to create and authorize this from their own accounts.
  Cash App segregates the types of services available to those 18 and younger. For example, if you are below 18, you can pay someone else or receive funds—up to $1,000 every 30 days, in peer-to-peer transactions. Borrowing, check deposits, cross-border payments, and phone support are available only to those 18 and older.
 Limits exposure of financial and personal information Ends carrying a physical wallet and cards Can improve access to financial services in underserved areas Payment method may not be accepted everywhere May not work if Bluetooth or WiFi isn't available or your device isn't charged Can be vulnerable to identity theft or fraud if your mobile device is stolen while unprotected, or hacked  Digital wallets don't require a bank account at a bank with a physical branch. Instead, you can place your funds in an online-only bank—which gives unbanked and underbanked communities access to financial services, enabling broader financial inclusion.
  Security might become an issue if you use a digital wallet from a provider that hasn't been vetted or doesn't have an established reputation. If your phone isn't password-protected, you risk giving someone else access to your finances if you lose your phone. Additionally, there might be local businesses you prefer to shop at that don't yet have a point of sale that accepts this technology.
 Apple Pay is an example of one of the more well-known digital wallets. It allows you to access your financial products through your devices and to make purchases. PayPal is a peer-to-peer payment and money exchange platform, but it has a digital wallet included in its app. You don't necessarily need a digital wallet. However, they offer a convenient way to pay for your purchases because you don't have to carry credit and debit cards around; that information is instead stored in the cloud. This also increases card security—you can't lose your cards if you don't carry them.  A digital wallet is a type of financial transaction app that runs on any connected device. It securely stores your payment information and passwords. Mobile wallets are a form of digital wallet most often used on mobile devices.
  One of the biggest advantages of digital wallets is that they let you pay for things without credit or debit cards, once you enter and store your card and banking information in the mobile payment platform.
 Host Merchant Services. "MST Payment Explained: Samsung MST Compared to NFC." The Verge. "The Galaxy S21 Doesn't Support Samsung Pay's Most Convenient Feature." Coinbase. "Coinbase Card." Apple. “Introducing Apple Card, a New Kind of Credit Card Created By Apple.” Apple Support. "What Is Family Sharing?" Apple Support. “Set Up and Use Apple Cash Family.” Cash App. "Features and Limits for Family Accounts.