Amanda Holden is known for her skimpy outfits on Britain's Got Talent - and the 52-year-old has no plans to stop wearing them when the new series kicks off on ITV this weekend Amanda Holden has vowed to keep wearing daring outfits on Britain’s Got Talent - despite hundreds of complaints from viewers.  The 52-year-old loves to shock in her skimpy dresses, but some people have claimed they are too risqué for a family show.  As Britain’s Got Talent returns to TV screens tonight, Amanda is sure to be wearing a show-stopping outfit to mark the start of the new series.   To date her most complained about outfit was the plunging Julian Macdonald dress she wore back in 2017.  The sheer black sparkly gown, which cost £11,000, had a neckline cut all the way down to her bellybutton revealing most of her cleavage. It prompted a record-breaking 663 complaints to Ofcom from outraged Britain’s Got Talent viewers. Another black dress that was slit to the thigh and had a corset style bustier top with one sleeve prompted another 136 complaints. In 2020, some fans thought they could see Holden’s nipples out the top of her dress when she wore a navy Celia Kritharioti off-the-shoulder dress with a V-neckline.  This prompted another 235 viewer complaints to Ofcom. But despite the flack she gets for her sexy outfits, the mum-of-two has no plans to stop wearing them.  During an exclusive chat with the Mirror, Amanda even plans to up the ante with her outfits for the new series.  She said: “I am thinking more rubber. I enjoyed wearing latex in the audition and I am thinking more latex in their lives. More latex and more sweating!”  Despite the controversy, Amanda has never been censored by Ofcom or ITV, which airs Britain’s Got Talent.  Speaking at the Britain's Got Talent Q&A ahead of the new series premiere, the star quipped: "It's like the problem is everyone talking about my t*ts, while these two all the time... (Bruno and  Simon Cowell  ).  "[Simon's] shirt's always undone and [Bruno's] stripping off. No Ofcom complaints about me this year, please."  New judge  Bruno Tonioli  was gobsmacked at the idea of Amanda receiving complaints and said: "If you got it flaunt it and you girls [Amanda and  Alesha Dixon  ] got it. I don't understand this complaining, what is the problem?"  Amanda hit back: "It's nothing, people have too much time on their hands." Britain’s Got Talent launches on Saturday 15th April, 8pm and continues on Sunday 16th April, 7.45pm on ITV1 and ITVX.  * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.  Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033 Get all the Strictly glitter and goss straight to your inbox with our Strictly Come Dancing newsletter