Broadway + NYC Broadway Off-Broadway Off-Off Broadway Cabaret Dance Opera Classical Music United States  Eastern  Central  Western St. Louis St. Louis Maine Chicago Maine Washington, DC West End  WEST END UK Regional International Canada Australia / New Zealand Europe Asia Latin America Africa / Middle East Entertainment TV/Movies Music Their new project will be released on April 22nd. POPULAR Foals today unveil a thrilling new twist on their sound as they release the new Dan Carey version of '2am'. The track is the first to be taken from their eagerly anticipated new project 'Life Is Dub', which follows on Record Store Day, April 22nd. 'Life Is Dub' sees Dan Carey rework the entire critically acclaimed 'Life Is Yours' album through a heavyweight dub prism. Originally an exuberant pop-focused flood of melody full of sparkling synths and chiming guitar, Carey's fresh take on '2am' takes it somewhere altogether different. Dropping the tempo, '2am' now pummels rather than swings, with swampy, tremulous bass, thudding beats and all manner of reverbs, echoes and filters establishing a looming, hypnotic intensity. Yannis Philippakis says, "To me Dan's dubs are like nocturnal photo negatives of the original; the colours and sounds have been inverted, subverted and sent sideways. Their new groove and swagger has been pushed through analogue circuitry into a night-time companion to 'Life Is Yours'." Dan Carey approached the 'Life Is Dub' project using two core approaches. Some follow the half-time, deep bass style heard in '2am', while for the up-tempo tracks he would program a new beat around the original kick and snare drums. This would be synced with a modular system, feeding and processing elements from the original - usually guitars and keyboards - to create twisted new takes for the new multitrack, often then adding Jupiter-8 synths too. He would then pick his favourite elements from three different live dubs and edit them together. 'Life Is Dub' casts the 'Life Is Yours' album in a new light. The original record established an exuberant party-starting new twist on Foals' sound as it ignited scintillating summer festival headline sets at Glastonbury's Other Stage and Latitude, and saw them sell more than 40,000 tickets over the course of five London headline shows. 'Life Is Dub' will be available exclusively via local independent retailers for this year's Record Store Day. Please see here for a list of participating venues. The limited-edition album will be pressed on gold 12" vinyl, and the beautifully designed package will feature gold pantone artwork and lettering on a black backdrop. Foals recently added shows in Mexico and across Europe to their busy summer touring schedule. Highlights include headline sets at the Reading and Leeds Festivals, a major North American tour as special guests to Paramore, and a sold-out intimate UK record store tour. Please see here for a full list of all international dates and accompanying ticket details. Listen to the new single here: Apple TV+ has debuted the trailer for the highly anticipated documentary event 'K-Pop Idols,' set to premiere globally on August 30, 2024. This six-part series offers fans an unprecedented backstage pass to the world’s biggest musical phenomenon, providing an intimate look at the intense reality of K-pop stardom with beloved artists Jessi, CRAVITY, and BLACKSWAN.
 The music sensation Number_i recently announced that their debut album titled No.I (pronounced ‘Number One’) will be released on September 23. In advance of the album release, the group has dropped their latest single, the hard-hitting “INZM.' Listen to the single now! Skyrocketing country artist Tucker Wetmore has officially been invited to make his Grand Ole Opry debut on Tuesday, Sept. 10, 2024. Wetmore shared the exciting news on social media in a heartwarming clip captured in his hometown of Kalama, Wash. T.I. and Kirk Franklin have delivered an introspective single “Thank God” with Young Dro and Sunday Service. This single follows up “LLOGCLAY” by T.I. and NBA YoungBoy released in May, which is an ode to his big brother and manager Clay Evans who unfortunately passed away last year. Videos Sign up for announcements, and exclusive discounts on tickets to your favorite shows!  © 2024 - Copyright Wisdom Digital Media, all rights reserved. Privacy Policy 