Cardano has strong fundamentals as the total value locked jumps. Its DeFi TVL has jumped to the highest level on record. Cardano price had a difficult performance in March as cryptocurrencies recoiled. ADA slipped to a low of $0.36, where it has been in the past few days. This price is about 22% below the highest point in May, meaning it has now moved to a bear market. The coin’s market cap has plunged to about $12.3 billion. Cardano price struggled in May even after its ecosystem recorded some significant growth during the month. A good way to look at the performance of a chain like Cardano is to look at the performance of its Decentralized Finance (DeFi) ecosystem. The latest data shows that activity in Cardano’s DeFi ecosystem is doing well. According to DeFi Llama, the TVL in Cardano jumped by more than 9% in May to over $202 million. That increase pushed it to the highest level since May last year. Notably, the TVL soared to a record high in ADA terms. It is now sitting at 536.84 million ADA, which is higher than the year-to-date low of 263 million ADA. This is a signal that there is strong demand for dApps created in Cardano like Minswap, Indigo, Liquid, WingRiders, and MuesliSwap. MinSwap and Indigo’s TVL has jumped by over 20% in the past 30 days. The same trend happened in the number of active users. According to DeFi Llama, the total number of active users in Cardano jumped to more than 81.93k in May.  Therefore, Cardano’s underperformance was not because of its weak fundamentals. Instead, it is because of the broader performance of the crypto market. In May, we saw Bitcoin price retreat from the year-to-date high of $31,000 to about $25,500. It dropped because of the debt ceiling issue and the rising hopes that the Fed will maintain its hawkish tone.  The daily chart shows that the ADA price has pulled back in the past few days. It has dropped below the important support level at $0.42, the highest point on February 15. The coin is consolidating at the 50-period moving average. Most importantly, it seems like it has formed a double-top pattern, which is usually a bearish sign. Therefore, we can’t rule out a situation where the coin drops to the next key support level at $0.298, the lowest point on March 11. A move above the double-top point at $0.422 will invalidate the bullish view. 
 Plus500 is a leading provider of Contracts for Difference (CFDs), delivering Leveraged trading on +2,000 financial instruments, including Forex, Commodities, Indices, Shares, Options and Cryptocurrencies. CySEC license number (#250/14) Kraken is a San Francisco-based cryptocurrency exchange that allows users to trade various digital currencies. With a strong emphasis on security, Kraken employs cold storage for most funds and offers two-factor authentication (2FA). Its user-friendly interface provides real-time charts and order books, making it suitable for both beginners and experienced traders. Kraken also complies with regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions where it operates. Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
