We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Need help paying off your medical bills? Consider a payment plan, using credit or negotiating the costs. Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. The three major U.S. credit bureaus (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion) have made changes related to medical debt. Paid-off medical collections no longer appear on credit reports.  Unpaid medical collections with a starting balance of less than $500 are also excluded, and larger unpaid medical collections do not appear until one year from when they were incurred.  Having medical debt isn't uncommon — according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, almost 1 in 5 households in the United States have overdue medical debt. The CFPB offers a useful flowchart on how to confirm and handle an unpaid bill.  Paying off medical debt isn’t as clear-cut as resolving other forms of debt, such as a loan or credit card. There’s generally more room to negotiate the terms of repayment — and maybe even to reduce the amount you owe. It’s also worth it to see if you may have additional repayment options via the No Surprises Act on medical billing. To start, look over your medical bill and compare it with your explanation of benefits, if you have insurance. Figure out what you’re expected to pay — but don't make the mistake of taking your medical bills at face value: You can always try to negotiate the total cost first. When working with your provider, be upfront about what you can pay. If you don’t have insurance, you’ll likely be charged more than someone who does. Knowing there’s a price disparity can give you leverage. “That can be useful for negotiation when you actually have to pay the bill,” says Chi Chi Wu, senior attorney at the National Consumer Law Center. “Tell them you’ll pay what BlueCross or Medicaid would pay. Ahead are some strategies that may help you pay off your medical bills. Many medical providers, including physicians, dentists and hospitals, can work out a no- or low-interest payment plan for your medical bills. This is one of the simplest and most common ways to resolve a bill you can’t afford in one payment. The minimum amount you can pay on your payment plan will depend on your bill amount and the terms you negotiate. You generally break the bill into multiple equal payments over a few months until the total is covered. Ask if there are billing charges or any other fees associated with the payment plan, so you can assess the affordability. Providers may also offer to help you apply for medical credit cards. While medical credit cards often have an interest-free period of six to 12 months, you can be hit with a deferred interest rate that can make your debt significantly more expensive if you don’t pay off the full amount within that period. Another risk attached to credit cards is that missing payments or paying late can have a negative impact on your credit score. If you don’t opt for a medical credit card, you may be able to explore some other credit options. Be sure to shop around to compare rates, fees and repayment terms: Personal loans: A medical loan for healthcare expenses can help you consolidate medical expenses or pay for emergency or planned procedures. Getting a personal loan to help you pay your medical bills may be best after you’ve exhausted other options, such as a payment plan or medical credit card, but it also comes with risks of additional interest, fees and negative credit score impact if you miss payments. Loan amounts range from $1,000 to $100,000. 0% interest credit card: This could be a good option if you aren’t eligible for a payment plan or medical credit card. You’ll need good to excellent credit to qualify, though. Be sure to pay off your balance before the promotional interest period ends and an interest rate kicks in.  Dedicate the card only to medical bills if you do go this route. Otherwise it’ll be harder to keep records of the expenses for tax deductions or a medical savings account. If you've had an extended stay in the hospital or an intensive procedure, you’re probably facing a mountain of medical bills. You can hire a medical bill advocate to negotiate your medical debt on your behalf. Advocates are experts in medical billing who know how to read health care bills and understand common costs for procedures. They can spot potential errors or overcharging and help you reduce the amount you owe. Be careful when selecting a billing advocate because there are also predators out there who call themselves advocates but in reality steal your money or identity. Make sure you know who you are talking to and how they work before sharing any of your information. Make sure any fees charged by a medical bill advocate would be outweighed by the savings before signing up for a plan. If you have low income and high medical bills, you may be eligible for an income-driven hardship plan. Similar to a standard payment plan, an income-driven hardship plan can break up the total amount you owe into more manageable, regular payments or even forgive the debt altogether. Talk with your provider to see if it offers such a plan; all nonprofit hospitals offer some form of charity care. You may have to apply for Medicaid before being eligible. If you have medical bills in collections you may be able to negotiate down the cost of your medical bills on your own. For medical bills in collections, know that debt collectors generally buy debts for pennies on the dollar. That gives you some good leverage to negotiate to pay less than owed. Also, comb through your medical bills and spot any charges that seem wrong or too high, then be persistent in following up with customer service representatives.  You may have a choice between a lump sum and a payment plan. Make sure you can afford what you agree to do.  There are public programs and private organizations that may be able to help you tackle your medical bills if you aren’t able to do it on your own. These organizations can help you learn more about the kinds of financial assistance that’s available to you, and they may offer resources for things like prescriptions. Be sure to search online and also ask your health provider or medical bill advocate for additional resources for paying your medical bills. Here are a few organizations to look into: Benefits.gov for medical and health care benefits. State Health Insurance Assistance Program (SHIP) for help navigating Medicare. The Healthwell Foundation, the Patient Access Network (PAN) Foundation and United Health Children’s Foundation for help with things not covered by insurance, or help finding grants. Prescription affordability programs.  It’s always a good idea to review your living expenses and see where you can lower your bills. Freeing up money in your budget may help you achieve medical debt payoff faster. Some ways to lower your living expenses include: Making and sticking to a budget. Negotiating with service providers for better rates on things like internet and cell phone service.  Finding ways to bring in extra income via a side hustle.  You may be tempted to jump at a quick fix for your medical debt — or to ignore it entirely. But doing so could cost you more in interest and may put your credit scores at risk. Taking a proactive approach to paying off your medical bills can help you avoid delinquent medical debt on your credit report. If you don’t think you can afford your medical bills and you're facing overwhelming debt or choosing between food, housing and debt payments, consider looking into debt relief or even bankruptcy. It may also be worthwhile to verify that the medical debt you owe is valid and that it belongs to you. If a debt collector contacts you, the collector is legally obligated to validate the debt by informing you of the name of the creditor, the amount owed and how you can dispute the debt. Debt verification can help you to be sure that your medical bills are legitimate, that you actually owe the amount being billed and that the statute of limitations on the debt hasn’t passed. The CFPB has debt verification letter templates and a complaint process if you have trouble disputing medical bills.  on Capitalize's website Dive even deeper in Personal Finance Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105