We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Healthline only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. There are many different types of personal emergency response system devices on the market. See our picks and consider which might work best for you or a loved one. Also known as personal emergency response systems, medical alert devices make sure that help can get to you when you need it.  Most medical alert systems are designed to be worn at all times. They may take the form of a pendant that you keep around your neck or resemble a bracelet or watch that you keep on your wrist.  The defining feature of any medical alert system is a button that you press that immediately connects you with medical help or an emergency contact person.  Healthcare professionals believe that medical alert systems reduce hospital admissions and prolong the ability of people who have them to live independent lives.  The greatest benefit of these systems is the peace of mind they can provide to other family members and loved ones.  With so many types of medical alert systems to choose from, it can be hard to shop for one that meets your needs. We put together a list of some of the best out there, along with some tips on how to find your match.  The most common medical alert systems include:  The features in your medical alert system will vary. The FDA doesn’t have criteria for allowing a device to call itself a medical alert system.  That being said, all medical alert systems come with a button to press in case of an emergency. More deluxe models (and many of the models on this list) also come with a base. The base has a two-way speaker that allows you to connect with an agent or a pre-programmed emergency contact number.  Most medical alert systems also come with a wearable device that you can wear as a pendant or as a watch.  Many, but not all, medical alert systems come with an app that pairs with your smartphone to help you manage your device. These apps can also provide information to trusted caregivers and loved ones, who can log in to it from their device and check on you without having to send a text or make a phone call.  We break down some of these fees for each product on our list. Reputable companies will be transparent about any costs upfront or over time.  Price: $29.95 per month, plus a one-time activation fee of $50 The Philips brand has been in the medical alert business for 40 years. This Lifeline unit comes with pendant or wristband options, so you can choose what you prefer to wear. Automatic fall detection is included. If there’s a medical emergency that triggers the system, Philips operators will reach out to your contacts on file as well as a medical professional, if you so choose. Its app can help you share information and plan care with your contacts. Some customers find that the self-installation options aren’t as intuitive as they’d like, so you might want to spring for the technical setup at checkout. You don’t need to remember to recharge the battery, but you will need to replace it eventually. Note that this device requires a landline phone. There’s also a cellphone version of this device. Read our review of the Lifeline Medical Alert System.  This Medical Care Home and Away system is billed as a solution for older adults with active lifestyles that include travel. The GPS location services can help you from getting lost in a new environment, and one full charge can last 3 days. It’s also water-resistant, so you can wear the pendant in the shower. No landline is required. Each pendant is also equipped with your information, so wherever you call from, you’ll be recognized — even if you’re experiencing a medical emergency and are unable to speak and identify yourself. Fall detection is available for an extra monthly cost, and RemoteCare app enables caregivers to check in at any time and see if you have arrived at doctor’s appointments or other locations.   This system from Aloe Care Health is meant to be unobtrusive and easy to use. The wearable wrist device and pendant come with 4G technology, so you don’t have to worry about Wi-Fi or a landline.   The devices are specifically designed to not have a “medical” look, and they may be easier on the eyes for some people.   The device connects with the Aloe Care app, which is available for Apple and Android.   The Aloe Care Smart Hub can connect you to medical assistance or family members, depending on what you need. Automatic fall protection is included, and there’s even a motion-activated nightlight. The device also monitors things like the temperature in your home and alerts your emergency contacts if anything is out of the ordinary.   Aloe Care devices have more expensive startup costs than others we saw, and you still need to pay for it every month. To get automatic fall protection, you have to get the Aloe Care Essentials Plus package or higher, which costs slightly more per month.   The system comes with a 30-day trial.    Price: $29.95 per month; no activation or hardware fee   The Bay Alarm Medical Alert System features four additional “Help” buttons you can place around your living space, which makes it great for multilevel homes.   It’s equipped with 4G, so you don’t need a landline to use it. You can choose to wear your device as a wristband or a pendant. There’s a free app and no contract. Automatic fall protection is included, and the device is water-resistant.   Bay Alarm is one of the more affordable options that include automatic fall detection. The battery is designed to last for up to 5 years, with no charging required.   Bay Alarm offers a 30-day trial to decide whether this is the system for you.    Price: $44.95 per month; quarterly, semiannual, and annual plans also available; no activation fee   Not everyone who needs a personal alert device lives alone. If you’re looking for protection that covers two people in one space, this alert system may fit the bill.   It comes with two GPS-enabled personal alert devices. It’s waterproof and doesn’t require a landline.   It does cost more per month than most other medical alert systems, and that’s without automatic fall detection monitoring, which costs extra. There’s also no guarantee that the cost of the service won’t go up in the future.   You can try the device for 30 days to see whether it’s worth it for you.    Price: $37.95 per month; no activation fee   This no-frills, GPS-enabled system comes with a wearable help button that you can wear on your wrist or as a pendant. It doesn’t require a landline. It’s enabled with a two-way voice system that lets you speak with someone right away if you need help.   This device is also water-resistant. The on-the-go product is meant to work even when you’re not at home.   Fall detection is not included but can be added for an additional monthly fee. Pricing options for plans range from payments every month, quarterly (every 3 months), semiannually (every 6 months), or annually.   One Call Alert is also one of the more readily available medical alert systems you can get. It’s available at many physical stores like Walmart, CVS, and Rite Aid.    Price: $35.99 per month; no activation fee   This is ADT’s “no landline required” option. The pendants are waterproof, and for an additional fee, you can add a waterproof wall mount button that’s great for the shower.   ADT also locks you in at the contract rate when you purchase, so you don’t have to worry about the monthly cost going up later.   You can pay for monthly, quarterly, or up to a year of the monitoring subscription for this ADT system. Prices start at $35.99 a month, with some savings when you purchase 3 months or a year of coverage.   The Plus package guarantees 600 feet of range from the wearable pendant or bracelet. You can buy additional pendants or wristbands for around $15 each if you’re interested in switching back and forth between the wearable options.   Fall protection is available for $10 more per month.    Price: $22.95–$32.95 per month; no activation fee   The lightweight, waterproof LifeStation emergency button can work as a pendant or a bracelet (though it does appear to be mostly designed as a necklace).   LifeStation emergency support staff stays on the phone with users while dispatching help, offering comfort until assistance arrives. Installation is simple and do-it-yourself.   It’s one of the least expensive medical alert systems on the market, with many of the same features as its pricier counterparts.   You do need a landline to use this system. If you don’t have a landline, LifeStation does offer other options that cost a bit more per month.   Fall detection costs extra. You might also want to consider the “Find My Loved One” add-on. It’s available with LifeStation’s GPS-enabled systems and allows contacts to track people who are at risk of getting disoriented.    Price: $27.95 per month, plus $79–$229 for equipment   ADT’s GetSafe system doesn’t require a landline and operates off of 4G. The system is meant to function without the need for a wearable device, but it still comes with a lightweight wearable button just in case that’s what you’d prefer.   The Standard package, which the company suggests for homes of two or three bedrooms, comes with two voice-activated wall buttons that you can use to call for emergency help.   The monthly monitoring fee is on the lower end of what’s available, but you’ve got to pay upfront to buy the equipment that comes with the system.   You can try the system out for 30 days and return it if you’re no longer interested.  Medical alert systems have been around for decades, and technology has only added to their popularity. For many people, they provide benefits that are well worth the costs. These include: Medical alert systems aren’t perfect, and they’re not for everyone. There are some drawbacks and risks to know about if you’re thinking of purchasing a system. These include: When choosing a medical alert system, prioritize the features you need while keeping your budget in mind. Features to think about include: You can find medical alert systems in a variety of places. Medical alert companies have their own websites, but that’s not the only place you’ll find systems. You can also check out retailers, such as: Medical alert systems aren’t the only way to keep track of a loved one who is at risk of falls and other medical emergencies.  Any cellphone with a wearable option may serve your needs in terms of keeping in touch with an at-risk friend or family member. Apple Watches (Series 4 and later) even have a fall detection option and may be used as a medical monitoring device of sorts.  Home security or surveillance systems that have a remote video monitor option may also serve to give you peace of mind. Some of these connect to phone apps and can be used independently or integrated if you already have a smarthome setup. You may also want to consider a simple “fall detection” button as opposed to investing in an entire medical monitoring system.  Every medical alert system has three major parts. How the components function varies, according to the company:  Other considerations and important differences for medical alert devices involve what type of device it is and the position or location it can be used. This might involve a sensor device worn on the wrist, neck, or arm, or a device placed in the room or around the home. The following groups may benefit the most from medical alert systems: Medical alert systems vary in cost. Pricing structures resemble a cellphone contract, when long-term contract commitments can sometimes mean no startup cost for equipment.  The low end is around $25 per month with no startup fees. Higher end services that include automatic fall detection and app monitoring can be close to $50 per month.  Some insurance plans cover some medical alert systems, but it’s not a standard offering.  You may have to get in touch with your provider and ask them over the phone if they offer any coverage for medical alert systems.  Plans where “long-term care” is included are more likely to provide some type of coverage for this particular need.  Original Medicare doesn’t cover the cost of a medical monitoring system.  If you have a Medicare Advantage plan, you might have some coverage.  If your device calls into a monitored system, you will speak with a live, trained professional at a call center. This person will then either call emergency services or call a loved one. If you’re not able to communicate, emergency services will automatically be called and will come as quickly as possible. (The response time will vary, according to where you live.)  If your device is part of an unmonitored system, it automatically dials an emergency contact. You can also program the device to call 911.  Medical alert systems are designed to facilitate independent living while giving your loved ones a peace of mind.  It’s important to know the features that you’re looking for (like fall protection, mobile capability, and whether you have a landline) before you start shopping.  Share this article Original Medicare doesn't cover Life Alert or any personal emergency response system but Advantage may. Learn what Medicare covers, the costs, and… These medication reminders are all better than your average pillbox. From apps to handheld timers, they make it easy to manage your medication… OUR BRANDS