759 Chestnut StreetSpringfield, MA 01199 Baystate Medical Center (BMC) is a 716-bed independent academic medical center and a teaching site of the UMass Chan Medical School - Baystate. The hospital includes Baystate Children's Hospital, the Wesson Women and Infants' Unit, the region's only Level 1 Trauma Center, and more. Find the information you need as a Baystate Medical Center patient or visitor.  We want to make sure you are safe and supported during your stay with us, whether you are a patient or a visitor. Learn about policies, rights, responsibilities and services for our patients and visitors. Our Daly and Wesson entrances are open from noon to 8 pm daily. Our Chestnut Building entrance (the main entrance under the canopy) is open for patients only from 5 am to 7 pm daily. We offer free parking 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Valet parking services are available at the following locations: If you have questions or need help finding your way in Baystate Medical Center, you can: We offer three main dining options:
 North Café is our full-service cafeteria.
 Location: Daly Building, second floor
 Hours: 6 am - 3 am seven days a week
 Atwater's Café in the Marketplace is a bistro-style café option.
 Location: Daly Building lobby, third floor
 Hours:
Monday - Friday: 6 am - 6 pm
 Chestnut Café is a counter-service option.
Location: Chestnut Building, ground floor
 Hours: Monday - Friday, 7:30 am - 2:30 pm We offer online shopping and two convenient locations for our gift shops.
 You can order same-day, bedside delivery of gifts and flowers.
 Marketplace Gift Shop
Location: Daly Building, third floor, near the main lobby Shop Online Hours: Our full-service pharmacy is available in the Marketplace in the Daly Building, third floor.
 Hours: We regularly work with a team of consultants that researches social and economic factors that affect the health of the people in our service area. Learn more. Visiting is allowed 24 hours a day at all Baystate Health hospitals. While the number of visitors will not be limited, visitors must follow all instructions from Baystate Health employees to ensure the wellbeing of patients. We ask that visitors (also called "care partners") share our goal in promoting a healing environment for all patients. Ambulatory services (same day outpatient) will continue to allow one care partner per patient. Visitors under 18 must be supervised at all times by a family member or responsible adult assigned by the family. Masks are required in patient rooms and patient care areas for visitors and will be available at the entrances. Masks are optional in common spaces such as the cafeteria and in corridors. ALL visitors must adhere to Baystate Health infection control practices that are in effect throughout our organization: Policies are the same for patients who have COVID-19, except: Take a virtual tour of Baystate Health's flagship hospital campus, a 716-bed independent academic medical center and a teaching site of the UMass Chan Medical School - Baystate. Baystate Medical Center (BMC) is ranked among the highest performing hospitals nationally by U.S. News & World Report, Magnet®, Watson Health, and the American Heart Association. Back to Top Patients and Visitors Providers and Employees Community Members Research and Academics About Baystate © Copyright 2024 Baystate Health © Copyright 2024 Baystate Health