We've rounded up the best Cyber Monday deals on Lego Star Wars, Marvel, DC and space sets. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Lego space sets, Lego Star Wars, Lego Marvel or Lego DC: whatever Lego you're into, you'll find the best Cyber Monday Lego deals right here. From the latest Star Wars diorama to a NASA rocket, we've rounded up the best Lego bargains to be found this Black Friday weekend and Cyber Monday. Lego is only growing in popularity, and as more and more people come to love the plastic bricks, more sets become available. New sets are released every month and keeping up with the latest deals can be tricky. Rest assured, we're doing the hard work for you: we're constantly checking the best prices on Lego from the largest retailers to ensure you can always grab a bargain. The majority of sets here have a saving of at least 15% - often more - so you know you're getting an excellent deal. We've split the best Lego Cyber Monday deals up into categories. Right at the top you'll find our choice of the week's hottest deals, followed by Star Wars, Lego space, Lego Marvel then Lego Batman/DC. You can jump straight to a section by using the links at the side of the page.  You’ll find more Lego Cyber Monday deals on our specific Lego Star Wars deals and Lego space deals hubs pages, too. And if you’re searching for bargains elsewhere, check out our best drone deals or best Star Wars gift deals. Keep scrolling to see our best Cyber Monday Lego deals separated into space, Star Wars, Marvel and DC. But right here are the hottest  Lego deals from around the web, with the biggest savings to be had right now. Lego Star Wars Boba Fett's Starship
$49.99 $27.29 at Amazon Save 45% on Boba Fett's iconic starship. It's the cheapest we've ever seen this set. With 593 pieces and two minifigures, you're getting a great deal here. Lego City Space Lunar Roving Vehicle $39.99 $19.19 at Amazon Save an incredible 52% on this Lego City space rover playset - the cheapest we've ever seen it. It comes with three minifigures, a rolling rover and a bunch of accessories so youngsters can act out their own lunar missions. Lego Marvel Hulkbuster Ultimate Collector's Series $549.99 $384.99 at Lego.com Save 30% on this giant UCS Hulkbuster, complete with moving arms and legs – and one heck of a giant stature.  Made up of 4,049 pieces, this mega Marvel set is one for serious collectors only. Lego Marvel Black Panther $349.99 $209.99 at Lego.com Here's another set for serious collectors: this almost life-sized T'Challa bust is made up of 2,961 pieces, featuring the iconic Black Panther mask and gloves. With a huge 40% off, it's the cheapest we've seen this set yet.  In the words of Din Djarin, this is the way... to the best Lego Star Wars deals. In this section we've highlighted the very best Star Wars sets from across the galaxy. Whether you're buying for yourself or for a gift, we're certain you'll find the perfect Lego Star Wars set. You'll find more Lego Star Wars deals on our dedicated page. And if you need help choosing the perfect set, head on over to our Lego Star Wars buyer's guide. Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Lego Star Wars UCS Razor Crest $599.99 $419.99 at Lego.com Save 30% on this epic Ultimate Collector's Series set. If you're a Mandalorian fan, consider this a must-have - and at this price, it's the cheapest it's likely ever going to be. Lego Star Wars BD-1 $99.99 $94.99 at Amazon If you've played the Star Wars Jedi video games, you'll undoubtedly be familiar with Cal Kestis' sidekick droid, BD-1. Now the cute little fellow can be all yours - or, at least a brick-built model of it. Still just as adorable in our opinion. Lego Star Wars Dark Trooper Helmet $69.99 $55.99 at Lego.com Save 20% on the Lego Star Wars Dark Trooper helmet. It's on back order, but as long as you check out before the Cyber Monday deals end on Lego.com, you'll get the discounted price. Lego Star Wars Death Star Trash Compactor $90 $72 at Walmart Save $18 on a recreation of the classic scene from A New Hope where Luke, Leia, Han Solo and Chewbacca find themselves trapped inside a garbage compactor. To fully recreate the scene, the walls even move closer together in this model, which we absolutely love. Mandalorian N-1 Starfighter $59.99 $47.99 at Walmart Save $12 on another Mandalorian Starfighter - this time, the N-1 Starfighter from season two of Disney+'s hit series. Included are minifigures of Baby Yoda, the Mandalorian and Peli Motto. It also has a cockpit to fit one of the minfigures, a cargo compartment and spring-loaded shooters.  LEGO Star Wars: Boba Fett’s Throne Room $99.99 $77.10 at Amazon
There's currently 23% off to be had on this Book of Boba Fett set. It contains 732 pieces and 7 minifigures - including a rather unique Bib Fortuna. Lego Star Wars: The Mandalorian The Child $89.99 $71.99 at Lego.com Save 20% on the most adorable Star Wars Lego kit in the galaxy. The Child – aka Grogu aka Baby Yoda – is a great display piece (and it even comes with a Grogu minifig too). Lego Star Wars Dark Trooper Attack $34.99 $26.99 at Amazon Save 23% on this recreation of a scene from The Mandalorian season 2, showing Luke Skywalker's attack on the Dark Troopers. Thanks to a rotating door, he can dramatically appear, ready to kick butt. Lego Star Wars Boba Fett's Starship
$49.99 $27.29 at Amazon You can fly this iconic Star Wars ship for much less than usual. Boba Fett's Starship is a 593-piece Lego build aimed at kids aged 9 and up. You'll get The Mandalorian, Boba Fett and even a Carbonite brick with the set. Lego Star Wars Imperial TIE Fighter $44.99 $36.49 at Amazon This Lego Star Wars TIE Fighter lets you use the Dark Side of the Force to hold off Resistance fighters. At 432 pieces, this kid-friendly (ages 8+) build is a great display piece and extremely durable for play. You'll also get several minifigures to pilot the ship. Lego Star Wars Darth Vader Helmet
$79.99 $63.99 at Amazon Darth Vader, one of the most complex characters of "Star Wars," comes to life in this Lego set. The 834-piece behemoth set shows off his complex helmet. He also comes with a nameplate, just in case any padawans don't know who they are addressing. Lego Star Wars Mandalorian Helmet $69.99 $55.99 at Amazon Save 20% on another iconic Star Wars helmet, that of the Mandalorian. Here, you get 584 pieces as well as a display stand with a name plaque.  Lego Star Wars Captain Rex Helmet $69.99 $55.99 at Amazon There's another 20% saving to be had, and this time it's on Captain Rex's helmet. If you're a Clone Wars fan, you're going to want this one in your collection. Lego Star Wars Luke Skywalker's X-Wing Fighter $49.99 $37.49 at Amazon Save 25% on this Lego X-Wing Fighter from Amazon. Recreate your favorite scenes from the original Star Wars trilogy as this set contains 474 Lego pieces. It also comes with a Luke Skywalker (with lightsaber), Princess Leia and a General Dodonna minifigure - and an R2-D2 droid figure. We're heading to the furthest reaches of space to bring you the best deals on Lego space sets available right now. Whether it's a futuristic playset or a realistic model based on a NASA property, Lego's space range has something for everyone. Want more Lego space deals this Cyber Monday? Head over to our dedicated Lego space deals hub. And if you want help choosing the best set for you, our guide on the best Lego space sets should help. Lego Ideas Tales of the Space Age $49.99 $42.49 at Amazon Save 15% on one of our favorite space-themed Lego sets. Made up of four individual 3D images, this set looks fantastic no matter where it's displayed - and you can even mount it on the wall. We think it's the best Lego space kits you can buy. Lego Monkie Kid's Galactic Explorer $129.99 $90.99 at Lego.com Save 30% on this huge Lego Monkie Kid playset that's part of the Monkie Kid range. It's not exactly realistic but if you want to have space-based fun with your kids, Lego sets don't come much better than this. LEGO City Lunar Space Station $79.99 $68.99 at Amazon Blast into the moon's orbit with this fantastic 500-piece Lunar Space Station playset that comes complete with a Docking Space Capsule, Science and Botany Labs and see-though Sleeping Quarters for the five astronaut minifigures. Lego City Space Lunar Roving Vehicle $39.99 $19.19 at Amazon Save 52% on this space rover, inspired by NASA's own Artemis concept designs. It comes with three minifigures and a meteor impact site, all ready for young space explorers to begin their own mission. Like your Lego with a side of superhero? Then check out our selection of the best Lego Marvel deals currently available. Whether you're an Iron Man fan or you go weak at the knees for Wolverine, hopefully we've got something to suit. You can find out more about Lego Marvel by visiting our best Lego Marvel sets hub. Lego Marvel Guardians Of The Galaxy Advent Calendar $44.99 $31.49 at Lego.com Save 30% just in time to get into the festive spirit with your favorite characters from the Guardians Of The Galaxy franchise. There are 24 daily treats and 268 pieces in total, which include minifigures of Star Lord, Groot, Rocket and more.  Lego Marvel Hulkbuster Ultimate Collector's Series $549.99 $384.99 at Lego.com This is the biggest saving we've ever seen on the UCS Hulkbuster, and so if you fancy having a giant Iron Man mech on your shelf, we recommend grabbing this now. Trust us, you won't be disappointed with it. Lego Marvel Venom $69.99 $55.99 at Amazon Save 20% on a fantastic recreation of Venom, Spider-Man's long-standing nemesis. With its ferocious-looking teeth and slithering tongue, it's realistic enough to send a shiver down your spine. Lego Marvel The Goat Boat $59.99 $47.99 at Walmart Save $12 on this model based on Thor: Love and Thunder. Who wouldn't want a Viking longship being pulled by two happy-looking goats? It comes with Thor, Mighty Thor, Valkyrie, Korg and Gorr minifigures. Lego Marvel I Am Groot $54.99 $43.99 at Amazon Save 20% on a 476-piece Lego set that's well suited for older kids and teens. Perfect for fans of Guardians of the Galaxy, the completed model has moving parts, so builders can pose Groot in different positions.  Lego Marvel The Hulkbuster: The Battle of Wakanda $49.99 $39.99 at Walmart If you don't fancy taking on the UCS Hulkbuster, how about this smaller version? It comes with minifigures of Bruce Banner, Okoye and two outriders. With $10 off, it's a bargain.  Lego Marvel Black Panther $349.99 $209.99 at Lego.com Here's another set for serious collectors: this almost life-sized T'Challa bust is made up of 2,961 pieces, featuring the iconic Black Panther mask and gloves. With a huge 40% off, it's the cheapest we've seen this set yet. Lego Marvel Daily Bugle $349.95 $300.99 at Walmart Save $49 on the tallest Lego Marvel set money can buy. The Daily Bugle is 32 inches and comes with an incredible 25 minifigures. It's worth it for the superhero minifigs alone in our opinion. Lego Marvel Infinity Gauntlet $79.99 $63.99 at Amazon
This Infinity Gauntlet is a designed-for-adults set, made up of 590 pieces. Largely made of gold bricks, it’s a stunning display piece - and even comes with poseable fingers. Not that we suggest you should make any rude gestures, of course.  Prefer your superheroes a little more moody? Then perhaps Batman is more your speed. Thankfully, Lego Batman sets have been around for some time, coming in a range of shapes and sizes. We've rounded up the best Batman Lego sets, and more from the world of DC, below. Lego Technic The Batman Batcycle $49.99 $39.99 at Amazon Save 20% on this Technic Batcycle, based on the vehicle from The Batman. Made up of 641 pieces, it's a fairly challenging build, and makes a great model for any modern Batman fan. Lego Batman Batmobile: The Penguin Chase $29.99 $23.99 at Amazon Save 20% on this Batmobile playset, modelled on the iconic vehicle from 2022's The Batman. It might not be the biggest Lego Batmobile we've ever had, but it packs a punch with spring-loaded cannons and fancy bodywork. Lego Technic The Batman Batmobile $99.99 $79.99 at Amazon If you want a more challenging Batmobile build, then this Technic set is for you. It's based on the Batmobile from 2022's The Batman, and it's made up of 1,360 pieces. Lego DC Wonder Woman vs Cheetah $39.99 $31.95 at Amazon Save 20% on this Lego DC Wonder Woman Vs Cheetah set. It includes 371 pieces and you get minifigures of Wonder Woman, Cheetah and Max.  Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Kim is a Yorkshire-based freelance writer who focuses on Lego and video game-related content. She's the co-creator of GameSpew.com and ThatBrickSite.com, where you'll find most of her work. If she's not building with plastic bricks, playing a video game, or writing about doing either of those things, you should probably check she's still breathing. You can find her on Twitter at @ichangedmyname. Save over $100 on these Vortex Crossfire HD binoculars Lego Technic planet earth and moon in orbit review Perseid meteor shower rains 'shooting stars' over Stonehenge in glorious astrophotography image Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 