Amazon is selling the Apple Watch Ultra for $70 off—it's the cheapest it has ever been. Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? It's 2023 and Apple sells three different smartwatches. There's the Apple Watch Series 8, which looks very similar to last year's Series but adds a few key health and wellness features. There's the Apple Watch SE (Gen 2), which is very similar to the Series 8 but lacks an always-on display and few key sensors; it's currently the most affordable Apple Watch that Apple sells. And then there's Apple Watch Ultra, which is Apple's most rugged, capable and expensive smartwatch ever.  Here's a quick rundown of the three Apple Watch models that Apple currently sells: Apple doesn't sell its older Apple Watch models anymore, which now includes the Series 1 through the 2021-released Series 7. However, you can occasionally find good deals on these from Amazon or elsewhere, and they are worth considering because Apple still supports them via software updates. The only Apple Watch models that don't get the latest watchOS updates are the Series 1, Series 2 and the Series 3 (which has just recently been discontinued) — so don't buy them! Below, you'll find the latest deals on all the relevant Apple Watch models that have been released in the last few years. We regularly update this post to keep you up to date with the latest deals.    (Note: With the above deal, you get an extra $50 off when you add the Ultra to your cart.) No current deals available. Apple and Amazon are selling the new SE for $249+. No current deals available.  As of May 2022, Apple has started to sell refurbished models of the Series 7 on its online store. Starting at $339. No current deals available.  No current deals available.  Early Labor Day Tech Sales up to 49% Off Are Here This AC Cools My Home Gym in a Heat Wave Some Saatva Mattresses Are Nearly $1,000 Off Now Save 40% on Greenworks Leaf Blowers at Amazon How to Save 20% Off Saatva Mattresses Our Gear Editors Found the Best Affordable E-Bikes The Best Deals on Outdoor Speakers for August 2024 Get Ready for Tailgating Season With These Grills  Shop REI Outlet's Massive August Sale  Our Favorite Samsung TV Is $1,000 off at Walmart The Best Shuffleboards, According to Editors  Every Single Apple Watch Is on Sale on Amazon A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.