
	If you purchase something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission.
		 The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Labor Day weekend is a great time to get some shopping done and take advantage of some incredible deals both online and in-store.  We’ve got a full list of deals you should know about at the bottom of this article, but we wanted to focus on Amazon specifically because the big online shop does have Labor Day deals going on. In fact, they’ve got a whole page devoted to the ongoing deals right now that you can check out below.  SHOP AMAZON DEALS We’re going to highlight some of the deals we found while window shopping that we think you should know about in case you want to seize the opportunity on those deals. Remember to act fast because deals are always changing on Amazon, so today’s deal might not be tomorrow’s steal.  Missed out on an iRobot Roomba robot vacuum during Amazon Prime Day? You could save up to 43% on select Roomba robot vacuums right now.  Select gaming laptops are seeing markdowns on Amazon, so this could be a great deal if you’ve been eyeing a laptop for the school year.  DEWALT tools and accessories are seeing discounts. We actually saw their most popular toolkit seeing a limited time deal, so act fast. Select Apple Macbook laptops are seeing a 25% off deal. There’s a promotion going on right now where Amazon.com will give you $15 back. If you purchase select household items and enter the promo code BTSSTOCKUP at checkout, you’ll qualify for $15 Amazon.com bounce back credit.  Get a brand new Sony television along with a PlayStation 5 for up to 27% off. Some top-rated fitness equipment from Bowflex is on sale right now. We’re seeing savings as high as 31%.  The popular Bissell Little Green is on sale for Labor Day.  Dyson air purifiers are some of the most popular air purifiers on the market. They’re seeing markdowns on Amazon right now. You can get a 4K ultra-high definition smart TV for near $200 on Amazon right now.  We’ve talked about Labor Day deals on mattresses, but there’s also mattress deals going on at Amazon, specifically for Casper mattresses. A popular robot vacuum and mop combo is seeing an incredible deal right now. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.