click this icon for latest updates 














  

















Published: December 21, 2022 10:12 AM IST  


 

              By India.com News Desk 





 | Edited by  Snigdha Choudhury 









  New Delhi: Uber, Ola and other aggregators of delivery services may soon have to get a licence to operate in Delhi. Under the Delhi Motor Vehicles Rules, 2022, cab aggretars and other ride-hailing companies will have to share details of drivers and vehicles with the transport department. 

 The rule proposes to regulate cab aggregrators and other delivery services to take “accountability” for the safety of the passengers, according to a report by Hindustan Times.  As per the Delhi Motor Vehicle Aggregator Scheme, the “Aggregator(s) shall ensure registration of all onboarded driver-partners and their vehicles currently in use (at: the portal as notified by the Transport Department, GNCTD), within 3 months from the date of the notification of this scheme”. “The Driver’s License of the driver-partner shall be mandatory, and the registration certificate shall be mandatory for the vehicle(s). In the case of a passenger service vehicle, the PSV badge number would also be required.”

 

“Aggregator shall be required to take appropriate action against the driver partners having 15 percent or more grievances for the rides undertaken by him/her in a period of one month. The data so referred shall be stored/collected by the Aggregator for at least three months from the date of service provided,” it said. Delhi Motor Vehicles Rules, 2022 likely to propose –Registration and licence to operate by the cab aggregators in DelhiA mandatory customer grievance system and safety of passengersDetails of drivers and delivery services need to be shared with the Delhi transport departmentDelhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said, “Delhi is going to be the first state to make rules for regulating the aggregators providing passenger transport and delivery services of good and commodities, including last-mile delivery in the city. Several meetings, including stakeholder consultations, have been held and the rules are in the final stage.” 

When Will The New Rules Comes Into ForceNo date has been announced as to when the new proposed rules will come into force. However, it is expected that the proposed rules may come into effect from next year. Meanwhile, no decision has also been made about regulating cab fares in the national capital.







Also Read:  


  


Delhivery Acquires Pune-Based Algorhythm Tech To Boost Supply Chain


 
 


  


Ola Uber strike: 6 things the drivers are demanding to end the strike!


 
  
For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Delhi News on India.com.
                


Topics
DelhiOlaUber 




More Stories













   As per the Delhi Motor Vehicle Aggregator Scheme, the “Aggregator(s) shall ensure registration of all onboarded driver-partners and their vehicles currently in use (at: the portal as notified by the Transport Department, GNCTD), within 3 months from the date of the notification of this scheme”. “The Driver’s License of the driver-partner shall be mandatory, and the registration certificate shall be mandatory for the vehicle(s). In the case of a passenger service vehicle, the PSV badge number would also be required.”  “Aggregator shall be required to take appropriate action against the driver partners having 15 percent or more grievances for the rides undertaken by him/her in a period of one month. The data so referred shall be stored/collected by the Aggregator for at least three months from the date of service provided,” it said. Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said, “Delhi is going to be the first state to make rules for regulating the aggregators providing passenger transport and delivery services of good and commodities, including last-mile delivery in the city. Several meetings, including stakeholder consultations, have been held and the rules are in the final stage.” No date has been announced as to when the new proposed rules will come into force. However, it is expected that the proposed rules may come into effect from next year. Meanwhile, no decision has also been made about regulating cab fares in the national capital. For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Delhi News on India.com.
                 Shillong Teer Lottery- Wednesday- August 07, 2024- 1st and 2nd Round Winning Numbers OUT SOON - LIVE Updates Shillong Teer Lottery Results- TODAY- August 07, 2024- First And Second Round Winning Codes OUT SOON Shillong Teer Lottery- Monday- August 06, 2024- 1st and 2nd Round Winning Numbers OUT - Latest Updates Bodoland Lottery Result Today(07-08-2024): Assam State Lucky Draw Lucky(Soon); Check Winners List, Ticket Number Nagaland State Lottery Result 07.08.2024 For 1PM, 6PM, 8PM LIVE: Check Dear INDUS MORNING Rs. 1 Crore Lucky Draw Winning Numbers To Be OUT SHORTLY Watch: Woman Attacks Uber Driver With Pepper Spray; Netizens Call It An Act Of ‘Racism’ Paris Olympics 2024: Double Medallist Manu Bhaker And Jaspal Rana Get Grand Reception After Landing In New Delhi Petrol, Diesel Rates Today: Check Top City Wise Petrol Prices In India On 7th August 2024 IMD Weather Update: Heavy Rains Predicted for Himachal Pradesh | Here's How Delhi's Climate Will Be Sheikh Hasina In 'Protective Custody' Of Indian Intelligence Services, UK Says 'No Provision' For Asylum By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts Cookies Policy. 