Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Delhivery Friday September 15, 2023 , 3 min Read Delhivery, India's foremost integrated logistics services provider, has introduced 'LocateOne', a groundbreaking location intelligence solution, marking another stride in its mission to transform the logistics and supply chain sector.  This addition to ﻿Delhivery﻿'s growing suite of software solutions on the OS1 platform comes hot on the heels of the successful introduction of ‘DispatchOne’, a cutting-edge delivery management solution launched earlier this year. The OS1 platform offers a comprehensive suite of software solutions tailored to empower businesses to streamline their logistics and supply chain operations. Developed entirely in-house, OS1 leverages Delhivery's extensive 10+ years of experience in crafting cutting-edge technology solutions for the logistics industry.  LocateOne is an API-based location intelligence stack poised to transform how businesses manage their location data. Its capabilities extend far beyond the mere pinpointing of addresses. Instead, it takes on the challenge of enhancing inaccurate and sub-par address data, boosting rooftop accuracy, and combating address fraud across various sectors, including retail, consumer packaged goods (CPG), ecommerce, fintech, banking, and financial services. This innovative solution builds upon Delhivery's patented address disambiguation and address identification technology.  Emphasising the importance of LocateOne, Kshitij Chopra, Head of Product, OS1, said, "LocateOne is built upon our extensive experience of delivering over two billion shipments to more than 18,500 pin codes. Our machine learning algorithms further refine this ground-level data, providing precise location insights via LocateOne." This ensures businesses can confidently rely on accurate location data, reducing errors and improving operational efficiency. Alongside LocateOne, Delhivery's OS1 platform also includes DispatchOne. This SaaS-based delivery management solution caters to Courier Express Parcel (CEP) players and businesses operating in Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), consumer durables, retail, and manufacturing. DispatchOne's primary goal is to optimise last-mile delivery and distribution operations, offering businesses centralised, real-time visibility across orders and a means to reduce operational costs through resource optimisation.  Kapil Bharati, Chief Technology Officer and Executive Director, Delhivery, shared the company's vision for the OS1 platform, stating, "In line with our vision to become the operating system for commerce, we are thrilled to add more solutions to the OS1 platform. In our journey of 10+ years in logistics, we have built these solutions in-house with a deep understanding of the day-to-day challenges faced by operators.”  He further added that OS1 is a great opportunity for businesses to leverage their validated solutions and achieve operational excellence without having to reinvent the wheel. Delhivery's commitment to innovation is further demonstrated by its recent launch of Delhivery One, a digital shipping platform designed to cater to the diverse needs of micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), as well as large direct-to-consumer (D2C) ecommerce brands across India. With a track record of fulfilling over two billion shipments and serving more than 26,500 customers, Delhivery stands at the forefront of logistics technology, setting new standards for operational efficiency and customer satisfaction.  As Delhivery continues to expand its software suite and enhance its technology offerings, businesses across India and beyond can look forward to a future where logistics and supply chain operations are more streamlined and efficient than ever before. 1 2 How a broken back helped this IIT alumnus find his true calling and launch a startup 3 Flipkart honours Rakhi crafters preserving India’s cultural legacy this Raksha Bandhan  4 Is Tier 3 India Ready for Its Own DMart? 5 Gaana.com: The Once Billion-Dollar Music Streaming Giant Sold for Just Rs.25 Lakhs! The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.