Pakodas are the ultimate tea-time snack in India and there is no denying this. The best part? Making them is pretty simple. You pick your favourite vegetable, dip it into spiced gram flour batter and fry them till they are crispy and golden brown. But in today's digital world, every humble snack is a victim of some bizarre food experiment and the latest on the list is the pakoda. What is this new experiment you ask? Meet Dairy Milk Silk pakoda. Yes, the popular chocolate bar has now been transformed into a pakoda and a video of this dish has gone viral on social media, earning millions of views along the way. While the views continue to rise, foodies on the internet are clear that they 'hate' the dish.Also Read: Watch: Man Makes Dairy Milk Omelette; Internet ConfusedIn the video, a whole Dairy Milk Silk chocolate bar is dipped in a bowl of thick gram flour batter. After it is coated completely, the vendor fries the chocolate bar in hot oil. When the batter turns golden and crispy, the Dairy Milk Silk pakoda is cut in half and served. Take a look at this viral video below:View this post on InstagramA post shared by SUMIT SONI (@foodienovavlogs)More than three million people have watched this video, leaving thousands of comments and likes. “Bas issi tarah uppar narak mein bhi tel garam ho raha hai (Just like this, oil is getting heated in hell)”, one user wrote. “Isse acha to Sooryavansham waali kheer kha lo guys (It's better to eat Sooryavansham's (movie) kheer than eating this)”, added another.Also Read: Street Vendor Makes Bizarre Fried Idli, Internet Calls It "Disaster"A person commented, “Agar mein yeh video dekhne ke baad zinda bacha to zaroor khaunga (If I will be alive even after watching this video, then I will definitely eat this)". Someone penned, “Dairy milk. My love. Tum logon ne usko bhi maar dala. Pata hai kitni yaadein juri hai dairy milk ke saath. (Dairy Milk is my love and you people killed it. Do you even know how many memories are attached to Dairy Milk?)" “Emotional damage”, read one comment.What are your views on this unique chocolate pakoda recipe? Tell us in the comment section below.Advertisement
                                             Comments  A post shared by SUMIT SONI (@foodienovavlogs) More than three million people have watched this video, leaving thousands of comments and likes. “Bas issi tarah uppar narak mein bhi tel garam ho raha hai (Just like this, oil is getting heated in hell)”, one user wrote. “Isse acha to Sooryavansham waali kheer kha lo guys (It's better to eat Sooryavansham's (movie) kheer than eating this)”, added another.Also Read: Street Vendor Makes Bizarre Fried Idli, Internet Calls It "Disaster"A person commented, “Agar mein yeh video dekhne ke baad zinda bacha to zaroor khaunga (If I will be alive even after watching this video, then I will definitely eat this)". Someone penned, “Dairy milk. My love. Tum logon ne usko bhi maar dala. Pata hai kitni yaadein juri hai dairy milk ke saath. (Dairy Milk is my love and you people killed it. Do you even know how many memories are attached to Dairy Milk?)" “Emotional damage”, read one comment.What are your views on this unique chocolate pakoda recipe? Tell us in the comment section below.Advertisement
                                             Comments  What are your views on this unique chocolate pakoda recipe? Tell us in the comment section below.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Listen to the latest songs, only on JioSaavn.com