[Source] South Korean Ambassador Chang Jae-bok went viral on Twitter for his dance cover of “Naatu Naatu.” Uploaded by Korean Embassy India (@RokEmbIndia) on Saturday, the video features Chang and the embassy staff dancing to the Oscar-nominated song from the Telugu-language movie “RRR.” We are happy to share with you the Korean Embassy's Naatu Naatu dance cover. See the Korean Ambassador Chang Jae-bok along with the embassy staff Naatu Naatu!! pic.twitter.com/r2GQgN9fwC — Korean Embassy India (@RokEmbIndia) February 25, 2023 More from NextShark: Daniel Dae Kim Speaks Out on ‘Drastic’ Pay Cut He Got From ‘Hawaii Five-0’ “Do you know Naatu?” the tweet reads. “We are happy to share with you the Korean Embassy’s Naatu Naatu dance cover. See the Korean Ambassador Chang Jae-bok along with the embassy staff Naatu Naatu!!” Like the scene in the film, which saw Alluri Raju (Ram Charan) and Komaram Bheem (N.T. Rama Rao Jr.) dancing in formal clothing, the embassy staff members can be seen wearing their best outfits, including formal wear, traditional Korean hanboks and Indian sarees and kameez.  More from NextShark: Adele Lim makes directorial debut with actress Ashley Park to 'platform so much AAPI magic' The Twitter video quickly garnered attention on the social media platform, receiving over 44,600 likes and 8,830 retweets as of this writing. “Lively and adorable team effort,” Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote in response to the clip.  More from NextShark: More step forward to accuse Korean actor Nam Joo-hyuk of bullying after his agency denies claims Lively and adorable team effort. https://t.co/K2YqN2obJ2 — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) February 26, 2023 More from NextShark: Eric Nam, Raveena to headline The Smithsonian’s National Museum of Asian Art centennial celebration “Thank you so much to your team for this adorable performance,” State Commissioner Rahul Singh wrote, while journalist Ashok Shrivastav sent “Lot’s of love.” Thank you so much to your team for this adorable performance. ❤ — Rahul Singh (@rahulreports) February 26, 2023 Lot's of love — Ashok Shrivastav (@AshokShrivasta6) February 26, 2023 Featuring actors Ram Charan and N.T. Rama Rao Jr., “RRR” details a fictional story of Indian revolutionaries.  As the film’s central dance number, “Naatu Naatu” won India’s first-ever Golden Globe award for Best Song earlier this year. The song has also been nominated for Best Song at the Oscars.   New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.