The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Expert Reviewed
									 Have a question for Heidi Borst or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Heidi Borst,
                                                    Adrienne Youdim, M.D., F.A.C.P.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. If you’re trying to lose weight, you may be tempted to cut calories, but eating too little can put your health at risk. In fact, research shows a diet of less than 1,000 calories a day generally fails to provide the balanced nutrition your body needs, and it can lead to vitamin and mineral deficiencies associated with serious health issues[1]Weight Loss by Limiting Calories. University of Michigan Health. Accessed 1/05/2022. . What’s more, eating far fewer calories than you need causes your body to break down its own muscle and organ tissues for fuel. And the less lean tissue mass you have, the slower your metabolic rate, which is not ideal for weight loss. So instead of restricting your caloric intake, focus on feeding your body healthier foods—it’s a more effective weight loss strategy, says Jamie Feit, a registered dietitian nutritionist and founder of Jamie Feit Nutrition in White Plains, New York. Here are the best foods to support a healthy and sustainable weight loss plan, according to experts. Weight control is primarily a hormonal response to certain foods, says Matthew Olesiak, M.D., chief medical director of health technology company SANESolution based in Bellevue, Washington. “Hormones send signals to the brain that influence our cravings, hunger and body weight,” he says. Here’s how certain foods affect your hunger hormones: Protein fills you up quickly and keeps you full for a long time. It also decreases post-meal secretions of the hunger hormone ghrelin, thus reducing feelings of hunger, says Dr. Olesiak. “Protein also takes more energy to digest and increases lean muscle mass, both of which help boost metabolism,” he says. Dietary fiber slows digestion and ensures a gradual rise in blood glucose levels, which triggers a slower release of the fat-storage hormone insulin, explains Dr. Olesiak. “As fiber moves through the digestive system, various satiety hormones (like ghrelin) are released, sending signals to the brain to reduce hunger and regulate food intake,” he says. That means you’ll stay fuller longer, which can help prevent overeating and reduce your overall caloric intake, says Kara Landau, a registered dietitian, gut health expert and founder of snack brand Uplift Food in Brooklyn, New York. “Prebiotic soluble fiber also feeds the beneficial bacteria living in your large intestine, which improves gut health,” she adds. Ultra-processed foods are low in nutrients and fiber, so they’re digested quickly, says Dr. Olesiak. “As a result, eating them (think potato chips, candy bars and toaster pastries) causes a rapid rise in blood glucose levels, which triggers a significant release of insulin,” he says. Because insulin must clear glucose from your bloodstream quickly, most of those calories are sent to your fat cells, he explains. “Ideally, you’ll dip into these stored calories the next time you need energy. However, eating a steady supply of ultra-processed foods means you’ll continually make deposits to your fat cells, never withdrawals,” says Dr. Olesiak.
 Significantly restricting calories isn’t necessary; in fact, it’s not advisable, says Dr. Olesiak. Rather, the safest and most sustainable way to lose weight is to enjoy whole, unprocessed, high-quality foods. “These foods naturally control your hunger, increase your metabolism and promote fat burning,” he says. Omit as many processed foods, fried foods and refined sugars as possible, adds Feit, and pay attention to portion size. “A great strategy is to use the plate method, where your plate is composed of half fruits and vegetables, a quarter of lean protein, and a quarter of fiber-filled carbohydrates,” she says. Eating a variety of clean, unprocessed foods can improve your gut health, too, says Landau. “Good gut health is not only linked to a stronger insulin response (which decreases fat stored around the midsection), but also can help decrease inflammation and improve immunity, both of which will have you feeling better physically and mentally so you can stay on track to achieve your weight loss goals,” she adds. The following foods can support weight loss and boost your overall health in a variety of ways. Lean protein sources like chicken, turkey and grass-fed lean beef help keep you full, decrease cravings and stabilize blood sugar, says Feit. Plant-based proteins like legumes, beans and lentils have the same benefits, and they’re high in fiber as well, so they promote satiety. Eggs contain almost every essential vitamin (with the exception of Vitamin C), plus minerals like phosphorus, calcium and potassium. Along with being a source of complete protein, eggs are also adaptable for different tastes, says Feit. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Vegetables of all kinds can assist with weight loss, says Feit. For example, cruciferous vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts and cabbage are high in fiber and vitamins and help reduce digestive issues. Meanwhile, dark green leafy vegetables contain protein and are a good source of vitamins, minerals and fiber. And crunchy vegetables like celery and jicama are great low-calorie options for snacking. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Avocados are totally underrated, says Feit. The fruit is high in fiber and is a quality source of healthy fat, making it a great food for decreasing hunger. But since it is a fat source, avocado is calorically dense, so it’s important to remain mindful of portion size. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Apples are high in fiber and antioxidants, says Feit. The fruit also has anti-inflammatory properties and contains phytochemicals and vitamin C. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Berries are high in fiber, antioxidants and vitamin C—all things that your body needs to function optimally, says Feit. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Nuts and seeds have different health benefits, says Feit. All nuts are a good source of fiber, protein and healthy fat, and they help decrease hunger. Meanwhile, seeds are a great source of minerals and healthy fat. Watch your portions here, too. One serving of nuts and seeds is equivalent to a quarter cup. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Salmon is high in protein and omega-3 fatty acids, says Rima Kleiner, registered dietitian nutritionist and founder of wellness coaching company Smart Mouth Nutrition in Greensboro, North Carolina. Research suggests omega-3 fatty acids may help people with weight classified as overweight or obesity feel fuller[2]Parra D, Ramel A, Bandarra N, Kiely M, Martínez JA, Thorsdottir I. A diet rich in long chain omega-3 fatty acids modulates satiety in overweight and obese volunteers during weight loss. Appetite. 2008;51(3):676-80. . And fish in general may help you feel satisfied and fuller longer than other proteins like eggs and beef, says Kleiner. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Shrimp promotes increased feelings of satiety, says Kleiner. Eating shrimp appears to decrease appetite by stimulating the production of cholecystokinin, or CCK, a hormone that signals to your stomach that you’re satisfied. Plus, shrimp and other shellfish contain zinc and selenium, two important minerals for immune health and increased energy. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Lupini beans are high in prebiotic fiber that feeds the beneficial bacteria in your gut, says Landau. “When your gut bacteria is well nourished, the number and type of bacteria present multiplies. A well-populated and diverse microbiome improves gut health, which makes your cells more responsive to insulin, helping to remove fat stored around the waist,” she says. Buy Now: Available on Amazon

What aspect of your health are you planning on prioritizing in 2024?


My physical health
50% 



My mental health
40% 



My oral health
9% 





 Unripe bananas contain one of the world’s richest sources of prebiotic-resistant starch, says Landau. Prebiotic-resistant starch makes your cells more responsive to insulin, helping to prevent fat storage around your waistline. Combined with protein (say, in a smoothie with a protein powder and/or nut butter), it can keep you satisfied for hours. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Raw oats are full of resistant starch—a type of starch that resists digestion—which is very weight loss-friendly, says Landau. In the process of digestion, resistant starch releases byproducts that can make your cells more responsive to insulin, helping to reduce stubborn fat around your midsection. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Sauerkraut, or fermented cabbage, is both a prebiotic and probiotic food, says Dr. Olesiak, meaning it adds beneficial bacteria to your gastrointestinal tract and feeds the good bacteria already there. Sauerkraut is also high in fiber, helping control appetite and regulate blood glucose levels, he says. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Legumes have a positive effect on satiety and gut health, says Landau. Their high fiber content keeps you feeling fuller for longer, which prevents overeating. Plus, they contain nutrients that nourish your gut bacteria, too. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Eat Smarter With Noom Powered by technology, coaches and psychology, Noom teaches you tips and tricks to develop a positive relationship with food so you can enjoy the foods you love without guilt or shame. Chia seeds can help with weight control in two ways, says Dr. Olesiak. First, they’re loaded with fiber that can help you feel full, preventing overeating. Second, they expand in water, so if you eat them in their unsoaked form, they grow in your stomach, taking up more space and becoming a natural appetite suppressant. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Water isn’t a food, but it’s just as important when it comes to healthy weight loss. “All of our body processes need water to function—metabolism is one of these processes,” says Feit, so be sure to stay well-hydrated. Buy Now: Available on Amazon Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Heidi Borst is a freelance journalist, healthcare content writer and certified nutrition coach with a love of all things health and wellness. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, National Geographic, Good Housekeeping, MSN, Yahoo and more. Based in Wilmington, North Carolina, Borst is a lifelong runner and general fitness enthusiast who is passionate about the physical and mental benefits of sleep and self-care.
			 
				Dr. Adrienne Youdim is an internist who specializes in medical weight loss and clinical nutrition. After receiving her degree from the University of California San Diego School of Medicine, Dr. Youdim completed her residency training and fellowship at Cedars-Sinai, where she later became the medical director for the Center for Weight Loss. She holds multiple board certifications awarded by the American Board of Internal Medicine, the National Board of Physician Nutrition Specialists and the American Board of Obesity Medicine. She is also a Fellow of the American College of Physicians. 
 
Dr. Youdim currently sees patients in her private practice in Beverly Hills, California. She is the author of the text, Clinician's Guide to the Treatment of Obesity and her new book Hungry for More: Stories and Science to Inspire Weight Loss from the Inside Out explores the emotional and spiritual hungers that present as a hunger for food, validating universal experiences through story and science. She also hosts the Health Bite podcast and is founder of Dehl Nutrition, a complete line of nutritional supplements made with functional nutrients to promote health and wellbeing. Dr. Youdim is a national speaker sought after by the media and has been featured on The Doctors, Dr. Phil, Dr. Oz, ABC news, Inside Edition, National Public Radio among other news outlets. 
