Digital & Trend reports Overview and forecasts on trending topics Industry & Market reports Industry and market insights and forecasts Companies & Products reports Key figures and rankings about companies and products Consumer & Brand reports Consumer and brand insights and preferences in various industries Politics & Society reports Detailed information about political and social topics Country & Region reports All key figures about countries and regions 
                    Market forecast and expert KPIs for 1000+ markets in 190+ countries & territories
                 
                            Insights on consumer attitudes and behavior worldwide
                         
                    Business information on 100m+ public and private companies
                 Explore Company Insights
                         
                        Detailed information for 39,000+ online stores and marketplaces
                     
                    Directly accessible data for 170 industries from 150+ countries
                    and over 1 Mio. facts.
                 Statista+ offers additional, data-driven services, tailored to your specific needs. As your partner for data-driven success, we combine expertise in research, strategy, and marketing communications to deliver comprehensive solutions. Contact us directly for your individual offer. Full-service market research and analytics Strategy and business building for the data-driven economy Transforming data into content marketing and design Statista R identifies and awards industry leaders, top providers, and exceptional brands through exclusive rankings and top lists in collaboration with renowned media brands worldwide. For more details, visit our website. To access all Premium Statistics, you need a paid Statista Account 
                                    Additional Information
                                 
                                Show sources information
                            
                                Show publisher information
                            
                                Use Ask Statista Research Service
                             Data provided by Statista Market Insights are estimates.Definition: The Platform-to-Consumer Delivery market focuses on online delivery services that provide customers with meals from partner restaurants that do not necessarily have to offer food delivery themselves. In this case, the platform (e.g. Deliveroo) handles the delivery process. Additional Information: Revenue includes the gross merchandise value (GMV), defined as the total sales dollar value for merchandise/food sold through the Online Food Delivery marketplace. User and revenue figures represent B2C services. Definition: Additional Information: B2C E-Commerce Market size of the global online food delivery sector 2017-2028, by segment B2C E-Commerce Main food delivery apps in the UK 2023, by downloads Food & Drink Services Average transaction value (ATV) of Just Eat Takeaway.com 2019-2023, by region Food & Drink Services Number of Just Eat Takeaway.com orders worldwide 2019-2023, by region To download this statistic in XLS format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PNG format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PDF format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PPT format you need a Statista Account As a Premium user you get access to the detailed source references and background information about this statistic. As a Premium user you get access to background information and details about the release of this statistic. As soon as this statistic is updated, you will immediately be notified via e-mail. … to incorporate the statistic into your presentation at any time. You need at least a Starter Account to use this feature. 
                Industry overview
             
                Company information
             
                Consumers
             Further related statistics