If you're prone to gout, your diet can play a crucial role in keeping your joints pain-free. Learn what foods to avoid and what to eat to prevent a flare. Anne Harding is a health and science writer with experience covering topics in psychology, neuroscience, nutrition, and ecology. Her work has appeared in CNN.com, Time.com, Everyday Health, Reuters Health, LiveScience, More magazine, and TimeOut New York. Oscar Wong / Getty Images  Gout is a form of arthritis that causes swollen and stiff joints. Your body and food have a substance called uric acid that usually dissolves in the bloodstream.
  For some people who may be predisposed, uric acid doesn't fully dissolve. Instead, it builds up to form needle-like crystals. When those crystals build up in the joints, gout occurs.
  Gout is incredibly painful, and certain foods can worsen it. A flare-up of gout can be caused by red meat and other foods. However, there are also foods that can help prevent it. Here's what to know about how diet affects gout.
  The foods you eat can affect the levels of uric acid in your blood. High levels can increase the likelihood of these crystals forming, causing a flare-up. Low uric acid levels can help prevent a gout attack.
  Foods high in purines tend to up your uric acid levels. Purines are molecules that make up your DNA and serve other functions. You need a certain amount or purines in your diet, but not too much.
  High levels of purines can up your risk of not only gout, but also high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, kidney diseases, and metabolic syndrome. However, some foods can actually lower your risk of gout.
  Generally, you'll want to limit your intake of any food or beverage that will increase the level of uric acid in your blood, including the high-purine foods listed below. You'll also want to cut back or cut out foods and drinks high in the sugar fructose.
  Red meat is a prime example of a food that contains high levels of purine. Red meat includes beef, lamb, and pork.
  Your body breaks down purine into uric acid. As a result, your blood levels go up, which increases the chance of crystals building up in your joints, causing a flare-up.
  Red meats have higher amounts of two specific purines called hypoxanthine and adenine than other foods. These two purines have been shown to increase the risk for gout.
  Alcohol, in general, puts you at a higher risk for a gout attack, according to a review published in 2017 in the Journal of Advanced Research. However, beer has the highest risk of worsening gout symptoms compared to liquor and wine.
  Wine is the better choice, but heavy drinking is a bad idea for everyone, particularly people who get gout. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends no more than 1–2 alcoholic beverages a day.
  Healthcare providers usually recommend that you abstain from alcohol during a gout flare.
  A wide range of seafood has been linked to a higher risk of gout. If you have gout or are at risk of developing gout, you may want to limit these kinds in particular:
  These seafoods are rich in purines, which can cause uric acid levels to increase. This additional uric acid can easily cause a build-up and further irritate gout symptoms.
  You have a little more freedom in your food choices when your gout is at bay, but it's still a good idea to keep meat and seafood intake to a minimum.
  Purines aren't the reason you should limit sweetened drinks; sugar is. Fructose, especially, can increase uric acid levels, upping your chance of a flare-up.
  Cut back on beverages sweetened with high-fructose corn syrup, such as non-diet sodas or "fruit" drinks. The sweeteners in these drinks will stimulate the body to produce more uric acid.
  Animal-based products tend to be high in purines in general, but some organ meats have especially high levels. Like with red meat, adenine and hypoxanthine purines are also high in this food group.
  Organ meats, such as liver, kidneys, and sweetbreads, should be consumed in limited amounts. These meats can increase the levels of uric acid in your blood. Limiting your intake of these meats can reduce the likeliness of a gout flare-up.
  Gout flares up because of high uric acid levels in your body. There aren't necessarily any foods that will help lower those levels during a flare-up, but you may benefit from staying away from high-purine foods, which can cause uric acid levels to increase even more.
  Keep in mind that not all purine sources are equal. Animal-based purine sources tend to be associated with an increased risk of gout, but high-purine vegetables don't seem to up your risk.
  Low-purine diets are your best bet if you're trying to prevent a gout flare-up. The DASH diet and Mediterranean diet have both been recommended to help prevent gout. Both are rich in vegetables and include a limited amount of meat.
  You can also try the following foods, which have all be shown to help reduce uric acid levels:
  Plant oils like olive, sunflower, and soy oil have also been associated with a lower risk for gout.
  The reason food is effective only up to a certain point in reducing gout is because about 70% of the uric acid in your blood is made by your body. So a low-purine diet can only help with the other 30%.
  If you're very overweight, losing weight may help. However, fasting is not advised because it can trigger a gout attack. Consult a dietician about dietary changes if you have gout and are trying to lose weight.
  If you're taking any medications for gout, make sure to take them as directed. Also note, some medications like Aspirin and diuretics (aka water pills) can trigger gout pain. Talk to your healthcare provider about the medications you are taking, including over-the-counter medicines and supplements.
  Gout is a painful form of arthritis. Whether or not you have a flare-up may depend on what you're eating. You may benefit the most by limiting certain high-purine foods like red meat, some seafoods, and organ meats, as well as alcohol. You should also stay away from sugary foods and sweetened beverages.
  High-purine plants don't have the same purines as their animal-based counterparts and won't increase your risk of gout. Some foods like low-fat dairy products can even lower your risk of gout.
  Losing weight can help reduce gout in people who are very overweight, but fasting can trigger an attack. Always consult with a healthcare provider or nutritionist to get the right dietary recommendations for your specific needs.
 MedlinePlus. Gout. U.S. Department of Agriculture. USDA and ODS-NIH Database for the Purine Content of Foods. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Gout. Ragab G, Elshahaly M, Bardin T. Gout: An old disease in new perspective – A review. J Adv Res. 2017;8(5):495-511. doi:10.1016/j.jare.2017.04.008 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020-2025 and online materials. George C, Minter DA. Hyperuricemia. In: StatPearls. StatPearls Publishing; 2023. Jakše B, Jakše B, Pajek M, Pajek J. Uric acid and plant-based nutrition. Nutrients. 2019;11(8):1736. doi:10.3390/nu11081736 Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care. What can I do on my own to prevent gout attacks? InformedHealth.org [Internet]; 2018.