
 Enterprise software development companies offer a wide range of solutions that help organizations scale and become more efficient in achieving their goals. They provide greater control over data storage, improve workflows, and increase employee productivity, which results in high customer satisfaction and sales revenue. The digital landscape continues to evolve as new advancements are being innovated. Businesses require the latest technologies to support their large enterprise operations, such as customer relationship management, enterprise communication, and etc. The solutions of enterprise software development serve the needs of large businesses. They are more tailored to each department and are more complex, given the scale of an organization. The service is a specialized field of software engineering that involves an in-depth understanding of business processes so an enterprise software development company can integrate the appropriate solution into an organization's development plan. Meanwhile, regular or standard software development caters to smaller groups of users to produce high-quality software that meets customer expectations. From mobile apps and other online platforms, it deals with more straightforward projects and involves a simpler development process compared to enterprise software development. Outlined below are the top 5 best enterprise software development companies in 2023: Founded in 2012, Rikkeisoft is an award-winning enterprise software development company based in Vietnam whose presence thrives across the US and the APAC region. Trusted by over 500 worldwide clients, the global services provider is known for its deep understanding of complex systems and technologies of enterprises, including but not limited to Cloud, Data Analytics, Business Intelligence, AI, and legacy software. Rikkeisoft has been leveraging its expertise in enterprise software development to empower mid-size and Fortune 1000 companies with innovative solutions for over a decade. As the number one private tech company in Vietnam, it has unrivaled access to the resourceful and competitive workforce in Southeast Asian markets, enriching and expanding its talent pool that can adapt to demanding business requirements as the technology landscape evolves. The enterprise software development company houses over 1600 tech professionals with diverse skill sheets and experience across many industries, including finance, retail, automotive, and healthcare. Recently, Rikkeisoft has expanded its roots in the US with its latest subsidiary RKTech Corp, to bridge the gap between the Vietnam-based services provider and enterprises worldwide. Each subsidiary under its ecosystem specializes in a unique domain: Rikkei Digital focuses on consulting and offering digital transformation solutions for enterprises. Rikkei Academy is dedicated to IT resource training. Rikkei AI Research delves into researching and developing AI application solutions. Rikkei Venture Builder focuses on investing in high-tech application projects. The diversified technology ecosystem has led to the sustainable growth of Rikkeisoft, which now exists as a reliable partner of global enterprises. From working with over 500 clients, Rikkeisoft has launched over a thousand successful projects and maintained a 97% retention rate and 91% satisfaction rate. With offices and delivery centers in Thailand, Japan, and the US, the Vietnam-based enterprise software development company affirms its position in the tech landscape as a partner for organizations looking for robust, scalable, and innovative solutions. Rikkeisoft strives to meet and exceed the world's standards by having a team of high-class professionals to deliver its enterprise software development services and cost-efficient solutions that transform businesses to achieve their goals. Equipped with 11 years of industry expertise and an in-depth understanding of enterprises' challenges, Rikkeisoft offers enterprise software development consulting for mid-size and Fortune 1000 companies. The service provider ensures its clients can stay ahead of their competitors through a cost-effective development process. Enterprise software development security involves identifying an infrastructure's critical vulnerabilities. Rikkeisoft implements encryptions and protocols so businesses can operate freely without worrying about any risks or disruptions, ensuring a smooth flow of operations. Software integration allows seamless communication between existing software and applications with the new technology. Rikkeisoft handles all levels of complex integration from architectural design, testing, debugging, and execution. The enterprise software development company tailors its software testing solutions based on the unique needs of its clients to deliver optimized results. Rikkeisoft also conducts quality assurance (QA) to identify the issues with a detailed explanation of how to resolve them. Rikkeisoft also offers a complete cycle of mobile app development service as an enterprise-class solution for mid-sized and Fortune 1000 companies. Clients can expect a functional, reliable, and scalable mobile application that matches the robust applications of their business. The specialties of Rikkeisoft extend beyond enterprise software development. The company offers web development and accessibility that covers web frontend design, backend development, custom web applications, and SaaS application development. Its professionals can turn a website's concept, vision, or idea into reality. Rikkeisoft has two work models for the delivery of its enterprise software development services: an offshore delivery team for its overseas clients and a project-based team for a highly targeted outcome. A group composed of project managers, developers, analysts, and designs is selected to deliver tailor-made solutions to achieve the client's desired result. The enterprise software development company ensures fast delivery of its projects as 98% of them are finished within pre-defined timelines and budget scopes, a reality made possible due to its team's extensive experience in identifying stakeholder requirements, managing projects, and collaborating remotely. With its commitment to excellence and a fresh perspective for innovations, Rikkeisoft effectively addresses business bottlenecks and ensures organizational resilience for its clients.   Vention is a premier global leader in enterprise software development. Based in New York, it provides access to a global pool of talents to equip technology leaders with the world's best software engineers from the most respected tech hubs. For over 20 years, it has offered durable and scalable solutions for the most successful tech-empowered enterprises, industry innovators, and startups. By honoring its pillars of collaboration, innovation, expertise, and solution-driven mentality, it ensures the materialization of its client's product vision and sets them up for success. Vention tailors its enterprise software development services according to the client's needs. It pairs its time-tested best practices with cutting-edge technologies to deliver scalable solutions that grow with the business. The company offers a wide range of services, including mobile apps, web development, QA and testing, cloud development, and UI/UX design. Vention's team dives into the existing infrastructure to identify the strengths and weaknesses so all resources are appropriately utilized and allocated during the design and build phases of the enterprise software. With a diverse portfolio of successful design projects, it delivers stylish and visually appealing solutions to match any organization's branding. The enterprise software company also ensures speed, stability, and scalability attributes are present in every development project it accepts, incorporating the latest and most appropriate technologies to build high-quality software. To ensure expectations are met, Vention conducts regular check-ins so the client's feedback is considered at every stage of the software life cycle. Once the enterprise software is deployed, Vention extends its availability in case of refinement, ensuring the product is fully optimized to function without error so businesses are set up for inevitable success. Trusted by world-renowned companies like Coca-Cola, PayPal, and IBM, Vention promises impeccable delivery and solid partnerships when chosen for its enterprise software development services. Founded in 2002, Gorilla Logic offers world-class enterprise software development and consulting services for growing organizations and Fortune 500 companies. With over 500 employees and four office locations, clients have relied on the provider's Agile teams to enhance their existing resources, reduce time-to-market, and set them up for success. Equipped with industry expertise and a passion for delivering high-quality service, Gorilla Logic is committed to providing products organizations can rely on. Gorilla Logic prides itself on teams that continue to up-skill to recommend enterprise software development solutions that fit their client's needs. By continually investigating the latest technologies, the company excels in delivering world-class services, including responsive web application development, mobile apps, application testing, and application security. The enterprise software development company ensures no potential security risks in every app by identifying potential threats beforehand and protecting existing and new applications with security features like single sign-on. It also conducts performance tuning so the enterprise web applications operate at high performance and are easy to use. Gorilla Logic utilizes AMP (accelerated mobile pages) to provide lightning-fast, intuitive, mobile-friendly web apps. Sharing the same code between apps reduces the time-to-market, resulting in faster design and delivery of full-stack web applications. From concept to deployment, its team works closely with its clients to match the best technology for custom enterprise software development solutions. MentorMate offers personalized, in-depth technical guidance for organizations on a global scale. For over twenty years, the company has been leveraging its expertise in enterprise software development to materialize the software ideas of its clients. Together with its partners in Bulgaria, it has completed over 1500 projects. Since 2001, hundreds of organizations have trusted the enterprise software development company to guide their vision, design innovative products, and deliver secure solutions. MentorMate customizes its services based on the organization's needs, ensuring the solutions scale as the business grows. The services are web development, quality assurance, mobile development, enterprise architecture, and systems integration. MentorMate builds applications that not only work for businesses but also their end-users. From designing a complex enterprise platform with a backend database or a responsive web app, the company ensures its solutions operate smoothly and deliver a consistent experience across all platforms. Well-versed in comprehensive testing best practices, MentorMate uses its mix of manual testing, compatibility testing, and other QA services to identify, fix, and prevent software quality issues. The enterprise software company also offers standalone quality assessment and a managed-service automation framework for clients looking to manage costs, fast-track deployment, or increase test coverage. Given the complexity of software systems, MentorMate aims to simplify the process to create a cohesive software ecosystem. With experience in API development, DevOps, and automation strategies, the company ensures all systems are seamlessly integrated to propel the business forward. Zco Corporation is a leading enterprise software development company based in New Hampshire. It has a team of over 250 professional and skilled programmers, artists, and project managers to deliver its services. The company has a unique portfolio of projects spanning interactive augmented reality experiences to enterprise-scale cloud storage solutions. Catering to startups and Fortune 500 companies, the industry leader utilizes multiple development technologies to make apps scalable and future-proof. Zco Corporation offers enterprise software development as a service tailored to optimize business processes with a fully functional, fast, and scalable solution. It takes into account the users' day-to-day needs to transform the approach of how an organization achieves its goals. It utilizes powerful technologies like custom PHP development and native languages like Swift and Kotlin to design web and mobile apps. The company begins by assessing the project's requirements and software life cycle. The scope needs to be defined so its project managers and account executives can develop a plan of action to outline the time and resources required. Zco Corporation then lays out the technical requirements from security, encryption, databases, integrations, and the cost of development. This process is essential to understand the goals and set a clear path for a successful enterprise software launch. Zco Corporation develops through agile methodology, proven and tested to result in higher-performing products. It also conducts rigorous QA testing to eliminate any bugs found to avoid future malfunctions. The QA tests are done in a secure testing environment; rest assured, production-level operations have no interruptions. Zco Corporation puts maximum effort into every enterprise software development project it builds. With over 30 years of development experience and over a thousand completed projects, the New Hampshire-based company is fully equipped to help solve business problems with innovative and future-proof custom software solutions. Choosing the best service provider for enterprise software development requires a thorough evaluation of its process to see if its solutions match the goals and objectives of the business. One must also take note of the cost, experience, and quality of its services to identify if the provider can handle all aspects of the project. Also, please do not overlook the importance of its expertise. With these top 5 best enterprise software development companies, rest assured they tailor their solutions to deliver robust and scalable software. Sign up for our free newsletter for the Latest coverage!  