Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? While the MacBook Air and MacBook Pro are excellent laptops, not everybody may want to buy into the Apple ecosystem, or they may specifically need Windows to run their apps. Luckily, some alternatives exist, including the Dell XPS, which comes from one of the best laptop brands on the market. Even better, there is a huge amount of configurations available when it comes to the Dell XPS, with sizes as small as 13 inches and incrementally up to 16 inches, including options that have Nvidia RTX graphics cards. To that end, we’ve collected some of our favorite deals below, although you should also check out the wider selection of Dell laptop deals, as well as our general roundup of some of the best laptop deals out there. The Dell XPS 13 is the smallest in the Dell XPS line. It’s great for commuters and students. These laptops don’t generally have powerful GPUs, but they’re fast, reliable, and sleek. That said, the new XPS 13 lineup has come out and there aren’t a lot of great deals on them right now, so we’ve mostly focused on older deals. The new Dell XPS 14 laptops have come out, and they’re a pretty solid middle ground for those who want a smaller form factor but still need a bigger screen than what is on offer for with the Dell XPS 13. And, given they have a bit more room to work with, it does mean you get things like a better typing experience and bigger speakers. The Dell XPS 15 is a step up in size and power. You’ll get a much bigger screen than on the XPS 13, and with a bigger chassis comes more demanding components. We see Dell start pulling from Nvidia’s line of RTX GPUs, and we see a bunch more RAM getting crammed in there. While Dell is no longer making the XPS 17, they have replaced that with the slightly smaller XPS 16, which still has a relatively large screen and excellent specs under the hood. As such, it’s a great option if you want a bigger screen and power than your average 15-inch laptop. HP has a truly massive variety of laptops that you can pick up, and since it's one of the best laptop brands on the market, you can find some excellent options if you're thinking of going with HP. So, if you're looking to snag anything from gaming laptops to larger 17-inch laptops for the big screen, you can probably find a laptop in HP's collection. Even better, HP is constantly running a lot of deals, so while things like gaming laptops tend to be expensive, we've gone out and found some of the best deals we could across the board. And if you're looking more specifically for a general-use laptop, then you may want to check out our roundup of the best HP Envy deals. Alternatively, if you can't find quite what you're looking for below, be sure to check out these other great laptop deals and gaming laptop deals as well.
HP Laptop 17z -- $250, was $520 As one of the oldest brands in gaming, Alienware has a lot of excellent gear, including some of the best gaming laptops, gaming PCs, headsets, and even gaming chairs. That means there are a ton of great options out there, but you will have to pay a pretty penny to be able to grab any of them since they tend to be considered high-end. On the bright side, there a lot of great deals you can snag on Alienware gear, and not necessarily just from Dell, but from other big retailers like Best Buy and Amazon, and we've compiled some of our favorite Alienware deals below. On the other hand, if you can't quite find what you're looking for below, you can also check out these other great gaming laptop deals and gaming PC deals, too.
Alienware AW920H wireless gaming headset -- $160, was $180 If the idea of building a gaming PC from scratch seems daunting, then there's absolutely nothing wrong with going with a pre-built gaming PC, even though most folks will tell you it's cheaper. In fact, you can find some great desktop computer deals, including from the big brands, that will almost negate any sort of losses you would have made by going for a pre-build computer. Even better, there are some great budget-oriented options that will let you play the best PC games without too many compromises. Once you've grabbed a pre-built, check out gaming monitor deals for a chance to save on a nice display. If the machine you pick up needs some upgrades, you can save with GPU deals, SSD deals, and RAM deals.
Best gaming PC deal for entry-level gamers
Lenovo Legion Tower 5 -- $1,050, was $1,330 Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.