The new Dell Inspiron 14 has a Snapdragon 8cx SoC and is cheaper than you think. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Dell has unveiled its first Windows on ARM laptop in the form of a new Inspiron 14, which can be configured with either Intel, AMD, or Qualcomm chips for the first time in a Dell product. The Qualcomm version is powered by a Snapdragon 8cx Gen 2 and has a retail price tag of just $499. Admittedly, the 8cx Gen 2 is last year's flagship processor, but it still has good performance and excellent battery life. In fact, Dell touts 16 hours of battery life in its own tests, thanks to the efficient ARM SoC under the hood. Dell also says the 8cx Gen 2 includes a dedicated AI processor, which should mean it supports Windows 11's new "Studio Effects," such as camera background blurring, voice clarity, and eye correction. It's also a fanless device, meaning it'll always run silently even under heavy load. Other specs include a 14-inch 1080p LCD, 8GB RAM, 256GB SSD storage, and Windows 11 Home in S mode included. For $499, this is a great deal, especially when you consider devices like the Surface Pro X can still be found for a few hundred bucks more.  The laptop also features two USB-C 3.2 ports, one USB-A 2.0 port, and a headphone jack and microSD card reader. There's also a 1080p webcam embedded at the top of the display, which is great for video calls. The Inspiron 14 with a Qualcomm chip is Dell's first ever Windows on ARM laptop, and with a $499 price tag, it is one of the more affordable Windows ARM devices on the market. Until now, most Windows on ARM PCs with a flagship processor have been priced quite high, but not the new Inspiron 14. Dell Inspiron 14 with Qualcomm | $500 at Dell Dell's newest Inspiron 14 is the company's first Windows on ARM laptop, featuring a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8cx Gen 2, 8GB RAM, and 256GB storage. It also has a 14-inch 1080p display, a 1080p webcam, and an excellent keyboard and trackpad. All the latest news, reviews, and guides for Windows and Xbox diehards. Zac Bowden is a Senior Editor at Windows Central. Bringing you exclusive coverage into the world of Windows on PCs, tablets, phones, and more. Also an avid collector of rare Microsoft prototype devices! Keep in touch on Twitter and Threads Windows Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 