When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. This doesn't affect our editorial independence. Dell recently launched its fourth of July sale and we couldn’t be more jazzed over here at PCWorld. Whether you’re on the hunt for a luxurious 2-in-1 laptop or a high refresh rate gaming monitor, you can nab these items for up to 50% off. If you’re not sure where to begin your search, don’t sweat it. We combed through Dell’s website and rounded up the best deals available right now. That said, you better act sooner rather than later, as the summer sale is here for only a limited time. Read on to learn more. The Dell Inspiron 14 2-in-1 laptop, which we’ve highlighted below, deserves its own call-out because it’s so versatile. You can swing the screen around 360 degrees and use it like a tablet or prop it up like a camper’s tent for movie watching. It also weighs just 3.61 pounds, which is pretty lightweight. Dell is offering a great variety of deals across all of their desktop lines. If you’re looking for a good all-around home office computer then the Inspiron Desktop has solid performance features highlighted by the Core i7-13700 CPU and the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 GPU. You’ll be able to take on all of your productivity and web browsing tasks and enjoy a little bit of gaming on the side. We’ve got a couple of solid offerings in the bulleted list below. However, the Dell G3223Q gaming monitor is a real standout because of its 4K resolution and fast 144Hz refresh rate. That’s absolutely bananas! Whether you’re into competitive games that require split-second responses or just want to enjoy a beautiful RPG experience, this monitor should provide top-notch visuals.  Ashley Biancuzzo manages all laptop and Chromebook coverage for PCWorld. She's been covering consumer tech since 2016, and her work has appeared on USA Today, Reviewed, Polygon, Kotaku, StarWars.com, and Nerdist. In her spare time, she enjoys playing video games, reading science fiction, and hanging out with her rescue greyhound. Business Laptop Mobile PC Hardware Deals Digital Magazine - Subscribe Digital Magazine - Info Gift Subscription Newsletters