By   Lamar Smith By   Lamar Smith 1:30 AM on Mar 6, 2023 CST Texas generates more electricity from wind turbines than any other state — by a long shot. In November, the latest month with available data, our wind energy facilities produced over 10 million megawatt hours of power, more than double the amount generated by runner-up Iowa. But renewable energy is hardly our only cutting-edge industry. We’ve been a computing powerhouse for decades, with Dell and Texas Instruments founded here. We’re a leader in private space exploration. Our universities and start-ups are artificial intelligence pioneers. We’re on the frontiers of agricultural technology. And the biopharmaceutical sector supports hundreds of thousands of Texas jobs. Unfortunately, the Biden administration could soon make a decision that would undermine all these industries, and indeed any field that relies on innovation and robust intellectual property laws. This would be a shame for our state economy and the nation as a whole. Specifically, the administration is considering stripping patent licenses from private companies and handing them over to rival firms. The case immediately at hand involves patents on a prescription drug. But if the White House goes through with the plan, it would set a catastrophic precedent that could freeze research on many other technologies. Get smart opinions on the topics North Texans care about. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy In January, 25 lawmakers signed a letter to Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra. They called on him to twist a provision of federal law to relicense the patents for the prostate-cancer treatment Xtandi. They argue that the Biden administration has the authority to do this, thanks to the “march-in” rights contained in the 1980 Bayh-Dole Act — a bipartisan law that few people have heard of but that revolutionized our economy and made America the world’s unquestioned technological powerhouse. In the 1970s, the engine of American innovation was sputtering. While the federal government funded plenty of basic research at universities, the government retained the title to any resulting patents. It did very little with them, licensing fewer than 5% to private-sector partners capable of turning good ideas into tangible products. Sens. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., and Bob Dole, R-Kan.,  collaborated to address this problem. Under the Bayh-Dole Act, Washington bureaucrats no longer had primary responsibility for licensing out patents that had benefited from federal grants. Instead, the law devolved that responsibility to the research universities themselves. Today, universities have every incentive to license their patents to willing partners, since they can reap substantial royalties in return. This “tech transfer” under Bayh-Dole helped produce everything from Google’s original search algorithm to the next-generation batteries critical for electrifying automobiles and the power grid. Because of Bayh-Dole, taxpayers finally started seeing the fruits of their research grants. The most recent data indicate that Bayh-Dole helped stimulate up to $1.9 trillion in total economic output and create approximately 6.5 million jobs. The federal government does retain the right to “march in” and relicense patents to other firms in certain rare circumstances, such as when a licensee fails to try to commercialize a patent. But the 25 legislators petitioning the administration want it to invoke these march-in rights and relicense Xtandi’s patents to generic drug firms simply because they think Xtandi — a product that has already been commercialized — is too expensive. They say Bayh-Dole gives them this right because of the $500,000 in taxpayer funding that helped lead to the drug. But they’re not considering the $1.4 billion the company Astellas spent to develop Xtandi into a safe, effective, usable product. No administration has ever taken such action, because it would set the precedent that the federal government can rip up patent licensing agreements on a whim. That would have a chilling effect on tech transfer in every field. Few companies would take licenses on technologies that had once received federal support if that meant the government could later cancel their patents. Texas universities spend more than $6 billion annually on research, nearly half of which comes from the federal government. Currently, private companies can confidently license some of the breakthroughs that come out of this research, ensuring that those taxpayer dollars don’t go to waste. This process creates jobs, stimulates economic growth, and advances America’s technological capabilities. But the entire model depends on universities retaining the rights to their discoveries, then licensing them to companies that can count on secure patents. If the federal government decides to effectively disregard intellectual property protections, it will deter entrepreneurship and research investments for decades to come. Lamar Smith served in the U.S. House from 1987 to 2019 as the representative for the 21st Congressional District of Texas. We welcome your thoughts in a letter to the editor. See the guidelines and submit your letter here. Lamar Smith