Delta Airlines issued an apology to its customers at Boston Logan International Airport after passengers on planes departing and arriving at the airport were left stranded on the tarmac overnight for several hours. “We apologize to our customers who were inconvenienced and delayed due to winter weather in Boston Sunday night,” a spokesperson for the airline stated to MassLive. “Deicing delays led to backups for departing and arriving flights. We are safely working to recover our operation and resume our routine schedules today. “Delta is reaching out to customers who had a delay last night individually with an additional apology and goodwill gesture,” Delta spokesperson said. Boston Logan passengers took to Twitter to share their experiences with the delay Sunday night, with some stating they had been stranded inside their airplanes on the tarmac for several hours late into the night. One user said they had landed in Boston from Atlanta at 8:34 p.m. on Sunday, and had not yet disembarked the plane as of 11:35 p.m. that night — sitting on the tarmac for over three hours, they said, with bathrooms not working. We have been sitting on this plane for 3 hours on the tarmac!!! pic.twitter.com/d8XqJEzA2X “@Delta @BostonLogan @CharlieBakerMA flight number 2990 from Atlanta we landed at 8:34pm and we are still sitting on runway! It has been 90 minutes! What are our rights??Our pilot is not getting any updates. The bathrooms are not working!!!!! This is inexcusable! send buses out!” “We have been sitting on this plane for 3 hours on the tarmac!!!” was in a secondary message, with a statement of the rules from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s guidelines on airline travel and when passengers must be allowed off of planes. The rules stated that passengers have to be allowed to get off after three hours for domestic flights, because the airline must move the airplane to a location where passengers can safely get off within that time frame. Delta had previously responded to one of the Twitter users at midnight Monday night, stating the issue was due to weather. “Thanks for reaching out to us. We are experiencing excessive tarmac delays in Boston due to weather related events. We hope to get you on your way as soon as possible,” the company tweeted. Boston Logan International Airport did not respond to the issue with Delta flights, but reminded travelers to check the statuses of flights due to winter weather. Boston Logan did not respond to MassLive for comment as of Monday morning. Due to winter weather, passengers are advised to check with their airline on the status of their flight before coming to the airport. For more info visit: https://t.co/l9jTjsFeIq pic.twitter.com/HP0fwv1gUW If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices