We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. Table of Contents Table of Contents Delta Air Lines, a U.S.-based airline, carries roughly 200 million flyers annually, with more than 4,000 daily flights to about 275 destinations across six continents. Like most airlines, the more you fly with Delta or one of its partners, the more benefits you can earn through its SkyMiles loyalty program. Delta allows its passengers to earn one of four elite status tiers — Silver Medallion, Gold Medallion, Platinum Medallion and Diamond Medallion. Gold Medallion is the second status tier after Silver Medallion, the entry-level tier.  Let’s look at Delta Gold Medallion benefits, ways to achieve this mid-tier status, how much the elite status is worth and more. The Delta's SkyMiles program has made some big changes for 2024, including how members can earn elite status.  Instead of two separate requirements for flying and dollars spend to earn elite status, Delta flyers only need to keep track of earning Medallion Qualification Dollars (MQD). To qualify for Gold Medallion status in 2024, flyers must earn $10,000 MQD. Delta Gold Medallion perks include: Bonus earnings on rewards: As a Gold Medallion member, you’ll earn eight redeemable SkyMiles per dollar spent on Delta flights, minus government taxes and fees. Dedicated phone line: Receive priority when calling Delta customer service in the U.S. Delta Vacations savings: Save up to $350 on qualifying Delta Vacations packages. Discounted Clear membership: Because of the Delta-Clear partnership, Gold Medallion flyers can get Clear for $159 per year (rather than the regular price of $199). Drink vouchers: Receive four complimentary drink vouchers for use on Delta flights. Expedited baggage service: Your bag receives special treatment and arrives at the carousel before other passengers’ bags. Free trial of Instacart: Receive three months of free Instacart membership. Priority boarding: Board a Delta plane in Zone 4 (after Comfort Plus passengers but before Delta cardholders and main cabin and basic economy passengers). Priority check-in: Access to Sky Priority lanes at the airport. Priority security line access: Get in a frequent traveler security line at select U.S. airports. Reclaim My Status: If you lose your status due to a life event that pauses your travel, you can fly for three months at your previous status tier and then requalify for the following year. SkyTeam lounge access: Enter over 750 SkyTeam airport lounges worldwide as a SkyTeam Elite Plus member. SkyTeam status: Delta Gold Medallion members receive Elite Plus status when flying with SkyTeam alliance carriers. Status in the Hertz Gold Plus Rewards program: Enjoy complimentary Five Star status with Hertz. Unlimited complimentary upgrades: Get upgraded to Delta Comfort Plus or first class when available, with upgrades clearing up to 72 hours before departure. Upgrades to Delta One on domestic routes are also possible on the day of departure, depending on seat availability. Waived baggage fees: Check your first bag for free on Delta flights (for up to nine passengers traveling on the same reservation). Waived same-day change/confirmed fees: Change your ticket to another flight on the original day of departure for free (available 24 hours before departure time). » Learn more: The guide to earning Delta SkyMiles Reaching Medallion elite status with Delta requires some work — and spending — on your part. Earning Delta Gold Medallion status requires earning 10,000 MQDs. Here’s a closer look at how to get to Delta Gold Medallion elite status. When you fly Delta Air Lines or its partner airlines, you'll earn 1 MQD per $1 spent on the ticket price. Taxes, fees, basic economy and other booking charges do not earn MQDs. Vacation packages booked through Delta also earn 1 MQD per $1 spent. Spending on a Delta co-branded credit card can also help you rack up the 10,000 MQDs needed for Gold Medallion status. The Delta SkyMiles® Platinum American Express Card and Delta SkyMiles® Platinum Business American Express Card earn 1 MQD per $20 charged to the card. TheDelta SkyMiles® Reserve American Express Card and Delta SkyMiles® Reserve Business American Express Card earn 1 MQD per $10 charged to the card. Terms apply. Cardholders also earn a 2,500 MQD bonus per card type each year to get a head start on earning status. » Learn more: Best benefits of Delta credit cards In NerdWallet’s annual analysis of the best airline elite status programs, we sought to determine how much value the major U.S. airline loyalty programs deliver to flyers. Here's how the Delta Medallion program did. Value of benefits Cost to earn Elite earning rate Silver $1,419. $6,173. 23%. Gold $3,944. $12,346. 32%. Platinum $7,436. $18,519. 40%. Diamond $18,209. $34,568. 53%.   Keep in mind that these values are estimates, and your results may vary. If you fly with a carry-on bag and on popular routes with fewer chances for upgrades, you might not get as much value from the Gold Medallion status. However, if you take advantage of the many perks on the list, your personal value should increase. » Learn more: Which airline elite status should you pursue? If you’re an elite member of another airline’s loyalty program, you may be able to participate in a Status Match Challenge with Delta. For the status match, you’ll receive a corresponding elite status tier (excluding Diamond Medallion) for three months. Then, if you complete the qualifying requirements within the allotted time, you’ll be able to extend your status even longer. Airline loyalty programs eligible for Delta’s Status Match Challenge include: Air Canada Aeroplan. Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan. All Nippon Airways Mileage Club. American Airlines AAdvantage. Asiana Airlines Asiana Club. British Airways Executive Club. Copa Airlines ConnectMiles. Japan Airlines Mileage Bank Fly On. JetBlue TrueBlue. Lufthansa Miles&More. Qantas Frequent Flyer. South African Airways Voyager. Southwest Airlines Rapid Rewards. United Airlines Mileage Plus. Virgin Australia Velocity. The most frequent of flyers can reach Million Miler status by flying —you guessed it — millions of miles with Delta. Passengers who have flown a million miles with the airline reach status tiers that last a lifetime. Here’s how many miles you need to fly to reach each tier’s lifetime status: 1 million miles: Gold Medallion  2 million miles: Platinum Medallion. 3 and 4 million miles: Diamond Medallion. 5+ million miles or more: Delta 360° Medallion. So, if you’d like to reach Gold Medallion lifetime status, you’ll have to fly at least 1 million miles on Delta flights. Delta Gold Medallion status lasts until the end of the calendar year you earn it, the entire following year and through Jan. 31 the year after. For example, say you became a Gold Medallion member on June 30, 2024. You’ll continue holding the same status level until Jan. 31, 2026, unless you qualify for a higher tier. » Learn more: The best airline credit cards right now There are multiple ways of earning elite status with Delta. Find what combination of flying and spending sufficient on eligible credit cards works for you. As a Gold Medallion elite, you get some decent mid-range benefits when flying Delta and its SkyTeam partners, including free checked bags, higher rewards earning rates and unlimited complimentary upgrades, to name a few. You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2024: Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph℠ Card Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card  Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve® Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card on Chase's website 1x-5x5x on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3x on dining, select streaming services and online groceries, 2x on all other travel purchases, 1x on all other purchases. 60,000Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. on Capital One's website 2x-5xEarn unlimited 2X miles on every purchase, every day. Earn 5X miles on hotels, vacation rentals and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel, where you'll get Capital One's best prices on thousands of trip options 75,000Enjoy $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that’s equal to $1,000 in travel. Read more Read more Read more Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105