The Pintola All-Natural Peanut Butter is on the top of our list. It is cholesterol-free and has high fibre. It is unsweetened butter and is also regarded as beneficial in weight loss.  The DiSano All-Natural Peanut Butter has the market's best base price of ₹ 265.00. It is the best budget peanut butter on this list.  The AS-IT-IS Nutrition Peanut Butter Crunchy is the healthiest peanut butter that we have in our list above DiSano All-Natural Peanut Butter is the best natural peanut butter. It is unsweetened and does not have any added preservatives. One of the most common breakfast snacks is bread with peanut butter. Additionally, morning breakfast must include all the healthy proteins that can help you the entire day. Peanut butter has several components that are highly beneficial. And it has a taste that calls to the taste buds. In the list below, we will explore some of the best peanut butter brands in India.  Here is a glance at all the Best peanut butter along with their respective prices. The MuscleBlaze High Protein Peanut Butter is a high protein exotic dark chocolate peanut butter. It is unsweetened butter and does not have any salt added and no added preservative. And is regarded as the best peanut butter for bulking, and gaining weight.  Price: ₹ 525.00 Brand: MuscleBlaze Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Dark Chocolate Ingredients: Roasted Peanut, Dark Chocolate Paste, Sugar Vegetable fat, Cocoa Mass, Cocoa Solids, Emulsifiers, Whey Protein Concentrate, Stabilizer, Added Flavours Weight: 750 gm Rating: 8595 ratings Reviews: 4.3 out of 5 stars Pros It has 27gram protein. It does not have any added preservatives.  It does not have any added sugar.  It is made from imported whey protein.   Cons Not everyone likes the taste of dark chocolate.  The Pintola All-Natural Peanut Butter is a Crunchy, unsweetened protein peanut butter that is non-GMO and gluten and cholesterol-free.  Price: ₹ 399.00 Brand: Pintola Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Peanut Ingredients: Only Roasted Peanut Weight: 1 kg Rating: 33612 ratings Reviews: 4.3 out of 5 stars Pros It has a high protein and dietary fibre content It helps in weight management.  It contains healthy fat and is very good for your heart.   Cons It only has a life of 9 months.   The I LOVE PB MYFITNESS Chocolate Peanut Butter Smooth is made from premium chocolate and has high protein content. It is very rich in taste and has very low carbs. It is also recommended as the best peanut butter for weight loss.  Price: ₹ 598.00 Brand: I LOVE PB Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Chocolate Ingredients: Roasted peanuts, sugar, salt, permitted stabilizing agent Weight: 1.25 Kg Rating: 23,038 ratings Reviews: 4.7 out of 5 stars Pros It is enriched with high protein.  It is made of premium chocolate.  It has low carbs.  It works as an energy booster.  Cons It has sugar content, therefore, diabetes patients cannot intake them. The DiSano All-Natural Peanut Butter is crunchy, high-protein peanut butter. It is unsweetened and gluten-free. Price: ₹ 249.00 Brand: DISANO Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Chocolate Ingredients: Roasted Peanut Weight: 1.08 kg Rating: 7751 ratings Reviews: 4 out of 5 stars Pros It has zero cholesterol and no hydrogenated oil.  It is preservative-free.  It does not have any trans-fat.   Cons It has high competition and does not provide any other benefits.  The Alpino Natural Peanut Butter Crunch is Unsweetened with no hydrogenated oils and has non-GMO and is Gluten Free. It is regarded as the best peanut butter for bulking and gaining weight Price: ₹ 379.00 Brand: Alpino Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Natural Unsweetened Crunch Ingredients: Roasted Peanut Weight: 1 kg  Rating: 15280 ratings Reviews: 4.2 out of 5 stars Pros It is made with pure roasted peanuts, which is rich in nutrients. It is gluten-free and is unsweetened.   It does not have any hydrogenated oil.    Cons It expires after a time of twelve months.  The AS-IT-IS Nutrition Peanut Butter is crunchy peanut butter that is made of natural and Unsweetened ingredients. It is an excellent source of protein.  Price: ₹ 399.00 Brand: Ascites Nutrition Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Crunchy Ingredients: Roasted Peanut Weight: 1 kg Rating: 2960 ratings Reviews: 4.3 out of 5 stars Pros It keeps the heart healthy.   It is an excellent source of protein.   It works as an energy booster  Improves muscle repair  Cons It expires after nine months on shelves. The Sundrop Peanut Butter is a no refrigeration peanut butter and can be stored at room temperature. It is rich in dietary fibre and has a very rich taste. It is the best peanut butter in India for weight gain and better taste. Price: ₹ 280.00 Brand: Sundrop Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Peanut Ingredients: Roasted Peanut Weight: 1000 gm Rating: 8595 ratings Reviews: 4.3 out of 5 stars Pros It has zero cholesterol and trans-fat.  It has high protein and dietary fibre which is good for gym-goers.   It does not require refrigeration and can be stored at room temperature.   Cons It has a maximum shelf life of 12 twelve months only.  The bGREEN by Muscleblaze Plant Protein Powder is a vegan protein that has pea protein isolate and also brown rice protein. It is also recommended as the best peanut butter for weight loss.  Price: ₹ 1259.00 Brand: Bgreen Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Mocha Ingredients: Pea Protein Isolate, Brown Rice Protein, Stabilizer, Cocoa Powder, Green Tea Extract, Sodium Chloride, Natural Sweetener, Digestive Enzyme Blend, Anticaking Agent, L-Ascorbic acid, Alpha-Tocopherol Acetate Weight: 500 gm Rating: 582 ratings Reviews: 4.1 out of 5 stars Pros It helps in strengthening muscles. It delays fatigue and improves the recovery rate.  It is very helpful in muscle soreness.  It helps in better absorption of protein.  Cons It is very costly.  The Nutella Ferrero Hazelnut Chocolate is one of the most trusted brands and is more popular than any other peanut butter brand. It is the best peanut butter in India for weight gain and better taste. Price: ₹ 872.00 Brand: Ferero Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Chocolate Hazelnut Ingredients: Hazelnut and Chocolate Weight: 750 gm Rating: 21 ratings Reviews: 4.3 out of 5 stars Pros It is rich in taste.  It does not have any added preservatives.  It is rich in protein.   Cons It has added sugar content.   The Dr OETKER FUN FOODS Peanut Butter Crunchy is one of the best peanut butter in the Indian market. It is highly preferred and is rich in taste. It is regarded as the best peanut butter in India.  Price: ₹ 725.00 Brand: Dr OETKER FUN FOODS Diet Type: Vegetarian Flavour: Dark Chocolate Ingredients: Roasted Peanut, Sugar, Edible Vegetable fat, and Iodised salt.  Weight: 2.5kg Rating: 2744 ratings Reviews: 4.2 out of 5 stars Pros It provides a good source of Vitamin E, B3, and B6.  It is cholesterol and trans-fat-free.     It is gluten-free.   Cons It has added sugar content.  Here are some of the important specifications of the peanut butter that we kept in mind while curating this list for you. The peanut butter must not be very expensive.  There must be high protein and fibre content.  It can be consumed naturally and provides the amount of protein required.  It is very important to make sure that the peanut butter is cholesterol and trans-fat free.  Here are our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions. According to our list, the best peanut butter in India is the Nutella Ferrero Hazelnut spread.  No, peanut butter does not make you gain weight.  AS-IT-IS Nutrition Peanut Butter Crunchy is the healthiest peanut butter that we have mentioned above in our list.  It is very important that one maintains a healthy diet. People who go to the gym regularly, need to intake the proper amount of protein, and vitamins that keep them energized. Therefore, including peanut butter in your diet can be very beneficial. In the list above we have listed the best peanut butter in India.  Go grab the best peanut butter, and enjoy your breakfast, and snacks with a spread of delicious peanut butter available in the market today!   To contact the Express Deals team, please drop an email to - expressdeal@newindianexpress.comWe will reach out to you in the next 48 business hours. Disclaimer: At Express Deals, we work with subject matter experts to bring you the latest in product innovations and Indian eCommerce trends. Express Deals participates in various affiliate programs, which means we may earn revenue on purchases made through the links to retailer sites. Please note that prices mentioned on the pages can vary based on retailer promotions on any given day. Also, do note that we will not be liable for any claim under applicable laws, including but not limited to the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, with respect to the featured products since they aren't directly sold by us. Follow Us © 2024 The New Indian Express Powered by Quintype