Each room is furnished with a bed, desk, desk chair, bureau, closet or armoire, wastebasket, and recycling bin. All beds are extra long twins, measuring 34 x 80 x 5 inches. All furniture must stay in its assigned student room. Many beds on campus have the ability to be lofted, bunked, or adjusted to be higher or lower on their existing frame. Students should consult with the Facility Services website regarding the options that exist for the bed in their specific residence. On the same website is a video that will show students how to adjust the height of their beds with the help of a friend, roommate, or JA/CA in the building. Rubber mallets are available from a building custodian to assist in this process. Requests to have beds lofted or bunked should be submitted via the Facility Services work order system after move-in. Bunked or lofted beds require FS staff to provide a safety railing for the lofted bed or upper bunk. Students interested in having a wider bed should contact  Cozy Cat Rentals to rent a converter system and mattress.  All furniture must stay in its assigned student room. If a student has a diagnosed disability and needs an accommodation, they should contact the Office of Accessible Education. Please consult Bates Environmental Health & Safety’s website for safety recommendations.  Wi-Fi and Ethernet are in each room. Cable TV is available in student lounges. To conserve energy, student rooms are only allowed one appliance per room, so you should coordinate with your roommate(s). This means each room is allowed either a microwave, a fridge, or a refrigerator/freezer/microwave combination unit, in which only one appliance can be run at a time. In no case may a refrigerator exceed 3.0 cu. ft or operate at more than 350 kWh. Microwaves and fridges should be plugged directly into the wall, not a power strip. For Microwave/Fridge unit rentals and deliverers, there are two options: Cozy Cat Rentals. Please see their website for more information.  New England Student Services (School code: 2121). Please see their website for more information. If you have any questions please feel free to contact us at 401-405-0920 or support@nestudentservices.com. For more information on confiscation and fines for these and other appliances, please contact Bates Environmental Health & Safety. Kitchens are located in commons areas, come equipped with an oven, microwave, and fridge, and are available for student use in the following buildings: Students are required to clean up after themselves in these areas. During the school year, there are some storage facilities on campus for student use. On-campus storage is on a “first come, first served” basis and availability are limited. Please see the Facility Services website for more specifics on storage for the school year. There is no storage available on campus during the summer. Students and families may contract with Dorm Room Movers for a full-service pick up, storage, and drop off in the fall. They send you boxes and tape. You pack – that’s it. Their movers will pick up your items, store them while you’re away, and deliver everything back to you when you return! Dorm Room Movers can also ship boxes home or wherever you need them. No stress because: Students may also see the Facility Services website for a list of local storage facilities. Laundry facilities are located in each building. The use of pre-measured laundry detergent pods is highly recommended in these machines.  On February 25th, 2023, new payment systems were installed at all laundry machines. Students will be able to pay for laundry through various methods: new CSC laundry card, CSCPay Mobile app, Credit or Debit card, Google Pay, or Apply Pay. The total cost to use a washer and dryer is $3. For more information on washer and dryer maintenance and submitting service requests, please see the Facility Services website. The CSCPay mobile app enables students to add money to an online account so students can pay with their smartphones at the laundry machines. Additional app features include monitoring the status of all machines on campus, receiving a text message when your cycle is complete, requesting service to machines, and placing a refund request. As noted, CSC laundry cards are still a payment option, but students will need to purchase a new one for a cost of $5. The only CSC machine available is located in Commons. If you were unable to transfer the balance of your outdated laundry card to the new CSC Mobile app, please email gstpierr@bates.edu. For any questions or concerns, please contact housing@bates.edu. While Bates does not contract with any specific laundry service, there are several available who will wash, fold, pick up and deliver to campus: You know yourself and your lifestyle best. Below is a list to help you develop your packing list for the semester. *Cable isn’t available in student rooms but is available in student lounges. **Follow Connection Instructions for gaming consoles, Apple TVs, Smart Devices, etc. Safety is a priority. To ensure that local, state and federal fire safety rules, as well as Bates policies, are being followed, the Bates Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Department, along with the local Fire Department as well as private contractors periodically inspect student rooms. During these inspections, any items that violate Bates policy that are found will be addressed as described, by the EHS Department and the responsible student will be fined and referred for follow up via Student Affairs. For a non-exhaustive list of items please see Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) website. If someone is sending you packages or mail, be sure to inform them of the proper format for sending mail to you. The proper format is as follows. Student Name[Box Number] Bates CollegeLewiston, Maine 04240 In the event that someone requires a street address to mail a package or overnight letter to you, (Federal Express and UPS usually require a street address) the mailing address is: Student Name[Box Number] Bates College65 Campus AvenueLewiston, Maine 04240 When the package reaches Bates and is processed, you will receive a Bates College email (emails from carriers like UPS and FedEx are not an indication your package is ready for pick up). You must have your Bates ID to pick up items at Post & Print. Your box number can be found in “Mailboxes” under Student Life on Garnet Gateway. If you are a first-year student, your mailbox information will be available with your housing information in early August.  Please check the Post & Print website for more mailing information and hours. Fill in form above and we will email you back. Our office is open from 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.  Please feel free to contact us via email, phone, or in person. Residence Life and Health Education 

56 Campus Ave (Chase Hall)
Suite 001

					Lewiston, Maine 04240
				

  1-207-786-6215 

housing@bates.edu

   


Future Students




Majors and Minors





Course Schedules





Request Info





Application Requirements





Faculty Directory





Student Profile





Recruit Me





Visit



 News of progress at Russell Street Field, the de-fencing of 96 Campus Avenue, and the long-awaited new bell striker in Hathorn Hall. Historic Hathorn Hall is home to faculty offices in English, neuroscience, and mathematics, plus several administrative offices and  classrooms. And until last week, it was also the residence of around 50,000 honeybees. The cover story of the new issue of Bates Magazine features extensive interviews with students and alumni to share the history and current impact of Bates Emergency Medical Services, founded by four Bates students in 1995. 2 Andrews RoadLewiston, Maine 04240Phone: 1-207-786-6255