Jennifer Hudson will headline the North American International Detroit Auto Show’s 2023 Charity Preview, organizers announced Tuesday morning. The “Respect” star, a Chicago-born singer with deep Motor City ties, will perform Sept. 15 on the main floor of the Huntington Place convention center to lead the auto show’s black-tie gala. Hudson's one-hour set at 7:45 p.m. that night will help kick off the public phase of the auto show. Tickets for the Detroit auto show's Charity Preview start at $400 and are on sale now. Hudson, the powerhouse singer who broke big as an “American Idol” finalist in 2003, has key Detroit links: She stole the show in the 2006 film adaption of the Beyoncé-starring musical “Dreamgirls,” based on the story of Motown’s the Supremes. And she was handpicked by Aretha Franklin for the lead role in the late Queen of Soul’s 2021 biopic, “Respect.” Ford: Jennifer Hudson surprises deaf family from car ad with new Mustang Mach-E Charity Preview proceeds will benefit the Boys & Girls Clubs of Southeastern Michigan, the Children’s Center, the Children’s Foundation, Detroit Auto Dealers Association Charitable Foundation Fund, Detroit PAL and University of Michigan Health C.S. Mott Children’s Hospital. Hudson is scheduled to perform at the Charity Preview at 7:45 p.m. Sept. 15, following a 5 p.m. ribbon cutting and 6 p.m. floor opening at Huntington Place, the convention center formerly known as Cobo Hall in downtown Detroit. This article originally appeared on Detroit Free Press: Jennifer Hudson to headline Detroit auto show Charity Preview New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.