General Motors has selected a site in northern Indiana, near the Michigan border, to build a fourth battery cell plant to support its production of electric vehicles. The new plant is a joint venture forged in April between GM and South Korea-based Samsung SDI. Indiana Gov. Eric Holcomb announced selection of the site Tuesday and GM confirmed it to the Detroit Free Press. Construction on the battery plant, which will cost GM and Samsung SDI $3 billion, will start next year. It will open in 2026 and has been projected to create 1,700 jobs. The construction is expected to support 1,000 jobs, Holcomb said. “For decades, Hoosier communities like Marion, Bedford and Fort Wayne have been part of the production of countless firsts for family vehicles," Holcomb said. "I couldn’t be more excited to again see GM alongside one of Indiana’s newest world class companies, Samsung SDI, take this giant leap and make this $3 billion commitment that will transform the automotive industry aided by our proud Hoosier workforce." The plant will be located at the same 686-acre site in New Carlisle, which is about 15 miles west of South Bend, that had initially been considered in August 2022 for Ultium Cells LLC, which is GM's joint venture with LG Energy Solution. GM is building three battery plants with LG, including one in Lansing. But in January, GM said it would part ways with LG on the fourth plant. The new plant will build nickel-rich battery cells used in EVs, which is expected to help significantly increase the accessibility and affordability of EVs, Holcomb said. “This joint venture and the 1,700 people there will help supply cells for millions of all-electric vehicles for customers across North America,” said GM CEO Mary Barra in a statement. “The strong support of local and state leaders in Indiana and the combined resources and expertise of GM and Samsung SDI will help us move faster than we could on our own.” St. Joseph County Council granted tax abatements to entice GM to build there and offer jobs expected to start at $24 an hour, as the Free Press reported last month. GM will get 100% tax abatements for 10 years and for tangible personal property for 15 years worth $332 million in taxes abated, $329 million of taxes paid, said Jeff Rea, CEO of the South Bend Region Chamber. GM will pay an infrastructure fee of $4.5 million a year for 10 years to cover costs for sewer extensions, road improvements and new fiber optic cables, he said. More:GM halts production at DMAX engine plant in Moraine, Ohio after shooting GM employs 5,700 people in Indiana. The automaker announced Monday that it will invest $632 million in its Fort Wayne Assembly on upgrades to continuing building future gasoline-powered Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra full-size light-duty pickups. GM will also invest $491 million to expand and upgrade its Marion, Indiana, facility to support its growing EV production.   More:GM CEO Barra: Automaker, UAW have differences that need 'problem solving' Contact Jamie L. LaReau: jlareau@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @jlareauan. Read more on General Motors and sign up for our autos newsletter. Become a subscriber.