Detroit Lions wide receiver Jameson Williams will be returning earlier than expected from his suspension due to gambling because of a change in NFL gambling policies. The NFL announced new punishments for betting on NFL and non-NFL games. A first violation of betting on non-NFL games, which Williams did, is now a two-game suspension and will increase after each offense. Punishments for betting on NFL games increased to a one-year minimum ban and two years if a player bets on his own team. "The NFL and NFL Players Association share a longstanding and unwavering commitment to protecting the integrity of the game," the NFL and NFLPA said in a joint statement released Friday. "The NFL periodically reviews the gambling policy in consultation with the NFLPA and clubs to ensure it is responsive to changing circumstances and fully addresses this commitment." GAME BALLS AND GOATS:Jerry Jacobs shines on 2-interception day Lions officials confirmed Williams will return to practice Monday to prepare for next week's game against the Carolina Panthers. Under the old rules, Williams was not allowed in the facility for the first three weeks, though he was permitted to return to the practice facility to attend team meetings earlier this week. He was not allowed to practice. "It’s good to have him back," Lions coach Dan Campbell said on Monday. "He was in the team meeting. It was good to see him and be around the teammates and so we’ll see what we can do." But now, he will be fully reinstated when the team returns to work next week. Williams was initially suspended six games in April for placing bets on non-NFL football games from an NFL facility while he was rehabbing from his ACL injury during the 2022 season. He appeared in the final six games of last season as a rookie after being drafted 12th overall in 2022 due to the ACL and had one catch for a touchdown. The speedy receiver rejoins a 3-1 team fresh off a dominant win on the road over the Packers and will be another weapon for Detroit's offense that is averaging 26.5 points through four games. Williams suffered a hamstring injury during training camp, between the first and second games of the preseason schedule.