SAN FRANCISCO – Swift Navigation, a market leader in precise positioning technology for automotive, Internet of Things (IoT), and mobile applications, today announced the launch of the Swift Partner Program. By bringing together an ecosystem of industry-leading companies across the technology stack – mobile network operators (MNOs), chipset and module manufacturers, system integrators, and application platform providers – Swift is doubling down on its mission to build a safer and more efficient future by changing the way we understand and navigate every centimeter of our planet. Centimeter accurate, failsafe, and cost-effective precise positioning technologies are key to unlocking megatrends: vehicle autonomy, industrial automation, and the next generation location-based mobile applications, such as navigation, worker safety, and augmented reality, among others. But integrating precise location can add complexity and costs to an already challenging product design cycle, contributing to delayed product launches, cost overruns, and suboptimal consumer experiences. With the launch of its Partner Program, Swift is dramatically simplifying the process to enable precise location and deliver exceptional user experiences in any geography, at any scale, with unit economics that work. “Swift is on a mission to democratize precise positioning technology to accelerate the deployment of location-based products that improve safety and efficiency for business and consumers,” said Holger Ippach, Executive Vice President of Product at Swift Navigation. “Swift’s technology already underpins some of the most complex deployments in the world, and we couldn’t be more excited to partner with the best companies in our industry to unlock the next wave of innovation.” Swift’s cloud-modeled Skylark™ Precise Positioning Service delivers uniform, centimeter accurate positioning through carrier-grade networks deployed and operated in partnership with MNOs around the world. This enables Swift’s customers to seamlessly deploy products across multiple geographies and ensures failsafe, end-to-end system reliability backed by commercial-grade SLAs, a rarity in the industry. Commenting on the partnership with Swift Navigation, Andreas Reich, Chief Product & Innovation Officer Deutsche Telekom’s IoT division, said: “Through our long-term partnership with Swift, we expanded Skylark’s coverage across Europe and continue to help our customers deliver new cutting-edge IoT products and solutions enabled by precise location. In a recent cross-border drive test across Europe, we showcased Skylark’s failsafe performance by tracking a vehicle every centimeter of the way from Hanover to Barcelona — over rugged mountains, through tunnels, and across urban canyons.” Swift’s hardware agnostic precise positioning service is differentiated in a market historically dominated by vertically integrated solutions that lock customers into one vendor for both the GNSS receiver and corrections service. By allowing customers to select components that have been rigorously tested for their use case, Swift simplifies the product design cycle, maximizes the customer’s purchasing power, reduces the risk of downstream field support issues, and minimizes any effort required to incorporate precise location into existing solutions. Finally, by partnering with system integrators and industry-specific application providers, Swift is accelerating adoption of its precise positioning technology across industries. Today, Swift’s more than 7,000 customers – including more than 20 automotive OEMs and suppliers, multiple market-leading handset manufacturers, logistics companies, industrial equipment manufacturers, and more – are collectively deploying more than 5 million vehicles and devices enabled by Swift’s technology. Chipset manufacturer STMicroelectronics, module maker Septentrio, system integrator Taoglas, and GIS platform provider ITS Geo Solutions, are among other partners participating in Swift’s Partner Program. Commenting on their respective partnerships with Swift: Luca Celant, ADAS and Infotainment Division General Manager, STMicroelectronics, said: “STMicroelectronics is delighted to have partnered with Swift Navigation. We have worked closely together on several successful projects, delivering the powerful combination of Swift’s reliable centimeter accurate positioning service enabled by ST’s market-leading Teseo GNSS receivers, IMUs, and processors. We share Swift’s commitment to an open ecosystem, which offers our customers the utmost flexibility in designing their solutions.” Jan Van Hees, Business Development Director, Septentrio, added: “Septentrio is thrilled to be part of Swift’s partner program. We have collaborated closely with Swift to enable mosaic and AsterRx receivers to deliver Skylark’s uniform centimeter accuracy and fast convergence as part of Septentrio’s Agnostic Corrections Partner Program. This partnership has provided our customers with a great option offering the consistent performance needed to deliver reliable products with exceptional consumer experiences.” Dermot O’Shea, CEO and Co-Founder, Taoglas, added: “Swift’s partner program allows us to integrate precise positioning into our ever-growing variety of out-of-the-box solutions. By joining forces, we are reducing the cost and effort required to perform module-level validation, integration and engineering development.” Erik Schütz, Managing Director, ITS Geo Solutions, added: “Our collaboration with Swift enabled us to enhance our flagship solution, GeoAce, with ultra-precise GNSS corrections. Thanks to Swift’s open ecosystem, we were able to quickly source hardware that was already pre-integrated with Skylark and rapidly launch the new offering to our customers without a hitch.” For a complete list of Swift’s current partners, visit www.swiftnav.com/partners ABOUT SWIFT NAVIGATION
Swift Navigation is changing the way we understand and navigate the planet. Swift’s precise positioning solutions enable centimeter-level mapping, tracking, and navigation to unlock vehicle autonomy, industrial automation, and digital innovation across industries globally. Some of the largest companies in the world are leveraging Swift’s technology to enable safer driving, deliver autonomous vehicles and equipment, optimize logistics, and unleash next-generation mobile applications for navigation, worker safety, and augmented reality, among others. Learn more about how Swift is building a safer and more connected future at www.swiftnav.com ABOUT DEUTSCHE TELEKOM
Deutsche Telekom is a multinational telecommunications company headquartered in Germany. The company provides a range of telecommunications and IT services and operates in over 50 countries. Deutsche Telekom is one of the largest telecommunications companies in the world, with over 245 million mobile customers, 25 million fixed-network lines, and 21 million broadband lines. For more information, please visit www.telekom.com/companyprofile ABOUT STMicroelectronics
At ST, we are over 50,000 creators and makers of semiconductor technologies mastering the semiconductor supply chain with state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities. An integrated device manufacturer, we work with more than 200,000 customers and thousands of partners to design and build products, solutions, and ecosystems that address their challenges and opportunities, and the need to support a more sustainable world. Our technologies enable smarter mobility, more efficient power and energy management, and the wide-scale deployment of the Internet of Things and connectivity. We are committed to achieving our goal to become carbon neutral on scope 1 and 2 and partially scope 3 by 2027. Further information can be found at www.st.com ABOUT SEPTENTRIO
Septentrio is an ISO 9001 certified manufacturer of multi-frequency multi-constellation GPS/GNSS positioning technology for demanding applications. Septentrio provides positioning solutions for industrial applications such as robotics, construction, survey and mapping, maritime, logistics and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Septentrio has its headquarters in Leuven, Belgium and has a world-wide presence with offices in Los Angeles, Shanghai, Seoul and Yokohama as well as numerous partners around the world. To learn more about Septentrio and its products, visit www.septentrio.com ABOUT TAOGLAS
Taoglas is a trusted provider of antennas, advanced IoT components, and custom IoT design services that helps customers navigate complex RF and wireless systems and brings connectivity solutions to market on time, the first time. Since its foundation in 2004, the company has grown from its heritage in antennas to having engineering resources, state-of-the-art test chambers, and pre-certification centers around the world. Their global team works obsessively to deliver an uninterrupted supply chain for rapid local delivery and seamless support internationally. Taoglas’ commitment to continuous innovation, proactive customer service, and trusted quality delivers long-term peace of mind to customers and colleagues, creating time and space to work together to advance global connectivity. For more information, visit www.taoglas.com ABOUT ITS GEO SOLUTIONS
ITS Geo Solutions is passionate about making precise surveying very easy and accessible to enable this technology to the widest possible audience. ITS Geo’s unique approach transforms a standard smartphone or tablet into a precise surveying instrument. Customers in land surveying, utilities, construction and mining trust ITS Geo’s full turn key solutions of software, GNSS hardware, data and connectivity services and training for fast implementation, deployment and return of investment. Follow ITS Geo on X (formerly Twitter) or YouTube @itsgeosolutions   Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ 
There are no upcoming events.
 Your name:
 Your email address:
 Send post to email address, comma separated for multiple emails. 