German operator Deutsche Telekom said it has inaugurated a quantum lab at its T-Labs location in Berlin, Germany. In a release, the European carrier said that the new facility is dedicated to quantum research and the integration of quantum technology into commercial telecommunications networks. The move is part of Deutsche Telekom’s efforts to develop its quantum communication capabilities. The new research facility in Berlin is equipped with space and infrastructure for quantum-optical experiments. It is connected to over 2,000 kilometers of fiber optical network which connects to partners across Germany. The carrier also said it will cooperate with the Technical Universities of Berlin, Dresden and Munich, as well as the Fraunhofer Institut HHI and other partners from across academia and business. Deutsche Telekom highlighted that initial research at the quantum lab will focus on the use of quantum entanglement. This includes quantum cryptography for ultra-secure communication as well as communication networks with improved latency, throughput and resilience. Quantum entanglement also offers the possibility of more powerful networks of distributed and sensory applications – a so-called “quantum internet of things”, the telco said. “The opening of our qauantum lab is a clear signal that we are serious about bringing quantum technology to the commercial networks of telecommunications providers,” said Claudia Nemat, chief technology and innovation officer at Deutsche Telekom. “We explicitly invite the research and innovation community to join us in leveraging networks at the interface between R&D and commercial exploration like ours.” T-Systems, part of Deutsche Telekom, had announced the launch of its Quantum-as-a-Service offering. With this offering, business customers can access real quantum computing environments, develop and test use cases and prepare for a future in quantum computing. In June, China Telecom revealed that it has invested $434 million in the establishment of the China Telecom Quantum Information Technology Group Co., which will be headquartered in the eastern Chinese province of Anhui. The telco called the move a “practical action” to address General Secretary Xi Jinping’s “important instructions on the development of quantum technology.” Three years ago, Xi Jinping spoke at the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee in China, highlighting the need for advancing quantum technology in order to “nurture opportunities in crises and open new games amidst changes.” China Telecom’s recent investment follows rival China Mobile’s December decision to partner with Chinese startup Origin Quantum with the goal to use quantum computing to address computational bottlenecks present in 5G and 6G technologies. According to numerous reports, China has invested between $5 and $15 billion as part of the country’s five-year plan to further this technology ABOUT AUTHOR 

 Yes No Depends   Since 1982, RCR Wireless News has been providing wireless and mobile industry news, insights, and analysis to mobile and wireless industry professionals, decision makers, policy makers, analysts and investors. © 2024 RCR Wireless News

Powered by Eight Hats