Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. SANTA ROSA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec 16, 2022-- Keysight Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: KEYS), a leading technology company that delivers advanced design and validation solutions to help accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world, collaborated with leading vendors and mobile operators to present industry-first demonstrations at the fifth global PlugFest event organized by the O-RAN ALLIANCE. Using the Keysight Open RAN Architect (KORA) solution, which is accelerating the development of Open RAN (O-RAN) technologies, Keysight and its partners showcased industry leading innovations, including: In addition, the KORA solution portfolio enabled 14 vendors, 8 mobile operators, and three Open Testing and Integration Centers (OTIC) to verify the integration of multi-vendor network functions and compliance to O-RAN specifications at five PlugFest venues and eight labs across Asia, Europe, and North America: Keysight solutions were used to verify the following conformance, interoperability, performance, security, and innovative proofs of concept: Cao Peng, Vice President and General Manager for Keysight’s Wireless Test Group, said: “Keysight is pleased to expand our collaboration with the Open RAN ecosystem at the 5 th O-RAN Global PlugFest, which focused on industry leading innovations and advancing technology development and specifications maturity. We continue to see significant progress made at this PlugFest with the increased number of solutions validated in compliance with O-RAN specifications supporting open interfaces and RIC AI/ML enabled optimization. Energy Plane is the new plane for RAN interoperability, optimization, and differentiation as energy efficiency is a key sustainability goal for companies around the world. Several pre-standards E-Plane optimization techniques were tested and evaluated using new testing methodologies.” About Keysight Technologies Keysight delivers advanced design and validation solutions that help accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world. Keysight’s dedication to speed and precision extends to software-driven insights and analytics that bring tomorrow’s technology products to market faster across the development lifecycle, in design simulation, prototype validation, automated software testing, manufacturing analysis, and network performance optimization and visibility in enterprise, service provider and cloud environments. Our customers span the worldwide communications and industrial ecosystems, aerospace and defense, automotive, energy, semiconductor and general electronics markets. Keysight generated revenues of $5.4B in fiscal year 2022. For more information about Keysight Technologies (NYSE: KEYS), visit us at www.keysight.com. Additional information about Keysight Technologies is available in the newsroom at https://www.keysight.com/go/news and on Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter and YouTube. View source version on businesswire.com:https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221216005251/en/ Geri Lynne LaCombe, Americas/Europe [email protected] Dohi, Asia  [email protected] INDUSTRY KEYWORD: SOFTWARE MOBILE/WIRELESS NETWORKS INTERNET HARDWARE ELECTRONIC DESIGN AUTOMATION DATA MANAGEMENT CONSUMER ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY SECURITY OTHER TECHNOLOGY TELECOMMUNICATIONS  SOURCE: Keysight Technologies, Inc.  Copyright Business Wire 2022.  http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221216005251/en Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.