AI, or artificial intelligence, is technology that attempts to simulate human cognitive function. AI has made its way into the software development space in a number of ways. Visit the AI article list to expand your AI knowledge. Learn More Observability is a way for development teams in an organization to view their program state. Failing to provide developers with insight into their tools and processes could lead to unaddressed bugs and even system failures. Read about the latest observability content here Learn More In the past, the CI/CD pipeline was simply a place to integrate code. Developers would write their code in GitHub, pass it through the pipeline, and then deploy it. The pipeline has become a much more critical piece of the software delivery lifecycle today. Learn More Modern cloud-native applications, often leverage microservices, containers, APIs, infrastructure-as-code and more to enable speed in app development and deployment Learn More Sponsored By: Always On, Always Fast Deploy Distributed PostgreSQL in just 90 Seconds Learn More  The Importance of Security Testing With more development teams today using open-source and third-party components to build out their applications, the biggest area of concern for security teams has become the API. This is where vulnerabilities are likely to arise, as keeping on top of updating those interfaces has lagged. Read the Guide Here Mobile App Testing involves analyzing mobile apps for functionality, usability, visual appeal, and consistency across multiple mobile devices. It helps ensure an optimal user experience, irrespective of the device used to access the app. Learn More Today’s distributed software environments incorporate a variety of APIs with every interface your software touches, from mobile to microservices. Each API has to be continuously tested and verified to ensure your software functions as it should. Parasoft’s API testing platform makes quick, efficient, and intelligent work of such requirements. Learn More Ensure your application’s resilience, and make sure your software performs as expected under diverse operating conditions. (sponsored by Parasoft) Learn More    DevSecOps is the DevOps community’s approach to bringing security into the development lifecycle. Businesses want to deliver software, but cannot afford to release unreliable or insecure applications— therefore security needs to be baked in much sooner than it has traditionally been. Learn More Securing an application is just as important as building it in the first place. As data becomes more valuable, there are more people who want to steal it and use it for their own personal gain. Making sure applications are indeed secure has always been a challenge, as hackers try to stay one step ahead of defenders. Learn More Secrets are essential for integrating your infrastructure with databases and SaaS services. Doppler‘s developer-first security platform empowers teams to manage, orchestrate, and govern secrets across any environment. In 2023, there was an 18% decline in the number of open-source projects that are considered to be “actively maintained.” This is according to Sonatype’s Annual State of the Software Supply Chain Report. Learn More Development Managers need a different type of content than developers… They need to know what platforms, tools, trends, and issues they should be thinking about. SD Times delivers those unique topics here Learn More Agile software development has been around since the 1990s, but didn’t get the name until the famous meeting of 17 renowned software development thought leaders at Snowbird, Utah resulted in an Agile Manifesto. The idea behind Agile software development is to reduce time to market by enabling faster iterations of smaller segments of software. Learn More Value stream management involves people in the organization to examine workflows and other processes to ensure they are deriving the maximum value from their efforts while eliminating waste — of resources, time and assets. It is the practice that truly brings the business side and IT side together as partners in creating value for the organization. Learn More Learn More DevOps is a methodology in the software development and IT industry. Used as a set of practices and tools, DevOps integrates and automates the work of software development and IT operations as a means for improving and shortening the systems development life cycle. Learn More Gravitee helps organizations manage and secure their entire API lifecycle with solutions for API design, management, security, productization, real-time observability, and more.  AI, or artificial intelligence, is technology that attempts to simulate human cognitive function. AI has made its way into the software development space in a number of ways. Visit the AI article list to expand your AI knowledge. Learn More Value stream management involves people in the organization to examine workflows and other processes to ensure they are deriving the maximum value from their efforts while eliminating waste — of resources, time and assets. It is the practice that truly brings the business side and IT side together as partners in creating value for the organization. Learn More BEDFORD, Mass., Aug. 01, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) — EnterpriseDB (“EDB”), the leader in accelerating Postgres® in the enterprise, today announced that Kevin Dallas has joined the company as its new Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors. Dallas succeeds EDB President, CEO & Chairman of the Board Ed Boyajian, who will remain on the company’s Board of Directors. Over the past 15 years, Boyajian has led EDB to become the largest contributor to PostgreSQL code and the leading provider of enterprise-grade products and solutions, serving more than 1500 customers worldwide. During that same time, Postgres has risen in popularity to become the #1 most popular, admired and desired database by developers, surpassing all other databases as the leader in the Stack Overflow 2023 Developer Survey. Postgres is the leading open source database in an $80 billion market and is built to accelerate innovation and modernize database infrastructure. In the intelligent systems economy, businesses and governments worldwide are looking to unlock the power of data through a combination of Postgres and artificial intelligence technologies. Adopted by global 2000 companies for both mission-critical and new digital experience applications, EDB is uniquely positioned to lead in this space. “Under Ed’s leadership, EDB has modernized the Database Management Systems of customers around the world with its advanced innovation in Postgres,” said Dallas. “It is an honor and a privilege to step in and lead the company’s next phase focused on the intersection of data and AI. The growth opportunity ahead is significant, and we continue to drive innovation to accelerate our customers’ digital transformations. I look forward to working with our talented team, the Board, Bain Capital and Great Hill Partners to realize the company’s full potential in the growing intelligent systems economy.” Dallas brings three decades of experience driving digital innovation and growth at technology companies, most recently as CEO at Wind River, a TPG portfolio company. As CEO, Dallas accelerated the software company’s growth culminating in its $3.5 billion acquisition by Aptiv in 2022. Previously, Dallas spent nearly 25 years with Microsoft, where he most recently served as the corporate vice president for cloud and AI business development. Prior roles demonstrated his customer-focused approach to delivering advanced intelligent cloud and edge product innovation, and enabling customer digital transformation. Dallas is the recipient of the 2022 Gold Stevie Award, American Business Award, Entrepreneur of the Year, and the 2022 Globee Awards Gold Winner for Executive of the Year. “We are grateful for Ed’s leadership and all he has done to drive innovation, foster strategic partnerships and position the company for accelerated growth,” said Max de Groen, Partner, Bain Capital Private Equity. “As we look to the future, Kevin is a transformative leader with extensive experience driving innovation, profitable growth and creating new markets for some of the world’s largest and most impactful technology companies.” “Ed has built EDB into the market leader in Postgres; at the same time, Postgres has risen to become the world’s most sought-after database. That is not a coincidence,” said Drew Loucks, Managing Director at Great Hill Partners. “Kevin’s extensive experience across technology companies and forward-leaning approach to innovation make him the ideal leader to chart EDB’s future.” Following last year’s majority growth investment from Bain Capital Private Equity, which helped fuel innovations in EDB’s Postgres and Cloud offerings, and the continued sponsorship of Great Hill Partners, the appointment of Dallas is another step to accelerate scalable, profitable growth for the company. “After 15 years of leading EDB, and 54 quarters of consecutive growth, I’m incredibly proud of this company, our employees, the innovation we’ve driven, and our impact on customer success,” noted Boyajian. “We’ve built EDB into a great company, and my decision to step forward and focus on board work ushers in a new phase in the company’s evolution. Kevin is a phenomenal leader, and we are confident that we’ve made the right choice to guide EDB towards an extraordinary future ahead.” Media Contact
Ian Bain
EDB
ian.bain@enterprisedb.com EDB provides enterprise-grade software and services that enable organizations to harness the full power of Postgres, the world’s leading open source database. EDB provides unmatched Postgres database expertise, and enables the same Postgres everywhere, including solutions for hybrid, self-managed private clouds, and EDB BigAnimal, a fully managed cloud database-as-a-service. EDB serves more than 1,500 customers globally, including leading government agencies, financial services, media and information technology companies. As the leading contributor to the vibrant and fast-growing Postgres community, EDB is committed to driving technology innovation. Through its solutions for high availability, reliability, security, 24×7 global support and advanced professional services, EDB empowers enterprises to control risk, manage costs and scale efficiently. For more information, visit www.enterprisedb.com. EnterpriseDB and EDB are registered trademarks of EnterpriseDB Corporation. Postgres and PostgreSQL are registered trademarks of the PostgreSQL Community Association of Canada, and used with their permission. All other trademarks are owned by their respective owners. 
AI, data, database, Enterprise DB  
 Ready to subscribe to SD Times? It's just a click away! Subscribe