
  
		  
		  
		  
		 
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
		
 Source: Bill Newman    June 16, 2023 (Investorideas.com Newswire) Wells slated for drilling this summer in the Gulf of Thailand are expected to further increase production, noted a Research Capital Corp. report.  Valeura Energy Inc. (VLE:TSX; PNWRF:OTCMKTS) increased its oil production 16% over the Q1/23 average rate due to two successful drill programs carried out so far this year, reported Research Capital Corp. analyst Bill Newman in a June 13 research note. "Corporate oil production has increased to about 23,700 barrels per day (23.7 Mbbl/d)" from 20.475 Mbbl/d," Newman wrote. Possible Return Noteworthy Accordingly, Research Capital maintained its Buy rating and CA$8.25 per share price target on the Canadian oil and gas explorer-producer, currently trading at about CA$1.89 per share, Newman pointed out. This price difference implies a significant potential gain for investors in Valeura of about 336%. Offshore Well Success The most recently finished drill program consisted of two infill horizontal wells in the Nong Yao oilfield in the Gulf of Thailand, relayed Newman. Valeura owns a 90% working interest in the related license. After being completed ahead of schedule and under budget, the wells were put into production at a combined rate of about 1.35 Mbbl/d, slightly higher than management expected. Previously this year, nine wells were successfully drilled in the Jasmine oilfield (100% working interest), also in the Gulf. More Production Expected Current plans for the rest of 2023 call for two more drill programs in the Gulf of Thailand, which are expected to boost oil production and potentially positively catalyze the company's stock price, wrote Newman. Given drilling success so far this year, Valeura decided to finish out 2023 using only one rig. It is already at the Manora oilfield (70% working interest), where the drilling of three infill wells will commence soon. "The program is expected to add production and could extend the life of the [Manora] field beyond 2025," Newman wrote. Following Manora, five infill wells are slated to be drilled, starting around August, in the Wassana oilfield (100% working interest). The Wassana program is "expected to increase field production to about 5 Mbbl/d in late Q4/23," added Newman. Another upcoming catalyst, expected in August, is the release of Valeura's Q2/23 financial and operational results. Further Cost Savings Likely In a final comment in his report, Newman purported that while Valeura has not revised its 2023 capital budget of between US$180 million (US$180M) and US$200M, it is likely it could achieve additional cost savings due to further synergies created by the integration of the KrisEnergy and Mubadala Energy assets. More Info: Disclaimer/Disclosure: Investorideas.com is a digital publisher of third party sourced news, articles and equity research as well as creates original content, including video, interviews and articles. Original content created by investorideas is protected by copyright laws other than syndication rights. Our site does not make recommendations for purchases or sale of stocks, services or products. Nothing on our sites should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell products or securities. All investing involves risk and possible losses. This site is currently compensated for news publication and distribution, social media and marketing, content creation and more. Disclosure is posted for each compensated news release, content published /created if required but otherwise the news was not compensated for and was published for the sole interest of our readers and followers. Contact management and IR of each company directly regarding specific questions. More disclaimer info: https://www.investorideas.com/About/Disclaimer.asp Learn more about publishing your news release and our other news services on the Investorideas.com newswire https://www.investorideas.com/News-Upload/ Global investors must adhere to regulations of each country. Please read Investorideas.com privacy policy: https://www.investorideas.com/About/Private_Policy.asp Get Great Trading Ideas and News Alerts   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Investorideas.com is the go-to platform for big investing ideas. About Us
Contact
Non Profits we support
Write for Us
Showcase
Domains for Sale via Investor Ideas
Disclaimer / Disclosure
News Syndication Partners
RSS Newsfeeds
Contributor Guidelines
Partners / Links
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Read Investor Ideas News on Apple News
Investorideas.com on Seeking Alpha 
Investorideas.com on Stocktwits  Advertise / Guest PostsServices - news and social media publishing, editorial content creation with ticker tag articles and podcast interviewsPublish NewsBecome A Featured Company Biotech Stock News
Cannabis stocks
Cannabis stocks newswire
Clean Energy News
Defense Stocks
Energy stocks
Gold and Mining News
Investing in Cryptocurrency and Blockchain
Investor Ideas, Trading Ideas and Stocks to Watch
Investorideas.com Newswire
Music Stocks
Renewable Energy Stocks
Sports Stock News
Trading Tech Stocks
Water Stocks WaterNewwire.com News
Research
Trade - list of stock trading apps
Job Search
Join our Investor Club
Login
Free News Alerts
420 Cannabis Investor Ideas
Marketplace/Crowdfunding/ICO's
Podcasts
Podcasts for Cannabis News and Stocks to watch
AI Eye Podcast
Cleantech / Climate Change Podcast
Exploring Mining Podcast
Crypto Corner Podcast
Gaming Podcast
Wine Down Wednesday
Videos
Social Media Platform & Investor Community
Play by Play Sports News and Stocks
Marketplace
Wine Down Corner Agriculture
Auto 
Beverage and Food
Biodefense
Biotech
Bitcoin/blockchain
Cannabis/Hemp
China
Defense/Security
Energy/Oil
Fuel Cell
Gaming/Online Gambling
Gold/Mining 
Homebuilding/Real Estate
India
Health, Wellness  and Sustainability
Luxury/Jewelry
Mining/Metals
Music /Entertainment
Natural Gas
Nanotechnology
Renewable Energy/Cleantech
Sports
Technology
Toys
Water
Wine © 2000 - 2024 Investorideas.com