Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. 

By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy. 
 Thank you for registering! An account was already registered with this email.Please check your inbox for an authentication link. Your support helps TechNode continue to provide credible, on-the-ground journalism and industry insights about the Chinese tech industry. 
			Your contribution is appreciated.		 TechNode 
					Latest news and trends about tech in China				 BYD will use Nvidia’s automotive-grade computer chips to power advanced driver assistance systems and provide in-car digital services across multiple models, the companies announced Tuesday. The Chinese automaker’s next-generation Dynasty and Ocean lineups will be built on Nvidia’s end-to-end Drive Orin platform, which is capable of performing over 254 trillion operations per second (TOPS), higher than Tesla’s full-self-driving computer, which runs at 144 TOPS. On Jan. 4, China’s top electric vehicle maker said it had collaborated with the US chipmaker on cloud gaming, allowing owners to stream popular gaming titles in their cars powered by Nvidia’s technology. Multiple Chinese automakers, including SAIC, Nio, and Xpeng Motors, have also included Nvidia’s automated driving programs. [Nvidia release]  沪ICP备14046707号-4 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy.																	
