WHY US 


		                        Partner with us for Press release distribution and get best in class service, guaranteed postings on tier 1 media and maximum reach


 In 1990, the government of Malta formed the Malta Information Technology Agency (MITA) with a mission to manage the implementation of public IT programs; since then, the agency has sought to increase the digital transformation of the country's government service delivery infrastructure. To support this goal, MITA has signed an enterprise agreement with Esri, the global leader in location intelligence, to specifically enhance MITA's geographic information system (GIS) capabilities. The three-year agreement will provide Esri software, professional services, and technical support to MITA and 22 other agencies across the Maltese government. The agreement will enable existing GIS users in Malta, including agencies for planning, public works, and transportation, to enhance their activities and services with the latest geospatial capabilities from Esri. Additionally, agencies such as health, communications, and infrastructure organizations that don't currently benefit from enterprise GIS now have access to world-leading tools and applications for spatial data visualization and analysis. "The agreement that MITA has signed on behalf of the government of Malta directly with Esri will facilitate flexible access to the latest Esri technology and services," said Inġ.Emanuel Darmanin, CEO of MITA. "It provides the opportunity for further growth in the use of GIS capabilities to support current and future strategic geospatial initiatives." Bringing all government agencies onto a common system will make data sharing, multiagency decision-making, and community engagement more efficient. And with comprehensive geographic insights and tools, Malta will be able to more effectively provide services that enrich its communities' quality of life, as well as increase growth opportunities for businesses and individuals. Esri will also support academia in the country by making GIS technology and training accessible to schools and universities. "We are pleased and honored to be partnering with MITA to make Esri's ArcGIS system and related training and services available on a broad scale in Malta," said Richard Budden, Esri's deputy general manager for the Middle East, Africa, and Central Asia region. "We look forward to helping the Maltese government further expand its existing geospatial capabilities and skills over the coming three years." The agreement also simplifies software licensing and procurement for MITA and associated government agencies. Esri and MITA will coordinate GIS user events and provide industry and technology briefings throughout the term of the agreement. To learn more about Esri's work in Europe, visit esri.com/en-us/about/about-esri/europe/overview. About Esri Esri, the global market leader in geographic information system (GIS) software, location intelligence, and mapping helps customers unlock the full potential of data to improve operational and business results. Founded in 1969 in Redlands, California, USA, Esri software is deployed in more than 350,000 organizations globally and in over 200,000 institutions in the Americas, Asia and the Pacific, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East. Esri has partners and local distributors in over 100 countries on six continents, including Fortune 500 companies, government agencies, nonprofits, and universities. With its pioneering commitment to geospatial information technology, Esri engineers the most innovative solutions for digital transformation, the Internet of Things (IoT), and advanced analytics. Visit us at esri.com. Copyright © 2023 Esri. All rights reserved. Esri, the Esri globe logo, ArcGIS, The Science of Where, esri.com, and @esri.com are trademarks, service marks, or registered marks of Esri in the United States, the European Community, or certain other jurisdictions. Other companies and products or services mentioned herein may be trademarks, service marks, or registered marks of their respective mark owners.  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230216005261/en/ Jo Ann PruchniewskiPublic Relations, EsriMobile: 301-693-2643Email: [email protected] 
Submit your press release 
 
 [email protected] 
 +91 70 4246 9444 (North & East) +91 70 4247 1444 (West)  +91 70 4248 7444 (South) 
        Accept the use of cookies. Learn more | View Privacy Policy

            I Accept
        
