Information Age 
					Insight and Analysis for the CTO				 Ready to rumble: which is better, Kubernetes or Docker, when it comes to DevOps in the cloud? Kubernetes vs Docker is an argument that goes on in the DevOps community. Which one is the best DevOps tool when it comes to deploying software in the cloud? When Kubernetes appeared as an open-source software orchestration and DevOps tool a few years ago, there was the immediate temptation to compare the technology as an alternative to container platform Docker in some quarters. In fact, there is not really any Kubernetes vs Docker/containers pros and cons debate to be had, as they complement each other. And, if anything, Kubernetes has greatly improved software and services development when using Docker or any other containers technology. ‘87% of organisations plan to deploy Kubernetes in mission-critical environments over the next three years’ But there some pros and cons to be noted, according to Deepak Goel, CTO of Kubernetes management solution D2iQ: And Harry Perks, principal product manager at cloud security platform Sysdiq, has his own list of pros and cons… “Containers have generated seismic shifts in the application development and deployment industry over the last decade, if you start counting from the 2013 DotCloud talk at PyCon, which seems to be the start of the current interest in container technology,” says Anthony Kesterton, principal solution architect at Red Hat. “There was a lot of work that led up to the 2013 Dotcloud talk – including Jails in FreeBSD in 2000, SELinux in 2003, Solaris Zones in 2005 and other developments.” Containers are essentially a packaging mechanism that allows an application developer to bundle the application and required libraries together. Containers are then started and run using a container runtime (such as CRI-O, containerd or Docker Engine) that run the container as a Linux process sharing the underlying Linux kernel with other containers on a single machine. This is in contrast to virtual machines, where a virtual machine bundles the entire operating system as well as the application and then the underlying hardware and hypervisor emulates multiple physical machines. Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration platform that automates many of the manual processes involved in deploying, managing, and scaling software for the cloud. Kesterton says: “Once you start getting a number of containers running on one or more physical machines, you start to have to deal with managing all these containers. This is where Kubernetes comes in. Kubernetes is software that manages the placement of containers on different machines, the monitoring of those containers and restarting containers if required. “It also provides interfaces to software and hardware that enables network communication between containers and access to services such as storage. Kubernetes also groups together containers in more manageable groupings called pods, where a pod is a set of one or more containers.” “You can think of Kubernetes as acting like the conductor of an orchestra, and the Docker containers being the musicians,” says Ian Wood, head of technology for the UK and Ireland at data management and security firm Veritas Technologies. “Each musician is carrying out their own task, but they’re all told when to start and stop, and in which order, by the conductor.” Antonio Vasconcelos, EMEA field CISO director at SentinelOne, adds: “Regardless of what managed Kubernetes or Docker services you use, they provide organisations with the ability to run and manage multiple containerised applications, and even multiple container runtimes, at scale, in a repeatable and consistent manner. “There are inherent security benefits to this, given that standardisation of processes and technology allows organisations to ensure systems follow the same set of configurations, versioning and overall hardening, without having to be concerned about verifying individually each and every one of those systems or line-of-business resources. This reduces the likelihood of inconsistencies and human error, effectively reducing the overall attack surface and risk exposure.” Vasconcelos warns however that although Kubernetes provides several native security features that give organisations with a better security posture, they still need to be properly architected, configured and maintained. “And even when running your workloads in managed Kubernetes services in the cloud, don’t forget that you as a customer will always be responsible for securing the actual Kubernetes’ workloads,” he warns. Veritas’s Wood adds that early containers weren’t stateful, so users didn’t overly worry about backup. However, Kubernetes environments increasingly process stateful data and Veritas research reveals 87 per cent of organisations plan to deploy Kubernetes in mission-critical environments over the next three years. Says Wood: “While it’s fairly easy to protect a docker container, it’s actually quite hard to restore them in a useful way. And, conversely, while it’s far easier to restore a Kubernetes environment, it’s harder for businesses to back one up without specialist help.” John Smith, chief technology officer for EMEA at app security vendor Veracode, says: “For all their value, containers come with significant risks. A lack of visibility into containers means security teams are often unable to discern any issues within the code, and containers are rarely scanned for vulnerabilities before or after being deployed into production. “While Docker and Kubernetes have security systems built-in, a comprehensive DevSecOps approach incorporating a container security solution that addresses vulnerability scanning, secure configuration, and secrets management requirements is vital if teams want to thrive.” Veritas’s Wood adds: “Specialists who are skilled in Kubernetes data management, and resiliency with backup and recovery, are in high demand, as well as being best placed to help companies secure their data across multi-cloud, edge as well as core on-premise environments.” Leisure management software firm Gladstone used both Docker and Kubernates to help build its recently launched cloud native, full-service offering“We use both for very different purposes,” says Phil Davies, chief technical officer at Gladstone. “The decision to build our production platform around Kubernetes was driven primarily by the cyclical nature of the fitness industry. The frequent peaks and troughs in application use due to seasonal demand means that the automatic scaling delivered by this technology provides customers with tangible benefit.“It also provides our own business with greater flexibility when it comes to resource planning. Moving away from an older virtual machine-based approach and adding this kind of flexibility to our resource scaling allows us to significantly minimise costs.”On container use, Davies says: “Docker is essentially a tool for architectural definition and development. The encapsulation which it enables provides significant benefits to our development process. In very basic terms, in resonates with the way developers think, breaking things down into logical units.“At a deeper level though, it helps us define the semantic structure of the application and the definition of the microservices we deploy. It also delivers benefits to the process of delivery. The delta of any deployed change using Docker is significantly smaller, so any issues are easier to identify and isolate.” 5 Kubernetes technology vendors hot right now – Kubernetes is a technology that has created a whole new ecosystem around itself, and it is now a key plank in the DevOps movement when it comes to developing new applications and services and improving business operations How enterprises can get better with Kubernetes – How mature is your business when it comes to adopting Kubernetes? Steve Judd at Jetstack offers a guide for CTOs of enterprises adopting Kubernetes technology for software deployment, scaling and management 
				Antony has been a business technology journalist for 35 years, including following the convergence of computing and telecoms, the emergence of mobile and wireless data, and now new industry productivity...				
				More by Antony Savvas				
 Kubernetes  Kubernetes  Kubernetes  Helping you grow your business is our number one priority, if you would like to take your business to the next step just sign up! sign up now Kubernetes  Kubernetes  Kubernetes  We provide general intelligence for technologists in the information age. We support CTOs, CIOs and other technology leaders in managing business critical issues both for today and in the future.