 By clicking Sign In, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and that you have read our Privacy Policy. Sign InUp with your social account We won't post to any of your accounts Your password must include: Sign InUp with your social account We won't post to any of your accounts Your password must include: Us Weekly has affiliate partnerships. We receive compensation when you click on a link and make a purchase. Learn more! It’s the most wonderful time of the year! Not only is it spooky season with the holidays right around the corner, but it’s also Prime Big Deal Days at Amazon! This two-day special event is your second chance to save big on a wide selection of products across the site. But if you’re like Us, then you’re currently focused on decorating your home for Halloween and Thanksgiving. We’ve got you covered! Below are the best Prime Day deals on cooking and decor so you can celebrate fall in style! From pumpkins to pot holders, these steals will prep your home for the holidays. Grab these trick-or-treats now before it’s too late!
 Double, double, toil in trouble! Entertain your guests with these witches’ cauldron serving bowls for Halloween. You can display dips, candy or any other sort of snack in these adorable dishes! This burnt orange ceramic baking dish is just as pretty as it is practical! Oven and stove safe, this seasonal stoneware contains handles for holding. We’re thankful we discovered this gorgeous dish on sale!  Harry Potter fans, this is your chance to turn your home into Hogwarts. Complete with a wand remote, these floating candles will be the life of any Halloween party! Mischief managed. Gobble ’til you wobble! Give your friends and family a good laugh on Thanksgiving with this cheeky light-up wood sign. Below are other options that will set the mood for your festive feast! Shop With Us tip: Find the best gifts on Amazon personalized to your shopping history here! You have successfully subscribed. By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Weekly Check our latest news in Google News Check our latest news in Apple News Not done shopping yet? Check out more of our favorite early Amazon Prime Day deals below: You have successfully subscribed. By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Weekly You have successfully subscribed. By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Weekly Us Weekly has affiliate partnerships so we may receive compensation for some links to products and services. You have successfully subscribed. By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Weekly Us Weekly is part of Part of the a360media Entertainment Group. © a360media 2024Powered by WordPress VIP