New sales ceased on March 9 and all existing subscriptions will end on Sept. 4. Amazon decided to stop selling print and Kindle magazine and newspaper subscriptions. The announcement seemed to go mostly unnoticed last week, when Amazon turned off Kindle Newsstand and print magazine subscription orders on March 9. The ability to renew annual Kindle Newsstand or print subscriptions was also removed. Now a banner appears at the top of the Kindle Newsstand page making it clear that subscriptions are gone. When asked by The Verge, Amazon spokesperson Julia Lee explained the decision: "As part of our annual operating planning review process, we always look at each of our businesses and what we believe we should change ... Following an assessment of our magazine and newspaper subscriptions and single-issue sales, we have made the difficult decision to discontinue these services. We don’t take these decisions lightly and are winding down these offerings in a phased manner over several months. We will continue to support customers, sellers and publishers during that time." Amazon shared some other key dates for those affected by this decision. The next one is June 5, after which point print magazine subscriptions can't be managed through Amazon anymore. Instead, "all customer service inquiries for any remaining active subscriptions will be serviced directly by the publisher." Amazon is promising to share more details about this ahead of the cutoff date. On Sept. 4, monthly Kindle Newsstand subscriptions can no longer be renewed through Amazon, but it's possible to continue reading the issues already delivered to you. Annual subscribers will only continue to receive new issues until Sept. 4 unless their subscription ends before then. Amazon will issue a pro-rated refund for any undelivered issues remaining in your Kindle subscription after the Sept. 4 cutoff date. Some digital magazine subscriptions will continue to be offered through Kindle Unlimited, but for everything else Amazon is pushing customers to subscribe directly through publisher websites instead and will provide details on how to go about doing that through the "Your Memberships and Subscriptions" page. Sign up for What's New Now to get our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I started working at PCMag in November 2016, covering all areas of technology and video game news. Before that I spent nearly 15 years working at Geek.com as a writer and editor. I also spent the first six years after leaving university as a professional game designer working with Disney, Games Workshop, 20th Century Fox, and Vivendi. Read Matthew's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.