"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." If you've ever considered adding a standalone greenhouse to your yard, you know how big of an investment it can be. According to Maya Haynie of deVINE Plantery, prices can run between $1,000 and $5,000 for decent prefab options, or closer to $20,000 if you're looking for something custom. But thanks to Amazon, you may just be able to fulfill your greenery dreams for under $100 (yes, really!). The Home-Complete Walk-in Greenhouse currently retails for $89.95, making it a major steal! Plus, it doesn't skimp on storage. The unit fits eight durable shelves for storing and displaying plants and gardening supplies. Since it's a walk-in greenhouse, there's also additional floor space for taller plants (and enough space for an adult to go in to water). Shop Now Walk-in Greenhouse $87.95 amazon.com With a steel frame and a PVC cover to keep budding blooms away from pests, it's just as perfect for outdoor use as it is for indoor gardening. And while the unit does require some assembly, it doesn't require any tools and the instructions are easy to follow, at least according to some of the 3,500 five-star reviews. "I found it to be easy to assemble and quite roomy inside," writes one customer. The Home-Complete greenhouse is available to ship now (you can even get Prime delivery!). Not sold yet? Check out some of Amazon's other greenhouse offerings below: Love shopping for your home and scoring the best deals? We can help. You Might Also Like Can Apple Cider Vinegar Lead to Weight Loss? Bobbi Brown Shares Her Top Face-Transforming Makeup Tips for Women Over 50 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.