




Aaryamann Shrivastava

FXStreet


 Solana-based decentralized exchange (DEX) Mango Markets fell victim to one of the biggest thefts on the network ever in October 2022. The perpetrator Avraham Eisenberg who was soon caught by the authorities and slapped with a lawsuit by CFTC, is now facing criminal charges at the hands of the SEC as well. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), on January 20, filed charges against Avraham Eisenberg for orchestrating an attack on a crypto asset trading platform. At the time of writing, Eisenberg was detained in Puerto Rico, waiting to arrive in New York.  According to the SEC, Eisenberg purposely purchased the Mango Markets’ native token, MNGO and artificially inflated its price. Eisenberg then used his MNGO to borrow and withdraw nearly $116 million from the Mango Markets in the form of multiple cryptocurrencies, draining the platform of all assets. The Chief of the Crypto Assets and Cyber Unit, David Hirsch, noted, “As we allege, Eisenberg engaged in a manipulative and deceptive scheme to artificially inflate the price of the MNGO token…As our action shows, the SEC remains committed to rooting out market manipulation, regardless of the type of security involved. Consequently, the SEC charged Eisenberg with anti-fraud and market manipulation provisions of the securities laws violation. The commission intends to seek civil penalties along with other rulings through the complaint. Apart from the SEC, the Department of Justice and the CFTC have also been involved with the case. While the Justice Department arrested the perpetrator last year, the CFTC is pursuing a lawsuit against Eisenberg at the moment. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)  sued the exploiter earlier this month with manipulation charges. Solana price noted an uptick in the last 24 hours as the value of the cryptocurrency increased by 13.67%. The price of the Ethereum killed touched $23.70, nearing the critical resistance level at $28.28. If Solana price manages to breach this critical resistance, a rise toward $32.06 is on the cards. Reclaiming these key levels is crucial for SOL, as only then would the altcoin manage to recover its previous losses.  SOL/USD 1-day chart However, in the event of a price decline, if the immediate support at $22.77 is lost, Solana price would slip to $19.30 and lower toward the critical support at $17.89. Should SOL lose this support as well, the bullish thesis would be invalidated, leaving the asset vulnerable to further decline. 
Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page. 
If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet.
FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted.
The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice. 
 Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page.  If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet. FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted. The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice.  Bitcoin trades around $58,000 on Monday, down 0.7% on the day and extending the consolidation phase between $57,000 and $62,000 seen in the past ten days. From a technical perspective, the bearish thesis still prevails as BTC struggles to overcome key resistance levels and momentum indicators look weak.  Smart contract blockchain Solana (SOL), a key competitor for Ethereum,has noted a 150% increase in its stablecoin supply, largely driven by increasing DeFi opportunities, liquidity and lending protocols and expansion of projects from Ethereum ecosystem to Solana.  Vitalik Buterin, co-creator of Ethereum, the largest altcoin in the crypto ecosystem, moved ETH to a crypto mixer, early on Monday. The mixer is known to effectively prevent malicious actors and protect user privacy.    Dogecoin, the largest meme coin in the crypto ecosystem noted a surge in whale wallet holdings. Data from on-chain intelligence tracker IntoTheBlock show a 50% increase in the count of wallet addresses holding over 10 billion DOGE.  Bitcoin (BTC) trades above $58,000 on Friday after after testing and failing to overcome the resistance level around $62,000 earlier in the week. The risk-on mood returned to markets this week, Marathon Digital added 4,141 BTC worth $249 million to its holdings and the US SEC approved a MicroStrategy leveraged ETF, potentially giving investors more exposure to Bitcoin.  Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer. Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts. Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and omissions may occur. Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, clients or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.