By Sam Joseph Semon For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:57 EDT, 11 April 2023   |  Updated:  04:24 EDT, 11 April 2023      26 View  comments  Katie Holmes attended a special screening of her feature Rare Objects, which took place in New York City on Monday Night. The 44-year-old performer was first seen while addressing the crowd that had assembled for her showing, and she later mingled with several other figures from the entertainment industry, including Alan Cumming and Lucy Freyer. The actress, who recently finished her run on an off-Broadway play, is preparing for the release of her third directorial effort, which is set to be made available to the public later this week. Holmes wore a black jacket on top of a matching dress during the special screening. The Dawson's Creek star's outfit also featured several strands of red fabric, which added a bit of extra color to her look for the evening. Leading lady: Katie Holmes, 44, attended a special screening of her feature Rare Objects, which took place in New York City on Monday Night Gorgeous: Much of her brunette hair was tied into a bun, although two lengthy strands fell onto both sides of her face The performer donned a pair of high-heeled shoes and accessorized with a fashionable pair of earrings.  Much of her gorgeous brunette hair was tied into a bun, although two lengthy strands fell onto both sides of her face. Cumming opted for a black polka-dotted jacket that was worn on top of a black t-shirt for the screening. The actor also wore a pair of pants that matched the pattern of his outerwear.  Lucy Freyer donned a leather jacket on top of a sheer dress as she posed for photos during the event. The performer's bright blonde hair contrasted perfectly with the dark tones of her clothing.  Deadline previously revealed that Holmes was attached to Rare Objects in June of 2021. The movie is based on Kathleen Tessaro's novel of the same name, which was published in 2016. Layering up: Holmes wore a black jacket on top of a matching dress during the special screening Contrasting colors: The Dawson's Creek star's outfit also featured several strands of red fabric, which added a bit of extra color to her look for the evening Tying it off: The performer donned a pair of high-heeled shoes and accessorized with a fashionable pair of earrings Starting off strong: Deadline previously revealed that Holmes was attached to Rare Objects in June of 2021 Source material: The movie is based on Kathleen Tessaro's novel of the same name, which was published in 2016  Storyline: The film is centered on a young woman who attempts to rebuild her life by working at an antique store before several individuals from her traumatic past begin to make their way back into her life The film is centered on a young woman who attempts to rebuild her life by working at an antique store before several individuals from her traumatic past begin to make their way back into her life.  In addition to directing the feature, which she also produced, Holmes serves as one of its stars and co-wrote its screenplay. Other performers involved in the production of the film include Julia Mayorga, Saundra Santiago and Derek Luke.  Rare Objects' official trailer was previously released to the public in February. Holmes spoke about working on the project during an interview with Variety, where she expressed that the feature's script was rewritten several times over the feature's development process.  'The screenplay has gone through a lot of different forms, which was great because you learn exactly the story you want to tell,' she said. The actress also opened up about why she chose to update the novel's original setting to modern-day New York City.  She explained: 'It was to get the movie made. It's very expensive to make a period piece...The circumstances in the period version are still topical today.' Holmes went on to speak about why she was particularly attracted to the book and its message.  Serious effort: In addition to directing the feature, Holmes serves as one of its stars and co-wrote its screenplay Making an impression: Cumming opted for a black polka-dotted jacket that was worn on top of a black t-shirt for the screening Two-piece suit: The actor also wore a pair of pants that matched the pattern of his outerwear. Lucy Freyer donned a leather jacket on top of a sheer dress as she posed for photos during the event Beautiful: The performer's bright blonde hair contrasted perfectly with the dark tones of her clothing  Stacked cast: Other performers involved in the production of the film include Julia Mayorga, Saundra Santiago and Derek Luke  Opening up: Holmes spoke about working on the project during an interview with Variety, where she expressed that the feature's script was rewritten several times over the feature's development process An inside look: Rare Objects' official trailer was previously released to the public in February Standing out: Holmes posed for a photo with Haute Living's Editor-in-Chief, Laura Schreffler, during the event Hot stuff! Sofia Ella Symonds showcased her toned legs while wearing a sleeved black dress Coming soon: Rare Objects is scheduled to be released both in select theaters and on demand on Friday She said: 'I was drawn to the female friendship and this metaphor of "you are more beautiful for having been broken."' The performer also spoke about how she stretched herself thin while directing and acting in the feature. 'It's exhausting to do both. When you're the director and you're acting, you're always thinking about the clock,' she stated.  Rare Objects is scheduled to be released both in select theaters and on demand on Friday. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group