John E. Sokolowski-USA TODAY Sports The Toronto Raptors aren't exactly a one-trick pony when it comes to end-of-game situations but at times they can become a little predictable. If you've been watching the Raptors for a while you probably already know the play: Fred VanVleet either screens or bluffs a screen on Pascal Siakam's man and then pops out behind the three-point line allowing Siakam to either drive to the hoop or make the kick-out pass to VanVleet for three. It's simple and effective. Basically, put your two best players in an action and force the defense to pick their poison. On Thursday, though, Toronto changed things up a little bit. With VanVleet out for personal reasons, the Raptors opted to go with the same play using Gary Trent Jr. in the screener's spot. How'd it go? Well, Trent's screen didn't do much to dislodge Herb Jones who defended Siakam on the play, but it did force CJ McCollum to step away from Trent just long enough to create an advantage. Siakam took two steps toward the paint, freezing McCollum further before throwing the kick-out pass to Trent for three. Perfectly executed. Using Trent in that spot isn't some revolutionary decision by the Raptors but it gives Toronto options moving forward. On any given night, the Raptors should feel comfortable running that same action with any of a handful of players. "I would like to say that we'd be able to mix it up and we can attack rather than using exactly who we want to use, we can use maybe four different people in that action going at what we consider maybe one of their weaknesses," Raptors coach Nick Nurse said Friday. "That's what I would like to get to. I'd like to get to Pascal-Freddie, Pascal-Gary, Scottie-Freddie, Scottie-Gary, that way we can attack the way we want to attack." While VanVleet is a better and more experienced screener than Trent, Trent has shown this season he's a reliable catch-and-shoot threat and the kind of player who can step up and make big shots in crunch time. He ranks in the 75th percentile as a spot-up shooter, generating a team-high 1.13 points per spot-up attempt, per NBA Stats. It's not the first time Toronto has used Trent in that action, but it might have been the biggest moment they've opted to turn to the 24-year-old guard in that spot. It showed not only that the Raptors can trust him as the screener in that late-game actions but also gave opposing teams another wrinkle to think about when they find themselves in crunch-time situations against Toronto. Gary Trent Jr. clinches Raptors 1st victory of playoff-defining stretch as defense locks down Pelicans Nick Nurse explains what he wants from Scottie Barnes in new role alongside Jakob Poeltl Raptors face another difficult playoff push with plenty of learning experiences from last season Aaron Rose is a Toronto-based reporter covering the Toronto Raptors since 2020.