Maxar Technologies (NYSE:MAXR) (TSX:MAXR) (“Maxar” or the “Company”), provider of comprehensive space solutions and secure, precise, geospatial intelligence, today announced the expiration of the 60-day “go-shop” period pursuant to the terms of the previously announced definitive merger agreement to be acquired by Advent International (“Advent”), one of the largest and most experienced global private equity investors. As previously announced and under the definitive terms of the merger agreement, Advent has agreed to acquire all outstanding shares of Maxar common stock for $53.00 per share in cash. The “go-shop” period expired at 11:59pm ET on February 14, 2023. During the “go-shop” period, at the direction of the Maxar Board of Directors, Maxar and representatives of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, financial advisor to Maxar, engaged with or actively solicited alternative acquisition proposals from 36 potentially interested third parties with respect to a possible alternative transaction to the merger. Maxar did not receive any competing acquisition proposals during the “go-shop” period. Upon expiration of the “go-shop” period, pursuant to the definitive merger agreement with Advent, Maxar became subject to customary “no-shop” provisions that limit Maxar and its representatives’ ability to solicit alternative acquisition proposals from third parties or to provide confidential information to third parties, subject to customary “fiduciary out” provisions. The transaction remains subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval by Maxar stockholders and receipt of regulatory approvals. The transaction received U.S. antitrust clearance pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 at the end of January and remains on track to close in mid-2023. Upon completion of the transaction, Maxar’s common stock will no longer be publicly listed, and Maxar will become a privately held company. About Maxar Maxar Technologies (NYSE:MAXR) (TSX:MAXR) is a provider of comprehensive space solutions and secure, precise, geospatial intelligence. We deliver disruptive value to government and commercial customers to help them monitor, understand and navigate our changing planet; deliver global broadband communications; and explore and advance the use of space. Our unique approach combines decades of deep mission understanding and a proven commercial and defense foundation to deploy solutions and deliver insights with unrivaled speed, scale and cost effectiveness. Maxar’s 4,400 team members in over 20 global locations are inspired to harness the potential of space to help our customers create a better world. For more information, visit www.maxar.com. About Advent International Founded in 1984 and based in Boston, MA, Advent International is one of the largest and most experienced global private equity investors. The firm has invested in over 405 private equity investments across 42 countries, and as of September 30, 2022, had $89 billion in assets under management. With 15 offices in 12 countries, Advent has established a globally integrated team of over 285 private equity investment professionals across North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia. The firm focuses on investments in five core sectors, including business and financial services; health care; industrial; retail, consumer and leisure; and technology. This includes investments in defense, security and cybersecurity as well as critical national infrastructure. For over 35 years, Advent has been dedicated to international investing and remains committed to partnering with management teams to deliver sustained revenue and earnings growth for its portfolio companies. For more information, visitWebsite: www.adventinternational.comLinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/advent-international SpaceRef co-founder, Explorers Club Fellow, ex-NASA, Away Teams, Journalist, Space & Astrobiology, Lapsed climber. Whether you're looking for the latest space exploration, business, government, education, technology, policy news, opinions and more, we've got you covered. (Try us out for a month before you pay anything.) 2024 Multiverse Media Inc. All rights reserved.