


March 3 (UPI) -- Two Kansas businessmen are being held on federal charges related to an elaborate conspiracy to export banned aviation-related technology to Russia, the Justice Department said.
Cyril Gregory Buyanovsky, 59, of Lawrence, and Douglas Robertson, 55, of Olathe, owned and ran KanRus Trading Co., which supplied Western electronics installed in aircraft to Russian companies and provided repair services for equipment used in Russian-manufactured aircraft, according to the indictment.
Advertisement
The United States tightened export controls on aviation-related technology to Russia after its invasion of Ukraine in February of last year, leading to Thursday's arrests.
"Since 2020, the defendants conspired to evade U.S. export laws by concealing and misstating the true end users, value and end destinations of their exports and by transshipping items through third-party countries," the indictment reads.
Related
U.S. charges 7 with smuggling U.S military, dual-use tech to Russia
Britain unveils sanctions, export bans on 'every item' Russia has used in Ukraine
EU leaders slap 10th round of sanctions on Russia
"Between November 2020 and February 2021, the defendants received avionics equipment, including a computer processor bearing a sticker identifying Russia's Federal Security Services from a Russian company for repair in the United States. The defendants concealed the true end user and end destination by providing a fraudulent invoice to the shipment company identifying the end destination as Germany."
Advertisement
In February 2022, authorities intercepted an avionics shipment that the Justice Department alleges the defendants were attempting to export to Russia.
The Commerce Department informed the defendants that a license was required to export the equipment to Russia. But in communication in April, Robertson told a Russia-based customer that "things are complicated in the USA" and that it was not the right time for more paperwork and visibility.
Subsequently, in May, June and July 2022, the defendants illegally transshipped avionics through Armenia and Cyprus to Russia without obtaining the required licenses, the Justice Department alleges.
The defendants are charged with conspiracy, exporting controlled goods without a license, falsifying and failing to file electronic export information, and smuggling goods contrary to U.S. law.
If convicted, the pair face a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison for each count of exporting controlled goods without a license, up to 10 years in prison for each count of smuggling and up to five years in prison for each count of conspiracy and falsifying export information.
The investigation was coordinated through the Justice Department's Task Force KleptoCapture.
The interagency law enforcement operation, which was set up in March last year, is tasked with enforcing the sweeping sanctions, export controls and economic countermeasures imposed by the United States and its allies and partners in response to the invasion of Ukraine.
Advertisement
Thursday's arrests follow the indictment in December of five Russians, a U.S. citizen and a New Hampshire resident on charges of smuggling millions of dollars worth of American-made military and dual-use technology to Russia's military, defense sector and research institutions.



Topics
War in UkraineDefenseLaw and CrimeBusinessTechnology






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 52 minutes ago
Judge dismisses Hunter Biden's latest bid to have tax evasion charges thrown out
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- A federal judge has rejected Hunter Biden's latest attempt to dismiss tax evasion charges in a case that is expected to go to trial next month.










U.S. News // 10 hours ago
Democratic convention honors Joe Biden, who calls presidency 'honor of my lifetime'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Democratic National Convention opened Monday in Chicago with a surprise cameo from Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris and tributes to President Joe Biden, who gave the keynote speech.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
U.S. intelligence says Iran behind efforts to infiltrate Trump, Harris campaigns
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- The U.S. intelligence community said Monday that Iran was behind a recent hack of Donald Trump's presidential campaign and efforts to infiltrate the presidential campaign of the Democratic Party.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Trump tells defense workers he will cut energy costs 'in half' by boosting production
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former President Donald Trump on Monday pledged to cut the "cut the cost of energy in half" with a massive change of energy production and manufacturing if he returns to the White House.










U.S. News // 12 hours ago
Chicago DNC protesters breach security fence near where Bidens set to appear
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators, including some who breached a security fence. Four were arrested.










U.S. News // 7 hours ago
Border patrol agents find hundreds of pounds of meth in celery at San Diego crossing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents seized 629.72 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value estimated at $755,00, concealed within a shipment of celery in San Diego, the agency said Monday.










U.S. News // 8 hours ago
Ex-NFL player Gosder Cherilus accused of urinating on elderly woman during flight
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Gosder Cherilus, a former lineman for nine seasons in the NFL, is facing several federal charges after he is accused of urinating on an elderly woman for approximately 20 seconds during a flight from Boston to Ireland.










U.S. News // 8 hours ago
Hyatt hotels settles with D'Vontaye Mitchell's family, same day 4 suspects in court
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Hyatt Regency hotels said Monday it reached a settlement in the recent death of an unarmed Black man in Wisconsin allegedly at the hands of four Hyatt employees.










U.S. News // 8 hours ago
Former Rep. George Santos pleads guilty to federal fraud charges, faces prison time
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., pleaded guilty Monday to federal fraud charges in a plea deal that will send the former lawmaker to jail and bypass a criminal trial that was scheduled to start next month.










U.S. News // 9 hours ago
D.C. council member Trayon White Sr. arrested on $150,000 bribery charge
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- District of Columbia council member Trayon White Sr. has been charged with bribery of $150,000 in contracts kickback case, the Justice Department said Monday.






 March 3 (UPI) -- Two Kansas businessmen are being held on federal charges related to an elaborate conspiracy to export banned aviation-related technology to Russia, the Justice Department said. Cyril Gregory Buyanovsky, 59, of Lawrence, and Douglas Robertson, 55, of Olathe, owned and ran KanRus Trading Co., which supplied Western electronics installed in aircraft to Russian companies and provided repair services for equipment used in Russian-manufactured aircraft, according to the indictment.
Advertisement The United States tightened export controls on aviation-related technology to Russia after its invasion of Ukraine in February of last year, leading to Thursday's arrests. "Since 2020, the defendants conspired to evade U.S. export laws by concealing and misstating the true end users, value and end destinations of their exports and by transshipping items through third-party countries," the indictment reads.
Related
U.S. charges 7 with smuggling U.S military, dual-use tech to Russia
Britain unveils sanctions, export bans on 'every item' Russia has used in Ukraine
EU leaders slap 10th round of sanctions on Russia "Between November 2020 and February 2021, the defendants received avionics equipment, including a computer processor bearing a sticker identifying Russia's Federal Security Services from a Russian company for repair in the United States. The defendants concealed the true end user and end destination by providing a fraudulent invoice to the shipment company identifying the end destination as Germany."
Advertisement In February 2022, authorities intercepted an avionics shipment that the Justice Department alleges the defendants were attempting to export to Russia. The Commerce Department informed the defendants that a license was required to export the equipment to Russia. But in communication in April, Robertson told a Russia-based customer that "things are complicated in the USA" and that it was not the right time for more paperwork and visibility. Subsequently, in May, June and July 2022, the defendants illegally transshipped avionics through Armenia and Cyprus to Russia without obtaining the required licenses, the Justice Department alleges. The defendants are charged with conspiracy, exporting controlled goods without a license, falsifying and failing to file electronic export information, and smuggling goods contrary to U.S. law. If convicted, the pair face a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison for each count of exporting controlled goods without a license, up to 10 years in prison for each count of smuggling and up to five years in prison for each count of conspiracy and falsifying export information. The investigation was coordinated through the Justice Department's Task Force KleptoCapture. The interagency law enforcement operation, which was set up in March last year, is tasked with enforcing the sweeping sanctions, export controls and economic countermeasures imposed by the United States and its allies and partners in response to the invasion of Ukraine.
Advertisement Thursday's arrests follow the indictment in December of five Russians, a U.S. citizen and a New Hampshire resident on charges of smuggling millions of dollars worth of American-made military and dual-use technology to Russia's military, defense sector and research institutions.