For construction crews and equipment operators, the best defense against dangerous driving habits remains a properly designed and implemented work zone staffed by certified safety professionals. In the dynamic world of highway and off-highway workspaces,  where massive machinery and complex work site components abound, safety is  paramount. These environments can pose significant risks, with mobile equipment  operating in close proximity to bustling crews, moving traffic, valuable  property and vulnerable pedestrians.  The National Safety Council (NSC), citing Bureau of Labor  Statistics (BLS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) data,  reports that in 2021 more than 900 people were killed and over 42,000 injured  in work zone crashes.1 Of the 954 total fatalities:   Disturbingly,  work zone deaths have surged by 63% since 2010, emphasizing the pressing need  for drivers to exercise caution and for innovative technologies and targeted  training to be implemented that can significantly reduce the number of accidents  occurring in these hazardous work environments.  Take a closer look and you will discover a number of product  innovations that are making job sites safer for crews and equipment operators.  Companies that manage construction activities or that supervise work zones are  encouraged to explore the newest apparatuses, tools and instruments that can do  more to protect people, property and progress: Better known as AFADs, Automated  Flagger Assistance Devices provide an effective alternative to traditional  flagging operations. The technology has existed for several years; however, use  of AFADs on America’s roadways is just now becoming widespread as more  companies come to know the benefits. AFADs are “smart” traffic control  systems that provide temporary measures that indicate to motorists where and  when to slow down. Most are composed of a series of sensors installed in the  device and/or within the work zone, along with a visual indicator such as a  flag or light. The sensors detect a vehicle’s speed and transmit the data back  to the indicator. When a vehicle enters the work zone, the indicator warns the  motorist to slow down and/or activates the device’s flagging arm. These systems have proven to be  highly effective in reducing crash risks in work zones. A 2017 study by the Missouri  DOT found that motorists were more responsive to AFADs and that 78% of drivers  prefer AFADs over human flaggers.2 Units are typically controlled by  trained and certified flaggers via a roadside tablet and operate on a secure LAN  so they can work anytime, anywhere. Some AFADs also make use of onboard  Google/Waze technology to divert a certain volume of traffic around the work  zone entirely. And should a vehicle breach the work zone, AFADs can instantly  sound an alarm to alert people to the danger. It is believed that with further  advances some AFAD systems will even be able to detect and analyze a driver’s  behavior as vehicles approach the work zone, then alert crews to any potentially  dangerous activity. This could lead to a significant reduction in the number of  injuries and fatalities that occur annually in work zones. PTRS are  an often overlooked solution for managing traffic flow, and the use of rumble  strips is now required by many states in work zones. These plastic or polymer  strips create a groove-like effect over asphalt or concrete surfaces and are  relatively inexpensive compared to traditional traffic control measures. The relatively  small size and light weight of these temporary strips make them ideal for use  at road construction sites as a cost-effective alternative to installing  traditional rumble strips. Cushioned  impact attenuators or “crash cushions” are also increasingly used as temporary  installations to protect motorists and construction workers. Among these are fully  redirective, nongating, bidirectional attenuators that can be attached to most  types of roadside barriers to automatically regulate the stopping force exerted  on a vehicle as well as lessen the risk of a vehicle rebounding after impact. National  Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP) crash performance testing shows that crash  cushions are breaking new ground in significantly lowering vehicle deceleration  rates and reducing impact forces. Cushioned  attenuators allow lighter and slower-moving vehicles to have longer ride-down  distances and lower ride-down G-forces. Unlike fixed-resistance attenuators, a  cushioned attenuator does not reach maximum stopping resistance unless a  vehicle is traveling at the maximum design speed. These may also be  designed to create an extremely low angle of exit on side impacts, thus helping  to keep vehicles from rebounding back into traffic and causing secondary  accidents. Ultimately  it is training that equips construction crews and vehicle operators with the knowledge  and personal duty to practice work zone safety. Traffic control plans should  prioritize steps for training and education activities that teach constant  alertness and cautious driving habits in work zones. A variety of focused training programs are available to  companies whose employees work in, or otherwise manage, active construction zones.  Notable are programs available through organizations like the National  Safety Council and National  Work Zone Safety Information Clearinghouse. Courses can range from  designing work zones to project coordination training to using smart traffic  control technologies. Employees can take courses to improve their knowledge and  understanding in specific construction environments, and supervisors can track  the progress of individual students to ensure that they are prepared to carry  out their duties safely. Comprehensive  coursework, real-life scenario modeling and peer-to-peer coaching help to achieve  a higher safety standard that can often exceed federal and local requirements. Every  member of the field team assigned to a work site should have completed work  zone safety training including first aid and CPR and in the case of those  actually monitoring traffic, certified flagger training as well. The FHWA  maintains a robust work zone management program offering nationally available and  state-specific  training opportunities. For  anyone operating a vehicle in a work zone, state-specific DOT training is required.  Safety decision- makers may also consider advanced driver training and tools for their fleets. These  programs can help to develop skills such as anticipation, decision-making and  vigilance, all of which can help drivers avoid potential accidents. For  construction crews and equipment operators, the best defense against dangerous  driving habits remains a properly designed and implemented work zone staffed by  certified safety professionals. Today’s technologies can elevate job site  safety to new levels, and focused training programs can equip personnel with  the special skills needed to stay alert and know their route of escape in an  emergency.    There  are professional traffic control services providers operating in all parts of  the country that have the knowledge to ensure work zones are fully compliant  with federal and local requirements, so be sure to investigate opportunities in  your area. In the pursuit of safer environments, the collaboration between  skilled professionals and cutting-edge technology paves the way for work zones  that prioritize both efficiency and the protection of lives.