Happy New Year, CyberWire Pro readers! As a special thank you, we would like to offer you a free CyberVista practice test or free access to the Cloud Security Essentials Course, Use code PROLEARN at checkout to redeem this limited time offer. The US Congress passed its $1.7 trillion bipartisan spending bill on Friday, and with it a measure declaring that TikTok will be banned from all federal government devices, CNBC reports. The Chinese-owned video-streaming app has been the center of much controversy in recent months, as lawmakers have expressed concerns the platform could be used by Beijing to harvest sensitive US user data or launch influence operations. In response to the passage of the legislation, a TikTok spokesperson stated, “We’re disappointed that Congress has moved to ban TikTok on government devices — a political gesture that will do nothing to advance national security interests — rather than encouraging the Administration to conclude its national security review.”  As the Record by Recorded Future explains, the Chief Administrative Office (CAO) of the House of Representatives last Tuesday announced that TikTok will be banned from all House devices because it has been deemed “a high risk to users due to a number of security risks.” An email from the CAO warned, “If you have the TikTok app on your House mobile device, you will be contacted to remove it.” Ad Law Access notes that multiple states have already banned TikTok from government devices, and at least two higher education institutions have followed suit. Last month Indiana Attorney General Todd Rokita filed two complaints focused on the TikTok app alleging violations of the state’s Deceptive Consumer Sales Act. The first complaint claims that TikTok uses misleading information to earn lower age restrictions as listed in app stores, and the second alleges that the app intentionally misleads users about the risks posed to their data. A consortium of US digital rights groups have released an analysis of Iran’s recent internet shutdown, and the report shows that the Iranian government is taking increasingly extreme measures to control its citizens’ access to the web. Though this is far from the first time Iran has imposed such a blackout, the US State Department says the report indicates Iranian lawmakers are feeling more threatened than ever by the recent wave of public protests, which were spurred by the death of Mahsa Amini, an Iranian woman detained by Iran’s morality police. Earlier this month Iranian officials said it would be shutting down the morality police forces, but the restrictive laws are still in place. A State Department spokesperson told WIRED that President Biden’s administration is “committed to helping the Iranian people exercise their universal right to freedom of expression and to freely access information via the internet.” The US state of Massachusetts has decided to establish its own Cyber Incident Response Team (MA-CIRT) led by the state’s Secretary of the Executive Office of Technology Services and Security (EOTSS). As the Beacon Hill Times explains, according to Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker’s executive order the MA-CIRT’s mission will be to improve the Commonwealth’s ability to prepare for, respond to, mitigate against, and recover from significant cybersecurity threats. Governor Baker explained, “This executive order will further strengthen the Commonwealth’s policies, procedures, and resources required to prevent potential threats and appropriately respond to attacks on government infrastructure and services. As state governments expand their digital footprints, moving more services online and allowing for a more connected workforce, it’s critical that we make the necessary investments to protect this critical technology infrastructure from acts of terrorism and criminal, organized crime, and gang activity.” Secretary of Technology Services and Security Curt Wood will combine his public safety experience with the expertise of cybersecurity and public safety experts from state government bodies including the Commonwealth Security Operations Center, the Executive Office of Public Safety and Security, and the Commonwealth Fusion Center.  Analysis | On Netanyahu Government's Agenda: Saving Israel's Cyber Edge (Haaretz) Israel's offensive cybercapabilities took a blow after U.S. sanctions, and the new defense minister will have to perform a delicate balancing act Cyber Sovereignty: In Search of Definitions, Exploring Implications (ORF) The increasing dependence on the internet across the spectrum is pushing some states to adopt measures to exert their sovereignty over cyberspace. Certain global events have also acted as a catalyst for states to pursue cyber sovereignty. Iran’s Internet Blackouts Are Sabotaging Its Own Economy (WIRED) A new US State Department assessment highlights the stark economic toll of Tehran’s recent shutdowns and platform control. Why the US must view cyberspace as one battlespace (The Hill) The United States is at an inflection point when it comes to the future of our nation’s cybersecurity. TikTok banned on government devices under spending bill passed by Congress (CNBC) Congress passed a large spending package that includes a bill banning TikTok from being used on government devices and new filing fees for mergers. TikTok banned from House of Representatives devices (The Record by Recorded Future) TikTok will be banned from all devices managed by the House of Representatives, the chamber’s Chief Administrative Office announced Tuesday. How toxic is TikTok to America’s national security? (The Washington Times) National security has made its way out of the five walls of the Pentagon into our daily lives as it’s plastered all over mainstream media with global conflicts, including the high-profile war in Ukraine. Biden signs $858 billion defense policy bill into law, expanding gov't cyber operations (The Record by Recorded Future) President Joe Biden signed a $858 billion defense policy bill on Friday, conferring more powers, and requirements, on U.S. Cyber Command. From Log4j to zero trust, agencies have another busy year in cyber (Federal News Network) To nobody’s surprise, 2022 was another action-packed year for federal chief information security officers and cybersecurity teams across government. Troops Are Getting Cyber Training and Then Rapidly Leaving the Military, Report Finds (Military.com) Troops who receive extensive cyber training, lured by the lucrative private sector, are parting ways with the military services quicker than some branches can offset the cost of that training. GAO: Army, Marine Corps Need Better Guidelines & Tracking to Keep Cyber Personnel (Executive Gov) Looking for the latest Government Contracting News? Read about GAO: Army, Marine Corps Need Better Guidelines & Tracking to Keep Cyber Personnel. ‘Special pay’ keeps Pentagon’s cyber experts from jumping ship (C4ISRNet) Services “spent at least $160 million on cyber retention bonuses annually” from fiscal 2017 to 2021, the Government Accountability Office said. Congress greenlights expansion of Defense Department’s cyber workforce (Federal News Network) DOD pursues multiple paths to hire a new cybersecurity workforce including scholarships and a reserve program. US Congress funds cybersecurity initiatives in FY2023 spending bill (CSO Online) This year’s appropriation bill covers a lot of cybersecurity territory, including threats from TikTok and foreign adversaries and steps to improve medical device security. U.S. Cyber Command 2022 Year in Review (U.S. Cyber Command) 2022 was a banner year for U.S. Cyber Command. Here are some of the year’s most important moment... US passes the Quantum Computing Cybersecurity Preparedness Act – and why not? (Naked Security) Cryptographic agility: the ability and the willingness to change quickly when needed. It May Be Time for TikTok to Change its Ways if State AGs Have Any Say (Ad Law Access) While State Attorneys General have been clear that social media companies are generally on their radar for a variety of consumer protection concerns, Governor Hochul Signs Nation-leading Legislation to Protect Energy Grid from Cyber Threats (Governor Kathy Hochul) Governor Hochul signed legislation (A.3904B/S.5579A) that will create strongest-in-the-nation cybersecurity protections for the state's energy grid. New York breaks the right to repair bill as it’s signed into law (The Verge) It’s a sweeping bill, but not what some were hoping for Baker signs executive order to establish Massachusetts Cyber Incident Response Team (Beacon Hill Times) Governor Charlie Baker signed an executive order to establish the Massachusetts Cyber Incident Response Team (MA-CIRT). Led by the Secretary of the Executive Office of Technology Services and Security (EOTSS), MA-CIRT is established with the mission of enhancing the Commonwealth’s ability to prepare for, respond to, mitigate against, and recover from significant cybersecurity threats. Iraq War veteran heads up battle against cyber attacks in Northern Ireland (Alloa and Hillfoots Advertiser) Val Wilson has responsibility for BT’s recently opened Security Operations Centre in Belfast.