 Image by Den Rise / copyright Shutterstock
 For the first time, every Crown and magistrates’ court in England and Wales now has access to the ‘Common Platform’ system, which will allow quicker and seamless sharing of information between all those involved in criminal justice cases. Under Common Platform all relevant case materials will be available in one accessible place across all criminal courts – from arrest through to trial and, for those convicted, on to the prison and probation service. This will help ensure that courts, police, prosecutors and legal professionals have access to one platform to track cases moving through the justice system, continuing the move away from time-consuming paper-based processes and separate IT systems. It is a fundamental part of the government’s plan to modernise the criminal court system – bringing justice partners together in a way that has never been done before, improving collaboration and replacing outdated process. The move will offer an improved flow of information between the courts to improve efficiency and help reduce outstanding caseloads to deliver speedier justice for victims and the public. Justice Minister Mike Freer said: "Common Platform is improving how we work to deliver justice. It will allow instant and seamless information sharing that will reduce errors and ensure vital details about cases can be seen quickly by all those involved in a case. "Connecting every criminal court with partner agencies and professionals is helping make them fit for the future." Each user will only be able to see the information that is relevant to them. The platform also allows for changes and updates to a case to be made instantly, helping to make the justice process faster and more efficient. The rollout of Common Platform has been delivered as a central part of the HM Courts and Tribunals Service Reform Programme to improve courts and tribunals for people who use them and for those working in them. New features will continue to be added to further improve information sharing and data accuracy across the justice system. The programme is transforming how the public interact with the justice system. Digital services in the courts and tribunals across all jurisdictions have been used over 2.1 million times so far, making services easier to use and more efficient to run.       20 August 2024 The National Police Air Service (NPAS), in partnership with the National Air Traffic Control Service (NATS) and the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), is embarking on the UK’s most ambitious trial of uncrewed aircraft in support of policing.  19 August 2024 The first of its kind, a containerised remotely operated towed vehicle (ROTV) solution developed for the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD), has now successfully completed Factory Acceptance Tests (FAT) – just six months after the contract was awarded to Danish subsea engineering specialist EIVA.  15 August 2024 Smiths Detection has today announced a major step forward in aviation security technology, having successfully integrated and tested SeeTrue's technology into its CT security checkpoint systems.  12 August 2024 Babcock has demonstrated its latest training technology and capability to the UK’s emergency services, including the Babcock Immersive Training Experience (BITE).  12 August 2024 UK based manufacturer of RF, microwave, waterproof and cryogenic connectors and cable assemblies, Intelliconnect (Europe), will be exhibiting 22nd – 27th September at the 27th edition of the European Microwave Week (EuMW 2024).  7 August 2024 Yateley based Forcys has been selected by Ocean Aero as a payload provider for their autonomous underwater and surface vehicle (AUSV), the Triton.  © 2024 Advance - All rights reserved Website by Silkstream The views expressed are not necessarily those of ADS or its members. No responsibility or liability is accepted by ADS, the editorial team or the publisher for any loss occasioned to any person, legal or physical, acting or refraining from action as a result of any statement, fact, figure, expression of opinion or belief contained within this site.