DEYA Brewing Company takes over The Tap Room at Freight Island throughout July. Join us for the launch party on Thursday 6th July for a lineup of delicious draft pours from one of the UK’s hottest independent breweries.  To celebrate the launch, DEYA are giving away a free schooner of their famous Steady Rolling Man pale ale first come, first served! to those who secure a ticket and join us for the launch party.  DEYA’s beer is unfiltered, unpasteurized and suitable for vegans. Their beers are naturally hazy as a result of recipe and process decisions. As they say… Keep on Crocin’ Includes a complimentary schooner of DEYA's Steady Rolling Man pale ale. One per person.  




Address
 
                      Freight Island, 11, Baring Street, Manchester, M1 2PZ
                   Getting there 1. The ticket holder voluntarily assumes all risks and danger incidental to the event for which the ticket is issued, whether occurring prior, during or after the event. The ticket holder voluntarily agrees that the management, venue, event participants, DesignMyNight WFL Media Ltd and all of their respective agents, officers, directors, owners and employers are expressly released by the ticket holder from any claims arising from such causes. 
2. Tickets are issued subject to the rules and regulations of the venue.
3. Please check your tickets, as mistakes cannot always be rectified.
4. Occasionally, events are cancelled or postponed by the promoter, team, performer or venue for a variety of reasons. If the event is cancelled, please contact us for information on receiving a refund from the responsible party. If the event was moved or rescheduled, the venue or promoter may set refund limitations. It is your responsibility to ascertain the date and time of any rearranged event.
5. The venue reserves the right to refuse admission and may on occasion have to conduct security searches to ensure the safety of the patrons.
6. Every effort to admit latecomers will be made at a suitable break in the event, but admission cannot always be guaranteed.
7. We regret that tickets cannot be exchanged or refunded after purchase.
8. Tickets are sold subject to the venue or promoter's right to alter or vary the programme due to events or circumstances beyond its control without being obliged to refund monies or exchange tickets.
9. If this ticket is re-sold or transferred for profit or commercial gain by anyone other than the promoter, venue management, DesignMyNight or one of their authorised sub-agents, it will become voidable and the holder may be
refused entry to or ejected from the venue.
10. The venue may operate a No Smoking Policy.
11. The promoter, venue management and DesignMyNight accept no responsibility for any personal property.
12. The event listed on the purchased ticket is strictly for ticket holders who are over 18 years of age. Identification may be required. 
                Secure payments via Stripe
 Drink Aware DesignMyNight supports the responsible consumption of alcohol 

                  DrinkAware.co.uk
                
 © WFL Media LTD is owned by The Access Group. All rights reserved. DesignMyNight (WFL Media LTD) is a registered trademark of The Access Group. Useful links 
                    Discover our solutions for the hospitality and events industry. We're here to help.
                   
                    Collins
                   

                      Bookings software
                    
 
                    Tonic
                   

                      Online tickets
                    
 
                    Soda
                   

                      E-gift vouchers
                    
 
                    Advertising
                   

                      Venue promotion
                    
