 Simply register at no cost.   Questions or problems? Email [email protected] or call 0711 046 000.  •He has since told trial magistrate Robinson Ondieki that the charges were malicious and intended to tarnish his reputation as "a man of God". •At the time of the alleged offences, he was in the UK, then the headquarters of his church. The case of Gilbert Deya who was charged with stealing children will proceed on Wednesday. He was found to have a case to answer and was subsequently placed on defence. He has so far asked the court to acquit him for lack of evidence. While defending himself from the allegation, the preacher who was on August 4, 2017, deported to Kenya from the UK to face child theft charges, denied all five counts. Led in his defence by lawyer John Swaka, the bishop denied having given any instruction to anybody to keep the five children in his Mountain View home in Nairobi. He has since told trial magistrate Robinson Ondieki that the charges were malicious and intended to tarnish his reputation as "a man of God". At the time of the alleged offences, he was in the UK, then the headquarters of his church. "Your honour I did not process a birth certificate for the alleged children and the DNA result did not show that the children were mine," Deya said. He denied visiting a number of hospitals or clinics and maintained he had no connection with the five children. Deya told the court that his wife Mary was first charged with the same offence of stealing five children but the court acquitted her for lack of evidence. "Your honour prosecution later charged me with the same offence," Deya said. He asked the court to acquit him for lack of evidence, saying he has never engaged himself in child trafficking. "The ingredients of the offence have not been proven to satisfaction," said the bishop. In the case, Deya is charged with five counts of stealing five children, all aged below 14 years, between 2002 and 2004, at Mountain view estate. At the same time, a different court will be mentioning Ahmed Rashid's murder case. Sergeant Rashid is yet to take a plea. He is facing murder charges over the March 31, 2017 killings of two suspected thugs in Eastleigh. The Eastleigh business community, which has a membership of 24,000 people, has since urged the ODPP to drop the charges against officer Rashid saying he acted within the law Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000 · [email protected]  