 Simply register at no cost.   Questions or problems? Email [email protected] or call 0711 046 000.  A lawyer, surveyor and a director in the disputed land worth Sh1.5 billion linked to Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua will today know whether they will be charged with fraud or not. The three were to be charged on June 16 but the plea was differed. Milimani chief magistrate Lukas Onyina put on hold the plea-taking of lawyer Moses Abongo Owour and Ohas Otieno, a director of Columbus 2000 Limited, which is battling with Gachagua's firm, Wamunyoro Investment Limited, over ownership of the multi-billion prime property. Bernard Abere Ogechi (surveyor) who was not present in court, was issued with summons to appear in court. They are alleged to have conspired to defraud the Sh1.5 billion land located in Embakasi, Nairobi. Wamunyoro Investment Limited is owned by Gachagua and his wife Dorcas who are listed as witnesses in a high court criminal case drawn against Owour and Otieno. "In order to be fair to both sides, l allow the plea deferral until June 29. I issued a summon to Bernard Abere Ogechi, the second accused person, to attend court. Owour and Otieno are hereby freed on a personal bond of Sh1 million without a surety," Onyina ruled. Verdict on Bishop Deya's child theft case Elsewhere a Nairobi court will today render its judgment in a case where Bishop Gilbert Juma Deya has been charged with stealing five children. The judgment will be delivered by Milimani senior principal magistrate Robison Ondieki. Early in May,  Deya told the court the state fabricated the theft of five children case against him without evidence. While defending himself from the allegation, the preacher who was on August 4, 2017, deported to Kenya from the UK to face child theft charges, denied all the five counts leveled against him by the state. At the same time, Deya asked the court to acquit him for lack of evidence saying he was maliciously charged with the same offence that his wife was charged with and acquitted for lack of evidence. While being cross-examined by senior state counsel Nicholas Mutuku, the preacher told the court that he is being persecuted by the state. He denied having stolen the children, adding that he was in the UK when the alleged offences were said to have been committed. The bishop denied having given any instruction to anybody to keep the five children in his Mountain View House No 226 in Nairobi. He told Magistrate Ondieki that the charges against him were malicious and meant to tarnish his name as "a man of God."Deya said at the time of the alleged offence he was in the UK where his church is based. Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000 · [email protected]  