Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Throughout The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, there are shrines hidden just beneath the surface of Hyrule. For some, the challenge is merely finding them; for others, a few more obstacles stand in Link's way. The Susub Shrine waits deep within a well with a large stone guardian keeping watch.
      RELATED: How to Unlock Memory 01 in Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom
                     In Tears of the Kingdom, the Susub Shrine is located beneath the Deya Village Ruins at the coordinates 0348, -2051, -0026.
                         Players will want to use the Popla Foothills Skyview Tower to glide toward the area and enter through the Deya Village Ruins Well at the coordinates 0322,-1928, 0012.
                         As players descend from the sky, they will be able to spot a large obelisk in the middle of the swampy ruins. There are many wells that allow the player to enter the caves beneath the ruins, but the best one to use is on the island adjacent to this obelisk.
                         Players should enter the Deya Village Ruins Well and glide down into the spacious cavern below. They will find a large underground lake with several rocky platforms on which to land.
                         From where they enter, the glowing spiral of the shrine should be noticeable across the water toward the south end of the cave.
                         However, the larger island before the shrine is home to a large Stone Talus that will attack any intruders passing through. While this fight is not strictly necessary, it may make the process a tad easier to get it out of the way.
                         If players choose to fight the Stone Talus, its weak point is a glowing rock on its lower back. As per most Talus fights, players can use Recall to redirect the boulder fists it throws back at it. This will allow players to easily climb on and attack the weak point.
                         After either avoiding or defeating the Stone Talus, players will need to reach the shrine's high ledge at the back of the cave. The walls of the cave are damp and slippery, so players choosing to climb will either need the Froggy Suit or come prepared with some Sticky Elixirs.
                         Players can make Sticky Elixirs by cooking either a Sticky Frog or Sticky Lizard with any monster part. The more sticky critters added to the recipe, the longer the effect of the elixir will last.
                         Alternatively, players can also wear the Zora Armor to easily swim up the waterfall pouring from the shrine's ledge. They could also use Zonai Devices to build a ramp or vehicle to scale the cliff.
                         At the top, Link is able to interact with the Zonai terminal and open the Susub Shrine.
                         Rauru's Blessing will be waiting inside, along with a chest containing a Magic Staff. To complete the shrine, players can interact with the statue at the top of the stairs to receive a Light of Blessing.
      The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is available for the Nintendo Switch.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Tokiy Shrine is a well-hidden little Shrine in Necluda that rewards players for simply delivering its crystal to it, so here's how to find it. Silent Hill 2 releases a new video which shows off portions of the story, along with several familiar characters, including Eddie. Players who have received the 'cannot absorb Spirits without guidance' message in Black Myth: Wukong can find its meaning detailed in this guide. A fun glitch occurring during the Destiny 2: The Final Shape Excision activity turns a player's Titan Guardian into a powerhouse of the light. From Baldur's Gate 3 to Wartales, these top-tier CRPGs are perfect for some co-op multiplayer fun. Megumi is currently still stuck with Sukuna. He will eventually try to break free and fight back against Sukuna in JJK. The MCU needs to give the hero Blindspot a proper introduction in Daredevil: Born Again.