The free-entry event will coincide with the first weekend of Derby County's 2023/24 season Get Rams takeover latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get Rams takeover latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters  A five-day beer festival will take place at a well-known Derby city centre pub early next month. The Tap will be hosting the free-entry event from Wednesday, August 2, to Sunday, August 6 - coinciding with the first weekend of the new League One football season.   Derby County will be taking on Wigan Athletic at Pride Park at 3pm on Saturday, August 5, with fans invited to the Derwent Street venue to enjoy a pint pre or post-match. Founder and veteran festival organiser Trevor Harris is busy sourcing casks, kegs and ciders from as many of the 23 other League One club locations as possible.  Cask beers brewed by Burton Bridge, located just a short drive down the A38 in the Staffordshire town, will be among those served from midday to 11pm daily. The Rams will travel to face Burton Albion at the Pirelli Stadium for their first away game of the 2023/24 season on Saturday, August 12.  Beer prices will be between £3.50 and £5, depending on the style and beer strength, with the final list still to be finalised. Revealing some of the other breweries taking part in the festival, Tap House manager John McLaughlin said: "We’ve got some great cask beers from some of our favourite traditional breweries such as Oakham, Burton Bridge and Titanic alongside some of the new wave craft breweries like DEYA, Salopian, Siren & Wiper and True.  READ MORE: Look inside Derby Brewing's newest venue - Notsa café bar in Aston-on-Trent  "Let’s not forget the old favourites from Derby Brewing Company plus some brand-spanking new beers to launch at the festival. Couple all that with some great craft kegs from some of the UK’s leading craft brewers, traditional ciders, meads and wines it’s shaping up to be a brilliant beer list!"  The upcoming festival will also mark 15 years since the Tap House first opened back in 2008, when founder and local brewer Trevor Harris decided to get back into the pub business and rescue what was then called the Royal Standard from demolition. There will also be a hot wing challenge for foodies to take on at the event.   Derby Brewing's newest venue, the Notsa café bar, opened in Aston-on-Trent back in early March. The city-based firm opened two new venues last year, The Pointing Dogs, which opened in Matlock in October, and The Clubhouse sports bar, which opened in Friar Gate in July 2022.  The chain's four other sites are The Greyhound in Friar Gate in Derby, The Pig in Lichfield, The Hole in the Wall in Mickleover and The Middle Bell in Barton-under-Needwood. Founded by Trevor Harris in 2004, the firm continues to operate its own brewery in Nottingham Road, Derby. 