Cargando... Cargando... Cargando... Cargando... Cargando... Cargando... Cargando... Cargando... Cargando... Deya, a small population with a high number of empty properties. | Teresa Ayuga Population statistics for Deya indicate that there were 674 inhabitants in 2022. Town hall figures show that in this small municipality there are 196 properties that are permanently unoccupied. In other words, they don't have any registered occupants or any economic activity licence. Many of these properties belong to foreign as well as Mallorcan businesses or "millionaires", notes the town hall. Last year, the town hall amended its ordinance governing rates. A 50% surcharge will be applied where the permanent vacancy of homes cannot be justified. The mayor, Lluís Apesteguía, has issued a reminder to anyone who has a permanently unoccupied home that there is the possibility of it being used for social rent. "We will take care of everything and will pay 6.30 euros per square metre (to a monthly maximum of €923). A rates discount of 95% will be applied. Above all, we wish to ensure that the housing is used for its social function, which is to accommodate people." To be able to write a comment, you have to be registered and logged in Ulla JacksonOh, I wouldn't be too sure. 

Deia is full of rather wealthy property owners, especially those who have empty places because they use them for only a month or two per year. They don't Airbnb them the rest the time because they probably have personal things, perhaps expensive things, that they don't want to give strangers access to (and likely don't need the money anyway). 

Regardless of the details of this programme, this could certainly sound very threatening to them. 

And they vote. Along with everybody else in town. Zoltan Teglas"How horrible that renting out empty houses". Where do you draw the line of empty houses?  The first period will for 4 years, and the one who has a licence will get a bonus if they give it up. 
It's not terrible at all, but I doubt you get the people out even if the owner wants it back as the rental peoples need will be greater than someone else who owns the property.
Why can't the government get their act together and build good low cost 
nice  properties which is affordable to locals? Ulla JacksonWhere did anyone say that they would 'take over' a property? This is in your imagination.
 What was said was, 'there is the possibility of it being used for social rent '
How terrible, offering people the opportunity of making money from renting out empty houses. This is nothing to do with communism. Morgan WilliamsI doubt that very much. Only speculating, but I have to suspect that this Mayor's days are numbered. Zoltan TeglasZoltan, are you saying that either you have to live permanently on the island or otherwise the houses are "unoccupied"?
If you buy a house anywhere else in the world, even where there are a shortage of houses, they don't take this attitude. This is 
in my view, a communist attitude that you just "take over" private properties.
To live in Deia, and maybe work in Palma area is a bit of a trick, as there is where the most employments are.
To me it seems more like it's a chance to profit from the private owners who don't or can't live there permanently. 
It easy to justify anything to hike the tax.
Interesting is that they want "Nomad workers - and their families, despite there are, as they claim, such a shortage of properties for the locals, but obviously not for others who are not even going to stay permanently.
One hand is encouraging, the other is punishing. Well that didn’t take long to Attack the richest Community on the Island 🏝️ guess no need for background checks also required who’s going to be in charge of this whole scheme also how will they get around gonna need some transport trust the people in the town are all super happy 😃 when the toilet doesn’t work just call the mayor , this is dangerous dream land politics !!! Andy WalkerObviously private ownership means nothing… to the statists  .
A surcharge as a punishment.
Be interesting to see how the human right to enjoy your own property, be that leaving it vacant.
Clashes with this policy in a court. Didn't see the mayor complaining when he extracted 11.5% purchase tax from these foreigners when they bought these properties 🤔 A sensible move.
Houses shouldn't be allowed to be empty/unused whilst there is a massive shortage on the island. Passeig Mallorca 9A, 07011 Palma de Mallorca, Spain Switchboard +34 971 78 84 00 | News Desk +34 971 78 84 10 Editorial +34 971 78 84 11 | What’s On + 34 971 78 84 11 Advertising +34 971 78 84 05 | Distribution +34 971 78 84 03 Editorial: editorial@majorcadailybulletin.es Advertising: publicidad@majorcadailybulletin.es Subscription: suscripciones@majorcadailybulletin.es