
By 
Zephania Ubwani
  Arusha. Livestock herders in Ngorongoro district, Arusha region, have filed an appeal at the regional court against an order for their eviction. They are appealing an earlier ruling in the same legal facility that upheld their removal from a protected area in Loliondo. Five judges of the East African Court of Justice (EACJ), led by the President of the Court, Nestory Kayobera, will hear the appeal, which came up for mention yesterday. The Ololosokwan Village Council and three individuals filed Appeal No. 13 of 2022 at the EACJ’s Appellate Division against the government of Tanzania. During the court’s sitting yesterday, the court requested that the advocates for the applicants put in writing by March 6th their detailed grounds for appeal. On the other hand, the Attorney General was told to respond within 30 days, up to April 5th, while the applicants have to submit their responses by April 19th. From there on, the Court will announce the dates for hearing the high-profile appeal, with each side given 30 minutes. In this case, Ololosokwan villagers are represented by a panel of lawyers led by a prominent advocate in Arusha, Donald Deya, who is assisted by Esther Muiga-Mnaro, Jebra Kambole, and Praisegod Joseph Oleshangay. The appellants claim that the earlier ruling by the First Instance Division of the EACJ did not get the facts right in the case against eviction, resulting in a ruling that was not in their favour. “There was ample evidence from many people—women, men, youth, and the elderly—but it was all disregarded,” Mr Deya said in his submissions. Mr Deya, who is also the CEO of the Arusha-based Pan African Lawyers’ Union (Palu), said there was ample evidence of human rights violations during the eviction exercise. The advocates defending the villagers implored the Appellate Division of the EA Court to review the First Instance Division ruling and give a verdict that complied with the evidence that was produced. The Attorney General of Tanzania, the government’s chief legal advisor, is represented in the case by two counsels: Vivian Method and Narindwa Sekimanga. 
We come to you.
We are always looking for ways to improve our stories. Let us know what you liked and what we can improve on.
 
According to the chairperson of Losiming’ori Village, Lazaro Laizer, the source once bubbling with gushing fresh water turned into a dusty gorge in 2021 due to effects of climate change 
The court will hear the case continuously from tomorrow until Friday, August 23, to ensure timely justice and address all aspects of the case. 
Kenya's government will have to bring back some tax measures that it scrapped after deadly protests in June, the finance minister said, raising the risk of further unrest. 
If you have an Ad-blocker please disable it and reload the page or try again later.
 
Nation Media Group © 2024
