We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. Vermilion Energy ( TSE:VET ) Second Quarter 2024 Results Key Financial Results Revenue: CA$461.0m (up 8.6% from 2Q... Vermilion (VET) delivered earnings and revenue surprises of -222.58% and 7.04%, respectively, for the quarter ended June 2024. Do the numbers hold clues to what lies ahead for the stock? CALGARY, Alberta (AP) — Vermilion Energy Inc. VET) on Wednesday reported a loss of $60.2 million in its second quarter. The Calgary, Alberta-based company said it had a loss of 38 cents per share. Vermilion Energy Inc. ("Vermilion", "We", "Our", "Us" or the "Company") (TSX: VET) (NYSE: VET) is pleased to report operating and condensed financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024. Vermilion Energy Inc. ("Vermilion") (TSX: VET) (NYSE: VET) is pleased to announce a cash dividend of $0.12 CDN per share, payable on October 15, 2024 to all shareholders of record on September 27, 2024. This dividend is an eligible dividend for the purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada). Vermilion (VET) doesn't possess the right combination of the two key ingredients for a likely earnings beat in its upcoming report. Get prepared with the key expectations. Vermilion Energy Inc. ("Vermilion", "We", "Our", or the "Company") (TSX: VET) (NYSE: VET) will release its 2024 second quarter operating and condensed financial results on Wednesday, July 31, 2024 after the close of North American markets. The unaudited interim financial statements and management discussion and analysis for the three months ended June 30, 2024 will be available on the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval ("SEDAR") at www.sedarplus.ca, on EDGAR at www.sec.gov/edg Some investors rely on dividends for growing their wealth, and if you're one of those dividend sleuths, you might be... Equities in Toronto opened higher on Thursday as gains in metal prices boosted mining shares and a surge ... Vermilion Energy Inc. (NYSE:VET) Q1 2024 Earnings Call Transcript May 6, 2024 Vermilion Energy Inc. isn’t one of the 30 most popular stocks among hedge funds at the end of the third quarter (see the details here). Robert Michaleski: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I’d like to begin by welcoming you to Vermilion’s Annual Meeting […] Whitecap Resources Inc. ARC Resources Ltd. MEG Energy Corp. Tourmaline Oil Corp. Cenovus Energy Inc. Birchcliff Energy Ltd. Baytex Energy Corp. Veren Inc. Cardinal Energy Ltd. MEG Energy Corp. StrongBuy Buy Hold Under-perform Sell 520 3rd Avenue SWSuite 3500Calgary, AB T2P 0R3Canada403 269 4884https://www.vermilionenergy.com Sector(s): EnergyIndustry: Oil & Gas E&PFull Time Employees: 740 Vermilion Energy Inc., together with its subsidiaries, engages in the acquisition, exploration, development, and production of petroleum and natural gas. The company has properties in West Central Alberta, southeast Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and West Pembina in Canada; Wyoming in the United States; southwest Bordeaux and Paris Basin in France; the Netherlands; Germany; Ireland; Croatia; Slovakia; and Australia. The company was founded in 1994 and is headquartered in Calgary, Canada. More about Vermilion Energy Inc.