We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. JOYY Inc., together with its subsidiaries, operates social media platforms that offer users engaging and experience across various video-based social platforms. It operates through two segments, BIGO and All Other. The company operates Bigo Live, a social live streaming platform, that provides an interactive online stage for users to host and watch live streaming sessions, share their life moments, showcase their talents, and interact with people worldwide; Likee, a short-form video social platform, which enables users to discover, create, and share short videos, with video creation tools and personalized feeds; imo, an instant messenger platform, that provides audio and video communication services; Hago, a social networking platform that offers casual games integrating social features, such as audio and video multi-user chatrooms and 3D virtual interactive party games; and Shopline, a smart commerce platform, that provides solutions and services to enable merchants in creating and growing their brands online and reach customers through various sales channels, including e-commerce platforms, social commerce, and physical retail stores. It operates in the People's Republic of China, the United States, the Great Britain, Japan, South Korea, Australia, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and internationally. The company was formerly known as YY Inc. and changed its name to JOYY Inc. in December 2019. JOYY Inc. was founded in 2005 and is headquartered in Singapore. 7,449 December 31 Communication Services    Internet Content & Information    Trailing total returns as of 8/14/2024, which may include dividends or other distributions. Benchmark is   Select to analyze similar companies using key performance metrics; select up to 4 stocks. Market Cap   2.08B  Enterprise Value   -559.22M  Trailing P/E   6.81  Forward P/E   10.64  PEG Ratio (5yr expected)   0.86  Price/Sales  (ttm) 1.08  Price/Book  (mrq) 0.40  Enterprise Value/Revenue   -0.39  Enterprise Value/EBITDA   -3.31  Profit Margin   16.31% Return on Assets  (ttm) 0.25% Return on Equity  (ttm) 6.33% Revenue  (ttm) 2.25B Net Income Avi to Common  (ttm) 366.87M Diluted EPS  (ttm) 5.14 Total Cash  (mrq) 3.15B Total Debt/Equity  (mrq) 9.60% Levered Free Cash Flow  (ttm) -- YY does not have Company Insights Sign in to access your portfolio