White Sox designated hitter Eloy Jimenez hits a solo home run against the Twins in the second inning Sunday in Minneapolis.  Bruce Kluckhohn/AP Share  MINNEAPOLIS — After the White Sox lost the first two games of the series to the first-place Twins, manager Pedro Grifol called the series finale a must-win game even though his team trailed the Twins by 11 games in the American League Central.  That’s why oft-injured designated hitter Eloy Jimenez, still showing the effects of a left-groin issue that sidelined him Tuesday and Wednesday against the Mets, played through it Sunday.  “As long as he doesn’t push it to an intensity that is going to hurt him,” Grifol said. “But I think we’ve all seen him run down the line [at much less than 100%]. I don’t think he’s going to get hurt doing that. But, again, this is not an easy decision. I just think we need offense. We need his bat in there.”  Jimenez’s presence almost helped in a 5-4 loss in 12 innings. He homered against Bailey Ober over the left-center-field fence to give the Sox a 1-0 lead in the second inning and was able to jog around the bases. No need to exert anything there. It was his 13th homer. He also singled.  Grifol also said it’s good for Jimenez to push through it.  “It’s going to take a little bit for him,” Grifol said. “But if he continues to get on base like I want him to, it’s going to be hard to completely get rid of that. I don’t need him to steal a base. I need him to swing.”  With first baseman Andrew Vaughn out with a sore foot, “now you’re not going to have Eloy; that’s two premium bats in our lineup,” Grifol said. “Even if we had Vaughn, I might even choose to still have Eloy in the lineup.”  Third baseman Yoan Moncada could wrap up his rehab assignment at Triple-A Charlotte and return to the lineup Tuesday, which could mean a move to second base for Jake Burger.  “Why not?” Grifol said.  “They’re both going to be in the lineup somehow, someway.”  Burger has appeared in four games at second during his career but hasn’t started there. He has been working occasionally at second before games. Meanwhile, his defense at third base appears improved to “above average,” according to infielders coach Eddie Rodriguez.  “We want [Yoan back],” Burger said, “so wherever that takes me, it is what it is. I’ll accept it with a great attitude and go from there. I’m working on [second base] a little bit. You never know when you’ll have a chance to play over there. I like to stay ready.”  Vaughn (bone bruise, left foot) was moving around a bit better, and while Grifol remained hopeful he could return Tuesday, the injured list is also a possibility.  “He tried to hit a little bit, but he’s still sore,” Grifol said. “We’ll wait and see how he is tomorrow and make a decision.”  If Vaughn, who missed his fourth consecutive game, goes on the injured list Tuesday, Burger could play first base. Catcher Yasmani Grandal played first base for a second straight day. Michael Kopech and Lance Lynn will start against the Cubs on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, in the first of four crosstown games. Kyle Hendricks and Marcus Stroman start for the North Siders. The Cubs host the Sox on Aug. 15 and 16. Share © 2024 Chicago Sun-Times Media, Inc.