By Ed Carruthers For Mailonline   Published:  20:02 EDT, 25 July 2023   |  Updated:  20:24 EDT, 25 July 2023      7 View  comments  Max Verstappen has appeared in a new advert for the drinks brand Heineken starring as 'the designated driver'.  The advertisement is part of the brand's new campaign which encourages responsible drinking while promoting their non-alcoholic beer, Heineken 0.0. The two-time world champion stars in the clip which plays on the fact that he is currently one of the best drivers in Formula 1, having dominated the field to clinch his ninth win of the season at the Hungarian Grand Prix last weekend.  He set a new record in the sport, picking up Red Bull's 12th straight victory, surpassing Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost's record of 11 straight wins with McLaren.  The advert features a group of friends sat in a bar trying to decide who should drive home, with one saying 'who's the best driver' before Verstappen picks up a set of car keys.  Double world champion Max Verstappen (pictured) has appeared in an advertisement with Heineken  The Red Bull driver, who is leading the way in the Formula 1 drivers standings, was seen in the advert that hopes to promote responsible drinking The Red Bull driver, who sits a whopping 110 points clear of his team-mate Sergio Perez in second place in the F1 standings, is seen repeatedly driving his friends home from multiple different nights out.  In one segment, the driver is pictured driving an old Ford KA with 'L' plates on it.  The advert then says: 'The best driver is the one who is not drinking. Unless it's Heineken 0.0.'  Speaking on the campaign, the Dutchman said: 'As an F1 driver, making the right choices both on and off the track is vitally important for success.  'When driving, having that clarity and single-mindedness, particularly when it comes to safety, is crucial.  'On top of working on an upcoming, exciting new gaming initiative with Heineken called Player 0.0, I'm proud as a Heineken® 0.0 ambassador to help advocate responsible drinking to motorsport fans all over the world. Last weekend the Dutch Driver claimed his ninth win of the Formula 1 season at the Hungarian Grand Prix The Dutch driver moved away from the field to claim his 11th podium finish of the season while also securing Red Bull's 12th straight win on the bounce 'The campaign was great fun to shoot and I hope everyone not only enjoys the film, but also takes away the important message behind it.'  Verstappen's dominance in the sport this season was further emphasised by his 33-second victory at the Hungaroring this weekend.  Lando Norris accidentally smashed his trophy in after the race with the British driver slamming a bottle of champagne onto the step on which it was placed, causing the trophy to fall off and smash into several pieces.   Verstappen, though, seemed in good humour about the incident and will be looking to add another podium finish to his already bursting trophy cabinet at next week's Belgian Grand Prix in Spa next week. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group