PHILADELPHIA — Not that long ago, veteran leadership in Philadelphia meant plunking Bryce Harper in the back. These days, it means following his lead. In his fifth season with the Phillies, the two-time MVP has turned the all-consuming hype that hovered over him as a teenager into ubiquitous respect. Following a thunderous performance in the Phillies’ World Series run and a borderline superhuman return from Tommy John surgery, Harper has driven home a truth that took hold a while ago. Gone is the projected caricature of him as a hotshot, the one Cole Hamels once plunked intentionally thanks to the rigidity of unspoken norms. Here in the Phillies clubhouse is a superstar setting a positive example by bending over backward for the betterment of the team. (And yes, Harper and Hamels buried that hatchet when the former signed with the Phillies.) Harper’s warp-speed return from elbow surgery in an unprecedented 159 days was impressive already, but younger teammates are especially taking note of his willingness to learn first base. Still limited to designated hitter for now, Harper is taking grounders and practicing infield throws so that when he reaches his next level of clearance, he can fill a need at the cold corner that opened when both Rhys Hoskins and Darick Hall went down with long-term injuries. Harper stepping in at first would certainly help fill a gap for the Phillies, who are once again off to a slower-than-desired start and hovering around .500 after last season’s cathartic October run. That’s part of why Harper at first could have positive ripple effects, as young shortstop Bryson Stott pointed out. It would reopen the designated hitter slot to help fellow veterans Kyle Schwarber, Nick Castellanos and J.T. Realmuto stay in the lineup with more rest. “I think anytime you can look at a superstar doing that,” Stott said, “it's like, why am I complaining about something if he's over here, one of the best players in the game, changing his stuff?” Positional flexibility has been en vogue in MLB for a while, but it still raises eyebrows when stars on Harper’s level move — such as Freddie Freeman’s brief foray at third base or Mookie Betts’ dabbling at shortstop for the Los Angeles Dodgers. In this case, Harper volunteered, bringing the idea up to Dave Dombrowski, the team’s president of baseball operations, and manager Rob Thomson after Hoskins went down, while he was still on the rehab trail himself. “Once that happened, I was like, 'All right, well, it's kind of a revolving door over there right now,'” Harper said, citing his desire to help 26-year-old “big-time third baseman” Alec Bohm, who has often been shifting to play first, get back to his usual position. “He's a guy who's been around baseball a long, long time — has seen a lot of things in his lifetime,” Phillies hitting coach Kevin Long said of Harper. Before the Washington Nationals drafted him first overall in 2010, Harper played catcher and third base. The Nats moved him to the outfield to accelerate his path to the majors. Now 30 years old, Harper has been there for more than a third of his life. He’s approaching this latest challenge like he does anything else: by working at it constantly, taking as many reps as he possibly can. Stott, a fellow Las Vegas native, has been watching Harper since he was a kid but only recently has gotten a full sense of the work ethic involved in Harper’s preparation. “Going through high school and college, I knew I needed a routine of some sorts,” Stott said. “His is very to the tee — you almost know what time it is when he's doing something.” Harper, though, doesn’t think younger players necessarily need to emulate him. He wants every teammate to find what works for them, whether they learn it from him or Trea Turner or Schwarber or Realmuto. “You never want to change anybody,” Harper said as he works to execute a change of his own volition. That’s the distinction, and it dovetails with a game-wide shift toward embracing a greater level of individuality — as long as it is geared toward winning — that Harper has lived and influenced. Players can have the same goal but get there different ways. “It takes a couple of years to kind of get into your own and understand what works for you,” Harper said, “being yourself and being comfortable being yourself.” Harper’s way is effort. When he was 19, that might have looked like stealing home and occasionally running into walls full-speed. Now it looks like pregame work in addition to batting practice, fielding throws from second, taking fungoes. These days, no one is glaring at it. They’re admiring it. “What he's done to come back is just remarkable,” Long said. “I mean, he's worked his tail off to be here and be part of this team. So yeah, he's a role model to not only our team but a lot of guys in baseball.” Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine recap Team USA’s win over Brazil, preview Thursday’s game against Serbia and go through all of the NBA news they can find. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said.