Starcraft’s SLS 3 Q DH evinces high quality for a moderate price. Our test boat featured Yamaha’s 250 SHO four-stroke, a high-performance outboard that delivered a 47 mph top speed and shot us from zero to 30 mph in a leopard-quick 5.3 seconds. As expected from a boat featuring triple 25-inch tubes and the Xtreme Performance Package (XPS) with its lifting strakes on all three tubes, the SLS 3 Q DH easily handled wakes and windblown chop. It turned with aplomb, even in the tight, decreasing-radius arcs we engage in as part of our test regimen. The Starcraft’s middle-of-the-market price belies its top-drawer equipment. Check these notable highlights: A power Bimini top provides shade. Black powder-coated exterior railings make for a cool look. Optional black painted ’toons complete the stealth appearance. A stainless-steel stern enclosure keeps riders safe when lounging on the standard extended aft deck. The aft lounger seat for two features a reversible multiposition backrest to accommodate facing forward or aft, and sitting up or lying down.  Amidships, twin high-back plush reclining captain’s chairs slide and swivel, and feature deep cushions. The extensive helm features a tilt wheel, hydraulic steering, a JL Audio system, and a full complement of engine instruments and accessory switches. Center-tube in-floor storage is optional and well worth the extra cash. The flooring is woven teak vinyl for a contemporary look with easy maintenance and cleanup. Our boat featured a tan floor and upholstery, which looked great; an attractive gray theme is also available.  The twin curved loungers fit two or three people comfortably per side in the bow area in front, making for a great conversation pit. Conveniently, a pop-up privacy changing room stores within the portside seat for a quick change to go swimming. Starcraft installs USB chargers at every seat location, a necessity these days. Experienced boat owners will appreciate the roto-cast seat bases for their durability and long-term good looks. Their internal drains also keep stowed geared dry. Starcraft Marine – New Paris, Indiana; 574-831-2950; starcraftmarine.com Many products featured on this site were editorially chosen. Boating may receive financial compensation for products purchased through this site. Copyright © 2024 Boating Firecrown. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.