MLB Trade Rumors By Anthony Franco | May 9, 2023 at 11:14pm CDT  Diamondbacks first baseman/DH Seth Beer has been sent outright to Triple-A Reno, according to the transaction log at MLB.com. That indicates he went unclaimed on waivers after being designated for assignment last week. Beer has played parts of two seasons with the Snakes. The former first round pick was one of four prospects Arizona acquired from the Astros in the 2019 Zack Greinke blockbuster. He’d hit very well in the low minors after an incredible career at Clemson but came with questions about his lack of a defensive home. Beer continued performing at the plate through 2021, eventually reaching the majors towards the tail end of that season. The left-handed hitter got into five games during his debut. He played a bit more last year, appearing in 38 contests and tallying 126 trips to the plate. He only hit .189/.278/.243 in his first real crack against MLB pitching. Beer spent the bulk of the season with Reno, putting up a solid but unspectacular .242/.361/.435 slash that was below his previous minor league production. Arizona optioned Beer back to Reno to start the 2023 campaign. He’s been off to a rough start in his third crack at Triple-A, posting a .200/.266/.314 line over 79 plate appearances. Beer has homered just twice while striking out at a personal-worst 29.1% clip. Paired with the concern he could be limited to designated hitter, that slow start pushed Beer off the roster when the D-Backs promoted pitching prospect Brandon Pfaadt last Wednesday. No other team was willing to devote him an immediate 40-man roster spot in light of his early-season slump. This is the first outright of his career and he doesn’t have three years of major league service. As a result, Beer does not have the ability to test free agency. He’ll remain in the Arizona system and try to hit his way back onto the big league radar. Arizona Diamondbacks Transactions Seth Beer 
DarkSide830  1 year ago A sobering move. 
HBan22  1 year ago I thought this guy was going to be pretty good, even if it was just as a DH. Seems like he really fell off the past couple of years. Maybe they should trade him to the Brewers. 
Jon M  1 year ago He’ll need a cold one after this… 
deweybelongsinthehall  1 year ago Seeing a name like this reminds me of a long time friend’s mother whose first name was Eta and she married a guy whose last name was Fish… true story 
bronxmac77  1 year ago I had two shipmates in the USN.
Seaman Swallow (male)
Seaman Head (female)
Hand to God. 
MannyBeingMVP  1 year ago Lite Beer, not even good at Coors. 
TrillionaireTeamOperator  1 year ago Reminds me that they DFA’d and released MadBum, who I don’t think has signed on with anybody else and that was a few weeks ago. Must be enjoying retirement. 
MannyBeingMVP  1 year ago MadBum has one-day contract with the Giants waiting for him before the year is over. 
Gmen777  1 year ago Muncy can take him deep one last time 
thickiedon  1 year ago If he officially retires, he wouldn’t get paid remainder of contract, right? 
mlb fan  1 year ago Right. 
BlueSkies_LA  1 year ago The D’backs down a Beer. 
we_dont_talk_about_that  1 year ago “That indicates he went unclaimed on waivers after being designated for assignment last week.”
So no one wanted a ‘cold’ beer? 
sufferforsnakes  1 year ago Still not as bad as Bud Lite. 
DCartrow  1 year ago Seth wants action, not transaction. 
Ghost Pepper  1 year ago Great post Suffer! 
DCartrow  1 year ago We barley even knew you, Seth. 
bronxmac77  1 year ago ):-o 
JayRyder  1 year ago I wonder if after this He had a Beer. 
ChiSoxPain  1 year ago The dream of Beer and Burger fizzles. 
flyingblindsquirrel  1 year ago Brewers should be interested. 
Edp007  1 year ago Whitesox should sign him , bat behind Burger 
Tactics Dan  1 year ago We can bring him to Chicago.  We can give him a night on the town.  Steak dinner, boom.  We’re in. 
bronxmac77  1 year ago Downtown Phoenix ugly tonight.
Dbacks get shutout. Yuk.
Suns getting eviscerated in their final game for the second consecutive year. Yuk yuk. Please login to leave a reply. Log in Register MLB Trade Rumors is not affiliated with Major League Baseball, MLB or MLB.com 
Username or Email Address

 
Password

  Remember Me 


 Register