e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani throws to the plate during the first inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani warms up on the mound before their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani reacts after a pitch during the first inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Pittsburgh Pirates starting pitcher Johan Oviedo throws to the plate during the first inning of their game against the Angels on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Shohei Ohtani hits a foul ball during the first inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani reacts after a strike call during the first inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani throws to the plate during their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Pittsburgh Pirates’ Tucupita Marcano hits a foul ball during the second inning of their game against the Angels on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani talks with teammates in the dugout during the second inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani throws to the plate during their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Pittsburgh Pirates designated hitter Ji Man Choi hits a solo home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani shows his frustration after giving up a home run to the Pittsburgh Pirates’ Ji Man Choi during the fourth inning on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  Pittsburgh Pirates designated hitter Ji Man Choi, left, celebrates with teammate Henry Davis after hitting a solo home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Pittsburgh Pirates’ Ji Man Choi celebrates after hitting a home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani throws to the plate during the first inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Pittsburgh Pirates’ Henry Davis runs the bases after hitting a solo home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani reacts after the Pittsburgh Pirates’ Henry Davis hit a solo home run during the fourth inning on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani waits on the mound after giving up a home run to the Pittsburgh Pirates’ Henry Davis during the fourth inning on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  The Pittsburgh Pirates’ Henry Davis runs the bases after hitting a solo home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani, left, chats with catcher Matt Thaiss during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani, left, chats with catcher Matt Thaiss during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani gestures during his at-bat in the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Pittsburgh Pirates starting pitcher Johan Oviedo throws to the plate during their game against the Angels on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani reacts after swinging for a strike during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani runs to third base on a double hit by Mickey Moniak during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani runs to third base on a double hit by Mickey Moniak during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Shohei Ohtani scores on a double hit by Mickey Moniak during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani slides home to score during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani celebrates in the dugout after scoring on a double hit by Mickey Moniak during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Mike Moustakas circles the bases after hitting a three-run home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Mike Moustakas gestures as he runs the bases after hitting a three-run home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. The Angels hit four homers in an 8-5 win. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Mike Moustakas (8) celebrates with Taylor Ward, left, and Mickey Moniak (16) after they all scored on Moustakas’ three-run home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Mike Moustakas celebrates in the dugout after hitting a three-run home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Trey Cabbage, left, celebrates as he returns to the dugout after hitting a home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  The Angels’ Trey Cabbage celebrates in the dugout after hitting a home run during the fourth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani looks on after giving up a two-run home run during the fifth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  The Pittsburgh Pirates’ Jack Suwinski runs the bases after hitting a two-run home run during the fifth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani wipes his brow on the mound during the fifth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Pittsburgh Pirates’ Jack Suwinski (65) celebrates in the dugout after hitting a two-run home run during the fifth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani applauds as he leaves the mound during the middle of the fifth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Pittsburgh Pirates relief pitcher Jose Hernandez throws to the plate during the fifth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  The Angels’ Zach Neto runs the bases after hitting a solo home run during the fifth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Zach Neto celebrates in the dugout after hitting a solo home run during the fifth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Pittsburgh Pirates relief pitcher Jose Hernandez throws to the plate during the fifth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Taylor Ward (3) celebrates with teammates Shohei Ohtani, left, and Mike Moustakas after Ward hit a two-run home run during the fifth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Angels’ Taylor Ward, right, celebrates with teammate Shohei Ohtani, left, after hitting a two-run home run during the fifth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  The Angels’ Taylor Ward celebrates in the dugout after hitting a two-run home run during the fifth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  The Pittsrbugh Pirates’ Henry Davis celebrates in the dugout after hitting a home run – his second of the night – during the sixth inning of their game against the Angels on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani stands on the mound during the seventh inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani, center, is pulled from the mound by Manager Phil Nevin, right, during the seventh inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani, right, is pulled from the mound by Manager Phil Nevin (88) during the seventh inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Pittsburgh Pirates relief pitcher Angel Perdomo throws to the plate during the seventh inning of their game against the Angels on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)
  Angels star Shohei Ohtani gives a thumbs up after reaching second base on a single hit by Mickey Moniak during the seventh inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels relief pitcher Carlos Estevez throws to the plate during the ninth inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels first baseman Mike Moustakas catches a pop fly hit by the Pittsburgh Pirates’ Connor Joe for the final out of their 8-5 victory on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels first baseman Mike Moustakas, left, and relief pitcher Carlos Estevez celebrate after their 8-5 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels relief pitcher Carlos Estevez, left, celebrates with Shohei Ohtani after their 8-5 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels infielder Luis Rengifo participates in batting practice before their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels pitcher Patrick Sandoval, left, signs autographs for fans during batting practice before their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani walks past fans on his way to the dugout before their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
  Angels fans watch as starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani walks to the dugout before their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
 Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani throws to the plate during the first inning of their game against the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday at Angel Stadium. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis)
 ANAHEIM — This time, Shohei Ohtani’s teammates lifted him to a victory, turning the agonizingly familiar narrative on its head. Ohtani gave up a career-high four home runs, but the Angels slugged four of their own in an 8-5 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday night. The Angels, who have won four in a row and five of six, are not used to winning when Ohtani struggles, but Mike Moustakas said it was “huge” that they were able to do just that. “Obviously being able to pick up Ohtani, he’s done that so much throughout the year and throughout his entire career,” said Moustakas, who hit a three-run homer just after Ohtani gave up two solo homers. “To be able to help him out today was awesome for all of us.” It will require more games like that if the Angels are to keep Ohtani, long-term. While there is speculation that the Angels could trade him, that’s not likely to happen. Ohtani said through his interpreter that it “did not cross my mind at all” that Friday’s start was his last one at home before the Aug. 1 trade deadline. Part of the Angels’ calculation, if they choose to keep Ohtani past the deadline, is their desire to re-sign him. Ohtani said his future with the Angels beyond 2023 is not something that has been discussed yet, at least not by him personally. “I’ve never really had a sit-down talk like that,” Ohtani said. “We’re in midseason obviously. I’m just trying to focus on the season and block everything else out. I feel like we’re in a decent spot to make a playoff run and that’s all I’m really focused on at the moment.” Although Ohtani lasted 6⅓ innings, he gave up five runs. In his last three starts, he’s allowed 14 earned runs in 16⅓ innings, which has lifted his ERA to 3.71. He was bothered by fingernail and blister issues in some of his recent starts, though he and Manager Phil Nevin both said that was not an issue Friday. “It was pretty good today,” Ohtani said of his finger. “No issues.” His performance deteriorated the more pitches he threw on Friday, but Nevin suggested the issue was actually that he had been on base so many times and that led to fatigue. In the first three innings, Ohtani struck out five and did not allow a run. In the fourth, he allowed solo homers to Ji-Man Choi and Henry Davis. The Angels then got him the lead with five runs in the bottom of the fourth, but Ohtani came right back and gave up a two-run homer to Jack Suwinski. Davis hit another homer in the sixth. “Just looking at the results, obviously it wasn’t a really good game on the mound, but I did actually feel pretty good throwing the ball,” Ohtani said. “The ball coming off my fingertips felt really good. Other than the results.” Nevin dismissed the poor results as just a bad day. “He’s human, but he’s our ace and he’s a stud,” Nevin said. “I can’t wait to see him pitch the next time out.” While the Angels wait for Ohtani to get back to being himself, they at least can take solace in the fact that the offense has been clicking. The Angels set a franchise record by hitting homers in 19 straight games. Since July 2, the Angels have an .817 OPS, which is fourth best in the majors. They’ve averaged 5.8 runs per game in that time. That hot streak coincided with the Angels missing injured middle-of-the-order hitters Mike Trout, Brandon Drury and Anthony Rendon. “This obviously isn’t what our lineup planned to be at the beginning of the season, but each guy that’s come in has bought in and they’re following the plans,” Nevin said. “We’re getting pitches up in the zone and we’re swinging at good pitches to hit. That’s the key to this whole deal, hitting-wise. We don’t chase much. When you throw a strike in the zone, we’re gonna take a good pass at it.” Moustakas, one of the players the Angels added to bolster their injury-depleted lineup, hit a three-run homer in the fourth to give them a 4-2 lead. Acquired in a deal with the Colorado Rockies last month, Moustakas has hit five homers in 17 games with the Angels and four of them have either tied the score or given the Angels a lead. Two outs later, Trey Cabbage blasted his first big league homer, a 448-foot blast that bounced around the rocks in center field. Zach Neto and Taylor Ward hit homers in the fifth, padding the Angels’ lead to 8-4. Although the Pirates got one of those back before Ohtani was done pitching, the Angels’ bullpen protected the lead. Lefty Aaron Loup finished the seventh and lefty Matt Moore worked the ninth. Closer Carlos Estévez pitched the ninth, converting his 22nd save without a blown save. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group