We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we believe in. Pricing and availability are subject to change. Our team is dedicated to finding and telling you more about the products and deals we love. If you love them too and decide to purchase through the links below, we may receive a commission. Pricing and availability are subject to change. It's no secret that the last few weeks of the year are the best time to shop, as most of the worthwhile deals are reserved for those few days. More specifically, right now is the best time to shop, though, because the year is officially coming to an end! The only setback, though, is that it's sometimes hard to weed through the fluff and find the deals that are actually worth shopping. To make things a bit easier, we've done the heavy lifting and found the 28 absolute best menswear year-end sales happening right now. If you're looking for the best deals on cooling and comfortable men's underwear, 2(X)IST and Shinesty are having two of the best sales that rival other major shopping events like Black Friday. Looking for cold-weather staples? DICK'S Sporting Goods is offering up to 50% off tons of best sellers including Patagonia Zip Pullover sweaters, Under Armour Sweatshirts, adidas sneakers, Nike Club Fleece Hoodies and more. Designer brands like AllSaints, Alexander McQueen, Lanvin, MCM, Kenzo, Gucci and more are on sale — at surprisingly reasonable prices — on The Outnet, Bloomingdale's, DSW and End Clothing. The true designer deals, however, are happening for a few more days at Coach and Coach Outlet with over 60% off in savings! And for those all-encompassing sales that range across several different categories with massive savings of up to 80% off, check out Nordstrom Rack, ASOS, Everlane and Lululemon. Keep scrolling for the 28 best menswear sales to shop right now. 2(X)IST Get 30% off all best-selling underwear, tanks, socks and more, sitewide. Shop now at 2(X)IST Abercrombie & Fitch For a limited time, get up to 40% off select styles. From sweatshirts and sweatpants, to tees and slacks and everything in between. Shop now at Abercrombie & Fitch adidas Save up to 60% on men's clothes and shoes during adidas' epic End of Year sale. Shop now at adidas Alo Men's athleisure and athletic wear are up to 40% off for a limited time. Shop now at Alo ASOS Get up to 80% off final clearance items including shirts, sneakers, swimwear, plus-size clothing, t-shirts, tank tops, jeans and more. Shop now on ASOS Bloomingdale's Save 30-50% during the store's massive Designer Event. Get high-end designer styles from AllSaints, Alexander McQueen, Lanvin, MCM, Kenzo and more for less. Shop now at Bloomingdale's Bonobos Get best-selling, high-quality and size-inclusive pants, jeans, tees, blazers, sweaters and more for as low as $5 for a limited time. Shop now at Bonobos boohooMAN Snag 50% off everything during boohooMAN's massive new season sale. Shop now on boohooMAN Clarks Take an extra 30% off already on-sale dress shoes, sandals, desert boots and more at Clarks when you use the code "EXTRA" at checkout. Shop now at Clarks Coach Get up to 50% off Coach's new-season best sellers during this super rare holiday sale. Shop bags, hats, watch bands and more. Shop now at Coach Coach Outlet Get an extra 20% off men's Coach bags and wallets that are already up to 60% off during Coach Outlet's Merriest Sale. Shop now at Coach Outlet Cole Haan Prices from the No. 1 best-selling shoe brand's menswear sale section start at just $4.97. Get up to 50% off new markdowns. Also, Cole Haan's "Final Day for Gifts" sale ends tonight! Get up to 60% off! Shop now at Cole Haan Cozy Earth These extremely soft, breathable and cooling men's loungewear staples are 25-30% off during the brand's sitewide sale. Shop now on Cozy Earth DICK'S Sporting Goods Get up to 50% off hundreds of holiday deals at DICK'S Sporting Goods, ranging from Patagonia Zip Pullover sweaters, Under Armour Sweatshirts, adidas sneakers, Nike Club Fleece Hoodies and more. Prices start at just $4.97! Shop now at DICK'S Sporting Goods DSW Designer men's shoes are discounted up to 60% off during DSW'S huge men's year-end section. Also, there are a few major breakout sales to check out before the end of the year: Dr. Martens are up to 25% off and select Reebok styles are 30% off through Dec. 31, select Timberland styles are 25%off through Dec. 28 and so much more! Shop now at DSW End Clothing Thousands of designer clothes and accessories from brands like Palm Angels, Balenciaga, Loewe and more are up to 70% off during this winter sale. Shop now on End Clothing Everlane High-quality men's shirts, shorts, pants, tees, bags and so much more are up to 60% off right now during Everlane's 2022 Wrapped sale. Shop now at Everlane Huckberry Outerwear, shoes, outdoor gear, home goods, wardrobe basics and more are up to 40% off during Huckberry's See You Out There sale. Shop now on Huckberry J.Crew Get an extra 60% off all sale styles during J.Crew's End of Season sale. Just use the code "BIGGERSALE" on all eligible items. Shop now at J.Crew Levi's Get 50% off select styles during Levi's End of Season sale. Shop now at Levi's Lululemon The best-selling activewear brand is offering deals of up to 50% off in its "We Made Too Much" section. Shop now at Lululemon Nordstrom Score up to 60% off over 1,000 styles across all major fashion and accessories categories during Nordstrom's Men's Designer Clearance sale Shop now at Nordstrom Nordstrom Rack Get up to 70% off cozy men's sweaters at Nordstrom Rack. Also, get over 84% off men's clearance items Shop now at Nordstrom Rack The Outnet There are so many designer sales happening right now at The Outnet. Get 70% off luxury styles for less, up to 60% off knitwear, up to 70% off designer shoes and up to 70% off jeans. Also, if you're a Salvatore Ferragamo fan, the brand's shoes, leatherware and accessories are up to 45% off. Shop now on The Outnet Rag & Bone Get an extra 30% off hundreds of best-selling men's styles during the brand's latest sale. Shop now at Rag & Bone Shinesty If you're looking for the best cooling and most comfy men's underwear, Shinesty is the place to shop. Right now, its sale section starts at just $4.99 — that's up to 70% off! Shop now on Shinesty Todd Snyder Best-selling polos, blazers, hoodies, trousers, shirts, loungewear and more are up to 50% off during Todd Snyder's winter sale. Shop now at Todd Snyder Wrangler Get up to 40% off, plus an extra 20% off during Wrangler's latest sale when you use the code "EXTRA20" at checkout. Shop now at Wrangler If you enjoyed this story, check out the 56 best tech deals you need to snag this weekend, starting as low as $12. More from In The Know: The 15 best holiday tech sales to shop right now — over 66% off at Dyson, Shark, Oral-B and more 18 timeless black bags to score during Coach Outlet's huge holiday sale — get over 70% off If you want endless 'you smell good' compliments, these are the 8 best fragrances to buy Coach's holiday sale is almost over! These 12 best-selling bags and shoes are all 50% off The post The 28 best menswear year-end sales to shop right now — up to 80% off Coach, DICK'S Sporting Goods, Levi's and more and more appeared first on In The Know. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.