Checked for accuracy by our qualified fact-checkers and verifiers. Find out more about fact-checking at CHOICE. Christmas mince pies have barely left
the supermarket shelves when hot cross buns make their appearance, so clearly
Australians have quite an appetite for these spicy, fruity baked goods – and
not just at Easter. We tasted 29 hot cross buns – 'traditional' fruit and chocolate varieties, and gluten-free and regular – from national supermarkets Coles, Woolworths, IGA and Aldi, major bakery chain Bakers Delight and membership warehouse Costco, to see which buns are best. On this page: The options when it comes to hot
cross bun varieties extend from Iced VoVo to Pizza Shapes, and seemingly everything
in between. Despite this, our polls consistently show that a traditional fruit
hot cross bun is our favourite. So for those who'd prefer not to mess with a classic, which traditional buns are best? Our panel of professionals taste-tested 29 hot cross bun products all up, toasted and untoasted, including 14 traditional fruit varieties (it's a tough gig but somebody's gotta do it).  And for the second year in a row, Woolworths has taken out the top spot.  You can compare all products in our full hot cross buns review. Woolworths Luxurious Richly Fruited Hot Cross Buns were the favourite traditional bun with our expert testers. Why wait for the Easter bunny to bring eggs when you can eat your chocolate in bun form?  One of the seven chocolate hot cross buns we tested made it onto our recommended list by scoring 70% or more in our taste test. If you prefer chocolate chips over dried fruit, the Bakers Delight Choc Chip Hot Cross Buns took line honours in this category. 
Read more: 

                    Not cross buns: Culinary crime or tasty treat?
                
 Many people need to avoid eating gluten, so we've again included gluten-free traditional fruit and chocolate bun offerings from Coles and Woolworths in our taste test. We also decided to give the gluten-free buns their own category, so the scores have improved since last year (and aren't directly comparable). Generally speaking the gluten-free buns don't score as well as their regular counterparts, but the best gluten-free traditional and chocolate buns were both from Woolworths this year. Woolworths Free From Gluten Hot Cross Buns were the winners of the new gluten-free category this year. Prefer your hot cross buns with no gluten and no fruit? The Woolworths Free From Gluten Chocolate Hot Cross Buns impressed our experts. We've tested to find you the best. Our CHOICE kitchen team Fiona Mair and Chantelle Dart unpack the products so they can be tasted 'blind'. We tested hot cross bun products available in major Australian supermarket chains and bakeries, including Coles, Woolworths, Aldi and Bakers Delight, as well as wholesale warehouse Costco. Traditional fruit buns and chocolate buns, along with their gluten-free varieties, were tested separately. Price is for the pack size specified and bought in Sydney stores in February 2024 (not on special). Our panel of three experts tasted the hot cross bun samples 'blind' (without knowing the brands) in a randomised order, which was different for each expert. Each bun was tasted fresh (untoasted) and toasted. Expert tester Brigid Treloar prepares to sample yet another bun. The experts independently judged all hot cross bun products. The CHOICE Expert Rating, our overall score, consists of 90% sensory and 10% nutrition (based on the Health Star Rating). Of the 90%, 50% of the score represented the toasted sample and the other 50% represented the fresh (untoasted) sample. Here is a breakdown of the sensory weightings: We recommend traditional and chocolate hot cross buns with a CHOICE Expert Rating of 70% or more, and recommend gluten-free hot cross buns (all varieties) with a score of 60% or more. 
Read more: 

                    How to cut the cost of Easter
                
 (Left to Right) Jane Bardell, Ian Huntley and Brigid Treloar Brigid Treloar has been a freelance food
consultant for over 30 years. The author of eight cookbooks, she also
contributes to newspapers and magazines, reviews restaurants, judges cookery
and recipe competitions, and judges chocolate in the Sydney Royal Fine Food
Show Competition.  Brigid has presented specialist cooking classes around
Australia and overseas, and often appears on TV and radio. She's an industry
assessor for Le Cordon Bleu, advises many of Australia's food companies on product
and recipe development, and also provides recipes and cooking information for
company websites. Ian Huntley is a pastry chef by trade and has been in the industry for 35 years. He studied confectionery, cake decorating and bread making in the UK before moving to Australia in the mid 1980s. After five years of working in two of Sydney's top hotels, the InterContinental and the Regent, he started his wholesale patisserie business, supplying desserts and pastries to airlines, department stores, hospitals, restaurants and coffee shops.  Today Ian is the chair of judges for the Royal Agricultural Society (RAS) Professional Bakery competition and chief assessor for patisserie for leading French culinary school Le Cordon Bleu. Jane Bardell might fill her days checking facts and figures as one of our esteemed CHOICE verifiers, but she spends her weekends and evenings perfecting her brioche, refining her frangipane tarts and decorating cakes for special occasions. She's just as comfortable manipulating data in a spreadsheet as she is shaping a loaf of sourdough, and she's even a multi-award winning pastry chef – if you count the prestigious annual CHOICE staff lemon bake-off. Get the best supermarket buys that topped our tests in one easy email. Read our privacy policy Get the best supermarket buys that topped our tests in one easy email. Read our privacy policy Stock images: Getty, unless otherwise stated. To share your thoughts or ask a question, visit the CHOICE Community forum. 

 CHOICE Community

 


Donate

 Stay informed. Get the latest product reviews, money-saving tips and more. Read our privacy policy 
                    We at CHOICE acknowledge the traditional custodians of this land on which we work, and pay our respects to the First Nations people of this country. CHOICE supports the First Nations people's Uluru Statement from the Heart.
                 In our role as a consumer advocate, CHOICE may publish opinions of the general insurance market, with the intention of improving general insurance for Australian consumers. In addition, ACA Insight Pty Ltd (AFSL 550139) (ACA Insight), owned by CHOICE, provides any general advice on general insurance products. This advice does not take into account your objectives, financial situation or needs. Consider the appropriateness of the advice before acting on it. Read the Product Disclosure Statement relating to any insurance product before making a decision to buy it.