The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Pittsburgh Public Schools filed a lawsuit against several major social media and tech companies. The district's solicitor, Ira Weiss, said the district is alleging the defendants target young people to compulsively use their platforms to increase profits.“I think they are all guilty. Obviously, some of them are bigger than others, and some are more heavily used than others, but certainly, we think they are all complicit in this,” Weiss said. “Defendants deliberately embedded in their services an array of design features aimed at maximizing youth engagement to drive advertising revenue. Defendants know children are in a developmental stage that leaves them particularly vulnerable to the addictive effects of these features. Defendants target them anyway, in pursuit of additional profit,” the lawsuit said. The lawsuit cited what it claims are harmful aspects of social media. Viral challenges, known to be dangerous, were one example. Remember the milk crate challenge? TikTok ultimately banned it. “Any issue we have involving kids in terms of the things they do at home or with their peers, that has a negative impact. The schools feel that,” Weiss said. This week, the U.S. Surgeon General talked to Pittsburgh's Action News 4 about the need for set safety standards when it comes to social media. "We need to have requirements on data transparency so the independent researchers can assess the data that's out there, that companies have about how this technology is impacting our kids, so we also know who is most at risk for bad outcomes,” Murthy said. Murthy said that 50% of parents of kids ages 10-12 say their kids are on social media, and about 33% of parents with kids 7-9 say their kids are on social media. “There needs to be action taken at a legislative level to increase the age at which it is permissible to use this technology,” Murthy said. Weiss said these kinds of lawsuits, generally, do end up getting resolved. Pittsburgh’s Action News 4 reached out to the companies listed as defendants in the lawsuit. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.