No fees are charged for EU and EEA citizens, Swedish residence permit holders and exchange students.
 More information about tuition fees No fees are charged for EU and EEA citizens, Swedish residence permit holders and exchange students.
 More information about tuition fees The master's programme in Information Technology and Learning addresses the opportunities and challenges emerging information technologies raise for learning. As a student of the programme, you will have the opportunity to work with leading researchers in learning sciences, educational studies, digital communication, and human-computer interaction. Through hands-on seminar activities, you will become a research-driven leader, a learning experience designer, and a critical analyst of learning technologies. The changing face of digital technologies provides immense new opportunities and simultaneously gives rise to fundamental challenges for both individuals and society. The field of information technology and learning is currently at the center of attention in debates surrounding issues like source criticism and information evaluation, digital competence, Artificial Intelligence (AI), big data, and learning analytics. A core element of the programme is to provide you with opportunities to develop a varied skillset including methods for data collection and analysis, academic and professional writing, and the competence to review and evaluate existing research. These tools will allow you to evaluate the current state of knowledge, think independently and critically, and stay up to date and relevant in the quickly changing field of educational technology and other professional settings. You will be able to use scientific literature to bypass buzzwords and develop research-based solutions. During your studies you are able—and encouraged—to individualize your studies based your own interests and desired specialization. A strong background in educational sciences and a specialization in your own interests prepares you for a wide variety of professional opportunities. Through seminars and lectures, teachers and researchers will address current topics in relation to a variety of research projects and activities with strong connections to research and industry. You will have the opportunity to take part in this vibrant research community and engage with researchers in different disciplines and traditions through, for example, the opportunities to intern in a research group and write your thesis within a project. Learning experience design is not necessarily about building hardware or software, but rather about arranging, adapting, and configuring various existing technologies for learners in various educational settings. Our programme provides experiences in using and adapting technology as well as the conceptual and theoretical tools that are important in developing the skills and identity of an educational designer with an information technology profile. Meet students and alumni >> Through four mandatory courses in the first two semesters, you will gain foundational knowledge in information technology and learning as a field, learn to understand and apply design as a method, examine how digital media and technologies are changing traditional understandings of literacy, and gain a solid understanding of key research methods. In the third semester, you can choose elective courses offered by our programme, from other departments at the University of Gothenburg, or from another accredited university. The fourth semester consists of your master’s thesis, which can be a continuation of your internship work if you choose to undertake an internship. Then you should apply for our master's programme in Information Technology and Learning! To be admitted to the programme, the following is required:
A Bachelor?s degree with a minimum of 180 higher education credits or an equivalent degree. Furthermore, the student must demonstrate proficiency in English equivalent to English 6 or English B from Swedish upper secondary level, or through an internationally recognized English test, such as TOEFL or IELTS, with corresponding results. If there are more applicants than there are places, selection is based on an overall assessment of academic and professional experiences, and how well the program fits into an applicant’s broadly defined career goals.  

                      More information about
                        Special instructions for application
                    
 The selection is based on the submitted CV and Statement of Intent. Upload your CV and Statement of Intent together with your other documents (same deadline as for the application). Only applications with these documents uploaded will be considered in the selection process. The programme leads to a degree in: Our graduates go on to exciting careers, working to lead the design, implementation, and evaluation of technologies for learning. Alumni report a diverse set of professional roles including leading the digital learning initiatives of major companies in the consumer products and financial technology sectors, implementing digitalization strategies in school districts and higher education organizations, designing consumer learning experiences in the automotive and telecommunications industries, and researching shifts in learning practices with technology as PhD students at leading universities around the world. Depending on your professional goals and interests, you can undertake an internship in a company or organization or in a research group. Regardless of the type, all placements must be relevant to the domain of information technology and learning. 

                      More information about
                        Internship
                    
 The University of Gothenburg
Box 100
405 30 Gothenburg
Sweden Main Switchboard
+46 31-786 00 00 Huvudbyggnad Vasaparken,
Universitetsplatsen 1 Org. nummer: 202100-3153