The 113th General Assembly has adjourned for 2023, and it was a very successful year. We have taken measures for Tennessee to be a better place to live, work and to raise a family. I will go over some of the laws passed this session. Do-Not-Text law - The General Assembly passed legislation to allow Tennessee consumers to block unwanted text messages. The law merges text message solicitations to the state’s Do Not Call Registry, and extends the same prohibitions, requirements, and penalties that apply to telephone solicitations to unwanted text messages. It also prescribes a maximum penalty of $2,000 dollars for each violation of a text solicitation to a person on the registry. The Tennessee Public Utility Commission (TPUC) would continue to oversee the registry, which includes landlines and cell phone numbers of Tennessee telephone subscribers who have elected not to receive solicitations. Businesses may not be included on the list. There are some exemptions to the law which include invitations to be called by the person being called and solicitations on behalf of a not-for-profit organization. Ensuring condominiums are structurally safe — Lawmakers passed legislation this year to ensure condominium buildings are structurally safe to prevent tragedies such as the 2021 condominium collapse outside Miami. The law requires the board of directors of condo associations in Tennessee to conduct a reserve study every five years to assess the condition, structural integrity and needed maintenance of their buildings. The purpose of the study is to inform condo owners of the condition and life expectancy of common elements of the building so they can reserve necessary maintenance and replacement costs. The study will analyze all aspects of the building, including the foundation, load-bearing walls, roof, plumbing, electrical and fire protection systems, among others. Such studies are expected to cost between $2,500 and $4,000 the first time they are completed, with follow-up studies typically costing less. Vehicle Immobilization Devices - The General Assembly passed legislation this year to establish statewide standards to protect consumers from unscrupulous practices of booting vehicles. The law clarifies that companies must remove the vehicle immobilization device or “boot” when the owner of the vehicle pays the company. If there is a problem with the payment, the company must issue a notice and take the boot off immediately. The law also caps the boot removal fee at $75 a day. It only applies to private parking lots and clarifies that employees cannot earn commission or be contracted to remove or install boots, and it allows the Attorney General to prosecute violations of this measure through the Consumer Protection Act. Tennessee Information Protection Act - This new law requires large technology companies like Google, Instagram and TikTok to fully disclose to consumers what information is being collected about them through their online activities. The act will require online platforms to disclose up-front exactly what personal information will be collected and how they intend to use it. Tennesseans will also be able to opt-out of the selling of their personal information to third parties without discrimination. Additionally, the legislation includes protections for biometric data that measures physical characteristics like voice records, fingerprints, retinal scans or facial recognition. Companies that misuse a consumer’s information will also be held accountable. The bill gives the state attorney general the authority to impose civil penalties if these big tech companies fail to safeguard private data or violate consumer protections. Genetic information and life insurance providers - The General Assembly approved legislation that prohibits life insurance providers from canceling coverage for an individual or a family member based solely on their genetic information. Providers would also be prohibited from requesting or requiring a genetic test or other specific DNA information as a precondition of insurability. Access to genetic data could only be provided with an individual’s signed, written consent. Protecting genetic information — To protect consumers’ genetic information, lawmakers approved legislation that prevents genetic testing companies from selling consumers’ genetic information without consent. It requires such companies to provide to consumers information about the company’s data collection, use, access and security practices, among others. It also prevents companies from disclosing consumers’ genetic data to entities offering health insurance, life insurance, long-term care insurance or an employer of the consumer without consent. Finally, the law authorizes the division of Consumer Affairs in the Attorney General’s office to enforce the legislation and requires that office to create a system for receiving complaints. Protecting Consumers from Increased Streaming Service Prices - The General Assembly approved legislation this year to continue an existing state policy that ensures no cities or counties can collect franchise fees. This new law arose after many municipalities attempted to force streaming providers such as Netflix and Hulu and their customers to pay cable franchise fees for the content customers receive from the internet. Contact Sen. Joey Hensley, R-Hohenwald, at sen.joey.hensley@capitol.tn.gov. This article originally appeared on The Daily Herald: Legislative Update: State laws to protect digital users' information New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.