NEST 2023 answer key challenge window is now open. Candidates who want to submit their objections can visit the official website until June 30, 2023. NEST 2023 Answer Key Challenge: The answer key challenge window for National Entrance Screening Test (NEST) 2023 is now open. Students who have appeared for the exams can submit their grievances against the NEST 2023 answer key through the link provided on the official website. As per the notification on the official website, the last date for candidates to submit their answer key challenges is June 30, 2023. Candidates are required to login using their application id and password following which they can check through the answer key and submit the challenges. The answer key challenge link is available on the official website - nestexam.in. Candidates can also click on the direct link provided here to raise objections against the NEST answer key. NEST 2023 Answer Key Challenge Direct link - Click Here The NEST 2023 answer ker challenge link is available on the official website. Candidates must note that when raising objections they are also required to upload necessary documents supporting the challenge.  Step 1: Visit the official website for NEST Step 2: Click on the online portal for answer key challenge Step 3: Enter the application id and password Step 4: Click on the question desired to raise objections Step 5: Upload the required documents Step 6: Click on the fee payment link After the answer key challenge process, the authorities will cross-check the challenges and prepare the final answer key. The final answer key will be released shortly after following which the results will be announced. According to the schedule released, the NEST 2023 results will be announced on July 10, 2023. Also Read: TS ICET Result 2023 Date Announced, Check When and Where to Download Rank Card Bihar Police BPSSC SI Marksheet 2024 OUT: BPSSC सब इंस्पेक्टर फाइनल रिजल्ट के साथ यहां से डाउनलोड करें मार्कशीट  MJPRU Result 2024 OUT: यहां देखें BA, BSc, BTech, BCom, BCA, MA, MSc, MCom सहित सभी UG & PG, Annual & सेमेस्टर मार्कशीट PDF  इंडिया पोस्ट GDS रिजल्ट 2024 घोषित, यहां देखें Circle-wise 1st मेरिट लिस्ट PDF  UP Police Constable Admit Card 2024 Live Update: आज शाम 5 बजे से डाउनलोड करें यूपी पुलिस के एडमिट कार्ड, नोटिस जारी      Difference between Catholic and Christian  UP Police Admit Card 2024: Download UPPRPB Constable Call Letter at uppbpb.gov.in  India Post GDS Result 2024 OUT at indiapostgdsonline.gov.in: Download Circle-wise 1st Merit List Here  India Post GDS Result 2024 Released: इंडिया पोस्ट जीडीएस की पहली मेरिट लिस्ट जारी, यहाँ देखें सभी सर्किल का PDF Link   Math Puzzle: You have a high IQ if you can solve this math puzzle in 12 seconds!  Brain Teaser: Only High IQ Sherlocks Can Find the Hidden Different Emoji in This Brain Teaser  Picture Puzzle IQ Test: Spot the Seal Hidden Among Penguins in Just 12 Seconds!  Dr MGR Medical University Result 2024 OUT at tnmgrmu.ac.in; Direct Link to Download UG and PG Marksheet  Optical Illusion IQ Test: Only 1% With Eagle Eyes Can Spot the Snail in 5 Seconds!  Visual Skill Test: Find the odd rose in the picture in 5 seconds!  Happy Rakhi 2024: 40+ Unique Bonding Quotes, Wishes, Messages for Brother and Sisters  Happy Raksha Bandhan 2024: 50+ Images, Quotes, Wishes, Messages to Share with be Loved Brother and Sisters  Challenge Your Raksha Bandhan IQ: Test Your Festive Knowledge  Seek and Find Puzzle: Sharpen Your Eyes and Test Your Wit By Finding the Hidden Mouse in 11 Seconds  Brain Teaser: Can Your High IQ Help You Find the Four-Leaf Clover in This Puzzle?  Tripura NEET UG Counselling 2024 Registration Begin, Apply at dmeonline.tripura.gov.in 