Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? With hundreds of incredible products available, it can be intimidating to piece together a smart home. From smart displays and thermostats to smart light bulbs and video doorbells, not only are there tons of categories to browse, but each category is filled with highly reviewed products that can be difficult to distinguish from one another. If you’re in the market for a new smart home gadget or are just starting your smart home journey, there are tons of factors to consider. If you need help navigating all the products, here’s a look at the best smart home devices of 2023 across a wide variety of categories. It’s hard to go wrong with products from big names like Ring, Arlo, Amazon, and Google, but if you need a bit more guidance, here are some of our top picks. The first thing you’ll want to get is a virtual assistant to help you control your smart devices with just your voice. You can opt for a smart speaker, which only has audio, or you can go with a smart display, which has a touchscreen that lets you visually interact with your assistant as well. The Amazon Echo is Amazon’s smart speaker that features Alexa, Amazon’s virtual assistant. The Echo 4th Generation has excellent sound quality, so you can clearly hear your playlist from music streaming services like Amazon Music, Apple Music, or iHeart Radio. The redesigned Echo 4 retails for $100, and it comes in charcoal, twilight blue, and glacier white. Amazon’s latest smart speaker also functions as a Zigbee hub, allowing you to control other Zigbee-specific smart home gear, such as lights, locks, and cameras. If you want a more affordable Echo speaker, the Echo Dot with Clock retails for only $60 and does almost everything the Echo does, except its speakers aren’t quite as powerful and it doesn’t have a Zigbee hub. The Dot with Clock has an LED display on the front face that can show you the time, the weather, or a timer. One of the reasons these gadgets should be on your smart home shopping list is that they work with many of the other products you buy. Alexa responds to short commands that make life easier and more fun. You can set alarms, ask questions, order pizza, shop, play games, and more — just by using your voice. Plus, compatible gadgets let you depend on Alexa to tweak aspects of your smart home by doing things like turning down the thermostat or turning on a light. The Echo Pop is another solid option for shoppers on a budget. Clocking at just $40, it’s the cheapest Echo smart speaker on the market. It may not sound as robust as others on this list (like the HomePod or Sonos One), but it’s a great beginner smart speaker and works perfectly as a hub for your smart home. If you’d prefer a smart display that has a screen and lets you make video calls, see song lyrics, and watch your security camera and video doorbell feeds, the Echo Show 5 is a great option because it’s even more affordable than a regular Echo speaker. The Show 5 is a compact display, though. If you’re looking for a larger screen, the Echo Show 15 may be a better option. Capable of being wall-mounted for either landscape or portrait viewing, Amazon’s Show 15 features customizable widgets, interactive smart device controls, and a host of other great Alexa-powered tricks and abilities. Between the Echo Show 5 and Echo Show 15 is the Echo Show 8. Consider giving it a look if you want something a bit larger than the Show 5 but still small enough to fit on a kitchen counter or desk. The latest model supports Spatial Audio, seamlessly syncs with other Alexa products, and offers impressive video calling abilities thanks to its 13 MP camera. On the other hand, maybe you’d rather go with a smart speaker not associated with Amazon, but love the easy-to-move design of the Echo Dot. In that case, look no further than the streamlined Nest Mini. The Nest Mini (2nd Gen) has an eco-friendly design, and it comes in chalk, charcoal, a bright coral color, or a bright blue color. Similar in size and shape to the Echo Dot (3rd Gen), the Nest Mini 2 is powered by Google Assistant, which, in many ways, is smarter than Alexa. The multilingual assistant can control your smart devices, create a shopping list, answer questions, and much more. Plus, it connects to tons of smart home devices for voice control. Then there’s the Google Nest Audio, Google’s bigger smart speaker. Featuring premium sound, adaptive audio, and an attractive design, you can find Google’s premium smart speaker in chalk, charcoal, sage, sand, and sky. If you want a Google Assistant-powered smart display, we really like the Nest Hub Max. It has a 10-inch display, gesture control, built-in security features, and it even has a built-in Nest Cam. If you’re looking for the best sound possible out of your smart speaker, consider opting for the Sonos Era 100. Not only does it offer room-filling sound, but it comes with built-in Bluetooth support and can optimize its sound regardless of where it’s placed in your home. It’s a bit pricey, but it’s bound to please even the most discerning audiophile. And don’t worry: We didn’t forget the Apple devotees of our readership. If you want to run your smart home with Apple HomeKit and Siri, the HomePod mini is the way to go. Available in five colors, the mini adapts its sound to whatever room you place it in, can be paired with multiple HomePod minis for expanded audio, and includes a convenient hand-off feature that instantly transfers whatever is playing on the HomePod mini to your iPhone in seconds. Need something with a bit more power than the tiny HomePod mini? Consider stepping up to the HomePod 2023, which offers all of the same great features, but with a better audio system. Check out our picks for the best smart speakers When your home has a smart lock, there’s no need to worry about fumbling for your keys when it’s dark or having to leave a key under the mat for a pet sitter. Today’s options install in minutes and offer convenience and peace of mind. We’re big fans of the August Smart Lock (4th Generation) for a number of reasons. The plug-and-play assembly allows you to slip the August lock directly onto your existing deadbolt, meaning you won’t have to pull apart any of your existing door lock’s hardware. You can also use the August app to assign temporary unlock codes to friends and family that are checking on your pets while you’re vacationing. We also like the DoorSense feature, which allows you to see if your door is open, closed, locked, or unlocked through the Activity Feed tab in the August app. Similar to the August Smart Lock, the Wyze Lock also retrofits over your existing deadbolt and can be configured to detect your phone when you’re in range, automatically locking/unlocking your door when you’re approaching. Compatible with Alexa and Google Assistant, you can even use voice commands to control the lock from indoors or with the Alexa/Google Home app. The Yale Assure Lock 2 is another great option if you’re seeking a premium device. Offered in a variety of styles (including keyless or with a touchpad), the Assure Lock 2 lets you customize different profiles for each member of the house or set up temporary accounts for guests. If you spring for the Wi-Fi version, you’ll also benefit from the ability to remotely check in on your door to verify you locked it before heading out. If you want something that looks futuristic and bundles in tons of cool features, consider checking out the Lockly Vision Elite. It costs a pretty penny, but besides the usual smart lock features, the Vision Elite doubles as a camera for your front door. You’ll even find a solar panel on the device, which helps keep it charged up for nearly a year. Check out our picks for the best smart locks Investing in a video doorbell lets you see who’s knocking at the door without getting up from the couch. A security camera can provide added peace of mind too, as most outdoor models allow you to watch the happenings around your house from anywhere, all through an app on your phone. Many provide two-way audio, night vision, and motion alerts as well. Nest is one of the leading brands in the smart home market and offers both indoor and outdoor security cameras. The Nest Cam (outdoor or indoor, battery) is one of the company’s most versatile cameras, delivering a 130-degree field of view, a powerful digital zoom capability, smart motion capabilities, and voice assistant compatibility with Google Assistant and Alexa households. Battery-powered and weather-resistant, you can put the Nest Cam on any interior or exterior surface and successfully operate the camera year-round. The Arlo Pro 4 is our favorite camera overall though. The lens delivers crisp day and night images, a built-in speaker and microphone for natural two-way audio, and a weatherproof casing. You’ll also want to consider the Arlo Pro 5S, which is a bit more generous with its battery life and comes with some nifty security features — although it is a bit more expensive. Our favorite video doorbell is the Ring Video Doorbell 3. The bell runs on battery power, detects motion, features two-way audio, and can be customized with the Ring app. A new Ring Indoor Cam launched earlier this year, and it offers 1080p video capture, color night vision, two-way audio, and a built-in privacy shutter. You’ll need to manually position the shutter (it can’t be remotely controlled through the app), but at just $60, it’s a solid option if you need something reliable that won’t break the bank. If you’re a fan of Alexa, be sure to check out the Blink Outdoor 4. This camera works perfectly as either an indoor or outdoor security camera, thanks to its small footprint and waterproof design. Standout features include a 143-degree field of view, person detection, adjustable motion settings, and two-way audio. It’s also built for full Alexa support, making it easy to get the camera up and running with other Alexa-compatible gadgets. Check out our picks for the best video doorbells, best wireless security cameras, and best home security systems Ecovacs really wanted us to emphasize the superior cleaning here, so that’s what we’ll do. This vacuum and mop combo cleans really well. Like really, really well. That’s thanks to several features, including powerful 8,000 pascals of suction power, an extra-long roller brush, intelligent 15mm auto mop lifting – to keep your rugs and carpet from getting wet – and self-washing with hot water via the dock. Additional features include AI-controlled AIVI 3D 2.0 obstacle avoidance, the industry’s first dual-laser LiDAR navigation, and seamless interactions via YIKO 2.0, a built-in voice assistant. At any time, you can check in with live video monitoring thanks to the Starlight camera or two-way call with others, even if you’re not home. Yes, that means you can tell your cats to get off the counters. We haven’t even gotten to the best party yet. The Black Friday price is the ultimate holiday gift from Ecovacs, but it won’t last long. Buy Now Your heating and cooling system is probably a part of your home that you don’t think about too often — until the temperature’s not quite right. A smart thermostat could better integrate climate controls into your life. Our favorite smart thermostat is the Amazon Smart Thermostat. Developed in partnership with Resideo, the makers of Honeywell Home Thermostat Technology, the sleek and simple interface allows you to adjust the temperature from the thermostat by using the Alexa app. Speaking of Alexa: Amazon’s intuitive voice assistant will study your temperature preferences so it can automatically raise and lower the temp — even while you’re away. Plus, it doesn’t hurt that the $60 price makes it one of the least expensive thermostats on the market. For the Google lovers of the smart realm, the Nest Thermostat (2020) is another solid pick. An attractive aesthetic that blends in with all kinds of home decor, the $130 thermostat can be controlled with the Google Home app, Google Assistant voice commands, and the tried-and-true method of using human fingertips to make adjustments. We also love that the Nest allows you to monitor the energy efficiency of your entire HVAC operation, letting you use this intel to create automated schedules for heating and cooling your home. Check out our picks for the best smart thermostats You may already use energy-efficient light bulbs in your home, so installing smart bulbs is the next logical step. Besides saving money, they let you customize the way your home looks and even turn lights on and off from another location, as long as you have internet access and the complementing app. Philips Hue bulbs respond to voice commands and settings changes from your smartphone app. Some bulbs, like Sengled A19 smart bulbs don’t require a hub, which can make it easier (and cheaper) to set up smart lighting in your home. Looking for something with Matter support? Then check out the Nanoleaf Essentials A19 Light Bulb, which is now compatible with the interoperability standard. A single bulb costs $20, and it gives you access to millions of colors along with a simple-to-use smartphone app. You don’t have to opt for light bulbs with smart technology to get some “smart” features. Combine regular bulbs with smart light switches instead. With this switch, you can turn lights on and off using voice commands, and you can avoid the trouble of having to switch out smart bulbs. One of our favorite light switch ecosystems is sold by Lutron Caseta. Once you’ve connected the switch to Wi-Fi, you can download the Caseta app to control your lighting on the go, create customized schedules, and more. We also love that the Lutron Caseta switch can be integrated with Alexa, Google Assistant, Apple HomeKit, Ring, Serena shades, and Sonos wireless audio systems. If you install smart plugs around your house, you’ll be able to use your voice to control all of your connected devices. Users love this feature and find it can be extremely handy in different circumstances. Read more about our picks for the best smart light bulbs, best LED light bulbs, and best smart plugs for inside the home It might sound like an unnecessary luxury, but we certainly recommend adding a robot vacuum into your cleaning routine based on the time it will save you alone.  One of the best robot vacuums on the market is the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra. It’s not cheap, but it truly does offer a fully automated cleaning experience. The device can vacuum and mop in a single run, includes a dust reservoir that can go weeks before needing a change, and it can even clean (and dry) its mophead. It’s also great at mapping out your floors and avoiding any obstacles that get in its way. Best of all, its smartphone app is intuitive and easy to use, allowing you to set cleaning schedules,set up restricted zones, or check in on its cleaning status. Beyond Roborock, consider checking out the iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ and Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni. Both products are also capable of mopping and vacuuming in a single run, making them great alternatives to the S8 Pro Ultra. Be sure to keep your eyes peeled during shopping holidays, as all three tend to see generous price cuts. The X2 Omni is particularly enticing, as it’ll clean and dry its mop after each cleaning cycle — making it one of the most autonomous robots around. And for those of us shopping on a bit of a budget, there’s the iRobot Roomba 694. Compared to the flagship s9+ model, the 694 lacks some of the more advanced cleaning features of its top-dollar elder, but you’re still getting a number of key Roomba features, including three-stage filtration and Dirt Detect Technology, which keeps the Roomba cleaning in areas that need a more thorough sweeping. Check out our picks for the best robot vacuums Last but not least is smart connectivity for the one device in the home that everyone gathers around — the TV. When it comes to watching your family’s favorite shows and movies, one of the best smart TV accessories you can get is the incredible and affordable Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max. Unlike traditional streaming devices, the Fire TV Stick occupies no space in an entertainment center. Instead, it connects directly to an available HDMI input on a flatscreen and is light enough to hang out of the port. Once setup is complete and you’re connected to Wi-Fi, you can use the Fire TV Stick to stream movies, shows, and music from a number of popular platforms, including Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon Video. And, as the name indicates, you get to enjoy these flicks and episodes in full UHD resolution (where 4K streaming is available). In terms of other streaming options, there’s the traditional Google Chromecast, as well as the Chromecast with Google TV. The former is a dongle-based device that connects to an HDMI input on your TV. Then, you grab your smartphone, fire up apps like Netflix and Spotify, and “cast” video and audio content from your mobile device to the TV. The O.G. Chromecast is also one of the least expensive streaming devices you can buy. The Chromecast with Google TV offers the casting capabilities of the original Chromecast, but with an entirely new, remote-navigable interface that recommends content based on your movie and TV watching history. Apple fans and those looking for a rock-solid 4K streaming device should set their sights on the Apple TV 4K. The 2021 version of this awesome hardware features a redesigned Siri remote, support for Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos, and lightning-fast performance thanks to Apple’s A12 Bionic chip. Then there are Roku streaming devices. Offering thousands of apps (known as Channels), the Roku marketplace is your one-stop shop for major services like Netflix and Hulu, as well as a bounty of third-party services. Like Westerns? There are several apps for just Western content. Horror movies? Same deal. And hey, did you know that Roku also makes great TVs? One of our favorite Roku devices is the Roku Streaming Stick+. Offering 4K and HDR support, this model is one of the best inexpensive streaming devices for both picture quality, performance speed, and content availability. Check out our picks for the best streaming devices When it comes to smart displays, few are as popular as the Echo Show 10 and Nest Hub (2nd Gen). Both are incredibly powerful devices, allowing you to quickly check your calendar, get updates on the weather, or dive into a variety of entertainment apps. However, there are a few key differences between these devices -- including screen size, available apps, and supported smart home platforms. Ready to add one of these smart displays to your home? Here's what you need to know before making a purchase to ensure you're picking the best smart display for your needs.
Pricing and design The Google Nest Hub Max and Google Nest Hub (2nd Gen) are two of the best smart displays of 2024. Offering heaps of functionality, tons of useful apps, and eye-catching designs, they make a great addition to any smart home. But which is best for your smart home -- the more expensive Nest Hub Max or the budget-friendly Nest Hub (2nd Gen)? To help you make the best choice, here's a comprehensive look at the two smart displays. From pricing and display size to build quality and additional features, here's everything you need to know about these popular devices.
Pricing and design The Dreame X40 Ultra and Ecovacs Deebot X2 Combo are both well-rounded robot vacuums. They bring heaps of functionality to your home, including self-cleaning docks, robots that can both mop and clean in a single run, and luxurious designs that blend with most home décor. All that doesn't come cheap, and you'll be spending well over $1,000 to get your hands on either robot. That means you'll want to carefully weigh your options before making such a hefty investment. From vacuuming and mopping performance to pricing and additional features, here's a look at the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Combo and Dreame X40 Ultra to help you decide which is best for your home.
Pricing and availability Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.