The bald eagle nest featured on the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources' beloved EagleCam fell out of its tree Sunday morning, leading to the death of a 1-week-old eaglet and an outpouring of grief from followers. The eaglet, which had hatched March 26, did not survive the fall, officials said, noting they found the body of the chick hours after the nest's collapse. Viewers of the EagleCam and the Minnesota DNR expressed heartbreak on social media. "We wish we weren't writing this post," the Minnesota DNR said in its announcement confirming the eaglet's death.  Dozens of social media followers sent condolences and grieved the news. The EagleCam livestream is still active for now. Officials have asked people to stay away from the nest site and noted that the land is protected under state and federal law. "This is an emotional time for all of us, but please refrain from visiting the nest (in person)," the Minnesota natural resources department said. "This was already a major disturbance for the eagles and many visitors will only cause more stress." Nation:3rd baby bald eagle hatches in northern Virginia, completing family as world watches   Watch:Minnesota bald eagle buried up to her head in snow protects her eggs   The nest was more than 20 years old and weighed more than 2,000 pounds at the time of the fall, according to the EagleCam's website. Officials don't know why the nest fell, but they pointed to heavy snow during a blizzard Saturday as the most likely cause. The snow "finally became too much weight for the branch to support," the natural resources department wrote in an update Sunday. It said many other trees and branches in the area fell because of the heavy snow. The EagleCam livestream captured the moment of the fall just before 8 a.m. on Sunday. In addition to the snow on the nest, strong winds can be seen jostling the tree before the collapse. World:Deepest ever fish caught captured in trench near Japan, scientists say   The eaglet's parents continued to visit the tree that once held their nest on Monday, the state natural resources department said. The female was seen bringing a few sticks, and the male returned with several fish. The two eagles were also seen mating Monday morning. But the department said it's "unlikely that they will lay another egg this year." To lay another egg, the couple would would have to rebuild the nest – which takes weeks – or find another nest, officials said. Eagles "tend to build multiple nests in the same area for this exact reason," the state agency said – but even if they have another nest, the Minnesota nesting season "is too short for them to have another brood." According to the EagleCam website, the eagle pair originally had two eggs this season – laid on Feb. 15 and Feb. 18. One of the eggs broke Feb. 21. The second one hatched March 26. What's everyone talking about? Sign up for our trending newsletter to get the latest news of the day.   State officials will continue to monitor the site of the fallen nest. Officials said they looked into installing a camera at another nest and was  narrowing down sites before Sunday's collapse.  "However, even if we do find an alternate nest to install a camera at, we have to wait until the nesting season is over so we don’t disturb the eagles," the department wrote Monday. "We care about this camera as much as you do. Rest assured, the EagleCam will return!"