DigiTech has announced a major shakeup to its structure in a move that sees four influential members of staff from the brand's past team up to lead the company into its new era. Last April, Cor-Tek corporation announced the acquisition of DigiTech and DOD pedal brands from Harman/Samsung, with subsequent hints teasing the possibility of an all-new Whammy pedal. Now, a new incarnation (or even a reissue of the Whammy I?) – along with reboots of numerous other DigiTech/DOD stompboxes – seems all but confirmed, with Cor-Tek announcing the recruitment of Jim Pennock, Tom Cram, Roger Johnsen and Parker Coons to lead the company’s New Product Development and Marketing division. Where the Whammy is concerned, it’s Cram’s name that will immediately stand out. When the acquisition of DigiTech was announced, Cram – who had a hand in designing the Whammy V – stated he wasn’t in the loop regarding the brand’s latest developments, having been let go by Harman back in 2018. That’s all changed now, with Cram joining three other former employees with equal DigiTech pedigree to manage operations. It truly is a powerhouse pedal lineup. Pennock’s own heritage with DigiTech traces back to the mid-’80s, with the new General Manager having played a part in producing numerous guitar multi-effects and multiple DSP chips. Johnsen and Coons, meanwhile, both have engineering experience with DigiTech. The former took over from DOD co-founder David O. DiFrancesco and assumed the reins in 1988, while the latter worked for 10 years as a hardware designer on products such as Rubberneck, Ricochet, Carcosa and JamMan Express. If guitar fans were excited about the return of DigiTech and DOD before, this only serves to heighten anticipation. The news puts beyond all doubt that cult classic DigiTech and DOD pedals will be reissued in due course, probably with some modern upgrades to make them even better than before. Not only that, these old favorites will be complemented by all-new stompboxes. Back in 2017, when he was sacked by Harman, Cram claimed to have planned out a “five-year roadmap to produce more DigiTech/DOD stuff in the future”. Whether that roadmap gets revived in any form remains to be seen, but with these four minds in business together, the potential for new DigiTech pedals is something worth getting excited about. Indeed, as a statement confirmed, “With its all-star U.S. R&D team in place, Cor-Tek is confidently moving towards its goals of revamping time-honored pedals and rolling out new innovations.” And, apparently, this might just be the start. According to a press release, “The team gets calls daily from many previous employees wanting to help the DOD and DigiTech brands come back to life and grow.” Is this the dawn of a new golden era for DigiTech? After spending the past few years in corporate limbo, it certainly seems so. All things considered, it’s a significant development in the pedal world, and one we imagine the industry's big guns will be keeping an eye on. For more information, head over to DigiTech. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.