
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2022/12/13/a-surprising-find-in-retail-malls/   B-Class properties could become strategically important to retailers. The general assumption in retail that's been building, part of the "retail apocalypse," as Placer.ai notes in a new report, is the oversupply of malls in the US. Something's got to give, and it will be the secondary tier of properties. But a growing number of brands looking for space as the "safe" locations has opened a possibility that B-tier malls could potentially see a resurgence. The view starts with an increased trend of business diversity in malls. Yes, major anchor stores faced a route. K-Mart, Sears, JC Penney, Macy's, Dillard's, and others have been paring back their appearance in malls. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 It includes four buildings, spanning 139,545 square feet. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 They consist of 22 retail and 171 residential units. By Erika Morphy |  August 19, 2024 The market is on a path for recovery. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
