Find iconic products at the standalone boutique. by 
    Alison Abbey Hudak  April 3, 2023 12:00 AM The Mall at Green Hills continues to up the ante on luxury shopping. Most recently they’ve welcomed the standalone Chanel Fragrance and Beauty boutique to the second floor of the Dillard’s wing. The 1,816-square-foot boutique features the full range of Chanel fragrance, makeup, and skincare products, along with an exclusive selection of Chanel eyewear. In sleek black and white, the space will highlight collections from the Chanel Makeup Creation Studio, skincare from the Chanel Research & Technology laboratory in Pantin, France, and fragrances from Chanel In- House Perfumer Creator Olivier Polge. In the immersive makeup and skincare area anchored by a discovery table, guests are invited to explore the latest Chanel launches, as well as classic and iconic products. This spring/summer, that includes stunning new shades and updated packaging. The iconic Les 4 Ombres compact has been redesigned for use on both eyes and cheeks. Featuring lightweight textures, the oversize Exclusive Creation comes in 2 shade harmonies with satin and matte finishes. 957 Tendresse blends soft terra-cotta red and peachy tints, while 958 Caractère offers brick red and rosy golden tones. There’s also a new shade in Chanel’s multi-use glow stick, Baume Essentiel. The versatile highlighter now comes in the vibrant 67 Rouge Frais, a glossy watermelon red. With a smooth, silky texture, it adds subtle radiance and a bright touch of color. And Chanel devotee favorite, Le Vernis Longwear Nail Color, arrives in two new shades—a coral pink and a terra-cotta red. The high-shine nail color features carefully selected pigments for even application and lasting wear. For a custom experience, clients can schedule a one-on-one consultation or private shopping session with a Chanel Beauty Advisor to discover new products, build their ideal skincare routine, or perfect their makeup techniques. Tres bon, indeed! (Chanel Fragrance and Beauty Boutique, The Mall at Green Hills, 2126 Abbott Martin Rd., Ste. 219; chanel.com) Les 4 Ombres, redesigned The iconic Les 4 Ombres compact has been redesigned for use on both eyes and cheeks. Featuring lightweight textures, the oversize Exclusive Creation comes in 2 shade harmonies with satin and matte finishes. 957 Tendresse blends soft terra-cotta red and peachy tints, while 958 Caractère offers brick red and rosy golden tones. ($90) The Eyes Have It Now in a vibrant red hue, Noir Allure Mascara transforms lashes for a four-dimensional result: volume, length, curl, and definition. Enriched with three naturally derived waxes and a unique conditioner, the formula helps protect and strengthen lashes with each stroke. ($42) The longwearing, smudge proof Stylo Yeux Waterproof Long-Lasting Eyeliner in a metallic golden glides on effortlessly and defines eyes with a simple twist of the wrist. Includes a detachable sharpener for ultra- precise application. ($34) by 
Alison Abbey Hudak  April 3, 2023 12:00 AM Your exclusive guide to the greater Nashville area. The latest in restaurants, celebrities, events, style, neighborhoods, home design, and entertainment. 