(Photo: Phil Allaway) BRASELTON, Ga. – In misty conditions Friday morning (Oct. 13), Motorsports in Action’s Alex Filsinger won the pole for today’s IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge FOX Factory 120 at Michelin Raceway Road Atlanta with a lap at 106.004 mph. It is the team’s second straight pole after teammate Jesse Lazare sat on pole at Indianapolis last month. “[The McLaren] worked really well today,” Filsinger told Frontstretch afterwards. “The tires came in nicely. We have a great weapon to fight with.” Filsinger won the pole by .208 seconds over Rennsport One’s Eric Filguerias. Murillo Racing’s Kenny Murillo will start third, followed by NOLAsport’s Adam Adelson. Winward Racing’s Bryce Ward qualified fifth. Early in the session, Murillo and Turner Motorsport’s Cameron Lawrence were the fastest drivers and were even running nose-to-tail. Later on, Filguerias was the first drive to dip into the 86-second bracket in his Porsche. Filsinger set the eventual pole lap with seven minutes remaining in the session. The rest of the pack tried to beat it, but simply could not. Prior to the session ending, van der Steur Racing’s Rory van der Steur went off-course in turn 4 in his Aston Martin. The incident did not result in a red flag, but effectively ended van der Steur’s session. He will start ninth. In TCR, Bryan Herta Autosport’s Mason Filippi put his Hyundai Veloster N TCR on the provisional pole early in the session. That strong lap at 103.670 mph was good enough for Filippi to quit the session early and wait for the results. The remaining 12 teams attempted to better Filippi’s time. No one managed to do so until JDC-Miller MotorSports’ Chris Miller turned in a lap at 103.788 mph right at the end of the session to win the pole. Miller’s lap was one-tenth of a second faster than Filippi. Van der Steur Racing’s Bryan Ortiz will start third, followed by Harry Gottsacker in the second BHA Hyundai. Bryson Morris, making his series debut in place of the injured Michael Lewis, will start fifth. The FOX Factory 120 is scheduled to go green at 12:25 p.m. ET Friday afternoon. The race will be streamed live on Peacock.  Phil Allaway has three primary roles at Frontstretch. He's the manager of the site's FREE e-mail newsletter that publishes Monday-Friday and occasionally on weekends. He keeps TV broadcasters honest with weekly editions of Couch Potato Tuesday and serves as the site's Sports Car racing editor. Outside of Frontstretch, Phil is the press officer for Lebanon Valley Speedway in West Lebanon, N.Y. He covers all the action on the high-banked dirt track from regular DIRTcar Modified racing to occasional visits from touring series such as the Super DIRTcar Series. A daily email update (Monday through Friday) providing racing news, commentary, features, and information from Frontstretch.comWe hate spam. Your email address will not be sold or shared with anyone else. 










 A daily email update (Monday through Friday) providing racing news, commentary, features, and information from Frontstretch.com  I’m not interested, don't show this again