Partly cloudy skies. Low 56F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Partly cloudy skies. Low 56F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 9:31 pm     Click here to stay informed and subscribe to Herald-Dispatch. Click  #isupportlocal for more information on supporting our local journalists. Learn more about HD Media     HUNTINGTON — Motorbikes took over the Mountain Health Arena Friday as the arena hosted the Tri-State Arenacross heading into the weekend. These weekend races in Huntington are part of the 2023 Tri-State Arenacross Indoor Series schedule. Races will be at five venues across the Tri-State with a total of 10 races that started in Ohio in November and will end in February back at the Mountain Health Arena. Those who missed out on Friday’s events still have a chance to see it Saturday beginning at 7 a.m. with youth races beginning at 12:30 and main events beginning at 7 p.m. Tickets for one day cost $25. Tri-State Arenacross takes place on Friday, December 2, 2022, at the Mountain Health Arena in Huntington.  Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist The latest in news, sports and opinion delivered directly to your inbox The weekend's biggest headlines in one convenient package Stay informed with the latest on WVU and Marshall sports Comprehensive coverage of high school sports in West Virginia and beyond Your go-to source for local arts, entertainment and eats Stay up to date with the latest news from the state Capitol, including Phil Kabler's Statehouse Beat column Explore Appalachia with the latest in travel and recreation Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.