Vital news, expert insight & insider tips from Music Ally – all in your inbox. (Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *fun may vary wildly Get notified when we publish Music Ally’s industry-leading analysis : join the Music Ally WhatsApp Channel, where we'll send you the lead story, and links to all the other important news, every weekday. 
					Music industry consultancy covering digital music marketing and strategy				 The latest frontier for tensions over the use of generative AI technology to create ‘deepfakes’ of famous artists is on Discord. US labels body the RIAA has written to the social platform asking it to shut down a Discord server called ‘AI Hub’ on copyright grounds. “This server(s) is/are dedicated to infringing our members’ copyrighted sound recordings by offering, selling, linking to, hosting, streaming, and/or distributing files containing our members’ sound recordings without authorization,” claimed the letter, which has been published by TorrentFreak. It reported that the Discord, which has more than 142,000 members, had been pointing people to voice models of artists including Bruno Mars, Frank Sinatra, Rihanna and Stevie Wonder, which could be used to make deepfaked tracks impersonating those singers.  However, it is unclear if that’s the reason for the letter, or rather datasets that include infringing tracks. Discord is being used by a growing number of artists in a positive way as a community-building platform. However, it has fallen foul of the RIAA before – in 2022 the body took action against servers hosting copyrighted (and in some cases pre-release) music. Meanwhile, global body the IFPI has also warned about the growing pre-release leaks groups using Discord. Get a mix of the vital news, analysis, and insider tips from across Music Ally's services.(Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *actual levels of fun may vary wildly Short form video has a huge influence on music listening, and it’s no surprise that… Read all Tools >> 
							Music Ally's Head of Insight															
								More by Stuart Dredge								
 Get a mix of the vital news, analysis, and insider tips from across Music Ally's services.(Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *actual levels of fun may vary wildly Sphere Entertainment is the company behind the Sphere venue in… SoundCloud launched its official ‘SoundCloud Store’ last week, showing off its new… Spotify has opened a new facility for musicians and podcasters… Music Ally’s music business news podcast covers the vital issues in detail, as they emerge. Listen now »  Jobs The latest and best jobs in the global music industry See all jobs >> Sandbox: your essential digital marketing guide – expert insight, case studies, fresh ideas, and overlooked opportunities. BandLab has 100 million users, and now offers much more than… British rock band Bring Me The Horizon released Post Human:… Country Profiles Essential international guides, packed with data, interviews, strategies, and local insight. Read country profiles >> Slovakia’s recorded music industry is performing strongly, with predictions for sharp growth in the… Streaming continues to drive growth in the German music industry – with German-language music… South African music is making ever bigger waves abroad – and the country’s music… Music Ally Ltd., Holborn Studios,49-50 Eagle Wharf Rd, London, N1 7ED,United Kingdom +44 (0) 207 682 3996mail@musically.com   This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.Music Ally is a Registered Learning Provider 10029483