Midjourney 5 – In the classroom Midjourney 5 is the latest in AI image generation, and if you haven’t played around with it or seen it, it is truly incredible. In today’s blog, I want to explore ways in which we could potentially use this extraordinary tool in the classroom. Like some other forms of artificial intelligence, it has the potential to be an absolute game-changer. No longer do you need to be a talented artist to create truly breathtaking images. If you can imagine it and write it, you can bring it to life.In my opinion the only downside to Midjourney 5 is that it only operates inside of Discord. Discord is currently blocked in some schools.  However, I understand that will be changing when they bring out Midjourney 6 later in 2023 where it will have it’s own standalone app.How would this look in the clasroomHowever, before we get into this, I want you to keep in mind that this is just a tool and you need to have an authentic purpose. Otherwise, it is very easy to fall down the rabbit hole of creating images for the sake of creating images. I may be speaking from experience here.Who’s line is it anyway One of a teacher’s favourite writing tools is Pobble 365 with their beautiful and creative images to inspire your writers.. With Mid journey you can take prompts from children to create your very own surreal images for them to write about. What better way to give students agency of their own writing, than by collectively creating that inspirational image?  Here’s an example I tried with a class.  Name an animal = Walrus. Name a location = The beachName an activity = Sitting in a chair eating a burger. Once the image has been rendered (about 60 seconds), it’s time for the students to write their narrative. Interesting Banners for Classroom and Google SitesSometimes finding free images for banners can be time consuming and a little bit daunting,  even though  there are options built into some of the  the programs, however, we might want something a little bit more unique and in this case Midjourney 5 is your solution. In this next example, I was looking for a banner for my Matariki Google Classroom. “background that has a star or Matariki image with Maori influence –ar 1600:400” That last part (–ar 1600:400) is the aspect ratio that I’ve changed to get the right size. Mid Journey will generate 4 options and can choose the one we like the best.  Stock imagesDo you get frustrated when you find the perfect image online, but when you go to download it, you realise it has shutter stock or copyright plastered over the image. Grrrr! Last week I needed an image of a robot for a presentation I was doing on computational thinking. Online a found a few images, but the very very basic clipart and didn’t fit with the theme of my slide. This is what I got from Midjourney 5.  I will reiterate one more time: Mid Journey is a very powerful AI tool that can save you time and money. Just be aware of the rabbit hole and really work on forming the perfect prompt to get the image you’re looking for. To master the art of writing that perfect prompt, tap into our free ‘Halve your teaching workload with AI’, or even our online course ‘Improve efficiencies and hack your teacher planning with ChatGPT’ . You can check out all our offereings here. Live Online Courses – Using Technology Better And just for fun here is Auckland cityscape in the style of Van Gogh. In today’s fast-paced workplace, maximizing efficiency while minimizing time spent on repetitive tasks is Using AI with students is a daunting endeavor, especially when thinking about where to Imagine this: your teams, fully trained and thriving, your school’s productivity through the roof, Comments are closed. Find out if you’re working with the tools OR if you’ve got the tools working for you. © Using Technology Better  |  Privacy Policy  |  Terms & Conditions Who Designed This Website? Business Education 🫣 Entry User | 🤹 Skilled User | 👑 Elite UserTake the quiz to find out.  Introduction We hold the privacy of your personal information in the highest regard. Using Technology Better regards customer privacy as an important part of our relationship with our customers. The following privacy policy applies to all Using Technology Better users, and conforms to Internet privacy standards. This policy will be continuously assessed against new technologies, business practices and our customers’ needs. If you have questions or concerns regarding this statement, you should first contact the support team on our Contact Us Page. Collection of Information In order to use the Using Technology Better website, we may require information from you in order to provide the best service possible. All correspondence may also be collected and stored, particularly in regard to sales, support and accounts, including Email. Any information collected by Using Technology Better is collected via correspondence from you or your company. This may be via the telephone, Email, mail, fax or directly through our website. Visitors and customers of japan.usingtechnologybetter.com will have their information shared back to DAIWABO INFORMATION SYSTEM CO., LTD. and DIS Service & Solution Co., Ltd. Use of Collection Information Any details collected from Using Technology Better customers is required in order to provide you with our products and/or services, and a high level of customer service. Correspondence is recorded in order to provide service references, and to assist in our staff development. Web Site Use Information Similar to other commercial Web sites, our Web sites utilize a standard technology called “cookies” (see explanation below, “What Are Cookies?”) and web server log files to collect information about how our Web site is used. Information gathered through cookies and Web server logs may include the date and time of visits, the pages viewed, time spent at our Web site, and the Web sites visited just before and just after our Web site. Storage of Collected Information The security of your personal information is important to us. When you enter sensitive information (such as credit card numbers) on our website, we encrypt that information using secure socket layer technology (SSL). When Credit Card details are collected, we simply pass them on in order to be processed as required. We never permanently store complete Credit Card details. We follow generally accepted industry standards to protect the personal information submitted to us, both during transmission and once we receive it. If you have any questions about security on our Website, you can email us at <ContactEmail>. Access to Collected Information If your personally identifiable information changes, or if you no longer desire our service, you may correct, update, delete or deactivate it by emailing us at <ContactEmail>. Orders If you purchase a product or service from us, we may request certain personally identifiable information from you. You may be required to provide contact information such as: Name Email Postal address Your school or organisation Financial information (such as credit card number, expiration date, name on card, card billing address). We use this information for billing purposes and to fill your orders. If we have trouble processing an order, we will use this information to contact you. Communications Using Technology Better uses personally identifiable information for essential communications, such as Emails Accounts information Critical service details. We may also use this information for other purposes, including some promotional Emails. If at any time a customer wishes not to receive such correspondence, they can request to be removed from any mailing lists by contacting support. You will be notified when your personal information is collected by any third party that is not our agent/service provider, so you can make an informed choice as to whether or not to share your information with that party. Third Parties Using Technology Better may at its discretion use other third parties to provide essential services on our site or for our business processes. We may share your details as necessary for the third party to provide that service. These third parties are prohibited from using your personally identifiable information for any other purpose. Using Technology Better does not share any information with third parties for any unknown or unrelated uses. What Are Cookies? A cookie is a very small text document, which often includes an anonymous unique identifier. When you visit a Web site, that site’s computer asks your computer for permission to store this file in a part of your hard drive specifically designated for cookies. Each Web site can send its own cookie to your browser if your browser’s preferences allow it, but (to protect your privacy) your browser only permits a Web site to access the cookies it has already sent to you, not the cookies sent to you by other sites. Browsers are usually set to accept cookies. However, if you would prefer not to receive cookies, you may alter the configuration of your browser to refuse cookies. If you choose to have your browser refuse cookies, it is possible that some areas of our site will not function as effectively when viewed by the users. A cookie cannot retrieve any other data from your hard drive or pass on computer viruses. How Do We Use Information We Collect from Cookies? As you visit and browse our Web site, the site uses cookies to differentiate you from other users. In some cases, we also use cookies to prevent you from having to log in more than is necessary for security. Cookies, in conjunction with our Web server’s log files, allow us to calculate the aggregate number of people visiting our Web site and which parts of the site are most popular. This helps us gather feedback to constantly improve our Web site and better serve our clients. Cookies do not allow us to gather any personal information about you and we do not intentionally store any personal information that your browser provided to us in your cookies. Legal We reserve the right to disclose your personally identifiable information as required by law and when we believe that disclosure is necessary to protect our rights and/or comply with a judicial proceeding, court order, or legal process served on our Website. Links Links on the Using Technology Better site to external entities are not covered within this policy. The terms and conditions set out in this privacy statement only cover the domain name of usingtechnologybetter.com Changes to Privacy Policy If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes to this privacy statement, and other places we deem appropriate so that you are aware of what information we collect, how we use it, and under what circumstances, if any, we disclose it. We reserve the right to modify this privacy statement at any time, so please review it periodically. If we make material changes to this policy, we will not use the personal information you have submitted to us under this Privacy Policy in a manner that is materially inconsistent with this Privacy Policy, without your prior consent Delivery Policy Most goods are digitally delivered instantly via email.  Our services may be delivered either via an online medium or live in person. For our online delivery see below.  For services delivered live onsite, please refer to our speaker agreement form which is emailed to you on confirmation of booking. Refund Policy We do not offer refunds or returns unless we cannot supply goods or services or the goods or services are not delivered as promised. Australian law is the governing body for all work, goods and services supplied by Using Technology Better. Marketing Release Using Technology Better (UTB) may film, record, and photograph me (the results of which are the “Recordings”). UTB may also incorporate into any production(s) any separate content (e.g., quotes, testimonials, biographical information, profiles, photos, videos, sound recordings, artwork, etc.) I provide to UTB or approve in writing (“Materials”). 1.License I grant to UTB an irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free license to, in its sole discretion, (i) edit, translate, and modify the Recordings and the Materials, (ii) attribute the Recordings and Materials to me by my name, age, and city and state of residence, (iii) incorporate the Recordings and the Materials into content to promote UTB, its programs, or products (“Content”), and (iv) publicly use, distribute, reproduce, create derivative works from, and perform/display the Content, and any excerpts thereof, in any language. 2. No Compensation. I grant this permission without any financial or other obligation of any nature.   For any issues or concerns please contact us