According to DiscoverCars.com, the fourth best autumn destination in Europe is Budapest. Take a walk on the Margaret Island (Margitsziget), in the City Park (Városliget) and admire the beautiful autumn trees. The romantic downtown streets of the Hungarian capital also invite you to sit down in a café.  When compiling its ranking, DiscoverCars.com took into account factors such as proximity to the airport, the number of good-value accommodations, the average cost of a one-week car rental, and the weather. Barcelona took first place on the list thanks to its more than five hundred affordable hotels and seven hundred restaurants. Second place went to Lisbon with its brilliant weather and Berlin came in third for its low rainfall, lively nightlife and rich selection of museums and galleries. The Hungarian capital won the fourth place. Margaret Island is a great choice in any season. The popular island reveals the beauty of nature to us the most in autumn. Take a bike ride or walk under the colorful trees while enjoying the pleasant autumn weather. The three-kilometre-long island is a refuge from the hustle and bustle of the city. It’s a popular spot among friends and families. The famous City Park in Budapest covers a total area of 100 hectares, almost half of which is parkland. Several tourist attractions are found here such as the Budapest Zoo and Botanical Garden, Heroes’ Square or the Vajdahunyad Castle. It is worth visiting here in autumn when the weather is more pleasant for a long walk in this large park. Buda Castle is porbably the most iconic tourist attraction in Budapest. This charming castle district is perfect for both outdoor and indoor activities, depending on the weather. The best attractions in the Buda Castle District: The downtown of Budapest is full of life. If you are looking for a good café or shopping on Fashion Street, we recommend the city center. From Deák Ferenc Square to Vörösmarty Square, you can find sights such as the Basilica or the Parliament. Read also: Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name  Email   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

 Sign up to receive daily updates, news & stories about Hungary! Select your location below or enter your country so we can deliver our morning newsletters to you in time. You have successfully joined our subscriber list.  