A haunting set of visuals have predicted how 10 popular tourist destinations around the world could be hit by the climate crisis in just a matter of years – and it’s about as bleak as you’d expect. With the brutal heatwave – named Cerberus – sweeping across southern Europe, and taking land temperatures to 60C in some places, fears about global warming have spiked once again. And while you might be hoping for a blissful summer away from such worries, DiscoverCars.com has worked with environment specialist Marish Cuenca to show how even our favourite holiday destinations are at threat. The visuals examine how natural disasters, flooding, acid rain, along with land erosion and rising sea levels, may alter some of the world’s most beloved landscapes by 2050. Different areas will face different risks – Hawaii, for instance, is more likely to experience increased volcanic activity and earthquakes, while Egypt’s Greater Cairo area could have more acid rain which may erode the famous Pyramids of Giza. Rising sea levels could submerge the majority of London docks and suburbs near the Thames by 2050, meaning those famous tourist attractions – the London Eye, Parliament and London Bridge – might all be underwater... The Italian Alps is likely struggle with landslides due to excessive rainfall, with more earthquakes disrupting the roads, while California could have extreme heatwaves will mass droughts and wildfires. Roads may then melt, so road trips wouldn’t exactly be ideal – and regular wildfires may worsen visibility. We could go on, but you probably get the idea. Aleksandrs Buraks, at DiscoverCars.com, explained in an email: “The reality is that – for many popular destinations – their time is limited due to the current rate of global warming.” It’s worth remembering that reducing climate emissions by 2050 is a major goalpost for governments around the world after they signed the Paris Agreement of 2016. Including the EU, 194 parties pledged to “pursue efforts” to limit global temperature rises to 1.5C and keep them “well below” 2C compared to pre-industrial times. Beyond 1.5C, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change scientists say climate change will reach an irreversible “tipping point”. Amid fears that we’ve already been too complacent about the crisis, here’s a look at all the before and after 2050 images DiscoverCars.com compiled, to imagine what our climate-changed world might look like.... London, UK, now London, UK, predicted California, US, now California, US, predicted Kolkata, India, now Kolkata, India, predicted New York, US, now New York, US, predicted Queensland, Australia, now Queensland, Australia, predicted South Tyrol, Italy, now South Tyrol, Italy, predicted Greater Cairo, Egypt, now Greater Cairo, Egypt, predicted Okinawa Island, Japan, now Okinawa Island, Japan, predicted Hawaii, US, now Hawaii, US, predicted Manila, Philippines, now Manila, Philippines, predicted Keir Starmer Denies Ever Saying He 'Hates Tree-Huggers' What We Know About The Cerberus Heatwave Sweeping Southern Europe 5 Worrying Ways Rishi Sunak Has Been Lax On UK Climate Pledges But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look "We still have hope and will never give up" A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. King Charles's cancer diagnosis was announced six months ago, but the type of cancer he is fighting has never been disclosed for a very specific reason, it has been claimed Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel As King Charles and Prince Andrew reportedly still disagree over the younger royal's living arrangements, he has been offered the exclusive use of the Queen's old Balmoral cottage A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend