Thor's Well is a circular bowl carved out of the basalt shoreline of the central Oregon Coast at Cape Perpetua Scenic Area near Yachats, seen here at low tide. Water rises, bursts out and falls from inside the feature, drawing intense curiosity from tourists.Jamie Hale/The Oregonian The Oregon coast is full of beautiful attractions, but one spot has been named one of the best in the U.S. Thor’s Well, a popular natural site on the central coastline between Florence and Yachats, was named the third most popular “hidden gem attraction” in a new list released Wednesday. The ranking was generated by DiscoverCars.com, a car rental website based in Latvia, using information sourced from Atlas Obscura. DiscoverCars.com said it looked for attractions outside of major cities, then ranked them by the number of Atlas Obscura readers who said they wanted to visit each one. HERE IS OREGON: HereisOregon.com | Instagram | YouTube | Facebook | Twitter | TikTok Their article also includes the cost and location of the nearest car rental, naturally. The ranking included one other Pacific Northwest attraction, the Hall of Mosses found in Olympic National Park, which came in 10th. As far as hidden gems go, Thor’s Well is a pretty good bet. It’s by no means a secret, but is also far from the most popular attraction on the Oregon coast. DiscoverCars.com doesn’t have much to say about it, noting (inaccurately) that “the attraction is a natural sinkhole that can be found on the Pacific coast of Yachats.” • The 6 best-rated VRBO rentals along the Oregon Coast for a Summer 2023 vacation Thor’s Well is not a sinkhole, but a regular hole in the basalt shoreline off Cape Perpetua. According to Gary Hayes, publisher of Coast Explorer Magazine, the feature likely started out as a sea cave dug out by the waves before the roof eventually collapsed, leaving openings at the top and bottom through which the ocean surges and sprays. As the ocean comes in, Thor’s Well fills from the bottom until it bubbles up or bursts out of the top in violent spray. The water then pours back into the hole, making it appear to fill and drain endlessly. The rockier stretches of Oregon’s coastline have many similar features, created over many thousands of years as the punishing waves crash endlessly into the shore. Cape Perpetua itself has several spouting horns and rugged chasms. Rangers with the Siuslaw National Forest, which manages Cape Perpetua, have said the spot is known for incidents. When visitors try to get too close or visit during the wrong time of day, waves can knock them over against the rough volcanic rock. Of course, that’s true along much of the Oregon coast. To get to Thor’s Well, park at the Cook’s Chasm pullout located .3 miles south of the Cape Perpetua Visitor Center. You can see the hole from the viewpoints, or walk down the steps for a better look. You can also get to the spot via a trail connecting several points in the Cape Perpetua Scenic Area. — Jamie Hale 503-294-4077; jhale@oregonian.com; @HaleJamesB Our journalism needs your support. Please become a subscriber today at OregonLive.com/subscribe If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices