We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports On 9 December, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a set of reforms to drive growth and competitiveness in the financial services sector. At the Autumn Statement, the Chancellor highlighted financial services as one the UK’s five key growth sectors. In a written statement to Parliament on 9 December 2022, the Chancellor set out a collection of announcements taking forward the government’s ambition for the UK to be the world’s most innovative and competitive global financial centre. This builds on the government’s vision for financial services, as set out in the Chancellor’s speech at Mansion House in 2021, for an open, sustainable, and technologically advanced financial services sector that is globally competitive and acts in the interests of communities and citizens, creating jobs, supporting businesses, and powering growth across all four nations of the UK. The government is already taking forward work to deliver its vision through the Financial Services and Markets (FSM) Bill and, along with the announcement of the final policy statement on reforming Solvency II at Autumn Statement, this set of announcements is the next step in that work. The government’s approach to reforming the financial services regulatory landscape recognises and protects the foundations on which the UK’s success as a financial services hub is built: agility, consistently high regulatory standards, and openness. This will ensure the sector benefits from dynamic, proportionate regulation and that consumers and citizens benefit from high quality services, appropriate consumer protection and from a sector that embraces the latest technology. Find the full text of the Chancellor’s statement. Find the press notice accompanying the launch The full list of measures announced is as follows: The government is taking action to maintain and build the UK’s attractive and internationally respected ecosystem for financial services regulation. Taking advantage of the UK’s position outside the EU, the government is setting out how the framework for financial services regulation will adapt to support a dynamic, stable and competitive financial services sector. To take this forward, the government is: The government is ensuring that the financial system plays a major role in the delivery of the UK’s Net Zero target, and is acting to secure the UK as the best place in the world for responsible and sustainable investment. The UK is the world’s premier financial centre for sustainable finance. The government is acting to ensure the UK retains global leadership in this rapidly growing sector, helping to unlock the private financing needed for Net Zero. The steps being announced today are: The government is ensuring that the regulatory framework supports innovation and leadership in emerging areas of finance, facilitating the adoption of cutting-edge technologies. The measures below build on the FSM Bill, which will establish a safe regulatory environment for stablecoins – which may be used for payments – and ensure the government has the necessary powers to bring a broader range of investment-related cryptoasset activities into UK regulation. The government is: The government will continue to work with the regulators and industry to ensure the sector is delivering for people and businesses across the UK. The government is: Written Ministerial Statement - Financial Services. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      