Following is a summary of current entertainment news briefs. Spanish court starts new probe against Shakira for alleged tax fraud A Spanish court said on Thursday it has started a new investigation against Colombian singer Shakira linked to alleged fraud on income and wealth tax in 2018. The court in the northeastern town of Esplugues de Llobregat, near Barcelona, did not provide further details in its statement. Kevin Spacey accusers came forward to tell the truth, prosecutors tell London trial Kevin Spacey's accusers are credible and their allegations deserve to be heard with respect, prosecutors told jurors on Wednesday as the actor's sexual assault trial draws to a close. Spacey, 63, is standing trial at London's Southwark Crown Court on nine charges of sexual offences against four men between 2001 and 2013 in Britain, where he worked from 2003 as artistic director of London's Old Vic theatre. Fans flock to Hong Kong to mark 50th anniversary of Bruce Lee's death Fans from Hong Kong and around the world gathered at the feet of a Bruce Lee statue on Thursday to pay tribute to the late kung fu legend on the 50th anniversary of his untimely death. Standing in front of the life-size bronze statue with Hong Kong's Victoria Harbour behind them, a stream of fans snapped pictures, bowed and laid down flowers. Hollywood studios say they offered actors $1 billion in gains before strike Major film and television studios offered Hollywood actors more than $1 billion in higher compensation and enhanced benefits before the SAG-AFTRA union called a strike last week, a group that represents media companies said on Monday. The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP), which negotiates on behalf of Netflix Inc, Walt Disney Co, Warner Bros Discovery and others, said SAG-AFTRA "continues to mischaracterize the negotiations." Armorer charged in 'Rust' film shooting death avoids random drug testing A New Mexico state judge denied a prosecutor's request on Wednesday that the armorer for the movie "Rust" submit to random drug testing. During Hannah Gutierrez-Reed's court appearance on the felonies she faces, First Judicial District Court Judge Mary Marlowe Sommer said prosecutors had not presented any evidence that would persuade her to order the drug testing. A Minute With: Greta Gerwig on making 'Barbie' a surprising movie Director, writer and actor Greta Gerwig has plunged into the world of the iconic Barbie doll to make a movie that promises to be one of the cinematic hits of the summer. Making "Barbie" was no easy task, and when Gerwig wrote the script with her partner, Noah Baumbach, she didn't even know she would be directing the film starring Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling. Everything's pink: How Barbiecore fashion has fueled a movie's buzz Head to any clothing store this summer and you are likely to be hit with an explosion of pink. Barbiecore outfits, focused on the doll's signature color, are dominating the fashion scene for a second straight year, helped by Mattel Inc's all-out marketing blitz to build buzz for the "Barbie" movie that debuts in theaters on Friday. K-pop's biggest music label HYBE looks to lift language barrier with AI In a dimly lit recording studio in Seoul, producers at the K-pop music label that brought the world hit boy group BTS are using artificial intelligence to meld a South Korean singer's voice with those of native speakers in five other languages. The technology enabled HYBE, South Korea's largest music label, to release a track by singer MIDNATT in six languages – Korean, English, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese and Vietnamese in May. Striking writers and actors accuse NBCUniversal of blocking picket area Hollywood's striking Writers Guild of America (WGA) and SAG-AFTRA actors' union filed a grievance with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) against Comcast's NBCUniversal on Tuesday, accusing the company of blocking a picket area. The unions said NBCUniversal infringed its freedom to picket and endangered its members by obstructing a public sidewalk next to the company's studio lot in California with an ongoing construction project. 'Barbie' movie: Iconic doll has 'existential crisis' about real world Margot Robbie recalls being at a rehearsal for the upcoming "Barbie" movie and experiencing an existential crisis. Fortunately, lines from co-star America Ferrera's character were exactly what she needed to hear while both portraying the iconic doll and being a producer of a $145 million movie.  Email: info@devdiscourse.com Phone: +91-720-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  © Copyright 2024