POWER is at the forefront of the global power market, providing in-depth news and insight on the end-to-end electricity system and the ongoing energy transition. We strive to be the “go-to” resource for power professionals, offering a wealth of information on innovative business practices, sound safety measures, useful productivity enhancements, and much more. POWER is at the forefront of the global power market, providing in-depth news and insight on the end-to-end electricity system and the ongoing energy transition. We strive to be the “go-to” resource for power professionals, offering a wealth of information on innovative business practices, sound safety measures, useful productivity enhancements, and much more. I was surprised at the surge of emotions I felt as the new Vogtle reactor came online and into commercial operation.  The construction of the project was massive—more than 7,000 workers toiled. The project has had delays. Costs for the two-unit expansion at Vogtle soared. But in the end, Plant Vogtle had more lives than a cat.  With the rising sun of a new week, the first U.S. nuclear unit built from scratch in more than 30 years came to life.  Here is how it happened. Let’s start with the co-owners—any of which could have killed this project along its rocky path. Oglethorpe Power, MEAG Power, the City of Dalton, and Georgia Power worked together with dogged determination to finish this project. Scary moments like the bankruptcy of Westinghouse that brought financial trouble to its parent Toshiba would have sidelined most. Through this and more, Southern Co. and the co-owners stepped up—keeping the gates of the plant open, even through the COVID pandemic. Their persistence and determination in completing this project is remarkable. COMMENTARY The men and women of the craft work force persevered too—through hot summers and cold winters, through COVID, through delays, and often through the difficulty of being away from their families. Their sacrifice was not in vain because they have created something almost as complex as a spaceship and certainly more impactful to the average family. The labor union workforce also played a unifying role in keeping politicians on both sides of the aisle engaged in the project and cheering for success. Tim Echols will provide a keynote address during POWER’s Experience POWER Week, set for Aug. 14-17 in Savannah, Georgia. Echols will discuss “Seven Major Trends in Power Generation and the Energy World” on Aug. 15. Register today for this premier energy industry event. The people of Georgia, their elected officials, their chambers of commerce and our educational institutions provided needed support these many years. Even through the most difficult parts of this project, public support stayed strong. Sure, there were naysayers, and while their voices were heard, the overwhelming desire of our stakeholders was for Georgia to accomplish this great task. Call it Southern pride maybe, but we wanted to show the nation we could do it. As an energy commissioner in the state, I felt this, and it bolstered my own courage to support moving forward with the project. My fellow commissioners on the Georgia Public Service Commission played a pivotal role. We had the constitutional authority to end the project, to make life so difficult for Georgia Power that they would throw in the towel and just take the tax write-off as counterparts in South Carolina had. Instead, every commissioner since the project began gave their full support throughout the construction process.  We believed that nuclear energy made sense in a day when baseload coal and gas plants are disappearing across the country. We knew that Georgia businesses would benefit from the clean energy produced, and the additional power capacity. We knew that our citizens valued reliability and forward-thinking. Finally, it mattered for America. Continuing our project kept the U.S. from forfeiting its leadership in nuclear energy. As other states have decommissioned reactors without replacing them, the world has begun looking to nations like China and Russia. The only way for America to continue setting international standards for nuclear safety and security is to invest in reactors and technology. China is anxious to export its technology around the world, locking countries into long-term, reciprocal trade relationships that hurt U.S. interests, jobs and exports. I was constantly reminded of—and haunted by—these and other negative consequences of giving up on this project. Vogtle has set the stage for a wave of new construction we should see over the next decade around the country.  It makes sense—because this project served as a training ground for thousands of nuclear workers and supply-chain companies, utility regulators like me, and even for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which proved an untested regulatory process. So, as this first “star” nuclear reactor is born, so to speak, I celebrate. Not just for me and the others who worked to make it happen, but for our children and grandchildren, who for the next 60 years, maybe even 80 years, will have carbon-free power, more job opportunities, and better lives. —Tim Echols is vice-chair of the Georgia Public Service Commission and founder of the Clean Energy Roadshow.  He is host of a podcast on Energy Matters Radio. You can listen, and subscribe to, “Energy Matters with Commissioner Echols” on soundcloud.com. POWER is at the forefront of the global power market, providing in-depth news and insight on the end-to-end electricity system and the ongoing energy transition. We strive to be the “go-to” resource for power professionals, offering a wealth of information on innovative business practices, sound safety measures, useful productivity enhancements, and much more. POWER is at the forefront of the global power market, providing in-depth news and insight on the end-to-end electricity system and the ongoing energy transition. We strive to be the “go-to” resource for power professionals, offering a wealth of information on innovative business practices, sound safety measures, useful productivity enhancements, and much more. 
            Digital technology improvements and an ever-growing field of applications are reshaping the power and chemical process industries. Stay on top of key trends and possibilities at the Connected Plant Conference - The ONLY event covering digital transformation/digitalization for the power and chemical process industries.           
            POWER is joining with the P3 infrastructure group at Access Intelligence to present the P3 Electrified Summit. The event brings together electric utilities, energy companies, government agencies, city planners, and businesses providing products and services to support the transition to electrification. The two-day summit will include sessions about transportation, from electric vehicles to electrified bus and truck fleets, along with…           
Experience POWER Week brings stakeholders across the entire energy value chain (from generation to transmission, distribution, and supply) together in an intimate, solutions-driven environment to learn how to navigate the energy transition while keeping organizational goals on track. Access education focused on new and emerging trends like decarbonization, distributed energy resources, and the hydrogen economy, as well as traditional electric…           
            The Plant Management Institute is held during Experience POWER Week.  The Plant Management Institute is a network of electric power industry leaders dedicated to creating a forum and peer support network for knowledge transfer among the industry’s plant management.          