Malvern Show 2023 has GBBO's Jurgen and Strictly's John Whaite joining Escape to the Country and BBC Gardeners World stars and here is ticket information and how to get there Sign up to our email newsletter for daily updates on what's happening in and around Birmingham We have more newsletters Sign up to our email newsletter for daily updates on what's happening in and around Birmingham We have more newsletters  The UK's 'biggest' Autumn show in Malvern has announced a huge celebrity line-up featuring favourites from The Great British Bake Off, Strictly Come Dancing and Escape To The Country. Malvern Autumn Show an hour from Birmingham has three-days packed with food and drink, celebrity talks, cookery shows, gardening tips and shopping. There are also adorable animals from rabbits to giant tortoises to see up close plus flower and giant vegetable competitions. Among the headliners announced for the 2023 event are much-loved baker and presenter John Whaite, who was partnered with Johannes Radebe in Strictly and has just announced a life-changing diagnosis Whaite, a regular on Steph's Pack Lunch, will be sharing his stories and memories through food in The Kitchen Theatre on Saturday September 23 . The same day, his fellow Great British Bake Off star baker Jürgen Krauss will also give away cookery tips during the three-day event. READ MORE: Rock star's wife and Kate Hudson pal behind new countryside hotel and restaurant Other guests range from The Ginger Pig's Rebecca Seal to Channel 4 ’s Sunday Brunch regulars Joel Ridley and Neil Harrison, showing how to make cocktails in 60 seconds  Escape To The Country presenter Nikki Chapman hosts The Garden Theatre at Three Counties Showground in the shadow of the stunning Malvern hills. Celebrity gardeners talking to her include Ben Dark and Kiran Sidhu, who is the author of I Can Hear the Cuckoo: Life in the Wilds of Wales. BBC Gardeners’ World presenters Arit Anderson and Adam Frost also offer tips including advice for a vegetable plot. John Whaite  Jürgen Krauss Nicki Chapman  Adam Frost Mark Diacono  Arit Anderson  Jonathan Moseley  Rebecca Seal Arthur Parkinson  Joe Woodhouse  Crystelle Periera  Liz Knight  Helen Rebanks  Blanche Vaughan  Jon Wheatley  Martin Fish  Joel Ridley  Neil Harrison  Kiran Sidhu Malvern Autumn Show takes place from September 22 to September 24, 2023. It is open each day from 9am to 6pm but last entry is at 4pm. It is the UK’s largest harvest festival celebration that takes place at the 90-acre Three Counties Showground in Malvern. You can find it off the B4209 Hanley Road in Malvern using postcode WR13 6NW.  Parking is free at the showground. If you want to be closer to the gate for a shorter walk, VIP Gold parking costs £15 per car. If travelling by train, go to Great Malvern Station where there is a free shuttle bus to the showground. Tickets in advance of the day cost £19 members or £20 adults and under-16s go free but a ticket must be registered. Buy tickets online at https://www.malvernautumn.co.uk or by calling 0344 338 5400. The price is higher if buy tickets on the gate on the day. Entry to see the displays, the RHS Flower Show, CANNA UK Giant Vegetables Championship, the Food and Drink Village and the Family Green. Take the quiz: Name that chocolate bar Celebrities appear across the Gardening Theatre, Potting Shed Theatre, Kitchen Theatre and Gin Theatre. 