Paramount+ has canceled its kids-focused animated series Star Trek: Prodigy, and like most streaming services will attempt to save some money by completely removing it from the platform. As we've seen with others like DIsney+ and Warner Bros. Discovery, removing Star Trek: Prodigy will allow Paramount+ to take a tax write-off for the "underperforming series." The move to cancel Star Trek: Prodigy comes as a bit of a surprise as the series was renewed for a second season back in November 2021. If there's some good news to take away from this, it's that post-production will be completed on Season 2 as producer CBS Studios looks to shop both seasons to a new buyer. So it's quite possible that Star Trek: Prodigy winds up on a different streaming platform altogether. Star Trek: Prodigy was one of four different shows canceled by Paramount+ in the past week, joining the likes of Grease: Rise of the Pink Ladies, Queen of the Universe and The Game. “The Paramount+ series Grease: Rise of the Pink Ladies, Star Trek: Prodigy, Queen of the Universe and The Game have completed their runs on Paramount+ and will not be returning to the service,” a Paramount+ spokesperson said in a statement to The Hollywood Reporter. “We want to extend our thanks to our tremendously talented cast and crew and our producing partners for their passionate work and dedication on these programs, and we wish them all the best on their future endeavors.” Star Trek: Prodigy debuted in 2021 as part of executive producer Alex Kurtzman's expanded Star Trek Universe with the goal of introducing a younger audience to the franchise. The first season received glowing reviews and was praised for its sleek 3D animation, action-packed moments, and though-provoking stories. Despite being intended for younger audiences, even many adults found enjoyment in the series. 

Developed by Emmy Award-winners Kevin and Dan Hageman ("Trollhunters" and "Ninjago") the CG-animated series STAR TREK: PRODIGY is the first "Star Trek" series aimed at younger audiences and will follow a motley crew of young aliens who must figure out how to work together while navigating a greater galaxy, in search for a better future. These six young outcasts know nothing about the ship they have commandeered - a first in the history of the Star Trek Franchise - but over the course of their adventures together, they will each be introduced to Starfleet and the ideals it represents

Following this news, series creators s Dan and Kevin Hagemen took to social media to share their optimism for the future of the series as CBS shops it around.


We have faith this show will be picked up by a new home to help grow our fervent fanbase and inspire the next generation of Star Trek fans. Our talented and passionate team of artists are working tirelessly to complete S2...
— Dan & Kevin Hageman (@brothershageman) June 23, 2023

Paramount+ remains home to a plethora of Star Trek content, including the animated comedy series Star Trek: Lower Decks, the hit series Star Trek Discovery (now in its final season) and its spin-off Strange New Worlds.
 Developed by Emmy Award-winners Kevin and Dan Hageman ("Trollhunters" and "Ninjago") the CG-animated series STAR TREK: PRODIGY is the first "Star Trek" series aimed at younger audiences and will follow a motley crew of young aliens who must figure out how to work together while navigating a greater galaxy, in search for a better future. These six young outcasts know nothing about the ship they have commandeered - a first in the history of the Star Trek Franchise - but over the course of their adventures together, they will each be introduced to Starfleet and the ideals it represents Following this news, series creators s Dan and Kevin Hagemen took to social media to share their optimism for the future of the series as CBS shops it around. We have faith this show will be picked up by a new home to help grow our fervent fanbase and inspire the next generation of Star Trek fans. Our talented and passionate team of artists are working tirelessly to complete S2... Paramount+ remains home to a plethora of Star Trek content, including the animated comedy series Star Trek: Lower Decks, the hit series Star Trek Discovery (now in its final season) and its spin-off Strange New Worlds. 
ComicBookMovie.com, and/or the user who contributed this post, may earn commissions or revenue through clicks or purchases made through any third-party links contained within the content above.
 
Home |
Index |
Site Map |
About |
Terms Of Service |
Community Guidelines |
Privacy |
Copyright |
Trademark
Contact |
Advertise
 
2024 ® © ™ Best Little Sites LLC, ComicBookMovie.com. All Rights Reserved.
 
DISCLAIMER: As a user generated site, ComicBookMovie.com is protected from liability under the DMCA (Digital Millenium Copyright Act) and "Safe Harbor" provisions. Content herein has been submitted by users who have agreed to our Terms of Service and Community Guidelines. ComicBookMovie.com will disable users who knowingly commit plagiarism, piracy, trademark or copyright infringement. ComicBookMovie.com and Best Little Sites LLC are not liable for inaccuracies, errors, or omissions.
 
Learn more about our copyright and trademark policies
 
Contact Us for removal of copyrighted images, trademarks, or other issues.
