May is Mental Health Awareness Month. To recognize that and to help students, staff and their families finish the school year strong, Palm Springs Unified is hosting a self-care and wellness fair this Saturday.  When: 1-4 p.m. on Saturday Where: 150 District Center Drive, Palm Springs PSUSD is inviting the community to drop in on Saturday for some or all of the event, which will include fun activities for children, including face painting, balloon animals, a bubble machine and raffle prizes. There will also be yoga and tai chi to focus on physical wellness and workshops on coping with trauma and stress to focus on mental wellness. Albert Pooley, a Hopi and Navajo social worker, will be the keynote speaker. He’ll focus on addressing generational trauma, healing and healthy relationships with parents and children. More than 17 vendors will be present as well, including Desert Oasis Healthcare to provide free health screenings. Some vendors can help underinsured and uninsured community members access additional health resources. The Desert Sun chatted with Danielle McClain-Parks, Palm Springs Unified mental health coordinator, and Renee Brunelle, director of risk management, about the district's approach to community mental health. The following conversation has been edited for brevity and clarity. More:'It's OK to not be OK': Local experts, students shed light on pandemic's effects on mental health More:Center in La Quinta focuses on mental health for adolescents, young adults Desert Sun: Why host the event now so close to the end of the school year? McClain-Parks: May is Mental Health Awareness Month, and we really felt that since the pandemic we've seen an increase in mental health needs for students. But at the same time, we've also seen our educators and our staff working diligently to support our students. So we've also seen that they have needs. Last year was our first year back in person. This year is our first normal year back — if you can call anything normal. So, we're still in the stage of just processing where we've been in the last few years and what our new normal looks like. The need for something like this is huge because our teachers and our staff really have needed to focus on self-care to be able to maintain what they need to provide for our students. And, we do sometimes see an increase in mental health crises towards this time of year. There's a lot of stress and anxiety over grades, over graduation, over the future. Brunelle: Especially for our special needs kids. The transition, all the change very quickly, creates a lot of impact on our students. So this is an important time of year we can at least try to help people adjust. How do you make it comfortable for a staff member to feel OK going to their employer and admitting they're having a difficult time? Brunelle: I grew up in a generation where I was told, 'Suck it up and move on.' Well, you can't do that anymore. I want to create a culture where it's OK to say that you have an issue. It's OK to talk about it so that you can get the right help. I want mental health to be a comfortable topic. We want to make sure people have the resources they need before they feel burnt out. I want to keep that open door between our providers and our employees. Getting the right people to the right resources is half the problem. I want it to be very seamless. What are some roadblocks you see in the way of destigmatizing conversations about mental health that the district can address? McClain-Parks: I think Renee hit on some of the generational differences and really just the direction that our culture is moving in — being more willing to talk about mental health needs without the stigma. The more people we can connect with resources, the more we can support one another. We have a number of resources to support students over the summer. We have telehealth options for therapy. We have staff available for students who need mental health support. It's really kind of a new way of looking at school districts. Not only do we teach kids, now we are like the conduit to medical providers. And it's a big change. You have mental health curriculum and you have wellness centers at some of our school sites where kids can chill out and get help. We're gonna try to do the same for our staff, as well. There's a plan in place. Jonathan Horwitz covers education for The Desert Sun. Reach him atjonathan.horwitz@desertsun.com.