Backline, a nonprofit that provides mental health resources to music industry professionals and industry-adjacent individuals, has announced a partnership with Eventric/Master Tour, software that assists tour management while they organize logistics. The partnership was launched on Tuesday — World Mental Health Day. The partnership created an in-app button in the Master Tour Mobile App that directs users toward immediate mental health resources. Available resources include the Crisis Text Line, the National Suicide Hotline and Backline's available suite of resources, where case managers can work to create mental health plans for those in the music industry. Backline is a charitable organization that was launched in 2019. It serves more than 25,000 music industry professionals and their family members — and it's growing quickly due to high demand for its services. Backline connects musicians to wellness resources, creating a network of organizations and care providers that understand their line of work. Touring professionals who spend lots of time on the road may lack the accessible resources available to those in a stationary line of work and face unique struggles in addressing their mental health and wellness needs. Backline offers free case management and support groups, as well as workshops, meditation, breathwork, yoga and other healing virtual experiences. Master Tour, which changed its name to Eventric in 2009, is a widely utilized music industry tool with a user base of over 250,000 people and 55,000 active monthly users. The tool, used by Beyonce and Jim Gaffigan's teams, has helped to plan over 3 million entertainment-industry events, planning tour logistics and assisting with management. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. “Master Tour is genuinely honored to partner with Backline," founder and CEO Paul Bradley said in a news release. "Our introduction of mental health resources within the Master Tour Mobile App on World Mental Health Day underscores our sincere commitment to the mental well-being of music industry professionals. Together, we’re providing vital support to the talented individuals who create the music that resonates globally.” 