Flow recently collaborated with the Scientific Research Council (SRC) on its 7th Biennial Science and Technology Conference, demonstrating the underlying importance of internet access to technology, business growth and innovation. The conference, held November 15-17 at the Jamaica Pegasus, was part of the Government’s recognition of Science and Technology Month under the theme ‘Harnessing the Power of Research and Innovation to Drive Economic Resilience’. It featured a respectable line-up of speakers exploring how research and innovation support national transformation. The event was powered by Flow’s fibre fast technology, which facilitated the livestream to the virtual audience and enabled the exhibitors to utilise their digital services. Flow also donated four tablets to the finalists of the Youth Speech competition. Carol Robertson, senior business development partner for C&W Business, said now, more than ever, the internet is an important facilitator for national development. “As the leading communications and entertainment provider in Jamaica, Flow was happy to partner with the SRC in recognition of Science and Technology Month. Flow has been at the core of Jamaica’s technological advancement for more than 100 years and we truly understand the importance of technology and innovation to national development,” said Robertson. “In Jamaica’s advancement to become a truly technology-enabled and digital society, internet access will be critical to meeting this goal and strong partnerships between the public and private sectors are encouraged towards achieving this national objective.” The Science and Technology Conference is the SRC’s flagship event in recognition of Science and Technology Month. The event brings together key research and innovation stakeholders from Jamaica and the world and is inspired by the national outcome of Jamaica being a technology-enabled society. Executive Director of the SRC, Dr Charah Watson, pointed out that the internet provided by Flow was a fundamental resource for the three-day conference. “Flow provided the SRC with valuable broadband internet service that facilitated the smooth and seamless streaming of the conference to our online platforms. Through their valuable contribution, we were able to adequately host online viewers who engaged with the days’ activities and the partnership helped us to live up to our motto of ‘Making Science and Technology Work For You’, noted Dr. Watson. From the exhibitors’ perspective, Flow’s fibre fast technology also ‘worked’ for their needs as they engaged the conference attendees digitally and conducted onsite sales. Shanique Ellington, proprietor of Le Champ Cosmetics, a Jamaican vegan makeup brand, stated: “Being able to connect to the Flow internet at the recent Expo made carrying out our sales transactions a breeze. The internet was fast and reliable for the high-paced environment.” Ellington further added, “Le Champ Cosmetics started as an eCommerce business so I know the value of the internet to businesses such as mine. Without the internet, it would severely inhibit our ability to reach customers and carry out our daily transactions.” Flow has been charting the course for Jamaica’s communication and technology development through strategic investments, innovation and tailored products and services. In 2021, the company launched Flow Business which offers customised ICT solutions to small and medium-sized entities. Over the past five years, Flow has invested more than US$370 million in its network expansion which will help facilitate Jamaica’s goal of being a digital society. HOUSE RULES