ParTech, Inc. (PAR), a global restaurant technology leader and pioneer of unified commerce for enterprise restaurants, has been selected as the exclusive point of sale (POS) software and services provider, with Brink POS® and marketplace order management software, with MENU Link, for Burger King® traditional restaurants in North America. ParTech, Inc., is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PAR Technology Corporation. PAR’s Brink POS is a next-gen POS software deployed in more than 21,000 restaurant locations to enable their growth. The cloud-native platform facilitates omni-channel ordering, kitchen management, restaurant operations, and analytics in a fully configurable system, all while maintaining a user-friendly design that optimizes operator experience and guest engagement. Brink POS’ robust APIs ensure that customers can quickly integrate their existing IT stacks with the new PAR system, ensuring rapid and low-friction rollouts. PAR’s MENU Link technology is one component of the PAR MENU ecosystem for omnichannel ordering. MENU Link streamlines external order management into a single system across the largest delivery marketplaces by integrating third-party ordering platforms, thereby minimizing errors, increasing efficiency, and improving guest satisfaction. Does your company have news it would like to share with our readers? If so, we invite you to review our editorial guidelines and submit your press release for publishing consideration. Popmenu Partners with OpenTable to Streamline Menu Management and Support Restaurant Growth Domino’s to Pilot AI-Powered Solutions for Pizza Ordering and Restaurant Operations Wendy’s, the iconic fast-food chain, has selected ParTech, Inc., a global restaurant technology leader and provider of unified commerce for enterprise restaurants, to advance its already successful loyalty program into the next generation of customer […] CKE Restaurants Holdings, Inc. (CKE) – the owner, operator and franchisor of Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s – has selected Punchh to upgrade its digital loyalty program to all restaurant locations. Previously, CKE Restaurants Holdings selected […] The renowned American restaurant franchise https://partech.com/products/punchh-loyalty/Beef ‘O’ Brady’s, has selected PAR MENU and PAR Punchh for its innovative omnichannel ordering and loyalty platforms. This marks a new chapter as Beef ‘O’ Brady’s returns to PAR’s ecosystem, harnessing the […] 


 Restaurant Technology News - Weekly Dispatch


Want to stay smart, keep current on hotel technology, too? (If not, please uncheck.)

 
Email address: 

 
 

 
			Copyright © 2024 Starfleet Media. All Rights Reserved.		