   Please purchase a subscription to read our premium content. If you have a subscription, please log in or sign up for an account on our website to continue.
 Your current subscription does not provide access to this content.
 Postal Delivery of the McDuffie Progress plus Full access to all components of our website including Online e-Editions. If you are a paid subscriber to the printed edition of the McDuffie Progress, use this verification process to setup your free digital access. The account number can be found on the label of your mailed copy of the paper. Note: The account number and last name field must exactly match what is printed on the label. Web only (anywhere) $60 annual Web only (anywhere) $5 one month      A few passing clouds, otherwise generally sunny. High 88F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 A few clouds from time to time. Low 64F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 20, 2024 @ 1:19 am  Dollar General is currently under construction on a new DG Market location at 180 East Milledgeville Road in Harlem, GA. A store opening is slated for summer 2023, but construction progress may alter that date. “Our customers are at the center of all that we do, and meeting customers' needs is Dollar General's top priority when choosing store locations,” the company said in a statement. “In selecting store sites, we take a number of factors into consideration, carefully evaluating each potential new store location to ensure we can continue to meet our customers' price, value and selection needs. We further strive to provide convenience for customers who may not have affordable nearby retail options.” Dollar General's DG Market format offers customers the typical general merchandise expected at a traditional Dollar General location with the addition of a wide assortment of grocery items, including dairy products, fresh meats, perishable items and fresh produce. The Company's produce set is a curated assortment of fresh fruits and vegetables including lettuce, tomatoes, onions, apples, strawberries, potatoes, sweet potatoes, lemons, limes, salad mixes, and more. The set offers the top 20 items typically sold in traditional grocery stores and covers approximately 80% of produce categories most grocery stores carry. The store will employ approximately 15-17 people. Dollar General is involved in the communities it serves through the Dollar General Literacy Foundation, which awards grants each year to nonprofit organizations, schools and libraries within a 15-mile radius of a Dollar General store or distribution center to support adult, family, summer and youth literacy programs. The Dollar General Literacy Foundation also supports individuals in the communities that Dollar General stores serve who may be interested in learning how to read, speak English or prepare for the high school equivalency test. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular images. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on! Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: