SOUTH PLAINFIELD - A Popeyes with a drive-thru is being proposed for one of the busiest intersections in the borough near the Edison border.So-Oak Commons LLC is seeking approval to construct a building to house both the restaurant and another store with an unknown tenant for the Oak Park Commons shopping center at the intersection of Park Avenue and Oak Tree Road. The shopping center is near the same intersection where businesses such as CVS, McDonald's, Dollar Tree, Aldi and ShopRite are located. The proposed building would be situated in the southwestern portion of the shopping center. The building will be 6,430 square feet with Popeyes occupying 2,360 square feet. The proposed drive-thru will be located around the north and east sides of the structure. The shopping center's parking area will be modified to create a one-way circulation counterclockwise movement around the new building to facilitate vehicular circulation. The proposed Popeyes drive-thru will result in a reduction of eight parking spaces. That will result in the shopping center having 705 parking spaces. More:Valentine's Day dinner is back at White Castle. Here's where to get burgers for two in NJ The 16.2-acre shopping center, besides its three strip retail buildings, has four standalone pad sites. A public hearing on the application is scheduled for the 7 p.m. Jan. 31 Planning Board meeting, which will be held in Borough Hall, 2480 Plainfield Ave. Popeyes has more than 3,700 restaurants globally, including ones on Parsonage Road in Edison and Stelton Road in Piscataway near the borough's southwestern corner. There are also Popeye's in East Brunswick, New Brunswick, Perth Amboy and Rahway. Popeyes restaurants were recently approved in Middlesex Borough on Route 28 near the Dunellen and in South Brunswick on Route 1 next to White Castle. Popeyes' owner, Toronto-based Restaurant Brands International, also owns Burger King and Tim Hortons. Email: sloyer@gannettnj.com Susan Loyer covers Middlesex County and more for MyCentralJersey.com. To get unlimited access to her work, please subscribe or activate your digital account today. This article originally appeared on MyCentralJersey.com: Popeyes proposed for South Plainfield at Oak Tree Road and Park Avenue New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.