E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
For information on submitting an obituary, please contact Reading Eagle by phone at 610-371-5018, or email at obituaries@readingeagle.com or fax at 610-371-5193.
 
Most obituaries published in the Reading Eagle are submitted through funeral homes and cremation services, but we will accept submissions from families. Obituaries can be emailed to obituaries@readingeagle.com.
 
In addition to the text of the obituary, any photographs that you wish to include can be attached to this email. Please put the text of the obituary in a Word document, a Google document or in the body of the email. The Reading Eagle also requires a way to verify the death, so please include either the phone number of the funeral home or cremation service that is in charge of the deceased's care or a photo of his/her death certificate. We also request that your full name, phone number and address are all included in this email.
 
All payments by families must be made with a credit card. We will send a proof of the completed obituary before we require payment. The obituary cannot run, however, until we receive payment in full.
 
Obituaries can be submitted for any future date, but they must be received no later than 3:00 p.m. the day prior to its running for it to be published.
 
Please call the obituary desk, at 610-371-5018, for information on pricing.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 A display issue that led to complaints from some voters that they had trouble selecting their preferred candidate on electronic voting machines during the 2022 general election may soon be rectified.Berks County election officials had been investigating the complaints and determined some voters were confused by small boxes that appeared inside larger boxes that contained candidate names. The voters thought they had to touch the small box in the upper left corner of the larger box, which led them to touch the wrong candidate.At an election board meeting Thursday, officials said representatives from the company that manufactures the machines told them that a software upgrade would allow the small box to be removed.The upgrade is pending approval by the Pennsylvania Department of State.First Assistant County Solicitor Cody Kauffman said representatives from Election Systems & Software are expecting the upgrade will be certified by the state soon and be ready to install sometime in February. He said that should give election workers plenty of time to familiarize themselves with the upgrade.“This is something that we took seriously and followed up on,” he said. “And we are glad that this upgrade will allow us to remove those little boxes to address those voter selection issues.”New leadershipAt the start of the meeting Thursday, Commissioner Kevin Barnhardt issued his resignation as chairman of the elections board effectively immediately given his impending transition to the position of chief operations officer for the county.His selection to the post was announced by county officials this week.

Barnhardt’s hiring was in preparation of the impending retirement of longtime county employee Ronald Seaman, who informed the commissioners this spring that he plans to leave his post in early 2023. Barnhardt will begin in his new role Jan. 9.The commissioners then elected Commissioner Michael Rivera to serve as the new chairman, and Christian Leinbach was tapped to serve as vice chairman.Rivera thanked Barnhardt for his more than 12 years of service as the chairman of the elections board. He said that in his new role Barnhardt will be able to draw on that experience as he works to strengthen the election services office.“It’s good to know that Commissioner Barnhardt will still be engaged with elections as the chief operations officer,” he said.Rivera added that Barnhardt’s election knowledge will be particularly important next year when he and Leinbach have to temporarily step down from the board because they will both be running for reelection. A panel of three county judges serve as the board in years when the commissioners are on the ballot. Berks County election officials had been investigating the complaints and determined some voters were confused by small boxes that appeared inside larger boxes that contained candidate names. The voters thought they had to touch the small box in the upper left corner of the larger box, which led them to touch the wrong candidate. At an election board meeting Thursday, officials said representatives from the company that manufactures the machines told them that a software upgrade would allow the small box to be removed. The upgrade is pending approval by the Pennsylvania Department of State. First Assistant County Solicitor Cody Kauffman said representatives from Election Systems & Software are expecting the upgrade will be certified by the state soon and be ready to install sometime in February. He said that should give election workers plenty of time to familiarize themselves with the upgrade. “This is something that we took seriously and followed up on,” he said. “And we are glad that this upgrade will allow us to remove those little boxes to address those voter selection issues.” At the start of the meeting Thursday, Commissioner Kevin Barnhardt issued his resignation as chairman of the elections board effectively immediately given his impending transition to the position of chief operations officer for the county. His selection to the post was announced by county officials this week. Barnhardt’s hiring was in preparation of the impending retirement of longtime county employee Ronald Seaman, who informed the commissioners this spring that he plans to leave his post in early 2023. Barnhardt will begin in his new role Jan. 9. The commissioners then elected Commissioner Michael Rivera to serve as the new chairman, and Christian Leinbach was tapped to serve as vice chairman. Rivera thanked Barnhardt for his more than 12 years of service as the chairman of the elections board. He said that in his new role Barnhardt will be able to draw on that experience as he works to strengthen the election services office. “It’s good to know that Commissioner Barnhardt will still be engaged with elections as the chief operations officer,” he said. Rivera added that Barnhardt’s election knowledge will be particularly important next year when he and Leinbach have to temporarily step down from the board because they will both be running for reelection. A panel of three county judges serve as the board in years when the commissioners are on the ballot. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group