Published 3:57 pm Monday, January 30, 2023 
By Brett Campbell
 Dollar Tree in Brookhaven is expanding. But the popular retail business has closed its doors to do so. When the registers rang up the final sale Friday around 9 p.m., it was the last sale to be made until the store reopens in approximately three months. 		Get the latest news sent to your inbox On Saturday, products began to be removed and relocated. Monday, electric saws could be heard across the parking lots of Walmart and other neighboring stores as contractors cut boards and plywood. The former Rue 21 store between Dollar Tree and The Shoe Dept. has been divided by a new wall, with sheetrock mud drying on gypsum boards. According to an employee of one of the stores, who was not authorized to speak by their employer, half of that space will become new area for the dollar store and the other for the shoe store. The Dollar Tree company — which took its name from its original sales plan of selling items for $1 each or less — has now become more of a general store, offering items at multiple price points. The remodel and expansion is expected to be complete and the store reopened in April, an employee said. Shoe Dept. manager Regina Craft confirmed that the store would be expanding, but referred further questions to corporate media relations. Attempts to speak with regional or corporate management have been unsuccessful so far. The Minnesota Twins versus the San Diego Padres is a game to catch on a Monday MLB schedule… The Atlanta Braves (65-58) will look to Marcell Ozuna when they visit Zachary Neto and the Los Angeles… The Atlanta Braves versus Los Angeles Angels game on Sunday at 4:07 p.m. ET will showcase a pair… Today’s MLB slate has several top-tier games, including a matchup between the Cleveland Guardians and the Milwaukee Brewers.… Today’s WNBA lineup features four contests, including the matchup between the Seattle Storm and Indiana Fever. The WNBA…    Of these top issues, which are of greatest concern to you in the 2024 elections? Choose up to 3.  View Results