e-Edition Evening Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition Evening Edition 
			Top Picks:		 Dominion Energy is proposing a new gas-fired power plant in Chesterfield County. It is well-known that gas plants leak methane, one of the most potent climate-harming chemicals, and numerous other air toxins that can cause cancer, respiratory illness and other conditions. The location of this plant would be less than 5 miles away from a neighborhood that is already overburdened by industrial pollution, putting the health and lives of community members at additional risk. According to Dominion, the plant could emit up to 28 tons of sulfur dioxide, 344 tons of nitrogen oxides and 819 tons of carbon monoxide. In addition to the health impacts of the proposed plant, Dominion estimates construction costs will start at $600 million. And that doesn’t even include the costs to run the plant. These costs will be passed on to us as Dominion customers on our electric bills. This proposed power plant is reckless to the health of Virginians and the environment. Our decision-makers must prevent Dominion from moving forward with this costly, polluting power plant and instead pursue energy efficiency and clean energy solutions that reduce pollution and protect customers. Stephen A. Hackney, Virginia Beach ___ I’ll call your insurrection bet and raise you Hunter Biden’s laptop. OK, I’ll see that and raise you Jared Kushner’s $2 billion deal. Joe Biden is president on Earth one. On Earth two, it was a “perfect” phone call (either with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy or Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger). In my view as an Earth one inhabitant, the Earth two folks represent a drift away from our present check-and-balance democracy and toward authoritarianism. Remember that after the insurrection had occurred, more than half the Republican House voted to overturn the election. This was antidemocratic and the forerunner of the GOP’s drift. They seem to discount the importance of overthrowing our way of governing. Make no mistake, Jan. 6 was a planned, coordinated coup attempt. It was not a peaceful transfer of power.  Antidemocratic actions like the above, or “the big lie,” or a disregard for felony convictions, represent a danger because democracies can wither and die. Earth two folks argue the former President Donald Trump indictments demonstrate the justice system is attacking him. I suppose that’s logically possible, but the more likely explanation is that the system is merely following protocol. Trump’s enablers have turned reality on its head. We need to keep our feet squarely on the ground. Paul G. English, Chesapeake ___ It seems far-stretched for people in marches around the world, highlighting the situation in Israel, the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, to be burning Israel’s flag, America’s flag or images of President Joe Biden to show that they are the ones responsible for starting this conflict. What do you expect Israel to do with a well-orchestrated kidnapping and killing of its citizens and of American citizens? They have to attack, and unfortunately, there is a consequence of this aggression. I don’t see enough of the Arab countries that have tremendous wealth putting in much of their money to the uplifting of Palestinian people prior to now and in the future to come. The amount spent on missiles and weapons could have been used to uplift the communities in Gaza and the West Bank instead of the death and destruction on both sides. Yet, you see Muslims in and around the world protest against Israel that was not the provocateur in this instance. You cannot achieve peace and prosperity by killing. Ray Patel, Chesapeake We will accept election letter submissions through 5 p.m. Wednesday and publish them, space permitting, through Friday. Copyright © 2024 Daily Press