Partly cloudy. A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. Low around 70F. Winds light and variable.. Partly cloudy. A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. Low around 70F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 4:12 pm   Jessica Holdman is a business reporter for The Post & Courier covering Columbia. Prior to moving to South Carolina, she reported on business in North Dakota for The Bismarck Tribune and has previously written for The Spokesman-Review in Spokane, Wash. Sign up to get all the latest business and real estate stories that are shaping Columbia each week straight to your inbox. Dominion Energy could sell its 100-acre Cayce campus to a Columbia real estate developer. File/Andrew Brown/Staff CAYCE — Dominion Energy could sell its 100-acre Cayce campus, built before the Virginia-based utility took over South Carolina's largest investor-owned utility, to a Columbia real estate developer. The company did not disclose any particulars of the agreement for a potential sale it signed with Bill Stern, owner of Stern & Stern Properties Inc. Stern confirmed he has the property under contract and is conducting due diligence before closing on the deal. He expects to finalize the purchase later this year. "I think it's a great property; it's a beautiful facility," Stern said. "I'd put it up against office buildings in any other state." Stern said his company is actively marketing the campus to corporate clients across the nine states where Stern & Stern Properties operates. He said it could be leased out to multiple tenants. Before a failed nuclear plant project in Fairfield County sent South Carolina's only Fortune 500 company spiraling into financial ruin, SCANA Corp.'s then-chief executive Bill Timmerman moved the utility's more than 900 corporate employees from its Main Street, Columbia, office tower to the sprawling campus on the south side of Cayce, along Interstate 77.  The 25-year lease the company held on the downtown building was ending, and rather than signing a new deal and trying to upgrade the aging space, Timmerman opted to build a new $140 million facility on land the utility had owned for 25 years. A year and a half after breaking ground, the company made the shift to the sparkling 540,000-square-foot headquarters with five interconnected buildings and room for 1,300 employees. But when Dominion took over SCANA and South Carolina Electric & Gas in early 2019, its Columbia workforce was greatly reduced. Dominion did not say how many employees currently work in the building, but for more than a year the Richmond-based utility has been trying unsuccessfully to lease out some 100,000 square feet of space on the campus. The company also did not say whether or where it would relocate if the sale goes through, only offering a statement. "Dominion Energy is committed to maintaining a strong company presence in Cayce," the statement read. "We continue to assess ways to operate even more efficiently, and this includes the potential for consolidating occupancy of our facilities on the 12th Street corridor if it is in the best interest of our customers and employees." Stern said he has not yet spoken to the utility about leasing back a portion of the space if his firm ultimately buys the property. Stern could not recall who approached him and told him there might be an opportunity to buy the campus, but he said he has always been impressed with the property, with its numerous walking paths and water features. "It's too beautiful a facility not to be utilized," said Cayce City Councilman Phil Carter, whose district includes the property. "I'd certainly welcome any new tenants." Carter said 12th Street is a "high-profile corridor" for the city and council has sought to encourage development of the area around the headquarters. In 2020, Atlanta-based real estate investment company The Simpson Organization Inc. purchased 36 acres of land across from the Dominion campus with plans for a $65 million development to include apartments, restaurants, retail, a hotel, office space and an entertainment area, the company said in a statement. “We envision this mixed-use village as a true live, work and play destination offering entertainment, shopping and a place to call home,” Boyd Simpson, owner of The Simpson Organization, said in a statement.  But the developer has yet to take any action at the site. When it comes to the Dominion campus, Stern acknowledged that the office market has been in a slump, with many companies choosing to downsize their real estate needs since the COVID-19 pandemic. He said his company is always hunting for opportunity, and the opportunity to strike a good deal often comes during a downturn. Add to that, the campus boasts easy access to interstates 77 and 26. "It's a great facility in a great location," said Stern, who also is chairman of the State Ports Authority board. "I just don't think these opportunities come around that often." 
Email


 
Sign Up!
 Reach Jessica Holdman at jholdman@postandcourier.com. Follow her @jmholdman on Twitter. Jessica Holdman is a business reporter for The Post & Courier covering Columbia. Prior to moving to South Carolina, she reported on business in North Dakota for The Bismarck Tribune and has previously written for The Spokesman-Review in Spokane, Wash. The Vulcan Quarry near downtown Columbia has been part of the community for over 150 years, and isn't planning on going anywhere soon. But what happens to the giant pit when it does?  Read moreWhat will happen to Columbia's rock quarry once the mine closes? US Brick, a manufacturer of clay bricks headquartered in Charleston, will renovate its Columbia factory and add nearly three dozen new jobs with a $5.5 million investment. Read moreCharleston brick manufacturer investing $5.5M, adding new jobs to longtime Richland facility Surcheros, a Mexican restaurant franchise based out of Georgia, will bring quesadillas, tacos and burritos to Forest Acres soon. Read moreMexican food chain with roots in Georgia to open first Columbia location in Forest Acres A $65 million mixed-use development proposed for a busy Irmo intersection on Lake Murray was denied a rezoning request, but hundreds of units could still be built on the site. Read moreIrmo shoots down $65 million lakefront development. Hundreds of units could still be built. The Post and Courier Columbia
1225 Lady Street,
Suite 201
Columbia, SC 29201 Phone: 803-765-0707 News tips: znicholson@postandcourier.com Subscription questions: subserve@postandcourier.com Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: 
, Post and Courier, an Evening Post Publishing Newspaper Group. All rights reserved. | Terms of Sale