 Official images of the facelifted MG HS have been revealed, with the firm's flagship SUV featuring upgraded technology, an improved infotainment system and a sharper-looking front end. The SAIC-owned manufacturer's SUV now features a shapely, deeper front bumper and a more pronounced beltline, alongside a wider grille and multifunction LED headlights that have also grown in size to enhance the model's credentials as a flagship offering.  At the rear, the car gains a new bumper, revised LED tail-lights and redesigned exhaust outlets. The SUV’s 18in alloy wheels are now also available with a new diamond-cut design, while an optional Urban Grey exterior paint colour is available for the first time.   Order books are now open in the UK, with prices starting at £23,495 for standard SE trim, rising to £29,995 for range-topping Trophy specification. The HS comes in £3055 cheaper than the Skoda Karoq and £2975 cheaper than the Nissan Qashqai - two of its main rivals. Entry-level SE trim has multifunction LED headlights with front and rear scrolling indicators - a first for MG - keyless entry and a rear parking camera. Top-rung Trophy specification brings leather upholstery, ambient lighting, dual-zone climate control and a steering wheel-mounted starter button.  Both models are available with a new 10.1in infotainment system – which, MG says, provides smoother functionality – and soft-touch materials said to be of a higher perceived quality than the outgoing car's.    View all car reviews New compact SUV goes big on luxury feel and metal for the money but covers its budget roots out on the road with mixed success The MG Pilot suite of safety tech is also included as standard. This includes lane keeping assist, lane departure warning, blindspot detection, rear cross-traffic alert and high beam assist.  SE and Trophy editions are available with a choice of two powertrains.  A 159bhp 1.5-litre turbocharged petrol engine is mated to a manual or an optional seven-speed dual-clutch transmission.  A plug-in hybrid set-up is also available, pairing the same 1.5-litre petrol engine with a 121bhp electric motor and offering an electric-only range of 32 miles.  The HS was the UK's best-selling vehicle in January 2023, with 3481 units sold. As of the start of April 2023, MG had shifted 13,320 HSs in Europe.  Jonathan is an editorial assistant working with Autocar. He has held this position since March 2024, having previously studied at the University of Glasgow before moving to London to become an editorial apprentice and pursue a career in motoring journalism.  His role at work involves writing news stories, travelling to launch events and interviewing some of the industry's most influential executives, writing used car reviews and used car advice articles, updating and uploading articles for the Autocar website and making sure they are optimised for search engines, and regularly appearing on Autocar's social media channels including Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube. I get paid more than $200 to $400 per hour for working p online. I heard about this job 3 months ago and after joining this I have earned easily $30k from this without having online working skills . Simply give it a shot on the accompanying site… Here is I started.…………>> w­w­w.j­o­b­s­r­e­v­e­n­u­e.c­o­m The styling is OK but a bit Mazda-like, which is no bad thing but I can't help thinking it would be better differentiated from the masses if it had a modern reinterpretation of the old (and elegant) MG grille to take up the space of that great big black opening on the front! People can say that they're not proper MG's but MG are a lot more popular than they have been in a long time. I see a lot of these and I have been in an Uber MG as well. They're OK. Not the greatest build but OK. The next few models will set the direction. They need a sports car. Sports cvar's arent about profitability but about Image creation.  View all car reviews