We use cookies to collect and analyse information on site performance and usage to improve and customise your experience, where applicable. View our Cookies Policy. Click Accept and continue to use our website or Manage to review and update your preferences. The following cookies are necessary to allow you to access the website including login, move between pages and to receive services which you have requested. They include cookies to store analytics and track user interactions so we can personalise content to best suit your interests and needs. These cookies allow the Website to remember choices you make and provide enhanced and more personal features, such as twitter feed and online chat. Performance cookies monitor site performance and user actions. These cookies do not collect identifiable information. From time to time, we may use cookies to display advertisements that we believe are relevant to you or work with advertisers to display our own adverts on third party websites, based on cookies set on your visit to the Website. These may include Facebook Advertising, Facebook Pixel Re-Marketing, and communications, and Google Advertising. “Lawyers don’t have to be that expensive; technology can do their job,” says AI tycoon and tech prodigy Joshua Browder (26), who is sending the world’s first robot lawyer into court shortly. DoNotPay, a US company, will use the world's first robot lawyer in court in a real-world scenario, arguing a traffic-fine case. DoNotPay founder Browder is determined to disrupt the legal profession and empower consumers, he told Gazette.ie. The world of AI has had a huge leap forward in the past year, given inexpensive licensing access to ChatGPT technology, he explains. “Over the past year, AI technology has really improved,” he says, expanding business possibilities, and allowing his company to hold conversations using legal knowledge. “On top of that, if you retrain the AI to be good at a specific area of the law, it can be very powerful,” Browder states. While DoNotPay takes external legal advice from a law firm, Browder says it isn't rocket science. “It's very simple, it's just about finding the right parking-ticket rules, for example,” he says, "then challenging on that basis. Browder recounts that the head of the Los Angeles parking-ticket authority loves the technology because “the public writes such nonsense in their parking-ticket appeals”. “DoNotPay standardises everything, and the recipient can quickly tell if the case is legitimate or not,” he adds. Browder believes that bureaucracy must be streamlined because, “that is the way society is going. “I think technology will bring justice to everyone and speed things up. It will take a while, but things are moving in a good direction.” He firmly believes that high fees in legal matters exclude people. “The good news is that there's no lawyer who's going to get outbid over a $100 parking ticket, because what we do is so low level, they are open to compromising.” Share this article ‘Know Your Rights’ programme starts in September  ‘Cleaner’ requests speed up turnaround  Dublin Castle venue for late-September event Move incorporates Loughrea solicitors

 Measure covers Defence Forces, prison officers  Recent ransom demands ‘astronomical’ – research   AG Garland hails ‘historic win’ in search-engine case  NCSC sets out triggers for emergency response Profiting from time savings may break rules – ABA