Comment Building and harnessing online communities has been a major driving force behind some of the world’s largest platforms, from Stripe and Slack to Figma and Notion. At the heart of the community-building ethos lies a strategy known as product-led growth (PLG), where companies rely on the product itself for selling and onboarding new users as opposed to traditional marketing-led and sales-led approaches. But managing these disparate communities has perennial challenges, with companies needing to gather feedback, support users, encourage upgrades, share knowledge and generally figure out what’s going on across their user base. We’ve seen countless platforms land venture capital (VC) cash to help companies address this need through connecting the various strands that constitute online communities — GitHub, Discord, Slack, Twitter, LinkedIn and the rest. But a new company is entering open beta today with $6 million in fresh funding for an all-in-one platform designed to host communities and product knowledge itself. Founded out of London in 2021, Outverse is looking to tackle a similar problem to what the likes of Commsor, Common Room, Threado, Talkbase and Crowd.dev are striving to solve, but with a different approach — its mission is to build what it calls a “full-stack community platform” for software companies, replete with forums, knowledge bases and product documentation. “Outverse isn’t playing in the same space as these community analytics or workflow tools,” Outverse founder and CEO Kyran Schmidt explained to TechCrunch. “That’s an increasingly saturated market, trying to solve the same sort of problem, which is basically about data and integrations. Instead, we’re building the actual platform or channel where these communities are hosted, managed and run.” In many ways, Outverse is trying to be a better version of services such as Slack, Discord, Stack Overflow, Facebook Groups or Reddit — tools which are powerful in their own right, but “weren’t actually built for the needs of software communities,” according to Schmidt. For instance, Outverse features purpose-built forum mechanisms that support linking conversations, marking questions as solved, voting for feature requests or bug reports, and a semantic engine to make knowledge easier to find. Indeed, Outverse says it’s using large language models (LLMs) as part of its mission to become a “centralized knowledge ecosystem” for SaaS software communities. Initially, this involves creating semantic relationships between content and discussions, but it plans to bolster its platform with “AI-augmented knowledge retrieval flows” and new “AI-powered team and admin workflows.” And this is one of Outverse’s core pitches — it is aiming to be a knowledge-base spanning documentation, forums, changelogs and more, all optimized for easy discovery, including indexing for search engines. This, according to Schmidt, will “help companies build their brand presence and SEO efforts.” “By bringing this functionality together, Outverse unlocks community growth and makes its value more accessible to stakeholders across product, support and marketing teams,” Schmidt said. “As a result, it’s far easier for businesses to capture the huge potential upside from their community efforts.” By contrast, while Slack is a popular tool for engaging with communities, users generally have to be members of the community to view content. Plus, Schmidt points to Slack’s per-seat business model as a major deterrent for larger communities. “If you have a community of users that is thousands-strong in size, your choice [with Slack] is either to stick with a free plan that hides all your valuable content after 90 days, which renders older discussions effectively useless, or pay an exorbitant amount,” Schmidt said. Outverse, for its part, offers a basic free plan with space for 500 community members, with a $99 monthly plan that unlocks access for unlimited members, among other perks. Outverse’s arrival in open beta also comes at a time when some of the popular community platforms are seeing significant headwinds, from the chaos at Twitter though to Reddit’s developer unrest and subsequent blackouts, not to mention Slack’s price-hike last year. “This question of ‘where do I host my community?’ has become much more pressing in recent months,” Schmidt said. “And we’ve seen a real wave of companies start to take this question seriously, and look for more ‘owned’ alternatives.” Prior to now, Outverse had raised £1 million ($1.2 million) in pre-seed funding last year, and with its latest $6 million cash injection the company said that it plans to scale its product ahead of its full launch, which will include new features such as real-time chat. Outverse’s seed round was led by Wing VC, with participation from Notion Capital, Seedcamp, Connect Ventures and Tiny VC. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP