My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Do Not Pay CEO Joshua Browder decided to outsource his entire personal financial life to GPT-4 via the chat feature his company is building. In a Twitter thread, Browder shared his experience with AutoGPT and how it's been saving him money in some strange ways. Browder gave AutoGPT access to his bank account, financial statements, credit report, and email. The bot then used a DoNotPay Plaid connection to log in to every bank account and credit card that Browder owns and scan over 10,000 transactions. It found that $80.86 was leaving his account every month in useless subscriptions and offered to cancel every single one. The bot then got to work mailing letters in the case of gyms using the USPS Lob API, chatting automatically with agents, and even clicking online buttons to get them canceled.Here it is! Using the DoNotPay ChatGPT Plugin, I asked the A.I to cancel my gym membership. It immediately drafted a legal notice to cancel, e-signed it and connected with USPS to mail it, all without leaving the conversation. The first subscription cancelled using ChatGPT! pic.twitter.com/GNetyCyo8w — Joshua Browder (@jbrowder1) April 7, 2023After canceling the subscriptions, Browder asked AutoGPT to find him an easy refund. The bot identified a United Airlines in-flight Wi-Fi receipt for $36.99 from London to New York in Browder's email and asked him if it worked properly. When he said no, the bot immediately drafted a persuasive and firm legal letter to United requesting a refund. The letter was both legalistic and convincing, citing FTC statutes, and the bot sent it to United via their website. Within 48 hours, United agreed to refund Browder the $36.99. Browder also asked AutoGPT about his credit score, and the bot used the Array API to get his score and report without advertisements or trying to sell him a credit card. He is currently working on several GPT credit disputes and will report back.I wanted to take a break from saving money and ask GPT-4 about my credit score. Using the Array API, it got my score and report, without advertisements or trying to sell me a credit card. I am currently working on several GPT credit disputes and will report back. pic.twitter.com/rFGR3fCsVz — Joshua Browder (@jbrowder1) April 29, 2023Browder then unleashed AutoGPT on his bills. As a customer of Comcast, he asked the bot to negotiate his bill. When Comcast offered a $50 discount, the bot pushed back and said, "NO. I want more." It got him an extra $100. In under 24 hours, Browder was already up $217.86, and he has a dozen other disputes pending. His goal is to have AutoGPT make him $10,000. DoNotPay Chat is being built to be available as a ChatGPT Plugin, on the company's website, and even via iMessage. Browder believes that consumer rights is the perfect job for AI, and AutoGPT is proving him right. Read: AI engineer asked ChatGPT for recipes from refrigerator pic. The answers were...   Top TrendsQuit India Movement dayWorld Tribal Day 2024Radhika GuptaNeeraj ChopraElon Musk   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.