GREEN BAY, Wis. – Innis Gaines scratched and clawed and battled for what happened on the night of Jan. 8. At TCU, Gaines’ junior season ended with a torn ACL. So did his senior season. Because of the injuries, Gaines went undrafted and unsigned in 2020. Not willing to give up on his NFL dream, Gaines delivered food for DoorDash to pay the bills while he worked for an NFL opportunity that might never happen. In January 2021, the Packers signed Gaines to a futures contract. He spent his first year on the practice squad, earning one practice-squad elevation. In 2022, he was released during training camp with a hamstring injury but with an invitation to come back when healthy. The Packers kept their word. Gaines played in seven games. In a must-win game against the Lions to close the season, he made his first NFL start. After missing time with an injury this summer, Gaines returned to the practice field this week. During his first practice back, a well-timed safety blitz resulted in him deflecting Jordan Love’s pass. “That’s what I do best: make plays,” Gaines said. “I love blitzing. I’ve been doing it my whole life – since college and high school. So, I enjoy that blitzing part better than coverage.” The Packers continue to list Gaines as a safety, even though he hasn’t played a single snap of safety all year. Rather, he’s made a home in the slot. When healthy, he’s teamed with Corey Ballentine and standout rookie Carrington Valentine with the second unit. Photo by Seeger Gray/USA Today Sports Images “For his size especially, he’s got all the movement skills, everything you look for,” coach Matt LaFleur said of why Gaines was moved to the slot. “He’s a physical player. I think he’s done a nice job. We’ve just got to try to keep him out there and keep him healthy.” Health, obviously, has been the issue, dating to the knee injuries in college, the hamstring at training camp last year and the quad at training camp this year.  That’s a lot of injuries for a player who’s battling for a roster spot. Can a team burn a precious roster spot on a player who hasn’t shown he can be available week after week after week? However, Gaines is a tantalizing player with size, speed and hitting ability; everyone calls him “Thump” rather than Innis for a reason. “My whole college career, I played slot corner,” Gaines said. “Right now, I’m in the corner room every day so I’m learning all the intricacies of the cornerback room lingo. I like being in the slot. I like being physical with the slot receivers and using my strengths, which is press-man. You’re always press-man in the slot, so that’s what I do best.” The Packers don’t have a natural backup in the slot. Keisean Nixon has been handed the starting job, but what would happen if he went down with an injury? During Gaines’ absence, Shemar Jean-Charles took the second-team reps but Gaines moved right past him upon his return to practice. “I’m trying to get the No. 1 spot, obviously,” Gaines said. “Being able to play slot and safety and having that in my back pocket and being an extra safety in case of emergency. I’m always listening to the safety calls, still wired in, so I can fit in anywhere. I’m trying to be a Swiss Army knife for the defense and being able to play wherever they need me: slot, safety, nickel or dime.” Saturday’s preseason finale vs. Seattle will be a critical one for players like Gaines. It will be the last chance to show general manager Brian Gutekunst, LaFleur and the defensive coaches that he deserves to earn a spot on the 53-man roster that will be chosen on Tuesday and be on the field against the Bears on Sept. 10. “I feel pretty good,” Gaines said. “I put a lot of good tape on film so far, so I’ve got to keep it up, like I did today, make more plays, like I’ve always been doing, and show them that I’m still the same guy.” Packers roster bubble: The college stud Packers roster bubble: The rising receiver How to watch: Seahawks at Packers