Get opinion pieces, letters and editorials sent directly to your inbox weekly! Attorney General Letitia James is moving to enact tougher standards against price-gouging. Some places reported price-gouging on masks early in the Covid-19 pandemic. Editor's note: DoorDash does not use dynamic pricing. A previous version of this editorial incorrectly included it as an example of companies that use dynamic pricing, based on incorrect information provided by a spokesperson for the state attorney general. Price-gouging is about more than the extreme cases that occur during weather emergencies, though they are some of the worst, and most unforgiveable. But price-gouging can also include more routine practices such as surge pricing and dynamic pricing, both of which are aimed at picking the pockets of buyers. In all of these cases, some restraint is in order. That is where the New York State Attorney General’s Office comes in. The office proposes to tighten rules against price gouging to better protect consumers during times of emergencies. Its rules would also make gouging easier to identify, report and prosecute. The proposed rules await public comment, but there would be a benchmark: an increase of 10% or more during a market disruption. A company that increases prices by more than 10% would have to show its own costs increased accordingly. The proposal also details what can legally be considered a cost. This is especially intriguing, as any number of consumers can point to times when prices seemed to skyrocket, or even tick up just a little bit for no apparent reason. It could be a snowstorm around here and prices on something such as shovels, or snow-melting salt seemed even a dollar higher. It could also be some larger expense, such as the big game or concert or high airport traffic. That’s why the other change, focusing on companies that use dynamic pricing, such as Uber, is fitting. The proposed rules would determine disruption-timed gouging based on an average of the previous week’s pricing. As more and more consumers rely on companies that take advantage of technology to provide services such as ride hailing and food delivery via apps, they, too, must be discouraged from taking unfair advantage. It cannot just be the brick-and-mortar operations or the cabbies with medallions being made to follow strict guidelines. Someone must call out new tech businesses that have become marketplace disrupters when they are taking advantage of consumers through surge pricing. In addition, the proposed changes would include provisions to prevent price gouging on new products and services, such as the at-home testing kits so many of us desperately needed during the Covid-19 pandemic. It can’t be that only well-to-do people have access to such crucial products. There is a line to be wary of here. The theory of supply and demand is critical to the functioning of American capitalism. It needs to be respected, but there also need to be rules. Picking pockets crosses the line. • • • What’s your opinion? Send it to us at lettertoeditor@buffnews.com. Letters should be a maximum of 300 words and must convey an opinion. The column does not print poetry, announcements of community events or thank you letters. A writer or household may appear only once every 30 days. All letters are subject to fact-checking and editing. Get opinion pieces, letters and editorials sent directly to your inbox weekly! The New York State Attorney General's Office is tightening up price gouging laws to better protect consumers during times of emergency and mak…  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.