Jan. 19—A federal grand jury on Thursday indicted a Columbus woman who is accused of kidnapping 5-month-old twins, resulting in an AMBER Alert and dayslong search for one of the boys and the suspect. Nalah T. Jackson, 24, is charged with two counts of kidnapping a minor in U.S. District Court in Columbus. Each count is punishable by 20 years to life in prison, according to a release from the office of U.S. Attorney Kenneth Parker of the Southern District of Ohio. Between Dec. 19 and Dec. 22, 2022, Jackson kidnapped the two infants and traveled interstate with one of them, according to her indictment. The babies, Kason and Kyair Thomas, were inside a 2010 Honda Accord stolen while their mother, Wilhemina Barnett, left the car running while she went inside a pizza place to pick up a DoorDash order. A passenger at the Dayton International Airport found Kyair outside in the economy lot nearly six hours later, around 4:15 a.m. Dec. 20. Kason was found Dec. 22 inside the abandoned Accord while temperatures dropped well below freezing, hours after Jackson was arrested. Kason spent a few days at a children's hospital, where he received treatment for exposure, but was released in time for Christmas to his family and reunited with his twin brother. His grandmother, Fonda Thomas, said news of finding Kason was a relief. "I just dropped to the ground," she said. "Just all types of good emotions came over me at that point." Days before the AMBER Alert was issued Jackson went to a Riverside apartment to try to see her two children. Riverside police were called to a Harshman Road apartment around 11:25 p.m. Dec. 15 after a man reported Jackson, his ex-girlfriend, punched him, according to an incident report. The man told officers Jackson does not have custody of their daughters but wanted to see them and then tried to force her way into the apartment when he said they weren't there. Jackson was charged in Franklin County with two counts of kidnapping, but Parker said the federal charges supersede her state charges. "Jackson is currently in custody in Indiana and will be transported to the Southern District of Ohio to face her federal charges in U.S. District Court in Columbus," Parker stated. "Protection of our youth is vital and ensuring the safe return of the children in this case was paramount. Now, as we move into the accountability phase of this incident, I can assure you that my office will continue to work with our federal, state, and local law enforcement partners in Ohio and Indiana to fully investigate the matter." New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.