Get local news delivered to your inbox! FRANKLIN COUNTY — Double shooting leaves woman dead:A double shooting outside a hotel in Washington, Missouri, left a woman dead and a man injured Wednesday, authorities said. The man and woman were "the only ones involved in the incident," police said. Police did not say who shot whom. The shooting happened about 6:40 p.m. Wednesday on the parking lot of Best Western hotel, 2621 East Fifth Street in Washington. The woman died at the scene, and the man was taken to Mercy Hospital in Washington. Police did not release his condition. The chief's office on Thursday said the department was still investigating the shooting and had no updates to release about the case. ST. LOUIS — Delivery driver shot:A delivery driver for DoorDash was shot and critically injured Wednesday night when he accidentally hit a car while trying to park, police said. The 20-year-old victim was shot in the chest about 7 p.m. in the 5100 block of Ashland Avenue, in the Kingsway West neighborhood of north St. Louis. Police said he was critical and stable at a hospital. Police arrested a man, 27, on suspicion of first-degree assault. The victim told officers he was working for DoorDash, a restaurant delivery service. He was delivering an order to someone on Ashland and accidentally hit the suspect's vehicle while backing up to park, police said. The suspect got out of the car and fired shots at him, police said. The gunman admitted firing a shot; he surrendered his gun to officers and was taken into custody, police said. NORMANDY — Employee dies felling trees:A public works employee died this week while felling trees, said Mayor Mark Beckman. Harold Parker, 56, died around 9:30 a.m. while cutting down and removing trees in Hoelzel Park. Parker's death triggered an investigation by the Missouri Department of Labor Relations. READ:For more crime stories, point your smartphone camera at the QR code, then tap the link. Get local news delivered to your inbox! Padres' odds of winning NL pennant as low as 7-1, Cardinals' as high as 120-1. The St. Louis Cardinals, 12-19 in their past 31 games, are slipping out of playoff contention in the National League.  Jayson Tatum and Matthew Tkachuk came to Busch Stadium on Sunday for the Cardinal's matchup vs. the Dodgers. Chief Troy Doyle showed videos depicting the moments leading up to the impact, as protesters outside the Ferguson police department on Friday … Hawley wanted to debate near the fairgrounds Thursday. Kunce asked the incumbent to agree to televised debates. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.