The show about 1980s and 1990s football dives into Euro 88 and looks at Italia 90 and France 98 through a different lens After a couple of years out with booze-up-in-a-brewery issues, the Nessun Dorma podcast returns with some new voices and some new formats, but the same commitment to going long on an era when many English teams did just that. Martyn Ramsay takes on hosting duties, joined by regulars Gary Naylor and Rob Smyth and a series of guests, including Mike Gibbons, Mac Millings, Jonathan O’Brien and the Guardian’s own Jacob Steinberg. “The beast in me,” sang Nick Lowe, “is caged by frail and fragile bars.” The same is true of our inner nerd, which escaped sometime during the summer and recorded a mini-series of retro drafts. It’s a shameless, ahem, homage to the movie drafts on The Big Picture, and a chance to eulogise players and moments we love while also making snide comments about each other’s selections. The draft has three simple rules. Each player can only be picked by one person. When Maradona has gone, he’s gone. It’s a reality draft, not a fantasy draft: players should be judged solely on their form during the tournament/season/era in question. So, at Italia 90, Salvatore Schillaci is good, Marco van Basten is very, very bad. The listeners vote on which team has won the draft. These are the drafts we have done so far, with episodes on the first Premier League season, the 1999-2000 Champions League and more to follow. England in the 1980s | Italia 90 | Euro 96 | France 98 You never get a second chance to make a last impression. The Netherlands charmed the football world by winning Euro 88, a romantic triumph that touched the otherworldly with Van Basten’s astonishing goal in the final against USSR. We decided to take a subterranean dive into the tournament on its (gulp) 35th anniversary. The preview contextualises European football in the summer of 1988, and then there’s an episode for each matchday. We discuss, among other things, whether the Netherlands were as good as we like to remember, whether England were as bad as we tend to remember – and whether many modern tactical trends, from pressing to defenders stepping into midfield, were there in plain sight in the late 1980s. Most importantly, we pay tribute to Van Basten at a time when he was very, very, very good. Preview | Matchday one | Matchday two | Matchday three | Semi-finals | Final The NDBC is a kind of sporting Late Review, but without Tony Parsons. The premise is simple: three people bring a football book that made an impact on their lives and explain why. From the definitive and myth-shattering history of West German football and the instant window into the past provided by Panini to a delve into the world of sports psychology at a time when Sven-Göran Eriksson was still considered to be a Svengali and not a Scandi Benny Hill, there is something here for everyone. Listen here Gary and Rob talk to Martyn about his book Revolution: Rangers 1986-92, and how Graeme Souness changed Scottish football when he became player-manager at Ibrox. It was a perfect storm, and for a short time Rangers had a pulling power that not even England’s biggest clubs could match: ask Trevor Steven, who turned his nose up at Alex Ferguson and Old Trafford because his heart was already set on Glasgow. Souness was prepared to rip up traditions – and pick fights with just about everyone – in his attempt to continue lifting trophies after hanging up his boots. Listen here And finally, before last year’s World Cup, we lost ourselves in a classic from the past: West Germany v France in the 1982 semi-finals. Listen here Nessun Dorma is available on iTunes, Spotify and Substack. They tweet @nessundormapod and you can check out their previous pods here.