The classical vocal quartet have extended their tour with 40 further shows this summer The UK's No.1 classical vocal quartet, are back with another exhilarating tour - The G4 LIVE 2022 tour has been extended into 2023 due to popular demand, with a further 40 shows across the UK between April and August.  This tour extension sees the boys perform in many towns and cities that they’ve never performed in before. Having exploded into the industry and the public's hearts back in 2004 on the first series of the X-Factor, G4 continue to blow people away, year after year, with their unique style and impactful harmonic vocals, which are incomparable to any other. They have to be heard live to truly appreciate the power and passion of their voices. Expect to hear G4’s classic hits of Bohemian Rhapsody, My Way, Nessun Dorma and Creep plus recent heart-stopping tracks from their latest G4 ‘Love Songs’ album as they leave audiences screaming for more. Following sell-out G4 Christmas shows at Birmingham Town Hall and Lichfield Cathedral, G4 are thrilled to be returning to Birmingham with their new G4 LIVE show, which fans are calling “The best G4 tour yet!”. You can catch the group at the intimate Old Rep Theatre, Station Street on Friday June 9. G4 set an exciting trend by bringing classical music to British reality TV screens for the first time in 2004 with their performance of Nessun Dorma. However, it was their cover of Bohemian Rhapsody that became their signature tune, storming the charts in 2005.  Their eponymous debut album went straight to number 1, selling more than 245,000 in the first week, making it the fastest-selling album of the year.  G4 subsequently released three albums, selling over 2 million copies in the UK. They also released a “Live at The Royal Albert Hall” DVD, an autobiographical book “G4: Our Way” and completed five sell-out tours across the UK and Ireland, including a Cathedral Tour where they sang acoustically.  Other G4 highlights included collaborating with Lesley Garrett, Robin Gibb, Stephen Gately and Sir Cliff Richard, performing in The Royal Albert Hall more than a dozen times. In 2024, the group have big plans, with a new studio album (G4 20) to mark 20 years since first appearing on the X Factor, followed by a large UK tour! Tickets are available from the venues directly, or from G4’s website where you can sign up to their mailing list to get the latest G4 news.