Britain's Got Talent began in 2007 and had a completely different judging panel. Simon Cowell and Amanda Holden, who still sit on the judging panel today, were originally joined by Piers Morgan. However, after Piers left, David Walliams and Alesha Dixon joined the line-up. BGT has been a huge hit with viewers since it began, but who won the first show in 2007 and where are they now? Express.co.uk has everything you need to know about mobile phone salesman turned singer Paul Potts. READ MORE: ITV News viewers react in disbelief as studio setting ousted as 'fake'  Paul Potts stunned Simon, Amanda and Piers when he took to the stage for his first audition. The mobile phone salesman wowed the panel with his rendition of Nessun Dorma. And while they were dubious at first, as soon as Paul sang his first note, they knew he was a potential winner. He even left Amanda in floods of tears, while the audience gave him a standing ovation. Simon said at the time: "So you work at Carphone Warehouse and you did that, I was not expecting that. "This was a complete breath of fresh air, I thought you were absolutely fantastic."   Don't miss...     Escape to the Chateau's Angel Adoree 'launches into foul-mouthed rant'  [LATEST]     Midsomer Murders John Barnaby star pays tribute to on-screen wife  [VIDEO]     GB News host admits 'it's satisfying' watching Schofield's career 'tumble'  [INSIGHT]   "You have an incredible voice," Piers went on. "I think if you keep singing like that you are going to be one of the favourites to win the whole competition." Since his first audition, Paul stormed through to the final and won the ITV series. But his success didn't stop there, and according to Celebrity Net Worth in 2022, Paul has an estimated net worth of £ 8.2 million. After performing for the late Queen Elizabeth II, Paul was invited back to the Royal Albert Hall in 2012 to celebrate 100 years of the Royal Variety Performance. He has also sung with the likes of Katherine Jenkins before going on to release his debut album One Chance, which went double Platinum, topping the charts in nine countries around the world. He also went on to release six further albums. We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy  A film biopic of Paul's life was also released in 2013 and saw James Corden taking on the role of the opera singer. He even managed to reach the final of America's Got Talent: The Champions in 2019. According to Paul's Instagram, the BGT winner recently travelled to New Zealand to perform. Sharing a snap from his dressing room, he penned: "Part way through the first of 12 shows in New Zealand. Unusual for me to do Nessun Dorma so early in a show. Am doing some acting also hence why I have been in NZ longer than normal before a tour." (sic) Britain's Got Talent returns tonight at 8pm on ITV. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?