
        © 2024 Cantata Media
     SHARE A police standoff in York County has ended with a murder-suicide, York County Coroner Pam Gay told Daily Voice.  Megan Caitlyn Saunders.  A 31-year-old Prince George's, Maryland resident Devon Elias shot 29-year-old Megan Caitlyn Saunders in the chest before shooting himself in the head, around 2:40 p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 13, according to the York County Coroner's office. Chief Deputy Coroner Tania Zech was called to the scene to investigate and certify the deaths at 2:47 p.m. This incident is from an "apparent domestic incident" and the time of death was recorded as 3:35 p.m., as stated in the coroner's release. The call to a person locked inside of a home in the Salem Run development came to 911 at 8:50 a.m., according to York County Emergency Management. Shots were fired just before the call in the 4100 block of Strawberry Court. No one else was in the home at the time of the shooting, according to the coroner.  The following public safety alert went out at 1:50 p.m: The area closed was between Strawberry Ct., South Salem Church Rd., and Nittany Dr. The local library was also included in the order. Within the same hour, the Dover Area School District sent the following alert to parents/guardians: Around 2 p.m. the school district updated the community with the following statement on its website lifting their conditions: Megan's family has been sharing about their sudden loss on social media. She is survived by her family, including her beloved daughter Peyton who she shared with Devon, according to the family.  This is the second murder-suicide in 24 hours in the county and the third in the state.  If you are experiencing domestic abuse there is help, call 800-799-7233 or START to 88788 to reach the National Domestic Abuse Hotline or go to https://www.pcadv.org/ to get help from the Pennsylvania Coalition Against Domestic Violence.  If you or someone you love is having suicidal thoughts call or text the National Suicide Hotline by dialing 988. You can learn more and find ways to get help here.  
Click here
            to follow Daily Voice
            
              York
            
            and receive free news updates.
           Share Tags 
      SCROLL TO NEXT ARTICLE
     
