DOVER — The 39th annual Apple Harvest Day, which is part of the city's 400th anniversary celebration in 2023, will take over downtown Saturday, Oct. 7, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Produced by the Greater Dover Chamber of Commerce, the festival will feature more than 300 vendors, food, live entertainment and more. Apple Harvest Day draws more than 60,000 people annually, according to organizers, making it one of the region's most popular festivals. The event, underwritten by First Seacoast Bank, will kick off with the “first bite” ceremony and a performance by the Dover High School marching band at the Rotary Arts Pavilion at 9 a.m. “Apple Harvest Day showcases Dover as an economically and culturally vibrant community,” Dover chamber President Margaret Joyce said. “More than 100 volunteers come together to make this event possible each year, and city departments such as police, fire and community services ensure that the event is safe and secure for all attendees.” Organizers suggest festival goers stop by the information booth at the corner of Washington Street and Central Avenue and snap a pic at the Apple Harvest Day Selfie Photo Frame, sponsored by Index Packaging. If you are in need of a water refill, visit the Poland Springs hydration station at the intersection of Central Avenue and Third Street. And look for a living statue, sponsored by Shaheen & Gordon, at various locations throughout the day. Participating vendors can be found on the Apple Harvest Day website, sponsored by Aland Realty, at appleharvestday.com. The website also offers a map, shuttle schedule, entertainment lineup, and complete list of sponsors. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Here's a look at everything you need to know about the 2023 event: All day in the Cocheco Mill Courtyard. The family respite area is staffed by the Dover Area Woman’s Club, sponsored by Rotary Club of Dover and Convenient MD. It will include a lactation station, diaper changing area and a calm room provided by Twenty-One Senses. Bathroom facilities will be 150 feet from the family respite area. A calm room is a dedicated space, open to anyone, for use to help them reset and calm their nervous system from the possible sensory overload from the crowds, music and food smells. By visiting this welcoming space for a few minutes, individuals can reset their sensory systems through hands-on calming activities, allowing them to return to the festival instead of going home. The family respite area and calm room are intended to allow families to participate in the festival who otherwise would not be able to attend. Twenty-One Senses will have multiple sensory supports available within the calm space such as alternative seating, balance boards, yoga mats, play tents, fidgets, Play-Doh, coloring books, chess and puzzles. This space and these activities allow children and adults alike a reprieve to help reset. There will be noise-canceling headphones and ear plugs available to purchase or borrow for the event. Twenty-One Senses is a local nonprofit organization focused on advancing inclusion for children with invisible disabilities in our communities. Efforts include raising awareness about neurodiversity and sensory regulation issues and providing minor accommodations to create a welcoming space for families to successfully engage in community activities. Information: twentyonesenses.org. 11 a.m. at the Rotary Arts Pavilion stage Each year, amateur bakers submit their special recipes to be tasted and judged by local “celebrities” and dignitaries. This year’s contest and the day’s entertainment at the Rotary Arts Pavilion will be hosted by WOKQ-FM 97.5. Participants will vie for awards given in two divisions: adult (ages 16 and over) and youth (ages 15 and younger). All pies must be at the Rotary Arts Pavilion in Henry Law Park by 11 a.m. WOKQ is not responsible for pies or containers left unattended. Please limit registrations to one per person. Information: appleharvestday.com. Noon to 3 p.m. on St. Thomas Street The Dover Energy Commission is partnering with the Greater Dover Chamber of Commerce to host an free electric vehicle show by the McConnell Center, sponsored by Brueckner Group USA. Auto dealers, private owners and the city of Dover will display EV and plug-in hybrid-electric vehicles (HEV) from bikes to trucks at the show. St. Thomas Street from Locust Street to Atkinson Street (behind City Hall between the McConnell Center and the district court) will be turned into a walking mall for the event. The goal is to help inform the community of the available EV and HEV options and whether they should consider owning one. Experts on EV charging will be on hand to provide information about installing residential and/or commercial charging stations, including options powered by solar energy. Local and state officials from the state Department of Environmental Services and the city of Dover will be available to discuss EV infrastructure. 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Henry Law Park The KidZone will once again feature inflatables, face painting and a roaming train, sponsored by Kennebunk Savings. Here are some details: Roaming train: Children and their parents are welcome to ride around the exterior of Lower Henry Law Park on a miniature Thomas the Tank Engine train driven by Conductor Dan of the Roaming Railroad, sponsored by Martineau Electric. Inflatable rides: Visit lower Henry Law Park to bounce and play on numerous inflatable rides and partake in interactive activities. All profits from this year’s bracelet and ticket sales will be going to Dover Children’s Home. All day bounce wristbands are $12 for the “Big Kid” rides and $8 for the Kiddie City (under 48″) rides. Do you only want to bounce on a couple inflatables? No worries! Individual rides cost $5 each for one ticket. Cochecho Kid’s Club: The Children’s Museum of New Hampshire will host this free event for kids ages 2-12. Located just outside the museum entrance on the new play patio, staff from the museum will have crafts and activities for children. There will be a take-home activity and all of the fun, messy, sensory activities like the giant paint wall, chalk spinner, tube tones musical instruments, the water circuit wall and hands-on sensory tables. Sponsored by Northeast Credit Union. Wildlife Encounters: A variety of wild, pet and farm animals will be featured. The organization now known as the Wildlife Encounters Ecology Center & Farm School will share a selection of its ambassador animals at upper Henry Law Park. This exhibit is free and open to all. No dogs and no smoking are allowed at the exhibit, and adult supervision is required for children under 8 years old. Sponsored by HRCU. Touch a Truck: Dover’s Community Services Department and Fire Department will be on hand with construction and fire protection vehicles to explore. Sponsored by Breezeline. Family Fun Zone: The New Hampshire Department of Children, Youth and Family’s Foster Care program will be offering spin art, sand art and face painting to younger festival attendees, while raising awareness about the state’s foster care program. Sponsored by Bank of America. Henry Law Food Court, sponsored by WIN Waste Innovations Volunteers from the Dover 400 Committee will sell Dover 400th anniversary merchandise, including sweatshirts, T-shirts, hats, mugs and tote bags. The city of Dover’s 400th Anniversary Committee is a group of appointed volunteers from diverse backgrounds who are all committed to one purpose: ensuring that Dover is celebrated to the fullest extent during its 400th year of existence. Settled in 1623, Dover is the oldest continuous settlement in New Hampshire and seventh oldest in the United States, according to the committee. Information: dovernh.org. The 5K road race will kick off on St. Thomas Street, sponsored by Wentworth-Douglass Hospital. Race start time is 8:30 a.m. The USATF-certified course winds through historic downtown. The event welcomes advanced runners as well as beginners and families. Local radio broadcaster Mike Pomp will be emcee. Cash prizes will be awarded to the top male and female finishers, as well as to the first Dover male and female runner to cross the finish line. Winners in the 0-14 age group will receive gift certificates to Lickee’s and Chewy’s Candies and Creamery. Race finishers are asked to stick around until 12:30 p.m. for hard apple cider provided by North Country Hard Cider Company. Each runner 21 and over will receive two complimentary beverages, with non-alcoholic apple cider available for minors. The cider tent is sponsored by the New Hampshire Group. Be sure to enjoy the Chill Zone, with chairs and tables on loan from NEMO Equipment. New Hampshire Coffee Roasters will be on hand before, during, and after the race distributing free cups of their small-batch coffee to participants and spectators. Visit dovernh.org/5k to register. Online registration will close Wednesday, Oct. 4. In-person registration will take place on race day starting at 7:30 a.m. in the Dover District Court parking lot. Registration is $30 for adult runners 21 and over and $20 for under 21 ($35 for 21+ and $25 for under 21 after Oct. 4). Bib pickup will be on Friday, Oct. 6, from 3 to 6 p.m. at the Greater Dover Chamber of Commerce, 550 Central Ave., Dover. You can register for the race at that time, as well. The 2023 Apple Harvest Day 5K Road Race is part of the Dover Race Series. Apple Harvest Day will feature performances on two stages: one at the Rotary Art Pavilion Stage at 30 Henry Law Ave., and the other at Waldron Court, 388 Central Ave. Here's the schedule of events: Rotary Art Pavilion Stage 9 a.m. – Opening ceremonies 9:30 a.m. – Northeastern Ballet 10 a.m. – McDononough-Grimes Irish Dance 10:30 a.m. – UNH Theater Department 11 a.m. – WOKQ Pie Contest 12 p.m. – Garrison Players Youth Troupe 12:30 p.m. – Seacoast Men of Harmony 1 p.m. – Curtain Call Performing 1:30 p.m. – SNHUG 2 p.m. – Musical Arts of Dover 2:30 p.m. – Sole City Dance 3 p.m. – Extreme Air Jump Rope Waldron Courtyard Stage 10 a.m. – Chris George 11 a.m. – Jonathan Booth 12 p.m. – Carol Corson 1 p.m. – David Corson 2 p.m. – Bob Moore 3 p.m. – Chris George Shuttle parking is available between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. All shuttle parking is free of charge. The drop-off and pick-up locations for both shuttles are on Washington Street in front of the Children’s Museum of NH (6 Washington St., in Dover, NH 03820). Shuttle providers are COAST Bus, Spring Village at Dover and St. Thomas Aquinas High School. North End Shuttle Lot: C&J Park-n-Ride Lot, 23 Indian Brook Drive in Dover (exit 9 off of Route 16). South End Shuttle Lot 1: 279 Locust St., Dover (exit 7 off of Route 16). South End Shuttle Lot 2: 118 Central Ave., Dover NH (Exit 7 off of Route 16). More:Street closures, parking info for Apple Harvest Day 2023 in Dover