GO AD LITE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES More on KentOnline News you can trust 23°C | 12°C 5 day forecast   Home   Dover   News   Article A man who had sex with a former mayor's horse has today been unmasked - as he was jailed for eight months. "Disgusting" Phillip Henry, of Dover, attended Canterbury Crown Court this morning wearing a face mask, sunglasses, a flat cap and with his hood up. He has gone to similar lengths to cover himself up when arriving at previous hearings. But pictures have now emerged of Henry when he appeared outside court for a separate offence six years ago. During today's hearing, the 35-year-old argued he was suffering from stress and bereavement during the horse's "appalling" ordeal. KentOnline previously reported how Henry was caught with his trousers around his ankles and violating Betty, a cob, inside a livery in Dover. He fled after being discovered, but was later arrested after his DNA was found in a sample taken from the mare. He initially denied a charge of sexual penetration of a living animal, namely a horse, but admitted the “vile” act when he appeared at Canterbury Crown Court in February. When a judge jailed Henry for eight months at the same court today, he could be heard saying: "Oh, that's not good." Opening the case, prosecutor Don Ramble explained: “On April 16, 2021, at about 4.30pm in the afternoon, Sarah Irons was working at Longhill Livery in Dover. “She noticed that one of the horses was missing, and when she looked around the field, it was then that she saw the defendant, [who was] not known to her. “He was standing behind the horse that was missing from the others, and so Miss Irons went over to investigate, and not long after she saw clearly what was happening. “The defendant was wearing yellow high-visibility trousers, and these were down by his ankles. He was thrusting back and forth from behind the horse. She did not run away - she instead screamed at the defendant. “She described in her statement the defendant’s reaction to being caught having sex with a horse. “He casually pulled up his trousers, still exposing himself, and then Miss Irons bravely gave chase and ran towards the defendant. “He then began running away. She pursued him by a nearby field but he was too fast and he managed to escape. “She then notified the owner of the horse, a Mr Neil Rix, who had the wherewithal to immediately call his vet to attend - specifically so swabs could be taken.” Forensic results recovered from the horse’s vagina contained the defendant’s DNA, Mr Ramble explained. Police attended his address on July 10 of that year where they also recovered 13.3 grams of cannabis. Mr Ramble said: "The defendant was arrested for possession of cannabis but also intercourse with a horse.” The court heard no harm came to Betty, while the method Henry used to restrain the cob - a breed which can weigh as much as 50 stone - remains unknown. With a DNA match, officers soon arrested Henry, who admitted cannabis possession but made no comment in interview about abusing the horse Such was Henry’s embarrassment, he maintained his innocence at his plea and trial preparation hearing, the court heard. Henry, who is still being supported by his partner, initially claimed he dispatched his DNA in the field, with the horse inadvertently sitting in it. It prompted Judge Simon James to express strong views on the matter and excuse himself from future hearings regarding Henry's case. Meanwhile, a psychiatric report ordered by the court found there were no causes for concern. Jailing Henry today, Judge Douglas Marks Moore branded his actions "beyond contemplation - reprehensible, appalling, disgusting”. He added: "In my judgement there is sometimes an offence of such a nature that courts must mark society's disapproval and abhorrence. "And in my view this is such a case." Previously, Mr Rix, Dover's former mayor, told KentOnline that "sick" Henry should be castrated. Mr Rix had bought Betty for his grandchildren six years ago. He said he found out about the incident after a distressing phone call from the stablehand. "She phoned me and she was hysterical," he explained. "She said she checked on the ponies, like we do a couple of times each day, when she saw him. "As she got right up to him she realised his pants were around his ankles and he was giggling. "She screamed at him and he pulled away looking mortified. "He ran and she chased him and we got the police involved. "I told her to get the horse straight into the stable and called the vet, who was there within 20 minutes. "I said to the vet 'I don't care how much it costs, I want a proper DNA sample taken'." After Judge Moore passed sentence on Friday, Henry, who wore a blue shirt in court, could be heard saying: "Oh, that's not good - I love you mum." Henry, who will remain on the sex offenders' register, pleaded guilty to having sex with a living animal, namely a horse, which carries a maximum sentence of two years. He also admitted possession of cannabis. Mitigating, John O’Connor, said Henry, of Aukland Crescent, receives “full support” from his mother and step-father, who attended his sentencing hearing. “They find it very difficult to understand what happened two years ago,” he said. Henry believes he violated the horse after becoming stressed at work, while suffering bereavement following the loss of two family members. Mr O’Connor argued Henry has a “real prospect of rehabilitation,” while he’s fit for unpaid work at weekends. And he said the defendant would benefit from a programme designed to help rehabilitate sex offenders, while his partner also wishes for him to attend. Mr O’Connor stressed if Henry was jailed immediately his partner would struggle with mortgage payments, potentially risking her home. Urging the judge to suspend a spell in custody, he said the nature of Henry’s job means “there is no reason for him to be near liveries, stables or horses at all.” The court heard Henry has previous sexual convictions. In 2015 he was handed a police caution after being caught making indecent images of children, including three category A - the most serious kind. In 2017, he sexually assaulted a 14-year-old girl and a 15-year-old girl, both in school uniforms, within weeks of each other. It means Henry’s latest offending occurred while he was on the sex offenders’ register. Judge Douglas Moore said if Henry had been dealt with more robustly for making the illegal images “the 2017 offences might not have occured.” Trying to find the right nursery, school, college, university or training provider in Kent or Medway? Our Education Directory has everything you could possibly need! This website and its associated newspaper are members of the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) © KM Group 2024