 
Don't have an account?
Gain Access Now
 Receive free daily analysis  
Already have an account? Log In
  Welcome back, Merry Christmas, and Happy Holidays RotoBallers! I hope your weekend has gone well so far. We have a matchup of two somewhat underwhelming teams for this Christmas edition of Sunday Night Football, as Tom Brady and the Buccaneers (6-8) head out to Arizona to take on Trace McSorely and the Cardinals (4-10). We can't consider either of these offenses "high-powered", so we'll see how that affects our DFS lineups. Let's take a look! We've been pretty successful so far with these showdown slates and hopefully, that trend continues from last year into this year. Most of us started our fantasy journeys with football, so it's always nice when it comes around. Thanks to the advanced analytics of today, I'll do my best to provide you with as much in-depth analysis as possible regarding positional matchups and the like to help put some lunch money in your pocket. Let's make some coin this season gang, and let's get right to it.  I will be providing you with daily fantasy football picks on FanDuel and DraftKings for the Buccaneers vs. Cardinals NFL DFS showdown slate on December 25th. These NFL DFS lineup picks can vary from higher-priced players and elite options to lower-priced players and value picks on both DraftKings and FanDuel. If you have any questions, you can follow me on Twitter @LucidMediaDFS and fire away, or sign up for a premium RotoBaller NFL package and chat with me and other NFL DFS analysts at any time you'd like!   Tom Brady - QB, $15,600 (DK), $16,500 (FD) Key Stats I'll start tonight's slate off with Tom Brady. Brady and the Bucs have their backs against the wall now, coming into this one with a 6-8 record and a slim lead in the NFC South. For all that Brady has gone through both on and off the field this season, I believe he takes care of business on Christmas night and effectively seals the deal for the Bucs regarding the NFC South title. I have Brady projected for 297.01 yards, 2.02 touchdown passes, and just 0.54 interceptions. Leonard Fournette - RB, $11,700 (DK), $13,000 (FD) Key Stats I'll take a look at Leonard Fournette in this spot as well. It's so tough deciding between White and Fournette, especially coming off last week where he had ten carries for 44 yards, as well as four receptions on four targets for 30 yards. It was a tough matchup for Tampa running backs against Cincinnati's defense, but this week gets a bit easier against Arizona's defense which sits bottom of the pack against RBs. I have Fournette projected to take 10.27 carries for 50.43 yards, as well as 3.74 receptions on 4.15 targets for 26.77 receiving yards and a 58% chance of finding the end zone. Other Captains/MVPs: Mike Evans, Chris Godwin, DeAndre Hopkins Want more NFL DFS tools and content? Our NFL Premium package includes our DFS Cheat Sheets, Research Station, Lineup Optimizer, access to our Premium Slack Chatrooms where members can chat with our NFL analysts, and so much more. Check out this big win from RotoBaller's RealTalkRaph using our Premium tools - join in on the winning! https://twitter.com/RealTalkRaph/status/1348654711168229377   DeAndre Hopkins - WR, $10,200 (DK), $14,000 (FD) Key Stats On the other side of the field, I'll take a look at DeAndre Hopkins. I mentioned a few weeks ago when it was Colt McCoy starting for the Cardinals that Hopkins is effectively "QB-proof". This may or may not be the case with Trace McSorely though. Nevertheless, desperate times call for desperate measures, and if we assume the Bucs shouldn't have too much of an issue getting the win here, it'll be up to Hopkins to keep the Cardinals around. I have him projected for 5.73 receptions on 8.13 targets for 61.08 receiving yards and a 33% chance of finding the end zone. Mike Evans - WR, $9,400 (DK), $11,000 (FD) Key Stats I'll look at Mike Evans over Chris Godwin in my second flex spot, mostly for his price as well as the matchup. I will certainly have shares of both, but I rate Evans's matchup with Marco Wilson just a bit better than Godwin's. My model agrees as well, as it has Evans projected for 5.67 receptions on 8.49 targets for 70.79 receiving yards and a 36% chance of finding the end zone. Other Flex Options: James Connor, Chris Godwin, Rechaad White, Russell Gage, Marquise Brown   Cade Otton - TE, $4,800 (DK), $10,000 (FD) Key Stats I'll take a look at Cade Otton as another pass catcher to pair with Brady and Evans/Godwin. The Bucs have a projected 35.1% DVOA when targeting their tight ends in this game, and Otton's matchup against Ben Niemann is a strong one. I expect him to have a big night in the intermediate passing game, despite my model projecting him a bit low. He's projected for 2.78 receptions on 3.62 targets for 28.09 receiving yards and a 22% chance of scoring a touchdown. The somewhat re-emergence of Cameron Brate makes me a bit more nervous about this play, but I'll have some shares of both. Tampa Bay Buccaneers - D/ST, $4,600 (DK), $7,000 (FD) Key Stats Last but not least, I'll talk about the Buccaneers' defense for a minute. For as much as the Bucs have struggled throughout the season, it hasn't really been the defense that's been the issue. In saying that, though, I have to acknowledge they've given up 35 and 34 points over the last two weeks, respectively. I'm projecting them to have a bounce-back game in this one against a third-string quarterback in Trace McSorely. Other Value Plays: Ryan Succop, Cameron Brate Enjoy the rest of your weekend and good luck everyone!  
Download Our Free News & Alerts Mobile App
Like what you see? Download our updated fantasy football app for iPhone and Android with 24x7 player news, injury alerts, rankings, starts/sits & more. All free!



Win More With RotoBaller
Be sure to also check out all of our other daily fantasy football articles and analysis to help you set those winning lineups, including this new RotoBaller YouTube video:

 More Weekly DFS Analysis
NFL DFS Lineup Picks for DraftKings, FanDuel: Preseason Week 2 Fantasy Football (8/18/2024)

NFL DFS Lineup Picks for DraftKings, FanDuel: Preseason Week 2 Fantasy Football (8/17/2024)

NFL DFS Lineup Picks for DraftKings, FanDuel: Preseason Week 2 Fantasy Football (8/15/2024)

NFL Matchup Ratings Tool - Weekly Player Projections

NFL DFS Lineup Picks for DraftKings, FanDuel: Preseason Week 1 Fantasy Football (8/11/2024)

NFL DFS Lineup Picks for DraftKings, FanDuel: Preseason Week 1 Fantasy Football (8/10/2024)

NFL DFS Lineup Picks for DraftKings, FanDuel: Preseason Week 1 Fantasy Football (8/09/2024)

NFL DFS Lineup Picks for DraftKings, FanDuel: Preseason Week 1 Fantasy Football (8/08/2024)

NFL DFS Lineup Picks for DraftKings, FanDuel: Preseason Hall of Fame Game Fantasy Football (8/01/2024)

Wide Receiver Matchups to Target for Super Bowl LVIII
 For weeks of training camp, it was all quiet on the Brian Thomas Jr. front. The buzz is palpable in Jacksonville now. Reports of the 23rd-overall pick in the 2024 NFL Draft dominating defenders in practice are making their rounds on social media. It's not just because of his speed (4.33 40-yard dash). He's 6'3"... Read More Four rookie quarterbacks in the last ten seasons have finished as a QB1 in fantasy football. Two prime candidates could extend that list. First and second-overall picks Caleb Williams and Jayden Daniels are at or near the top-12 cutoff in the rankings but both offer tremendous upside. Below, we look at Williams' fantasy outlook and... Read More The tight end position has never been as deep as it is this season. I know we say that every year, but this season just feels different. There are guys up and down the board that could make a significant impact in 2024. It's all about average draft position (ADP). A lot of these guys... Read More There's a time for drafting safe, projectable volume, and then the late rounds come and it's time to draft upside in pursuit of that potential league winner. Fantasy managers can then look for key rookies, overshadowed veterans, players returning from injuries, committee backs, and those who benefit from a coaching change, just to name a... Read More The 2024 NFL campaign isn't here yet, but fantasy football draft season is heating up. That said, it's never too early to analyze potential sleepers for specific scoring formats. PPR leagues have become more popular every season, and although the format primarily gives wide receivers and tight ends more value, there are also running backs... Read More Nailing the selections at the top of fantasy football drafts won't necessarily lead to a championship, but whiffing on them will likely lead to a frustrating season. According to ADP (average draft position), 17 wide receivers are being selected in the first three rounds in 12-team leagues. The first-round group of Tyreek Hill, CeeDee Lamb,... Read More Many fantasy football managers are scared to draft young players. It’s understandable as younger players can sometimes carry more risk as opposed to trusted veterans. However, many youngsters, specifically second-year players, can be vital assets to a fantasy roster. We have seen more second-year players take big leaps in recent years. Trey McBride and James... Read More Hello and welcome to RotoBaller's DraftKings Best Ball Fantasy Football Rankings for 2024 Best Ball leagues on DraftKings. A reminder that on the DraftKings Fantasy platform, NFL best ball leagues only have four potential positions -- Quarterback (QB), Running Back (RB), Wide Receiver (WR), and Tight End (TE). You will see these four positions in... Read More Finding value in the later rounds of fantasy football drafts can be the key to building a championship roster, especially when it comes to running backs. As the top-tier options fly off the board early, savvy managers know that hidden gems often emerge from the depths of the draft. These late-round running back fliers can... Read More Check out all of RotoBaller's fantasy football rankings. Staff rankings are updated regularly for all positions and include standard formats, PPR scoring, tiered rankings and dynasty leagues. In fantasy football, we often discuss early-round players or late-round sleepers to draft, but hardly ever consider those all-important middle-round picks. In fantasy terms, we define middle-round picks as the ones made in Rounds 8-12 in a 12-team league. That means we're using Underdog ADPs of 96 to 144 at this stage as we are... Read More Welcome RotoBallers to our 2024 Best Ball Fantasy Football Rankings for NFFC Best Ball leagues. These NFL best ball rankings cover all facets of the offense (QB, RB, WR, TE), kickers, and defenses, all while including tiers for the top 400 players. The fantasy football rankings below are specifically designed for NFFC Best Ball leagues... Read More Hello and welcome to RotoBaller's FFPC Best Ball Fantasy Football Rankings for 2024 Best Ball leagues on FFPC. A reminder that on the FFPC Fantasy platform, NFL best ball leagues only have six potential positions -- Quarterback (QB), Running Back (RB), Wide Receiver (WR), Tight End (TE), Kicker (K), and Defense (DST). You will see... Read More Our goal is to put out the highest-quality content and tools. Ads help us pay RotobBaller's award-winning writers as much as possible they are vital to the site's operations and team. We would appreciate your support by either turning off your adblocker or signing up for our ad-free subscription tier.Thanks for being a reader! For just $0.83/month, get an ad-free experience and access to RotoBaller's VIP Discord Chat Community If you can't subscribe, please consider turning off your adblocker for RotoBaller.com