Sign up for your daily dose of dope. Heat vs. Celtics Game 2 prediction: Get the inside scoop with this Miami vs. Boston betting guide. May 19 2023, Published 9:00 a.m. ET The Miami Heat and Boston Celtics are scheduled to duke it out in Game 2 of the NBA Eastern Conference Finals at TD Garden on Friday. Tipoff is at 8:30 p.m. ET. Get the inside scoop with this Heat-Celtics Game 2 betting analysis, which features the latest betting odds, presented by DraftKings Sportsbook and powered by Dimers.com. The Celtics are betting favorites against the Heat on Friday, with the Over/Under for total points scored set at 216.5. For Radar readers in MA, check out our DraftKings Massachusetts promo code or the Celtics. New customers who bet $5 on any game at DraftKings will receive $150 in bonus bets. Use ➡️ this link ⬅️ to claim. No promo code needed. Use the interactive widget below to see live Spread, Total and Moneyline betting odds and probabilities for Heat vs. Celtics Game 2. Picks for Game 2 between the Heat and Celtics. With star players Jayson Tatum, Jaylen Brown and Malcolm Brogdon, the Celtics are looking to overcome a Heat side that includes Jimmy Butler, Bam Adebayo and Kyle Lowry. The odds and lines in this article are the best available at the time of publishing but are subject to change. DraftKings deal for NBA Playoffs. Dimers has simulated Friday's Heat-Celtics NBA game 10,000 times using advanced machine learning to predict the most likely outcomes. Let's cut to the chase, who's going to win Game 2? According to Dimers' predictive analytics model, the Celtics have a 76% chance of winning against the Heat at TD Garden. Dimers also predicts that the Heat (+8.5) have a 53% chance of covering the spread, while the 216.5-point Over/Under has a 51% chance of going Over. Click ➡️ here ⬅️ to unleash DraftKings Sportsbook's Bet $5, Win $150 promo for Heat vs. Celtics. New customers only. Remember, the predictions and probabilities in this article are correct at the time of publishing and subject to change. Our free data-driven pick for Heat vs. Celtics on Friday is Heat +8.5 (-105). ➡️ Bet now ⬅️ via DraftKings Sportsbook. Bet Heat +8.5 for Game 2 vs. Cetlics. All of the predictions in this article are based on world-class predictive analytics and hundreds of data points to help you make smarter investments. Prop bets are a common way to wager on Miami vs. Boston without necessarily betting on the outcome of Friday's game itself. Dimers uses the best information available to project key individual stats for each team, such as points, rebounds and assists. Jimmy Butler is expected to step up for the Heat with 29 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. For the Celtics, Jayson Tatum is projected to have 39 points, 10 rebounds and 7 assists. Click ➡️ here ⬅️ to unlock DraftKings Sportsbook's NBA Bet $5, Get $150 in Bonus Bets promo for Heat vs. Celtics. New customers only. Dimers' predicted final score for Miami vs. Boston in Game 2 of the NBA Eastern Conference Finals has the Celtics winning 112-104. This prediction is based on both teams' average score after 10,000 game simulations. The NBA Eastern Conference Finals game between the Heat and Celtics on Friday is scheduled to start at 8:30 p.m. ET at TD Garden. Dimers.com provides exclusive sports betting content to RadarOnline.com, including sports betting promo codes and bonus offers to help new players get in on the action. Please wager responsibly. Thanks to Dimers, all of the picks on this page are based on 10,000 data-led simulations of Heat vs. Celtics and are correct at the time of publishing to help you make better decisions when placing an online bet. If you are planning on using our picks when sports betting, it is crucial that you gamble responsibly and manage your finances effectively. If you or a loved one has questions or needs to talk to a professional about gambling, call 1-800-GAMBLER or visit 1800gambler.net for more information. If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the links on our site, we may receive a commission. Ryan Leaver | Dimers.com Ryan Leaver is a respected journalist and lifelong sports fan who lives and breathes the NFL, NBA and professional golf. Renowned for his extensive knowledge and keen insights, he is widely recognised as one of the most trusted sources for the latest and most up-to-date information across all sports he covers. DAILY. BREAKING. CELEBRITY NEWS. ALL FREE. More From Radar Online Opt-out of personalized ads © Copyright 2024 RADAR ONLINE™️. A DIVISION OF MYSTIFY ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK INC. RADAR ONLINE is a registered trademark. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service, Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy. People may receive compensation for some links to products and services. Offers may be subject to change without notice.