The Cavaliers open the NBA playoffs today against the Knicks. A lot of NBA pundits think the Cavs are the better team, so right now might be a good time to place a wager on them. The place for first-time customers to do that is Caesars Sportsbook Ohio, where they have a first-bet offer of up to $1,250 when using the Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL. With the Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL offer, you either win your first bet and enjoy the profits that come with it, or you get a second-chance bonus bet up to $1,250. Caesars Sportsbook Ohio is also throwing in 1,000 Tier and 1,000 Rewards credits, no matter the outcome of your first bet. That’s why this offer is the hottest in the marketplace of online sportsbooks. No other sports betting app comes close to the size and scope of this offer. You can make a first bet on the Cavs and rest assured that, if it loses, a whopper of a consolation prize would come your way thanks to the Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL. It takes a few steps to join Caesars Sportsbook Ohio and take advantage of the Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL. Check these steps off and you’re ready to go use the Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL and enjoy everything Caesars Sportsbook Ohio has to offer. As Game 1 between the Cavs and Knicks looms, Cleveland is a -225 favorite to win at Caesars Sportsbook Ohio. If your first bet using the Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL was $1,000 on the Cavs to win Game 1 and they did, your cash profit would be $444.44 and there would be no need for any second-chance bonus bet. If the Knicks pulled off the upset? Caesars Sportsbook Ohio would quickly put a $1,000 bonus bet into your account. You’d have 14 days to play the bonus bet, which is longer than most other sports betting apps allow. And, unlike some sportsbook promo codes, there are no annoying odds restrictions on the bonus with Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL. With the Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL, the combined 2,000 Tier and Rewards credits are yours to keep no matter the outcome of the first wager. Those can be used for more bonus bets, or discounts on dining, entertainment and lodging at the many Caesars brick-and-mortar properties, including the iconic hotel on the Las Vegas Strip. The futures market is buzzing at Caesars Sportsbook Ohio, the Cavs are +3000 to win the next NBA title. A $100 successful bet on them at those odds would return a $3,000 profit. The Milwaukee Bucks, at +275, are the current odds-on favorite, followed by Boston (+325) and Phoenix (+425). If not the Cavs, there are other teams for Ohio sports fans to wager upon using Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL. The Guardians and Reds are in their first couple weeks of the MLB season, and they play almost every day. Now is a great time for Ohioans to place their first sports bets. The Caesars Sportsbook Ohio promo code SBWIREFULL is the perfect place to do it. So, have fun and good luck. Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside.
 Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside. BetMGM Review
Caesars Review
Fanatics Review
bet365 Review
DraftKings Review
FanDuel Review
BetRivers Review
 Sports Scores and Odds Hub 
Sports Betting Legality Map 
Parlay Calculator 





 
				© Copyright USA TODAY Sportsbook Wire 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		