International Students Newcastle University >  You need a good level of English language to study at Newcastle University. ‌‌English will be the main language you use socially and for study. If English is not your first language you will need to provide a recognised English language test or qualification. You can find more information about these English Language tests on the Tests (visa) tab.    For 2024 entry onwards, we accept IELTS One Skill Retakes In most cases you will need an overall score of IELTS 6.5 or equivalent. You will also need at least IELTS 5.5 or equivalent in each of the four sub-skills: Individual undergraduate course pages list if you need an overall IELTS score or sub-scores higher than this. English language requirements do vary so you should read the 'entry requirements' section of our postgraduate course pages. If you don't meet our English language requirements extra support is available. You could also complete a course to help improve your English before you start your degree. We provide these at INTO Newcastle. Please check your course information for full details of the requirements. We offer free lessons in English for Academic Purposes throughout the year. You can attend classes, workshops and interactive lectures on a range of topics including: We accept a wide range of English language tests. The tests on this page are the only ones we accept if you need a visa to study with us. Our typical English Language requirements are listed as IELTS scores. You will see these on each course page under the 'entry requirements' section. Our typical IELTS scores are: IELTS for UKVI (Academic)/IELTS (Academic) overall score of 6.5 with at least IELTS 5.5 in each sub-skill. Individual undergraduate  and postgraduate course pages list if you need an overall IELTS score or sub-scores higher than this. Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us and must be verifiable on the relevant official website. For 2024 entry onwards, we accept IELTS One Skill Retakes Business English Certificate Higher: Grade B with a minimum sub-skill grade of 'weak' Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us. Certificate in Advanced English: Score of 176 with a minimum sub-skill score of 160 Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us. Certificate of Proficiency in English: Score of 176 with a minimum sub-skill score of 160 Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us. ESOL Skills for Life Level 2: Grade of Pass with a minimum of grade of Borderline in speaking and listening Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us.   International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) 0500 and 0522 (English 1st language): Grade C  or International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) 0510 and 0511  (English 2nd language): Grade B  or O Level English Language 1115, 1119, 1120, 1123, 1125, 1126, 1127, 1128: Grade C GCSE in English Language: Grade C AS or A Level in English Language and/or Literature: Grade C  Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE): Grade 5 in English with a minimum of grade 4 in each element. For programmes requiring IELTS at 6.0, Grade 4 overall with maximum 2 elements at Grade 3, rest at Grade 4. Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us. Indian 12th Standard Examination: Score of 75% in English (additional interviewing conditions may also apply). We would accept the above scores without interview provided:You have taken the examination no more than three years before the start of your course with us. Or Your undergraduate degree has been taught and assessed in English and you completed your degree studies no more than three years before the start of your course with us. International Baccalaureate English A: Literature:  Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us. International Baccalaureate English A: Literature and Language: Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us. International Baccalaureate English Language B: Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us. INTO Newcastle English for Academic Purposes Assessment: Score of 65 with a minimum sub-score of 55% Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us INTO Newcastle Pre-Sessional English Programme: Score of 65 with a minimum sub-score of 55% Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  INTO English for Academic Purposes Assessment: Score of 65 with a minimum sub-score of 55% Conditions:   INTO English Language Assessment (IELA):  Valid only if you have taken the test within two years of the start of your course with us Pearson Test of English Academic 2023 We apologise for any confusion our website update on 3 April 2023 has caused. Newcastle University sets English Language Entry requirements using IELTS for UKVI.To support students, where possible, we will recognise other comparable tests as being equivalent to an IELTS test. You will be aware that UKVI set a minimum English language requirement to allow us to sponsor you to study*. As a result of UKVI changing the score equivalencies for the Pearson Test of English Academic, Newcastle University will be adjusting the Pearson IELTS equivalencies for new applications received after Friday 14 April. The Pearson scores we accept will be based on the UKVI levels which are required for visa sponsorship rather than the Pearson published equivalencies. All existing applications and offers will have the previous scores honoured if the test meets the requirements for UKVI sponsorship.   Applicationreceived after 14thApril 2023   *Prove your English language abilities with a secure English language test (SELT) - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) ** Please note this is the UKVI minimum requirement. If in error you have received an offer with a requirement lower than this, please contact us to review your options at ug-admissions@ncl.ac.uk or pgadmissions@ncl.ac.uk with the subject Pearson Language Singapore Integrated Programme: Achievement of conditions of offer. Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  TOEFL IBT: score of 90 with a minimum of Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us, and must be verifiable on the relevant official website  TOEFL IBT Special Home Edition: score of 90 with a minimum of Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us, and must be verifiable on the relevant official website TOEFL ITP Plus for China Score of 610 with the following scores in the sub-skills: Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us, and must be verifiable on the relevant official website  Integrated Skills in English: Grade ISE III or ISE IV with a minimum sub-skill grade of Pass ISEII Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE): C5 in English for courses that require IELTS 6.5. (For courses requiring: IELTS at 6.0, C6; IELTS at 7.0, C4; IELTS at 7.5, B2). We would accept the above scores provided that your pre-university qualifications or undergraduate degree has been taught and assessed in English. We will ask you to provide a scratch card number so that your WAEC/NECO SSCE English qualification can be verified online. Where it has been more than three years since you completed qualifications taught and assessed in English, and you need a Tier 4 visa to study in the UK, we may need to interview you before we issue your CAS for your visa.   We also accept the following tests if you do not need a visa to study with us. The below tests and Qualifications are considered acceptable for admission to the majority of Newcastle University’s degree programmes for applicants who do not need a Student Visa. If a Student Visa is required, an English Language Interview will be required if the test does not contain all 4 sub skills. European Baccalaureate (English 1st language): Grade 6 European Baccalaureate (English 2nd language): Grade 7 Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  Studentereksamen (Upper Secondary School Leaving Examination): Grade 10 in English  Hojere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) (Higer Preparatory Examination): Grade 10 in English Hojere Handelseksamen (HHX): Grade 10 in English Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  Ylioppilaustutkintotodistus/ Studentexamensbetyg (Finnish National Matriculation): Grade 5 (Magna cum Laude) in English  Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us French Baccalaureate: Grade 12 in English Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us Abitur: Grade 11 in English Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  VWO: Grade 8 in English Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  Vitnemål – videregående opplaering (School Leaving Certificate): Grade 4 in English Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  Slutbetyg fran Gymnasieskolan (School Leaving Certificate): VG (Pass with distinction) in English Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us  HKEAA Use of English: Grade C Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination in English Syllabus B: Grade B Valid only if you have taken the test within three years of the start of your course with us iGCSE in English Language: Score of C/4 from all examination boards For most programmes you do not need to prove your English ability if you meet one of the criteria below.       2. You are a national from one of the countries below: Newcastle University, NE1 7RU, United Kingdom, Telephone: (0191) 208 6000 From outside the UK dial +44 191 208 6000. Social media directory Last updated 18 July 2024 ©  Newcastle University