International applicants are citizens or permanent residents of a country other than the United States. International applicants who are requesting F-1 or J-1 visa eligibility will be required to provide evidence of financial support via a Financial Affidavit. International Student and Scholar Services advises international students in matters of immigration, federal and state taxation, and orientation to the UAB and Birmingham communities. Before you begin the Graduate Application process, you should review the programs offered at UAB to identify your specific program of interest and review program specific admissions requirements and deadlines. If you are applying to a research program, you should also identify faculty research areas within the department to verify that they align with your own interests. Some graduate programs may have earlier application deadline dates and/or program-specific criteria, so please refer to the program website or contact the department directly. Program-specific Criteria & Deadlines 


Deadlines

If your program does not have a specific application deadline, the Graduate School has the below standard application deadline dates. 
Typically, this is the date by which your application fee must be paid and your application submitted. Supporting materials, such as recommendations or transcripts, will continue to be accepted after this deadline for most programs.




Semester
Degree Seeking Applicant Deadline
Non-Degree Seeking and Readmission Applicant Deadline


Summer 2024
May 1, 2024
June 17, 2024


Fall 2024
August 1, 2024
August 19, 2024


Spring 2025
December 1, 2024
January 6, 2025




 



Requirements


Online Application
If this is your first time applying through the dashboard, you will need to click Sign Up to create an account. After creating your password, you will be automatically signed into the application dashboard. Select Start New Application to get started.

UAB Graduate Online Application  opens a new website


Citizenship/Immigration Documents
Where to Submit: Application Dashboard
Applicant with US Citizenship, but Born Outside US
If you were born in a country other than the United States but claim United States citizenship, we require proof of United States citizenship as part of the application process. You will be asked to upload proof of citizenship as you are completing the application. Acceptable documents include a US passport, certificate of birth abroad, or certificate of naturalization.

Applicant Residing in the US
If you are international and currently residing in the United States, we require immigration documentation as part of the application process. Please upload a copy of your immigration documentation (I-20, DS-2019, visa stamp, I-94, I-797, etc.) reflecting your current immigration status. If you are admitted, the International Student and Scholar Services will have access to your documents and will determine if your paperwork is sufficient for their purposes.

Applicant Applying from Outside US

If you are international but residing overseas at the time of applying, or if you are international and applying to an online-only program, we do not require immigration documentation.
Application Fee
Where to Submit: Application Dashboard
Graduate School's standard fee is $50 for domestic applicants and $60 for international applicants. Certain programs have higher fees which will be assessed at the time of application. The application fee is non-refundable.
English Proficiency Exams
Where to Submit: Send Electronically or Mail to Graduate School
Learn more about UAB's requirements for English proficiency exams and waivers in the section below.
Transcripts and Proof of Degree
Where to Submit: Send Electronically or Mail to UAB Graduate School
International applicants must provide documentation showing they have earned the equivalent of a 4-year bachelor's degree from the United States to be eligible for admission consideration. Documentation requirements are outlined below.
Official Transcripts and Degree Statements

Original transcripts/marksheets bearing an official stamp must be submitted to the Graduate School. Copied, faxed, or scanned transcripts are considered unofficial.
A separate statement confirming degree conferral (degree statement) bearing an official stamp is also required.

Transcripts and degree statements must be in the original language of the international institution as well as in English. Applicants submitting an approved transcript evaluation (see below) are not required to submit English translations.
    
If you only have one set of original documents, please submit unofficial copies for review purposes. If admitted, original documents can be submitted to the Graduate School when you arrive in Birmingham. We will verify their authenticity in person and make copies for our records which will allow you to keep the original documents.
If you will be enrolling in an online only program and will not be on campus, please send the original documents along with a self-addressed and stamped envelope so we can return them.
Applicants who have not yet finished their degree should present a transcript showing they have earned a minimum of 91 complete semester hours or six (6) completed semesters.

Transcript Evaluations
Applicants with coursework earned from institutions outside the United States must provide a course-by-course foreign college transcript evaluation of all attended non-U.S. institutions.* We will accept a transcript evaluation from any NACES accredited evaluation company. To determine academic eligibility for admissions, academic credentials must be:

Translated to English;
Evaluated course-by-course;
Include the overall academic GPA; and
From an approved third party company. We will accept a transcript evaluation from any NACES accredited evaluation company. A list of approved current members can be found here.

SpanTran:
SpanTran created a custom application for UAB that will make sure you select the right kind of evaluation at a discounted rate. You can access their application through the SpanTran application – The University of Alabama at Birmingham portal.
International Student and Scholar Services will have access to your decision and a representative will contact you directly if any other documentation is necessary to begin processing your immigration documents.
*UAB will complete the evaluation for institutions outside of the United States if they are on a 4.0 grading scale. UAB reserves the right to request a NACES-accredited evaluation if a determination is made that the evaluation cannot be completed internally.
Official Test Scores
Where to Submit: Send Electronically or Mail to UAB Graduate School
Students are required to submit official standardized test scores if required by their program for admission consideration. We will not accept academic test scores that are more than five years old unless the program requests a recency waiver on the applicant's behalf. Applicants should contact the testing agency to have official scores sent to the UAB Graduate School's institution code (1856 for GRE, 1017 for MAT, 1CB5S61 for GMAT).

Institution Codes:

GRE: 1856
MAT: 1017
GMAT: 1CB5S61

Additional Requirements
Where to Submit: Application Dashboard
The University of Alabama at Birmingham welcomes international applicants. An international applicant is neither a citizen nor a permanent resident of the United States.

Some programs require additional items such as the examples listed below. It is important that applicants visit the program website to make sure they understand all requirements. Applicants can also log in to the application dashboard at any time to review their application checklist.
Recommendation Letters
Many programs require three (3) letters of recommendation. Applicants will identify recommenders as part of the online application process. Notification emails will be sent to the identified recommenders who will then submit their recommendation electronically. Upon submission, recommendations will be attached to the application.
Personal Essay
Most programs require a brief summary of academic interests, career goals, and relevant background experience. In addition, some programs have specific essay topics.
Resume or Curriculum Vitae
Some programs require a written compilation of education, work experience, credentials, and accomplishments.




Application Process



 


Step 1: Create an Account or Log In
If this is your first time applying through the UAB Graduate Online Application, you will need to click the "create guest account" button to create an account. After creating your password, you will be automatically signed into the application dashboard.







English Proficiency Exams

International students from non-English speaking countries are required to submit English proficiency scores (TOEFL/IELTS/PTEA) that meet the Graduate School's minimum score requirements.
Minimum Scores


TOEFL: 80*


TOEFL Essentials: 8.5


IELTS: 6.5


PTEA: 56


IELA: 176


Duolingo: 120


*NOTE: UAB does not accept My Best Scores from TOEFL. You will need to submit individual test date score reports to your application.
We will only accept English proficiency scores that have been taken within a two (2) year period from the date that the application was submitted. Scores that exceed this time frame are considered expired and will not be accepted. 

Applicants must contact the testing agency to have the official scores sent to the UAB Graduate School. TOEFL scores should be submitted to institution code 1856; Students do not need to send an official IELTS code and these scores are verified using the TRF code on the score report. PTEA results can be sent electronically to UAB through the testing website.

English Proficiency Exam Waiver
We may waive the requirement according to the guidelines below:

The applicant has earned a bachelor's, graduate, or professional degree in the United States with a GPA of 3.00 or higher.
The applicant is a citizen of one of the following countries:



Antigua
Australia
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Botswana
Cameroon
Canada, with the exception of Quebec
Cayman Islands
Ghana
Irish Republic
Jamaica
Kenya
Malawi
New Zealand
Nigeria
Rwanda
Sierra Leone
South Africa
Tanzania
Trinidad & Tobago
Uganda
United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales)
Zambia
Zimbabwe





 If your program does not have a specific application deadline, the Graduate School has the below standard application deadline dates.  Typically, this is the date by which your application fee must be paid and your application submitted. Supporting materials, such as recommendations or transcripts, will continue to be accepted after this deadline for most programs.   If this is your first time applying through the dashboard, you will need to click Sign Up to create an account. After creating your password, you will be automatically signed into the application dashboard. Select Start New Application to get started. UAB Graduate Online Application  opens a new website Where to Submit: Application Dashboard If you were born in a country other than the United States but claim United States citizenship, we require proof of United States citizenship as part of the application process. You will be asked to upload proof of citizenship as you are completing the application. Acceptable documents include a US passport, certificate of birth abroad, or certificate of naturalization.
 If you are international and currently residing in the United States, we require immigration documentation as part of the application process. Please upload a copy of your immigration documentation (I-20, DS-2019, visa stamp, I-94, I-797, etc.) reflecting your current immigration status. If you are admitted, the International Student and Scholar Services will have access to your documents and will determine if your paperwork is sufficient for their purposes.
 If you are international but residing overseas at the time of applying, or if you are international and applying to an online-only program, we do not require immigration documentation. Where to Submit: Application Dashboard Graduate School's standard fee is $50 for domestic applicants and $60 for international applicants. Certain programs have higher fees which will be assessed at the time of application. The application fee is non-refundable. Where to Submit: Send Electronically or Mail to Graduate School Learn more about UAB's requirements for English proficiency exams and waivers in the section below. Where to Submit: Send Electronically or Mail to UAB Graduate School International applicants must provide documentation showing they have earned the equivalent of a 4-year bachelor's degree from the United States to be eligible for admission consideration. Documentation requirements are outlined below. Applicants with coursework earned from institutions outside the United States must provide a course-by-course foreign college transcript evaluation of all attended non-U.S. institutions.* We will accept a transcript evaluation from any NACES accredited evaluation company. To determine academic eligibility for admissions, academic credentials must be: SpanTran: SpanTran created a custom application for UAB that will make sure you select the right kind of evaluation at a discounted rate. You can access their application through the SpanTran application – The University of Alabama at Birmingham portal. International Student and Scholar Services will have access to your decision and a representative will contact you directly if any other documentation is necessary to begin processing your immigration documents. *UAB will complete the evaluation for institutions outside of the United States if they are on a 4.0 grading scale. UAB reserves the right to request a NACES-accredited evaluation if a determination is made that the evaluation cannot be completed internally. Where to Submit: Send Electronically or Mail to UAB Graduate School Students are required to submit official standardized test scores if required by their program for admission consideration. We will not accept academic test scores that are more than five years old unless the program requests a recency waiver on the applicant's behalf. Applicants should contact the testing agency to have official scores sent to the UAB Graduate School's institution code (1856 for GRE, 1017 for MAT, 1CB5S61 for GMAT).
 Institution Codes: Where to Submit: Application Dashboard The University of Alabama at Birmingham welcomes international applicants. An international applicant is neither a citizen nor a permanent resident of the United States.
 Some programs require additional items such as the examples listed below. It is important that applicants visit the program website to make sure they understand all requirements. Applicants can also log in to the application dashboard at any time to review their application checklist. Many programs require three (3) letters of recommendation. Applicants will identify recommenders as part of the online application process. Notification emails will be sent to the identified recommenders who will then submit their recommendation electronically. Upon submission, recommendations will be attached to the application. Most programs require a brief summary of academic interests, career goals, and relevant background experience. In addition, some programs have specific essay topics. Some programs require a written compilation of education, work experience, credentials, and accomplishments. If this is your first time applying through the UAB Graduate Online Application, you will need to click the "create guest account" button to create an account. After creating your password, you will be automatically signed into the application dashboard. International students from non-English speaking countries are required to submit English proficiency scores (TOEFL/IELTS/PTEA) that meet the Graduate School's minimum score requirements. *NOTE: UAB does not accept My Best Scores from TOEFL. You will need to submit individual test date score reports to your application. We will only accept English proficiency scores that have been taken within a two (2) year period from the date that the application was submitted. Scores that exceed this time frame are considered expired and will not be accepted.  We may waive the requirement according to the guidelines below:   Applying to Graduate School could not be easier with our online application. Sign up or sign in to access your application and get started on your UAB journey! Apply Now  opens a new website   
 UAB is an Equal Employment/Equal Educational Opportunity Institution dedicated to providing equal opportunities and equal access to all individuals regardless of race, color, religion, ethnic or national origin, sex (including pregnancy), genetic information, age, disability, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, and veteran’s status. As required by Title IX, UAB prohibits sex discrimination in any education program or activity that it operates. Individuals may report concerns or questions to UAB’s Assistant Vice President and Senior Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX notice of nondiscrimination is located at uab.edu/titleix.