For students For staff Popular links New and returning students Wellbeing, Inclusion and Culture Study  Undergraduate  Masters  PhD  Teacher training  Degree Apprenticeships  Our world-leading research   Our research is changing the world - making it greener, healthier and fairer. PhDs and research degrees    We are committed to nurturing talent and encouraging new ideas, making Exeter a great place to pursue Postgraduate Research. Exeter Innovation  
 Exeter Innovation is a partner for transformative innovation. We harness the world leading research and education of the University of Exeter to create real and lasting impact, by working with organisations of all types and sizes on their innovation journey. Global Exeter  The University of British Columbia Activities between the University of British Columbia and Exeter include a joint research symposium focused on Community, Culture, Creativity, and Wellbeing held at Exeter in May 2018 and a faculty-led, co-funded initiatives in Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, Climate Change and Digital Humanities. University of South Florida University of South Florida and Exeter have entered into a 5 year student exchange between the two Universities. They launched the University of Exeter / University of South Florida Research Catalyst Fund to provide grants to support joint research initiatives between the two institutions. Tsinghua University The University of Exeter and Tsinghua University have launched a jointly-awarded PhD degree programme in climate and environmental sciences which supports six students to be co-supervised between Tsinghua's Department of Earth System Science and Colleges at Exeter that conduct research on earth systems and environmental sciences. Read more. Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) A partnership between Exeter and HKUST will enable students embarking on Engineering or Computer Science undergraduate degrees at HKUST to finish their degree at Exeter, before spending a fifth year at Exeter's Law School, completing either an LLM (Master of Laws) or a Juris Doctor (JD). Read more. Nanyang Technological University NTU and Exeter are working in partnership to deliver six split-site Biomedical PhD studentships. If successful, you will benefit from expert supervision from researchers in both institutions and have the opportunity to research and live in two great locations, for up to eighteen months in each. University of Geneva To celebrate, and further extend, the strong relationship of staff within the University of Exeter and the University of Geneva, the two universities have launched a new seed fund to support developing research links. University of Queensland The University of Exeter and The University of Queensland have partnered to establish the QUEX Institute, a new multi-million pound partnership designed to bolster their joint global research impact. Read more. About the University  Contact us  Business and partnerships Campuses and visitors  University of Exeter, Cornwall News  International Summer School Take the opportunity in the summer to study abroad on our accredited courses worth up to 7.5 ECTS/4 US credits, whether it’s for credit transfer towards your degree, studying something completely different to your normal course of study or even just a chance to interact with people from all over the world with similar interests from different perspectives. Want to know more about the benefits of joining the International Summer School? Take a look at the most frequently asked questions! Each course is worth up to 7.5 ECTS/4 US credits and is taught by our world-class faculty along with external experts in the field brought in to ensure understanding of the subject area from different angles and small class sizes to maximise the chance to engage with your classmates and the academic staff at each turn. Our programme also includes an engaging social programme designed to help you meet and connect with new people from all over the world at a time when the world has seemed to have gotten smaller for a lot us. Also within the programme is the chance to learn new skills and acquire knowledge to help you meet your future targets, including study skills and postgraduate study guidance and potential scholarships. Join our incredible academic colleagues from the start of the programme in London with a workshop series on the core principles of how to build a sustainable, healthy and socially just future for all with the University of Exeter. Our on campus programme includes accommodation, several day trips and social programme as well our incredible academic courses. "One of the International Summer School's key features is the chance to experience the UK and meet people from all over the world. We have hosted more than 27 nationalities and every continent from around the world in the last three years which really gives people the chance to learn about their interests from the perspectives of others." Check out our International Summer School General Timetable 2024 to get an overview of what the programme looks like this year. Please note that this does not give specific details of academic programmes and social activities and is subject to change for next year, but it will give you an idea of how you could spend your time with us if you choose to join us for an exciting summer! Apply now Applications for our 2024 are now closed. Please complete our Register your Interest form to get information on our 2025 programme, including dates and notification of our application window.  Scholarships There are several partial scholarships available both from University of Exeter and external organisations for the International Summer School. See our  Fees and Scholarships area for more information. More about the programme Information for Agents If you are an agent looking for more information about our programme, including marketing materials, please contact us on iss@exeter.ac.uk. Contact us Email iss@exeter.ac.uk  Connect with us  Information for: Quick links Campuses Streatham Campus St Luke's Campus Penryn Campus Truro Campus