Everything you need to know about studying at NTU as an international student. Read our guidance on the application process, scholarships, international entry requirements and where to get more help. Meet your NTU country advisor for tailored support with your study plans. Also find entry requirements by country, upcoming events and region-specific scholarships. Everything about applying to NTU as an international student in one place. Entry requirements by country, preparation courses and advice on Student visas. What to do when you receive an offer, planning your journey and preparing for study. Scholarships for international and European students. International fees and advice on making international payments. Supporting a family member or friend with their study plans? Find information and advice for parents and families of international students. 
                    Award-winning support, great location, industry connections... all this and more make NTU a great choice for international students.
                 If you're researching Nottingham from a distance, our Virtual Tour and website is a great place to start. Read our guidance on what it's like to live and study in Nottingham, including cost of living information, food recommendations and more. If you're already in the UK, you can also come to an open day or campus tour to experience NTU for yourself. The NTU virtual tour is a great way to get to know our University from the comfort of your own home. Whether you’re looking for a night out or want to relax and unwind in a quiet cafe, Nottingham has something for everyone in its affordable variety of attractions, shopping venues, nightlife, and natural spaces. How much does it cost to be student in Nottingham? Budgeting advice, a breakdown of approximate monthly costs and guidance on working in the UK. Where to find ingredients for cooking from home; supermarkets, international food stores, restaurants and cafes in Nottingham. NTU has equipped me with the skills and knowledge I need to develop my future career and my research aspirations.  And really to shape my future in the years to come. I've developed so much as a person during my time here. Advice on accepting your offer, preparing for your studies, and everything you need to know about moving to the UK. How to confirm your place to study at NTU as an international student. Follow our 5-step checklist to accept your offer and meet any outstanding conditions. Come along to our Regional Preparing for NTU events. If you're starting at NTU in September 2024, these are a great opportunity to ask questions, get advice and guidance and meet other offer holders from your region. Get advice on your study options and upcoming events when you sign up for email alerts. 
+44 (0)115 848 2999
enquiries@ntu.ac.uk
Other ways to get in touch
 Lines are open:
                Monday – Thursday 8.30 am – 5 pm
                Friday 8.30 am – 4.30 pm
             © Nottingham Trent University.