   Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to continue reading.
 Please purchase a subscription to continue reading.
 Your current subscription does not provide access to this content.
      Thunderstorms likely. Rainfall will be locally heavy at times. A few storms may be severe early. Low around 70F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 100%..
                                 Thunderstorms likely. Rainfall will be locally heavy at times. A few storms may be severe early. Low around 70F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 100%.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 11:34 pm    Housing in and around Kinston and Lenoir County is limited. New construction will change that, but will the price point push residents out of the market? Local realtor John Grady and realtor/appraiser Walter LaRoque explained what type of construction is happening in the area. Grady and LaRoque highlighted a few upcoming and currently selling communities. Butterfield, Sutton Acres, Danfield, multifamily apartments, and a listed, but not built project in Pink Hill. “Countywide, the market has changed so much over the last four years,” LaRoque said. “Now, with the supply shortage, it’s pretty much buyers looking for a price range and a number of bedrooms.” LaRoque said clients now, are less interested in specific locations, instead, looking in cities like Goldsboro and around Kinston. Anything within an hour of Greenville. Part of the reason for the shortage “In a normal market, you would have builders going out there to meet the demand, but a lot of builders have been shying away from speck builds because the cost of materials has gone up so much.” LaRoque said, “For a while, it was just custom builds. That has changed now with new builders coming into the market.” Just behind the desolate Vernon Park Mall property, a new community is sprouting up with luxury amenities. LaRoque explained the company building this northwest Kinston community, Butterfield, is DR Horton Homes. A representative for DR Horton Homes was contacted about the development, saying “This community will offer a variety of single-family homes. Built with top-quality craftsmanship and materials. We will be building a total of 66 homes in this community.” Information shared by DR Horton Homes shows seven homes currently available for purchase, all with expected completion dates ranging over the next four months. Square footage is planned between 1,613-1,764 and the cost of these homes, although subject to change, will be between $246,490-$254,990. LaRoque added La Grange is getting new homes added to the established subdivision, Sutton Acres. Adams Homes is building single-family dwellings. According to the builder’s website, they have eight currently under construction and an additional one is move-in ready. The kitchen will boast stainless steel appliances and granite throughout. The bathrooms feature a tiled five foott install or bathe in a garden tub. Available homes at Sutton Acres range in price and square footage; starting at 2,140 square feet for $335,850 all the way up to 3,629 square feet for $435,550. Models, including ranch floor plans, will feature luxury finishes and amenities, according to Adams Homes marketing material. Grady added Danfield is a new subdivision located northwest of Falling Creek. Century Complete Communities is building these homes. According to their website, the homes will achieve square footage in the vicinity of 1,566 to 2,014. Pricing, although subject to change, has been listed between $216,990 to $247,990. Some of these houses have already sold. “The market has been good, markets are up, prices are up,” Grady said. “I have recently had clients relocate from areas like Maryland.” LaRoque said he has had buyers moving to the area from New Hampshire and Connecticut. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: