In a report released on August 14, Michael Rehaut from J.P. Morgan maintained a Buy rating on Masonite International (DOOR – Research Report), with a price target of $122.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $102.06. According to TipRanks, Rehaut is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 2.8% and a 51.85% success rate. Rehaut covers the Real Estate sector, focusing on stocks such as DR Horton, Forestar Group, and KB Home. Currently, the analyst consensus on Masonite International is a Strong Buy with an average price target of $123.17, implying a 20.68% upside from current levels. In a report released on August 11, Stifel Nicolaus also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $123.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> The company has a one-year high of $109.58  and a one-year low of $65.71. Currently, Masonite International has an average volume of 117.8K.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 37 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of DOOR in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Masonite International Corp. designs and manufactures of interior and exterior doors for the residential new construction; the residential repair, renovation and remodeling; and the non-residential building construction markets. The company markets and sells its products to remodeling contractors, builders, homeowners, retailers, dealers, lumberyards, commercial and general contractors and architects through well-established wholesale and retail distribution channels. Its reportable segments are organized and managed principally by geographic region: North America; Europe, Asia & Latin America; and Africa. The North America segment operates through three sub segments: Retail, Wholesale and Commercial. The Europe, Asia and Latin America segment includes operations in United Kingdom, France, Central Eastern Europe, Asia & South America and Israel. The company’s business roots back to 1925 and was founded on April 16, 2009 and is headquartered in Tampa, FL.  Read More on DOOR: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks