DEPTFORD TWP. — One of the nation’s largest homebuilders is moving ahead with a community of 273 housing units on former farmland here. The Planning Board approved the D.R. Horton Inc. project at a June 7 meeting, capping more than a year of design discussions between Deptford and the builder. The approval was unanimous, although more than two hours of questioning preceded the vote. The community, which will be build over two phases, will have 189, two-story townhouses and 84 apartments that come with one to three bedrooms. It will be built in two phases off Cattell and Tanyard roads near Route 47. More:Harrison Twp. housing project area works around wetlands to find building areas More:Woodbury Heights board approves cannabis store on Mantua Pike, a borough first D.R. Horton will own and operate the complex. All 273 units will be rentals and, importantly for township purposes, half the apartments will be leased at “affordable housing” rates. The company wants to market the site to people looking for an upscale quality of living, said Robert Fesco, D.R. Horton's development vice president. A clubhouse, pool, pickleball courts, and playgrounds around the 32.8-acre complex are features the company hopes will draw tenants. “We’re really excited about it,” Fecso said. “I think we’re excited about the rents we’re looking to get here, and the opportunity we’re going to have for people just moving into the area to have a nice, upscale-looking rental community. … And we did an upscale amenity package, more than I think was required in here, so they have a place for the children to play, people to gather.” The 42 affordable housing-priced apartments will make a significant contribution to Deptford's need to meet a court-approved plan to serve that market. “This is really the first major plan that we’ve had in under our housing plan that we passed in 2019,” township Planner Brian Slaugh said.   Every municipality in New Jersey is required to accommodate rental and for-sale housing affordable to people of “modest means,” Slaugh noted. He said that for this area that roughly equates to a family of four living on $70,000 per year. The project originally was submitted in May 2022. Deptford revised its zoning for the area in December make the final design possible. The revisions involved allowing “stacked” townhouses and townhouses over apartments. Mayor Paul Medany ended up a “yes” vote, but expressed doubts about how the complex’s road construction, storm water management system, and parking layout would function in the long term. “Because there isn’t a basin in this township that works correctly,” Medany said. “And we all know that because we all got to deal with it all the time.” Medany said similar housing developments generate regular complaints about parking availability. “You guys did provide more parking than you’re supposed to,” Medany said. “And we appreciate that. And we appreciate all the work you guys did working together. But I’m just telling you, when I hear testimony that ‘the parking’s going to be great,’ the parking’s not going to be great.” Joe Smith is a N.E. Philly native transplanted to South Jersey 36 years ago, keeping an eye now on government in South Jersey. He is a former editor and current senior staff writer for The Daily Journal in Vineland, Courier-Post in Cherry Hill, and the Burlington County Times. Have a tip? Reach out atjsmith@thedailyjournal.com. Support local journalism with a subscription.