businessLocal Companies By  Irving Mejia-Hilario By  Irving Mejia-Hilario 5:00 AM on Jul 18, 2023 CDT Black gold found its way back to Texas in 2022. Oil and gas companies claimed seven of the top 20 spots in this year’s ranking of Dallas-Fort Worth’s most profitable companies. Stalwart Exxon Mobil Corp., which now calls the Houston area its corporate home, led the way with a record $55.7 billion in profits. In all, 20 of North Texas’ 150 largest public companies ended fiscal year 2022 with net income topping $1 billion. Become a business insider with the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Beside Exxon, other oil and gas companies counting their Benjamins by the stack were Irving’s Pioneer Natural Resources; Dallas’ Energy Transfer, HFSinclair and Matador Resources; Fort Worth’s Range Resources; and Frisco’s Comstock Resources. It was also a profitable year to be in the semiconductors, financial services, heavy equipment and home building industries. Dallas’ Texas Instruments, maker of chips that go into virtually everything that plugs into an electrical outlet or uses a battery, banked $8.7 billion in profit last year. Texas Instruments isn’t sitting idly by. It’s investing up to $30 billion in four semiconductor fabrication plants in Sherman to make silicon wafers that it then turns into chips. Westlake-based financial giant Charles Schwab, heavy equipment maker and new D-FW transplant Caterpillar Inc. and Arlington-based homebuilder D.R. Horton also had banner years. But not all D-FW companies were quite as fortunate. Dallas’ leading corporate citizen, AT&T, posted a more than $7 billion loss in 2022 — chiefly because it took a massive $24.8 billion write-off on its legacy wireline business. The so-called goodwill impairment came as the company transitioned back to its core telecommunications business after a short-lived attempt to push into the media and entertainment space. Despite the accounting loss, AT&T ended the year with over $14 billion in free cash flow — the cash it had remaining after paying off its operating and maintenance costs. AT&T also cited higher interest rates as a factor in omse of its impairment charges. The Federal Reserve’s aggressive interest rate hike campaign has raised borrowing costs across the board, causing particular concern for companies wanting to refinance debt. Another company posting a loss last year — Dallas-based Ashford Hospitality Trust Inc. — said it plans to hand back the keys to 19 of its hotels to its lenders. Keeping the hotels would have required a paydown of about $255 million to extend the financing and $80 million in capital expenditures through 2025, according to Ashford Hospitality. Dallas-based assisted living facility operator Sonida Senior Living also recently defaulted on a $427 million loan package from Fannie Mae, leading to a forbearance agreement that staves off foreclosure on over half of the 72 facilities it owns or manages across the country, such as Waterford in Fort Worth and Remington at Valley Ranch in Irving. Sonida reported a loss of nearly $59 million last year. Its facilities house some 8,000 seniors in 18 states. Irving Mejia-Hilario. Irving is a business writer for the Dallas Morning News. He's previously served as an environmental reporter for Bridge Michigan, a writer for Automotive News, and the sports and managing editor for the South End. He graduated from Wayne State University in 2023 with a degree in print and online journalism and psychology minor.