Delivery services, like Drizly and Saucey, will deliver beer, wine and spirts directly to your door on St. Patrick's Day. March 17 is St. Patrick’s Day, and you may have big plans to celebrate with a Guinness. However, if your cup does run dry, there’s no need to go out to get more alcohol when several delivery services will bring it right to your door. Companies, such as Drizly and Saucey, will deliver beer, wine and spirits to you in several states. You will need to check if your state allows alcohol delivery, like New Jersey does, and the service also may cost you a fee. Here’s a roundup of who offers alcohol delivery, along with some deals for St. Patrick’s Day 2023. And if you are in New Jersey or other states that allow alcohol delivery, you can check to see if your local liquor store or brewery delivers alcohol in your area. RELATED STORIES ABOUT SHOPPING TIPS AND DEALS: Amazon deals: There’s a major sale on Ninja Air Fryers right now Lego reveals ‘Jurassic Park’ 30th anniversary sets: When to preorder Pi Day deals: The best pizza oven discounts from Ooni, Solo Stove and more Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to NJ.com. Dawn Magyar can be reached at dmagyar@njadvancemedia.com. Have a tip? Tell us at nj.com/tips. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices