
	The "Bachelorette" alum (and future "Special Forces" star) teamed up with the alcohol marketplace for their new Party Theme Generator  
								By 

	Anna Tingley
 
	If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, Variety may receive an affiliate commission.	 
	There are few things Tyler Cameron loves more than a themed party. Last month, the “Bachelorette” alum donned a cowboy hat for a Western-inspired party he threw to reveal his newly designed home to friends in Jupiter, Florida. And just this past week, he rented a 1970s-style house for an Adult Prom fête, where he was outfitted in a retro suit, alongside a ‘creep-tastic stache and gelled hair.  
	“We had the mustaches, the weird hairdos. They all had bad, bad looks back then i if you look back at it, so it was a lot of fun to dress back up again. It gets super tacky and corny,” Cameron tells Variety over a Zoom call on Wednesday afternoon.





	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	















	VIP+
	



	
		
					AI Content Licensing Deals With Publishers: Complete Updated Index		
			














	
		
					How to Watch Every 'Alien' Movie Online for Free (and Get the Blu-ray Set for 50% Off)		
			






 A post shared by Tyler Cameron (@tylerjcameron) 
	How does he come up with these inventive theme ideas? It’s all thanks to a new Party Theme Generator from the alcohol marketplace Drizly. The generator, which launched on Drizly’s website Thursday morning, boasts dozens of party ideas like “Dress Like Your Ex,” “Bring Back the 90’s,” “Dynamic Duos,” “Nuns & Nunchucks” and “Jersey Shore,” complete with themed drink pairings, cocktail recipes and props to bring the party theme to life.

	










			Popular on Variety		




 
	For the launch, Drizly teamed up with Cameron in a campaign video, featuring him and his friends getting ready for the aforementioned Prom Party.  On the menu: Casamigos Reposado and a sausage pizza.  
	If the generator is in his favor, the next party Cameron throws might be one where attendees dress up as the host. In Cameron’s case, he says that could mean a lot of different things. 
	“It could vary a lot,” he says. “Some people wouldn’t even wear a shirt, some people would be wearing very tight shorts, or my golf attire. It’s always tight shorts and a big golf shirt, some sharp boots. You will get an array of looks, that’s for sure.” 
	Check out Drizly’s Party Theme Generator on Drizly.com, and use the promo code HOSTTYLER for $5 off or $0 delivery fee.    				Drizly Party Theme Generator 3000			    			Buy Now		  
			A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast		 The Business of Entertainment