
December 16, 2022 at 1:43 a.m.
 by
MATT OTT The Associated Press  The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits fell significantly last week, a sign the labor market remains strong even as the Federal Reserve continues to raise interest rates in an effort to cool inflation. Applications for jobless claims fell to 211,000 for the week ending Dec. 10, down by 20,000 from the previous week's 231,000, the Labor Department reported Thursday. Jobless claims are seen as a proxy for layoffs, and last week's level was the lowest in more than two months. The four-week moving average of claims, which evens out some of the week-to-week volatility, fell by 3,000 to 227,250. About 1.67 million people were receiving jobless aid the week that ended Dec. 3, up 1,000 from the week before. American workers have extraordinary job security at the moment, despite an economy some see in danger of tipping into a recession from the aggressive interest rate increases by the Fed this year. The Fed has raised its benchmark interest rate seven times since March in an effort to slow the economy and bring down prices. Its key rate now stands in a range of 4.25% to 4.5%, the highest in 15 years. The technology and real estate sectors have been outliers in an otherwise robust job market, with Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, DoorDash, BuzzFeed, Redfin and Compass announcing significant layoffs in recent months.  Copyright © 2024, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc. All rights reserved. This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc. Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2024, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.