When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. This doesn't affect our editorial independence. If you’re looking for a free way to sync files across all your devices—and don’t mind putting a little work into it—SyncThing might be your answer. Compared to cloud storage services such as OneDrive and Dropbox, SyncThing isn’t the easiest to set up. Its interface is unintuitive, and even figuring out what to install can lead to confusion. But when everything clicks, it’s fantastic. Because it’s not dependent on remote servers, SyncThing can transfer files faster than cloud-based services. It’s also more flexible, with an array of granular controls over what gets synced where. Even cloud storage users might find utility in SyncThing as a supplemental tool after getting past its setup hurdles. Let’s dig into how you can do that. And did I mention SyncThing is free? SyncThing is a peer-to-peer file sync service, meaning that your devices form a direct connection instead of storing files on someone else’s servers. If all those devices are on the same network, your files never leave that network (though SyncThing can work remotely as well). Most cloud storage providers don’t offer this kind of local connection, Dropbox being a notable exception. SyncThing also offers extensive controls over syncing. Instead of being limited to a single folder, you can pair any folder on one device with any folder on another, both on internal and external hard drives. You can also set folders as “Send Only” or “Receive Only” so that deleting files on one device doesn’t affect the other. The software even lets you customize version histories for each device and set rules for how often to run the sync operation. This leads to a lot of neat possibilities, which may be difficult or impossible to set up with cloud storage. For instance: Installation is usually the easy part when it comes to computer software, but SyncThing’s a bit more complicated. While SyncThing offers a basic app for Windows, Mac, and Linux, it does not load at startup by default or include a system tray utility for easy access. Those are pretty important features, so you’ll likely want a third-party app to handle them: To get started with SyncThing, you’ll need to install it on two devices. Any combination of platforms will work, so you can sync across Windows, Mac, Linux, and so on. Also, before you go any further: Make a temporary copy of the data you plan to sync between devices, storing it outside the folders where you’ll do the syncing. That way you’ll have a backup if anything goes wrong during the setup. Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry SyncThing doesn’t offer any kind of setup wizard, so once you’ve installed the program, you’ll be looking at a bare-bones dashboard with information about your device, plus a prompt to set up a GUI username and password. (The latter is only necessary if you’re sharing a device with someone you don’t trust and don’t want them messing with your SyncThing settings.) Start by pairing the two devices where you installed SyncThing: Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Note that even if you pair two devices over Wi-Fi, the connection will persist even over the internet. That means you can move to another Wi-Fi network and continue to sync your files. Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry The next step is to choose which folders to sync between devices. SyncThing offers a default folder in your user directory, but you can also sync any folder, anywhere on your computer: Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Now, jump onto your other device, and you should see a request to add the folder: Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Jared Newman / Foundry Want to add more folders? Just repeat the steps in this section. Need to change the sync location for an existing folder? Remove it from the device you want to change, then re-add the folder in your newly-desired location.  Once you’ve set up a couple of devices in SyncThing, you can start adding more: To make things a bit easier, SyncThing also has a concept called “Introducer,” which you can choose whenever you’re pairing a new device. If you mark an existing device as an Introducer, it will automatically pair any other devices that you’ve connected to it. That way, you don’t have to repeat the entire pairing process for every device. SyncThing works best when you have at least one always-on computer in the mix, such as a desktop PC or Raspberry Pi that doesn’t go into sleep mode. This will effectively serve as the bridge between all your other devices, ensuring that your folders stay in sync. SyncThing also has lots of other knobs to tweak, well beyond what’s described here. While its documentation can get a bit dense, it’s a valuable resource for answer questions as you poke around. Once you’ve mastered the basics, though, seeing everything sync across your devices can feel a bit like magic—especially when it’s something you couldn’t accomplish with cloud storage alone. Sign up for Jared’s Advisorator newsletter to learn more tech tricks every week. Jared has been a freelance technology journalist for more than 15 years and is a regular contributor to PCWorld, Fast Company, and TechHive, where he's written a weekly cord-cutting column since 2014. His Cord Cutter Weekly newsletter has more than 30,000 subscribers, and his Advisorator tech advice newsletter is read by nearly 10,000 people each week. Jared has a master's degree in journalism from NYU and specializes in making complex tech topics easy to understand, from streaming and cord-cutting to neat apps and useful tech tricks. He is based in Cincinnati, OH. Business Laptop Mobile PC Hardware Deals Digital Magazine - Subscribe Digital Magazine - Info Gift Subscription Newsletters