We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We'd like to set additional cookies to understand how you use our site so we can improve it for everyone. Also, we'd like to serve you some cookies set by other services to show you relevant content. This course starts in September 2025 Start in the academic year 2024/25 instead? This course starts in September 2025 Management of Information Technology MSc Learn how to design, evaluate and apply information technology systems in a business setting. You’ll take account of human, organisational and strategic factors. You’ll develop your skills in: We offer two pathways through this MSc: Pathway A is for you if your background is in management or information systems Pathway B is for you if your background is in computer science, programming or software engineering. We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision. We’ll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities described in this prospectus. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to government or regulatory requirements, or unanticipated staff changes, we’ll let you know as soon as possible. Meet us on campus or online Book your place You should normally have a lower second-class (2.2) undergraduate honours degree or above.  Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Please select your country from the list. Licenciado/Titulo with a minimum final mark of at least 6.0-7.0 depending on your university. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum second-class lower division. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Magistr or Specialist Diploma with a minimum average mark of at least 4 or 81% Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA 2.5/4.0 (Grade C+). Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. A 4-year Bachelor degree with a minimum GPA of at least 3.2/4.0 Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bacharel, Licenciado or professional title with a minimum final mark of at least 7. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors (Honours) degree with a minimum second class lower division or CGPA 2.7/4.0. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA 3.0/4.0 (grade B). Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Licenciado with a minimum final mark of at least 4.5-5.0/7 depending on your university. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum overall mark of at least 70% - 80% depending on your university. Sussex uses the Shanghai Best Chinese Universities Ranking to inform offer levels.   As evidence of completing your degree you must provide both a Degree Certificate and Graduation Certificate. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Licenciado with ‘Acreditacion de alta calidad’ and a minimum CGPA of 3.0. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree or Ptychion with a minimum final mark of at least 6.5. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum overall mark of at least 7 (Fair Performance). Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Licenciado with a minimum final mark of at least 15/20. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree from a university with a minimum overall grade of at least 70%. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Licence with mention assez bien or Maîtrise with a minimum final mark of at least 12. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree or Magister Artium with a minimum final mark of 2.7 or better. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree from a public university with a minimum second-class lower division. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Ptychion from an AEI with a minimum final mark of at least 6.5. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors (Honours) degree with a minimum second-class lower division. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum overall mark of at least 50-65% depending on your university. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree from an 'A' accredited university with a minimum CGPA of 2.8/4.0.  Bachelors degree from a 'B' accredited university with a minimum CGPA of 3.0/4.0. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree (Licence or Karshenasi) with a minimum final mark of at least 14. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Diploma di Laurea with a minimum overall mark of at least 101. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum C/GPA of at least 3.0/4.0 or equivalent. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of at least 2.8/4.0 or 75%. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum overall mark of 3.75 or better (on a scale of 1-5)/CGPA 2,67. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors (Honours) degree with a minimum second-class lower division. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of at least 2.8/4.0 or B. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA 3.0/4.0 or 13/20. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Masters degree, depending on your university. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of at least 2.7/4.0. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Licenciado with a minimum final mark of at least 7/10. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. A 4-year Bachelor degree with a minimum GPA of at least 3.0/4.0 Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum second-class lower division or CGPA of at least 2.8-2.99/4.0, 3.0-3.49/5.0, or 4.0-4.6/7.0. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum overall grade of C. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of at least 2.8/4.0. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Four-year Bachelors degree with an overall mark of at least 60%-65% or CGPA 2.4 - 2.6 depending on your university.  Masters degree following a 3-year Bachelors degree with an overall mark of at least 60%-65% or CGPA 2.4 - 2.6 depending on your university.  Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum of at least 70% or CGPA of at least 3.0/4.0 Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors with a minimum final mark of at least 7/10. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Licenciado with a minimum final mark of at least 12/20 from a public university or 14/20 from a private university. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Masters degree with a minimum of 1.75/5.0 (where 1 is the highest) or 3.5/4.0 Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum overall CPGA of at least 2.8 (on a scale of 4). Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bakalavr or Specialist Diploma with a minimum average mark of at least 4. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of 3.0/5.0 or 2.8/4.0. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors (Honours) degree with a minimum second-class lower division or CAP 3.5. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors (honours) degree with a minimum second-class division 2. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of at least 3.0/4.5 or 2.8/4.3 or B. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Licenciado with a minimum final mark of at least 2/4 or 6/10. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors Special degree with a minimum lower second honours. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Licence or Diplôme with a minimum 4.5/6 or 7/10. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum overall mark of at least 65%-75% depending on your university. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of at least 2.5 -2.8/4.0 or equivalent depending on your university. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Lisans Diplomasi with a minimum CGPA of at least 2.6 - 2.8/4.0 or equivalent depending on your university. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of at least 2.8/4.0 or equivalent. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree with a minimum CGPA of at least 3.0/4.0. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors degree (with a Graduate Thesis/research component) with a minimum CGPA of at least 3.0/4.0 or 7.0/10. As evidence of completing your degree you must provide both proof of graduation in addition to your transcript. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Masters degree with a minimum GPA of 2.0/2.5 or equivalent. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. Bachelors (Honours) degree with a minimum second-class lower division. Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis. If your country is not listed, you need to contact us and find out the qualification level you should have for this course. Contact us Your qualification should be in a field that has substantial computing, information technology, science, technology or business-related content. You may also be considered for the course if you have other professional qualifications or experience of equivalent standing. Standard level (6.0 overall, including at least 5.5 in each component). IELTS scores are valid for two years from the test date. You cannot combine scores from more than one sitting of the test. Your score must be valid when you begin your Sussex course. Find out more about IELTS We accept IELTS One Skills Retake. We do not accept IELTS Online.   Check full details of our English Language requirements and find out more about some of the alternative English language qualifications listed below 169 overall, including at least 162 in each skill. We would normally expect the CAE test to have been taken within two years before the start of your course. You cannot combine scores from more than one sitting of the test. Find out more about Cambridge English: Advanced 169 overall, including at least 162 in each skill. We would normally expect the CPE test to have been taken within two years before the start of your course. You cannot combine scores from more than one sitting of the test. Find out more about Cambridge English: Proficiency Standard level (65 overall, including at least 60 in each component). LanguageCert Academic SELT scores are valid for two years from the test date. Your score must be valid when you begin your Sussex course. Find out more about LanguageCert Academic SELT We only accept LanguageCert when taken at SELT Test Centres. We do not accept the online version.  We also do not accept the non-SELT version. International ESOL SELT B2 with a minimum of 36 in each component. LanguageCert International ESOL scores are valid for two years from the test date. Your score must be valid when you begin your Sussex course. Find out more about LanguageCert SELT We only accept LanguageCert when taken at SELT Test Centres. We do not accept the online version. Standard level (59 overall, including at least 59 in all four skills). PTE (Academic) scores are valid for two years from the test date. You cannot combine scores from more than one sitting of the test. Your score must be valid when you begin your Sussex course. Find out more about Pearson (PTE Academic) We do not accept the PTE Academic Online test. Standard level (80 overall, including at least 17 in Listening, 18 in Reading, 20 in Speaking, 17 in Writing).  TOEFL (iBT) scores are valid for two years from the test date. You cannot combine scores from more than one sitting of the test. Your score must be valid when you begin your Sussex course. Find out more about TOEFL (iBT) We do not accept TOEFL (iBT) Home Edition. The TOEFL Institution Code for the University of Sussex is 9166. Grade C or above in English Language. Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE)/ AS or A Level: grade C or above in Use of English. Grade C or above in English. Brunei/Cambridge GCE O-level in English: grades 1-6. Singapore/Cambridge GCE O-level in English: grades 1-6. Grade C or above in English as a First Language (Grade 4 or above in GCSE from 2017). Grade B or above in English as a Second Language. If awarded before 1993: grades 1-6 in English language. If awarded between 1993 and 2005: grades A-D in English language.  Level 4, including at least 3 in each component in English Language. The Indian School Certificate is accepted at the grades below when awarded by the following examination boards: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) – English Core only: 70% Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) - English: 70%  English A or English B at grade 5 or above. Grades A - C in English language If taken before the end of 2008: grades 1-6 in English Language. If taken from 2009 onwards: grade C or above in English Language. The qualification must be jointly awarded by the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES). Grades A1-C6 (1-6) in English language when awarded by the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) or the National Examinations Council (NECO). If you are a national of one of the countries below, or if you have recently completed a qualification equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree or higher in one of these countries, you will normally meet our English requirement. Note that qualifications obtained by distance learning or awarded by studying outside these countries cannot be accepted for English language purposes. You will normally be expected to have completed the qualification within two years before starting your course at Sussex. If the qualification was obtained earlier than this, we would expect you to be able to demonstrate that you have maintained a good level of English, for example by living in an English-speaking country or working in an occupation that required you to use English regularly and to a high level. Please note that this list is determined by the UK’s Home Office, not by the University of Sussex. List of exempt countries:  ** Canada: you must be a national of Canada; other nationals not on this list who have a degree from a Canadian institution will not normally be exempt from needing to provide evidence of English. If you don’t meet the English language requirements for your degree, you may be able to take a pre-sessional course Find out how to apply for a student visa
 
 You will be able to apply from November 2024.    Yes. You must submit a personal statement as part of your application. Find out how to write a personal statement If your qualifications aren’t listed or you have a question about entry requirements, contact us For details on any additional costs, check out the Fees and scholarships section. Need to boost your academic skills for your taught course? Find out about Pre-Masters routes 1 August 2025 (international), 1 September 2025 (UK) We strongly recommend an earlier application where possible, as some courses are in high demand and may close before the above dates. Find out more at How to apply for a Masters course Choose to study this course full time or part time, to fit around your work and personal life. Modules for the full-time course are listed below. For details about the part-time course, contact us. Core modules are taken by all students on the course. They give you a solid grounding in your chosen subject and prepare you to explore the topics that interest you most. Alongside your core modules, you can choose options to broaden your horizons and tailor your course to your interests. This list gives you a flavour of our options, which are
						kept under review and may change, for example in response to student feedback or the latest research. While it’s our aim for students to take their preferred combinations of options, this can’t be guaranteed and will be subject to timetabling.
						Options may be grouped and if so, students will be able to choose a set number of options from the selection available in any particular group. You’ll complete a substantial MSc project, which is often practical as well as theoretical. You may have opportunities to work with an industrial partner. Some of our previous students’ project work has led to journal and conference publication, giving them a head start in their careers. The project demands individual responsibility and promotes skills development in: You’re encouraged to seek a project with a commercial/industrial flavour. Finding an industrial sponsor or host is fine, though you’ll still need an academic supervisor. We regularly review our modules to incorporate student feedback, staff expertise, as well as the latest research and teaching methodology. We’re planning to run these
			modules in the academic year 2024/25. However, there may be changes to these modules in response to feedback, staff availability, student demand or updates to
			our curriculum. We’ll make sure to let you know of any material changes to modules at the earliest opportunity. We’ll do our best to provide as much optional choice as we can, but timetabling constraints mean it may not be possible to take some module combinations. The structure
			of a small number of courses means that the order of modules or the streams you choose may determine whether modules are core or optional. This means that your core modules or
			options may differ from what’s shown here. Check back in January 2025 for the modules running in the academic year 2025/26. Senior Lecturer in Strategy View profile of Lisa Blatch Visiting Professor View profile of Constantin Blome Senior Lecturer View profile of Mark Clark Research Fellow View profile of Chux Daniels Lecturer View profile of Graziana Di Pede Lecturer in Entrepreneurship and Innovation View profile of Eleni E.N. Piteli Honorary Lecturer View profile of Francis Eames Senior Lecturer View profile of Rumy Hasan Lecturer in Marketing View profile of Philip Jarman Visiting Fellow View profile of Alberto Marzucchi Lecturer in Strategy & Marketing View profile of Kevin Masters  View profile of Piera Morlacchi Senior Lecturer View profile of Carlos Sato Reader in International Business View profile of Vikrant Shirodkar Professor of International Business View profile of Roger Strange The research of this group addresses the science and engineering of complex systems for cognitively demanding, and data- and language-intensive domains, including the integration of methods from cognitive science, natural language engineering and machine learning. Emeritus Professor View profile of John Carroll Professor of Cognitive Sciences View profile of Peter Cheng  View profile of Bill Keller Professor of Machine Learning View profile of Novi Quadrianto Professor Of Computer Science View profile of David Weir Honorary Senior Lecturer View profile of Sharon Wood The EASy group has been internationally prominent since it was established in the early 1990s. It is concerned with the interfaces between the biological and computational sciences, particularly with reference to furthering understanding of brains and minds. Professor of Complex Systems View profile of Luc Berthouze Research Professor of Cognitive Science View profile of Maggie Boden Professor of Neural Computation View profile of Christopher Buckley Professor of Cognitive Science and Artificial Intelligence View profile of Ron Chrisley Research Professor Of Artificial Intelligence View profile of Phil Husbands Professor Of Informatics View profile of Thomas Nowotny Professor of Biorobotics View profile of Andy Philippides Professor of Cognitive & Computational Neuroscience View profile of Anil Seth Lecturer in Computing Science View profile of Chris Thornton Honorary Senior Lecturer View profile of Sharon Wood This group is interested in the theory and practice of future computation and communication. We: Senior Lecturer in Foundations of Computation View profile of Martin Berger Emeritus Professor View profile of Ian Mackie Head of Department View profile of George Parisis Professor of Computer Science View profile of Bernhard Reus  View profile of Peter Schrammel Head of School Engin and Informatics View profile of Ian Wakeman This group is concerned with the interfaces between humans and digital technology. We investigate interaction in the broadest sense, and consider it in relation to both traditional desktop-based technology and also more recent digital technologies – including mobile, immersive, ubiquitous and pervasive computing. Reader in Software Engineering View profile of Natalia Beloff Visiting Professor View profile of Judith Good Professor of Interaction Design View profile of Kate Howland Professor of Design & Creative Technology View profile of Ann Light Senior Lecturer In Multimedia Systems View profile of Paul Newbury  View profile of Marianna Obrist  View profile of Sriram Subramanian Associate View profile of Phil Watten Professor of Computer Science View profile of Martin White Fees are not yet set for the academic year 2025/26 – check back from September 2024. Note that your fees, once they’re set, may be subject to an increase on an annual basis. If you’re a self-funded international student, you’re required to pay a tuition fee deposit. Find out more about Masters tuition fee deposits Find out typical living costs for studying at Sussex Find out about our terms and conditions Our goal is to ensure that every student who wants to study with us is able to regardless of financial barriers, so that we continue to attract talented and unique people. Details of our scholarships are not yet set for entry in the academic year 2025/26. Our Careers and Employability Centre can help you find part-time work while you study. Find out more about career development and part-time work There is a global shortage of IT professionals. Our MSc provides a strong theoretical and practical preparation for a career in this area. Our students are highly employable and well prepared for roles requiring: Experience Sussex life in our virtual tour. Start your virtual tour Visit campus and chat to staff and students.Book your place Join a live webchat.Book your place Meet us in your country +44 (0)1273 876787
Ask us a question Find out how to apply Find out about the Department of Informatics 
                    University of Sussex
                    Sussex House,
                    Falmer
                    Brighton,
                    BN1 9RH
                    United Kingdom
                 
                Course and application enquiries:
Ask us a question
 
				  General enquiries:
+44 (0)1273 606755
information@sussex.ac.uk
 Back to top