 If you've been on the lookout for the best PS5 deals in the UK, look no further! After months of PS5 stock issues, the fifth-generation Sony Playstation is now widely-available in-store and online ...and there are some of the best PS5 deals and discounts since it launched back in 2020.   Most recently, Sony itself lowered the price tag of the PS5 by as much as £100 as part of its annual Summer Sale. Unfortunately, that deal came to an end in August 2023, so you might struggle to find a deal quite as good as that. But that's not to say there aren't any PS5 deals available. In the meantime, popular UK retailers like Amazon, GAME, AO, Currys and more have launched their own offers and bundles on the Sony PS5. ebuyer might have the best deal we've spotted so far!You can get the PS5 slim console and Rise of the Ronin included for £479.99 - basically making the game completely free!It's probably not going to last long as stock might be limited.  GAME is selling the standard PS5 console for £449 which is a lower price than the slim version of the console. However, most of these consoles were phased out when the slim console was made available so we don't expect  Very has launched a new deal where you can get the slim console and GTA V for £489.  This deal is part of a Bank Holiday offer so you might not want to wait too much longer before the price increases!  If you have been looking for the best deals on the PS5 - don't worry as we have looked for the best deals around for the console as prices continue to drop. With the advent of the new PS5 slim console, the old PS5 has been phased out and you can only buy the new PS5 slim console which has seen a spike in price. However, prices have continued to lower throughout the start of 2024 due to poor sales and the possibility of a PS5 Pro coming in 2024. But in the meantime, if you still want the best PS5 deals here's a quick rundown of the best deals for the PS5. The best deal we think you'll want to jump on is from ebuyer which is giving away a PS5 console and Rise of the Ronin for free - all for the great price £479. We don't expect this deal to last long so you might not want to neglect getting this deal if you have been in the market for it.   ebuyer might have the best deal we've spotted so far!You can get the PS5 slim console and Rise of the Ronin included for £479.99 - basically making the game completely free!It's probably not going to last long as stock might be limited.  GAME is selling the standard PS5 console for £449 which is a lower price than the slim version of the console. However, most of these consoles were phased out when the slim console was made available so we don't expect  Very has launched a new deal where you can get the slim console and GTA V for £489.  This deal is part of a Bank Holiday offer so you might not want to wait too much longer before the price increases!  If you want to buy a PS5, it all depends on your goals - whether or not that is getting the console fast or waiting for the best possible price.  Obviously if you want the best price, it's worth holding out for special retail events such as Sony's Summer Sale, Black Friday or Cyber Monday which sees major deals on tech and PS5 consoles. But if you want something right now, Amazon is notorious for extremely fast next-day shipping thanks to its Prime delivery and sometimes offers the best and most competitive prices.  Amazon also has some of the best bundles around and are a reliable retailer with great prices and quick shipping for gamers. You also have the piece of mind of easy returns and great customer service if things go wrong.  But its worth keeping an eye out on retailers such as Currys and ShopTo who regularly compete with Amazon and do cheap offers on consoles and bundles. Or regularly keep an eye on this article as our handy widgets and eagle-eyed writers will regularly update where the best deals are.  If you were one of the first people trying to get a PS5, you might have remembered how hard it was to get a console. For almost a year, you were forced to wait for consoles to come in stock or you had to pay more than £100 to £200 extra on the second-hand market to get one. But now in 2023, that has changed and there's so much stock that you don't need to worry about getting one. The good news is that you can even get a PS5 at a much larger discount because from retailers like GAME, Amazon and more. And Sony has recently said that it plans to increase the amount of PS5 stock. Before the launch of the PSVR2, Sony declared it would be delivering a "increased" supply of consoles to retailers so you don't need to worry about finding a console any time soon.  If you have been wondering which console to buy after the release of the new PS5, don't worry as you might think its confusing with there being two consoles for you to buy. Don't worry though because depending which one you decide to buy - it doesn't really make a huge difference. That's because both consoles have the same hardware inside them, meaning they will run your games exactly the same. The only real difference is the size of the consoles. The PS5 Slim is significantly smaller than the original PS5 so if space is a really big problem for you, the PS5 Slim is your best choice. When it comes to price, both consoles are currently being sold for a relatively same price after Black Friday so you won't be getting the original PS5 for any major price drops before Christmas. But it is worth keeping an eye out because the PS5 original console does see massive discounts and we could see some great Boxing Day deals as 2024 approaches. With the most recent generation of consoles reaching four years of being released, there are rumours that a new and more powerful PS5 could be on the horizon.  2024 could bring a whole new of more powerful consoles with rumours a Switch 2 could also come and replace the older Switch model.  There have also been rumblings that a PS5 Pro could be on the horizon in 2024 with new upscaling tech that could help games run faster at a higher resolution. Many of the rumours that have been released are purely speculation and there has been very little leaks to indicate that the console could release this year. This also comes shortly after Sony has released the Slim console variant of the PS5 so whether or not this indicates a larger, more powerful PS5 Pro could be on the horizon is unclear. If you have been keeping up with the latest PS5 news, you know the next big thing on the market is the PlayStation Portal - the new handheld device which allows you to play wirelessly on a portalable screen.  The new console launched on November 15, 2023 and instantly sold out before becoming one of the top tech items before 2023 ended. At the time of writing, stock is hard to come by but you can find out more about the PlayStation portal stock situation here. But if you wondered about the wizardry behind the PlayStation Portal and how it worked, we're here to explain how and why it works.  Without complicating things: The PlayStation Portal is a Remote Play device which has been a PlayStation 5 feature for quite a while. All the PlayStation Portal allows you to do is use the hardware to play games through Remote Play. Remote Play uses the internet in your home to stream from the console to the Portal so you can play all your games and media on the device - but you have to make sure your internet is up to snuff. Sony recommends using a high-speed, low-latency connection when you set-up the PlayStation Portal and preferably wired, or a 5 GHz band if you go wireless. All you have to do is connect your Portal to the WiFi and it should connect to your PS5 and you're good to go.   If you have the choice of either an Xbox or a PS5, you might be wondering which console is the best to go for - especially when you don't have money to get both. It seems like it has been an eternal struggle between both consoles for years - but it seems that one console has finally come out on top - and that is the PS5. Don't call us bias because there's a number of major reasons why the PS5 comes out on top compared to the Xbox - the main reason being the amount of games that you can play. Sony has managed to win the war when it comes to console exclusives with some amazing games like Spider-Man 2, Final Fantasy VII Remake and Rebirth, Ratchet & Clank, Horizon: Zero Dawn and Forgotten West and many more. The Xbox hasn't managed to collect such a wide range of exclusive games since its release and it's why so many people are flocking over to the Xbox. Don't get us wrong - the Xbox does have its pros. You have Xbox Game Pass which allows you to download and stream games for a monthly subscription - dubbing it the "Netflix of video games" and its something Sony sorely lacks. The Xbox is also slightly more powerful that the PS5 but its not as noticable as you might think. So if you have been wondering which console to get - the PS5 is definitely the one for you.  If you're new to the PS5 and still need to find a list of the best games to try, there's plenty of amazing PS5 exclusives or games that you can buy without even breaking the bank. For example, you can enjoy playing the newest God of War franchise including Helldivers II - both which are exclusive to the PS5 (and PC) but you won't be able to get on any other console. That's not all because there are also other great games to consider including Baldur's Gate III, Elden Ring, Resident Evil 4, Street Fighter 6 Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth, The Last of Us: Part I , Final Fantasy VII: Rebirth, Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart, Demon's Souls, Death Stranding: Director's Cut, Alan Wake II and Returnal. And that's not everything. There's a whole host of older games that you can also play thanks to PlayStation Plus Premium which allows you to cloud-stream tons of classics on the PS1, PS2 and PS3 that you might want to replay.  MORE LIKE THIS SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?