eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields passes in the first quarter against the Eagles on Dec. 18, 2022, at Soldier Field. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Injured Bears quarterback Justin Fields looks on from the sideline alongside his teammates in the fourth quarter of a game against the Panthers at Soldier Field on Nov. 9, 2023. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Injured Bears quarterback Justin Fields stands on the field during warmups before his team faces the Raiders on Oct. 22, 2023, at Soldier Field. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields walks off the field after throwing an interception in the second quarter against the Vikings at Soldier Field on Oct. 15, 2023. Eileen T. Meslar/Chicago Tribune Vikings safety Josh Metellus tackles Bears quarterback Justin Fields after he makes a pass in the first quarter at Soldier Field on Oct. 15, 2023. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields and coach Matt Eberflus high five in the second quarter of a game against the Vikings at Soldier Field on Oct. 15, 2023. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields celebrates the 40-20 win over the Commanders on Oct. 5, 2023, at FedEx Field. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields is hit by Commanders cornerback Kendall Fuller in the third quarter on Oct. 5, 2023, at FedEx Field. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields waves to fans while warming up to face the Commanders on Oct. 5, 2023, at FedEx Field. Armando L. Sanchez/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws a pass during the fourth quarter against the Broncos at Soldier Field on Oct. 1, 2023. Armando L. Sanchez/Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) sits on the bench after the Bears lost, 31-28, to the Denver Broncos at Soldier Field Sunday Oct. 1, 2023 in Chicago. (Armando L. Sanchez/Chicago Tribune) Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields scrambles in the third quarter of a game against the Chiefs at Arrowhead Stadium on Sept. 24, 2023. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields scrambles in the end zone away from Chiefs defensive end George Karlaftis (56) in the first quarter on Sept. 24, 2023, at Arrowhead Stadium. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up to face the Chiefs on Sept. 24, 2023, at Arrowhead Stadium. Armando L. Sanchez/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields looks before making a pass during the third quarter against the Buccaneers at Raymond James Stadium on Sept. 17, 2023. Armando L. Sanchez/Chicago Tribune Bears center Cody Whitehair runs into quarterback Justin Fields as his helmet flies off during the fourth quarter at Raymond James Stadium on Sept. 17, 2023. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Packers defensive tackle Colby Wooden applies pressure as Bears quarterback Justin Fields releases the ball in the second quarter at Soldier Field on Sept. 10, 2023. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Packers linebacker Lukas Van Ness sacks Bears quarterback Justin Fields in the second quarter at Soldier Field on Sept. 10, 2023. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Packers defensive tackle Devonte Wyatt sacks Bears quarterback Justin Fields in the third quarter at Soldier Field on Sept. 10, 2023. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields prepares to take the field for a preseason game against the Bills at Soldier Field on Aug. 26, 2023. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields tries to run past Bills cornerback Christian Benford in the first quarter of a preseason game at Soldier Field on Aug. 26, 2023. Armando L. Sanchez/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs drills with other players during training camp at Halas Hall on Aug. 2, 2023. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields signs autographs for fans after practice on July 27, 2023. Brian Cassella Bears quarterback Justin Fields practices on June 7, 2023, during organized team activities at Halas Hall. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields keeps the ball for a rushing touchdown in the second quarter against the Falcons at Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Nov. 20, 2022. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields walks off the field after a 29-13 loss to the Vikings at Soldier Field on Jan. 8, 2023. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields heads to the locker room after throwing an interception to end the second quarter against the Lions at Ford Field on Jan. 1, 2023. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Lions defensive end Aidan Hutchinson tackles Bears quarterback Justin Fields in the first quarter at Ford Field on Jan. 1, 2023. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields releases the ball as he is hit in the fourth quarter against the Lions at Ford Field on Jan. 1, 2023. Michael Reaves / Getty Images Bears QB Justin Fields looks on during the first quarter in the game against the Bills at Soldier Field on Dec. 24, 2022. Charles Rex Arbogast / AP Bears quarterback Justin Fields is sacked by Bills defensive end A.J. Epenesa in the second half at Soldier Field on Dec. 24, 2022. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields poses for a picture with fans before the matchup against the Bills at Soldier Field on Dec. 24, 2022. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune The video board at Soldier Field announces that Bears quarterback Justin Fields has reached 1,000 rushing yards this season during a game against the Eagles on Dec. 18, 2022. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws a touchdown pass in the fourth quarter against the Eagles at Soldier Field on Dec. 18, 2022. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs the ball in the second quarter against the Eagles at Soldier Field on Dec. 18, 2022. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields spins en route to a huge gain on the ground in the second quarter against the Eagles at Soldier Field on Dec. 18, 2022. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up in the cold to face the Eagles at Soldier Field on Dec. 18, 2022. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields breaks free for a long touchdown run in the first quarter against the Packers at Soldier Field on Dec. 4, 2022. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws a pass in the second quarter  against the Packers at Soldier Field on Dec. 4, 2022. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields heads to the locker room after a loss to the Packers at Soldier Field on Dec. 4, 2022. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up before the game against the New York Jets on Nov. 27, 2022, at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields watches the Week 12 game against the Jets on Nov. 27, 2022, at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. The Jets defeated the Bears 31-10. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields rushes away from Falcons players in the second quarter at Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Nov. 20, 2022. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields makes a shovel pass to running back David Montgomery as he is tackled by Falcons defensive end Arnold Ebiketie in the third quarter at Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Nov. 20, 2022. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields keeps the ball for a rush in the second quarter against the Falcons at Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Nov. 20, 2022. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs in a 67-yard touchdown during the fourth quarter against the Lions at Soldier Field on Nov. 13, 2022. Michael Blackshire / Chicago Tribune quarterback Justin Fields cheers in the end zone after a touchdown against the Lions at Soldier Field on Nov. 13, 2022. Michael Blackshire / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs in the end zone for a touchdown against the Lions at Soldier Field on Nov. 13, 2022. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs the ball against the Dolphins in the first quarter on Nov. 6, 2022, at Soldier Field. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields celebrates his run for a 61-yard touchdown in the third quarter on Nov. 6, 2022, at Soldier Field. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields takes the field on Nov. 6, 2022, at Soldier Field. The Dolphins defeated the Bears 35-32. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields passes against the Dolphins in the first quarter on Nov. 6, 2022. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs for a 61-yard touchdown in the third quarter against the Dolphins on Nov. 6, 2022 at Soldier Field. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Dallas Cowboys defensive end Dorance Armstrong (92) chases Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) while he runs the ball during the first quarter, Oct. 30, 2022, at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) celebrates with teammate Velus Jones Jr. (12) after Fields scored a rushing touchdown in the first quarter against the New England Patriots, Oct. 24, 2022, at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Mass. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) scrambles out of the pocket in the third quarter against the New England Patriots, Oct. 24, 2022, at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Mass. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) heads to the locker room after warming up for a game against the New England Patriots, Oct. 24, 2022, at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Mass. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) runs the ball on the Bears' final drive during the fourth quarter against the Washington Commanders, Oct. 13, 2022, at Soldier Field. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) kneels on the ground after wide receiver Darnell Mooney was short of the goal line against the Washington Commanders during the fourth quarter, Oct. 13, 2022, at Soldier Field. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields signs a shoe for a fan before a game against the Washington Commanders at Soldier Field, Oct. 13, 2022. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields on the sidelines during the third quarter of the Week 4 against the Giants on Oct. 12, 2022, at MetLife Stadium. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws an incomplete pass during the third quarter of the Week 4 against the Giants on Oct. 12, 2022, at MetLife Stadium. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields is sacked by Giants defensive tackle Dexter Lawrence during the second quarter of the Week 4 against on Oct. 12, 2022, at MetLife Stadium. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up before the Week 4 against the Giants on Oct. 12, 2022, at MetLife Stadium. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields scrambles out of the pocket before gaining a first down on a run in the first quarter against the Texans at Soldier Field on Sept. 25, 2022. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Quarterback Justin Fields runs the ball in for a first down on the Bears' first possession of the game against the Texans at Soldier Field on Sept. 25, 2022. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields celebrates after scoring a touchdown during the first quarter against the Packers at Lambeau Field on Sept. 18, 2022. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields dives into the end zone for a touchdown during the first quarter against the Packers at Lambeau Field on Sept. 18, 2022. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws to wide receiver Equanimeous St. Brown in what would become an interception by Packers cornerback Jaire Alexander in the fourth quarter at Lambeau Field on Sept. 18, 2022. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields and teammates take the field to play the Packers at Lambeau Field on Sept. 18, 2022. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields takes the field during warmups before playing the Packers at Lambeau Field on Sept. 18, 2022. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields eludes the 49ers defense before throwing a touchdown pass in the third quarter of a game at Soldier Field on Sept. 11, 2022. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields and teammates celebrate the Week 1 win by sliding into the end zone puddles in the rain at Soldier Field on Sept. 11, 2022. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields and teammates celebrate the Week 1 win by sliding into the end zone puddles in the rain at Soldier Field on Sept. 11, 2022. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields celebrates a touchdown pass with running back David Montgomery in the fourth quarter on Sept. 11, 2022, at Soldier Field. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up to face the 49ers in the rain onSept. 11, 2022, at Soldier Field. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields passes under pressure from Chiefs safety Deon Bush in the first quarter of a preseason game on Aug. 13, 2022, at Soldier Field. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields and teammates take the field for a preseason game on Aug. 13, 2022, against the Chiefs at Soldier Field. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Quarterback Justin Fields speaks during a news conference at Chicago Bears training camp, Aug. 3, 2022, at Halas Hall Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Quarterback Justin Fields practices with quarterbacks coach Andrew Janocko (left) and offensive coordinator Luke Getsy on Aug. 2, 2022, during Bears training camp at Halas Hall. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Quarterback Justin Fields (1) practices Wednesday, July 27, 2022 as the Chicago Bears open training camp at Halas Hall. (Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune) Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Quarterback Justin Fields laughs during a news conference, June 14, 2022, during Chicago Bears minicamp at Halas Hall. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields takes part in the "Shoot the Puck" contest during intermission of a game between the Blackhawks and Seattle Kraken at the United Center, April 7, 2022. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields gives a "thumbs up" while warming up for a game against the Vikings at Soldier Field on Dec. 20, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields argues with a referee in the fourth quarter of a game against the Vikings at Soldier Field on Dec. 20, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields tries to run past Vikings defensive end D.J. Wonnum in the second quarter at Soldier Field on Dec. 20, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields passes the ball during the second quarter against the Vikings at Soldier Field on Dec. 20, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Vikings defensive end D.J. Wonnum tackles Bears quarterback Justin Fields during the third quarter at Soldier Field on Dec. 20, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws a pass in the fourth quarter of a game against the Packers at Lambeau Field on Dec. 12, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields lies on the ground after being sacked in the fourth quarter of a game against the Packers at Lambeau Field on Dec. 12, 2021. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs the ball against Packers cornerback Rasul Douglas in the second quarter at Lambeau Field on Dec. 12, 2021. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields fumbles and loses the ball against Packers outside linebacker Preston Smith (91) in the third quarter at Lambeau Field on Dec. 12, 2021. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields takes the field to face the Packers at Lambeau Field on Dec. 12, 2021. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields stands on the sidelines during the fourth quarter of the game against the Cardinals on Dec. 5, 2021. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields signs items for fan on the field during warmups before the Week 12 game against the Lions at Ford Field on Nov. 25, 2021. Fields (ribs) did not play. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterbacks Andy Dalton and Justin Fields during warmups before the Week 12 game against the Lions at Ford Field on Nov. 25, 2021. Fields (ribs) did not play. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields is tackled by Ravens outside linebacker Tyus Bowser in the third quarter at Soldier Field on Nov. 21, 2021. Fields left the game after this possession with an injury. Antonio Perez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs with the ball during the first half of the Week 11 game against the Ravens at Soldier Field on Nov. 21, 2021. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields scrambles in the fourth quarter against the Steelers at Heinz Field during the Week 9 game on Nov. 8, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields and wide receiver Darnell Mooney celebrate after connecting on a touchdown pass and catch in the fourth quarter against the Steelers at Heinz Field during the Week 9 game on Nov. 8, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields makes a completion on the last drive of the game in the fourth quarter against the Steelers at Heinz Field during the Week 9 game on Nov. 8, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Steelers free safety Minkah Fitzpatrick knocks Bears quarterback Justin Fields out of bounds in the second quarter at Heinz Field on Nov. 8, 2021. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields scores in the fourth quarter against the 49ers at Soldier Field on Oct. 31, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs in a touchdown during the fourth quarter against the 49ers at Soldier Field on Oct. 31, 2021. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields scrambles with the ball against the 49ers and scores on this  play in the fourth quarter at Soldier Field on Oct. 31, 2021. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws to running back Khalil Herbert in the first quarter against the 49ers at Soldier Field on Oct. 31, 2021. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs away from diving 49ers defensive end Samson Ebukam in the second quarter at Soldier Field on Oct. 31, 2021. Stacey Wescott / Chicago Tribune With the offense backed up to their own 1-yard-line, Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws an interception to the Buccaneers' Pierre Tesir in the 2nd half at Raymond James Stadium on Oct. 24, 2021. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws during the 4th quarter against the Buccaneers at Raymond James Stadium on Oct. 24, 2021. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs with the ball during the second quarter against the Buccaneers at Raymond James Stadium on Oct. 24, 2021. Stacey Wescott / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields fumbles a ball after being blindsided by Buccaneers outside linebacker Jason Pierre-Paulin the 2nd quarter at Raymond James Stadium on Oct. 24, 2021. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws during warmups before the Week. 7 game against the Buccaneers at Raymond James Stadium on Oct. 24, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields walks off the field after the Bears lost to the Packers 24-14 at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields looks for an open receiver during the first quarter against the Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) walks to the sideline after throwing an interception in the first quarter against the Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Packers linebacker Jonathan Garvin sacks Bears quarterback Justin Fields during the second quarter at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields passes in the second quarter against the Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs the ball during the second quarter against the Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields gets tackled by Packers linebacker Jonathan Garvin on third down during the third quarter at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields looks down while walking on the field during the fourth quarter against the Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields handles the ball during the fourth quarter against the Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields tries to recover the ball after being sacked in the fourth quarter against the Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs the ball in the fourth quarter against the Green Bay Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields gets sacked by Packers nose tackle Kenny Clark to make it 4th-and-26 during the fourth quarter at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields kneels while Packers linebacker Jonathan Garvin (53) and nose tackle Kenny Clark (97) celebrate Clark's sack at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) eludes the Packers defense before throwing an incomplete pass on fourth down on the last drive of the game at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) walks to the sideline after failing to convert a fourth-down attempt on the last drive of the game against the Packers at Soldier Field on Oct. 17, 2021. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) leads the team out Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) warms up Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) throws an incomplete pass with pressure from Raiders defensive end Yannick Ngakoue (91) in the first quarter Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) throws the ball  away with pressure from Raiders safety Johnathan Abram (24) in the first quarter Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) heads to the medical tent in the second quarter Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) runs the ball in the second quarter Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields celebrates his first career touchdown pass to tight end Jesper Horsted in the second quarter Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) watches the final field goal, securing a 20-9 win over the Raiders on Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields celebrates a 20-9 win over the Raiders on Oct. 10, 2021, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields stands on the sideline in the fourth quarter against the Lions at Soldier Field on Oct. 3, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields makes a pass in the second quarter against the Lions at Soldier Field on Oct. 3, 2021. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields points up after carrying the ball 11 yards during the first half against the Lions at Soldier Field on Oct. 3, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields rolls out of the pocket in the third quarter against the Lions at Soldier Field on Oct. 3, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws a pass in the first quarter against the Lions at Soldier Field on Oct. 3, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs on the field during the fourth quarter against the Browns at FirstEnergy Stadium on Sept. 26 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs the ball while getting pressure from the Browns defense during the third quarter at FirstEnergy Stadium on Sept. 26 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Browns defensive end Myles Garrett sacks Bears quarterback Justin Fields during the third quarter at FirstEnergy Stadium on Sept. 26 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields is helped off the ground by center Sam Mustipher and an official after getting sacked by Browns defensive end Myles Garrett in the fourth quarter at FirstEnergy Stadium on Sept. 26 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears tight end J.P. Holtz (81), running back David Montgomery (32) and quarterback Justin Fields (1) take the field for the Week 3 game against the Browns at FirstEnergy Stadium on Sept. 26 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields looks for an open receiver during the first quarter against the Browns at FirstEnergy Stadium on Sept. 26 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up for the Week 3 game against the Browns at FirstEnergy Stadium on Sept. 26 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs with the ball in the third quarter of the Week 2 game at Soldier Field on Sept. 19, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws against the Bengals in the fourth quarter at Soldier Field on Sept. 19, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields walks back to the sideline after throwing an interception in fourth quarter against the Bengals at Soldier Field on Sept. 19, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields tries to recover the ball after he fumbled it in the third quarter against the Bengals at Soldier Field on Sept. 19, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields looks to pass in the second quarter against the Bengals at Soldier Field on Sept. 19, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields runs off the field after a victory over the Bengals at Soldier Field on Sept. 19, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields hits the end zone for his first NFL touchdown in the third quarter against the Rams at SoFi Stadium on Sept. 12, 2021, in Inglewood, Calif. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields celebrates his touchdown run with teammates in the third quarter after a TD against the Rams at Sofi Stadium in Inglewood, Calif., on Sept. 12, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up for a game against the Rams at SoFi Stadium on Sept. 12, 2021, in Inglewood, Calif. Wesley Hitt / Getty Images Bears rookie QB Justin Fields on the sidelines during of a preseason game against the Titans on Aug. 28, 2021, in Nashville, Tenn. Wade Payne / AP Bears quarterback Justin Fields scrambles against the Titans in the first half of a preseason game on Aug. 28, 2021, in Nashville, Tenn. John Amis/AP Bears quarterback Justin Fields passes against the Titans during a preseason game on Aug. 28, 2021, in Nashville, Tenn. Wade Payne / AP Bears quarterback Justin Fields is sacked by Titans linebacker Derick Roberson in the first half of a preseason game on Aug. 28, 2021, in Nashville, Tenn. Mark Zaleski/AP Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up before a preseason game on Aug. 28, 2021, in Nashville, Tenn. Stacey Wescott / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) in the second half during a game against the Buffalo Bills at Soldier Field on Aug. 21, 2021. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields arrives with other rookies to throw out a ceremonial first pitch before the White Sox-Yankees game at Guaranteed Rate Field on Aug. 15, 2021. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws out a ceremonial first pitch before before the White Sox-Yankees game at Guaranteed Rate Field on Aug. 15, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws in the third quarter against the Dolphins in the preseason opener at Soldier Field on Aug. 14, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterbacks Andy Dalton and Justin Fields talk on the sideline in the fourth quarter against the Dolphins in the preseason opener at Soldier Field on Aug. 14, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields rushes for a touchdown in the third quarter against the Dolphins in the preseason opener at Soldier Field on Aug. 14, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) celebrates after a 20-13 win over the Miami Dolphins in a preseason game at Soldier Field on Aug. 14, 2021. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) rushes for a touchdown in the third quarter against the Miami Dolphins at Soldier Field on Aug. 14, 2021. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields throws a pass during training camp at Halas Hall in Lake Forest on  July 29, 2021. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Bears QBs Justin Fields (1) and Andy Dalton (14) run drills during OTAs at Halas Hall on June 2, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields warms up with his teammates on the first day of rookie minicamp at Halas Hall on May 14, 2021. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Chicago Bears quarterback Justin Fields (1) warms up on the first day of rookie minicamp at Halas Hall on May 14, 2021. Paul Vernon/AP Ohio State quarterback Justin Fields throws during pro day at Ohio State on March 30, 2021, in Columbus, Ohio. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Ohio State quarterback Justin Fields looks on from the bench in the third quarter against Northwestern on Oct. 18, 2019, at Ryan Field in Evanston. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Ohio State quarterback Justin Fields runs through the Northwestern defense in the first quarter of the Big Ten championship game on Dec. 19, 2020, in Indianapolis. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Ohio State quarterback Justin Fields passes around Northwestern defensive lineman Adetomiwa Adebawore in the first quarter of the Big Ten championship game on Dec. 19, 2020, in Indianapolis. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Ohio State quarterback Justin Fields (1) is tackled by Northwestern Wildcats linebacker Paddy Fisher (42) in the first quarter of the Big Ten championship game on Dec. 19, 2020, in Indianapolis. Mike Roemer/AP Packers quarterback Jordan Love drops back to pass during a preseason game on Aug. 26, 2023, in Green Bay. Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune Bears quarterback Justin Fields breaks free down the sideline in the third quarter of a game against the Lions at Ford Field on Nov. 19, 2023. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Packers cornerback Jaire Alexander celebrates after his interception in the fourth quarter against the Bears on Dec. 4, 2022, at Soldier Field. Bears quarterback Justin Fields passes in the first quarter against the Eagles on Dec. 18, 2022, at Soldier Field. Weekly chess matches in the NFL lead to coaches spending all-nighters crafting game plans to thwart the upcoming opponent. Then there is the chess match for the Week 1 opponent, a process four months in the making after the league’s schedule release in May.For a season that could define much of quarterback Justin Fields’ future with the Chicago Bears, offensive coordinator Luke Getsy has had an entire summer to consider possibilities in his playbook and deficiencies he sees in a Green Bay Packers defense in advance of the 205th meeting between the teams, all the while working to prepare his players for the season.It makes for a fascinating matchup with the Bears expecting to be better on the offensive line, improved at wide receiver with the addition of DJ Moore and deeper at tight end and running back. An offense that led the NFL in rushing a year ago likely will remain committed to a physical ground attack, but Fields’ play has everyone from general manager Ryan Poles to coach Matt Eberflus to Getsy to fans anticipating.Is Fields capable of delivering the kind of season that transforms the Bears from an organization that has stumbled in search of an elite quarterback since shortly after World War II to a franchise that has the position figured out and is prepared to be a contender for years to come?One game Sunday afternoon at Soldier Field in the national television spot on Fox will not provide all the answers, only some clues, but that won’t deter those dealing only in hyperbole from leaping to conclusions.That sets up the battle of wits between Getsy and Packers defensive coordinator Joe Barry. It’s instructive to review the two meetings from last season and note the Packers’ significant shift in strategy. They were in zone coverage 41.2% of the time Fields dropped back to pass in the first meeting, a 27-10 Packers victory at Lambeau Field in Week 2. The Bears were figuring things out offensively, searching for an identity, and Fields completed only 7 of 11 passes for 70 yards, gaining 20 yards on eight runs.Something changed for Barry in how he wanted to approach Fields entering the Week 14 rematch at Soldier Field. The Packers played zone coverage on a season-high 85.2% of Fields’ drop-backs and rallied for a 28-19 win. Fields was more productive, completing 20 of 25 passes for a season-high 254 yards. He ran six times for 71 yards, a 55-yard touchdown the highlight.It was a dramatic shift in Barry’s thinking — maybe seeing the Atlanta Falcons play zone coverage on 73.3% of Fields’ drop-backs two weeks earlier was a factor — and it worked. Fields didn’t throw for a touchdown, and the Packers intercepted two passes in the fourth quarter in zone coverage to put the game away.


Packers cornerback Jaire Alexander celebrates after his interception in the fourth quarter against the Bears on Dec. 4, 2022, at Soldier Field.This wasn’t revolutionary defensive football, but the Bears might have to contend with it consistently until they prove they have answers against teams that will lean on zone coverage, which was mixed last season. Overall, Fields saw zone on 52.7% of his drop-backs. Zone coverage rarely is played in the red zone, so factor out those snaps and the figure would be higher. The Bears got Cover-3 27.4% of the time, Cover-2 18%, Cover-4 (quarters) 7.1% and saw eight snaps of Cover-0.The added challenge of playing man coverage against Fields is so many defenders wind up with their back turned to him running downfield, making them unaware of any play that could change from a drop-back pass to a dangerous run in the split-second it takes him to leave the pocket. Passing concepts against man coverage can be heavily schemed. For instance, Getsy can call for a bunch of wide receivers at the line of scrimmage with a rub designed for an open and easy throw to the Z receiver in the flat. It’s all predesigned. Play zone with a mush rush that in theory keeps him in the pocket, and more eyes are on the quarterback, making Fields go through his progressions.“I think it was really team dependent, what their main thing was,” Fields said when asked if more opponents trended to zoned coverage as the season wore on. “Some teams went more man and some teams went more zone. Regardless, just have to look at the defense and react to what they do.”Getsy pointed out the Packers had a veteran defensive backs coach last season in Jerry Gray who believed in keeping everything in front of the defense. He was replaced by Ryan Downard, potentially affecting their strategy.“Sometimes you get lucky and you pinpoint exactly who they are going to be,” Getsy said of the scouting and game-plan process. “But that’s not usually how it goes. Usually you get them probably half the time and then you need your players to make plays the other half of the time. Hopefully we can lean on that a little bit more this year.”
Bears quarterback Justin Fields passes in the first quarter against the Eagles on Dec. 18, 2022, at Soldier Field.The Bears have better players this season, which is where guys such as Moore and tight end Robert Tonyan come into play. The Bears are excited to see what wide receivers Darnell Mooney and Chase Claypool and recently paid tight end Cole Kmet can do as well.Whatever the Packers come with, the Bears need a solution. If Green Bay wants to try to force Fields to win throwing from the pocket, he must find more success in that area than he did a year ago.It’s what everyone banking on Fields and his wealth of talent is waiting for to succeed this season. No one wants to make Fields into a pure pocket passer — along the lines of a star such as Los Angeles Chargers quarterback Justin Herbert. Getsy doesn’t want to put limitations on what Fields can accomplish with his strength, speed and innate awareness of where defenders are. That’s what makes him special. But he does need to advance as a passer from the pocket.“That’s a huge part of it, right?” Getsy said. “That’s playing the position. It’s exciting that he can make plays with his feet. But being able to handle and control the offense and make sure that we’re running the ball the right direction, make sure we have the proper play. We usually give him more than one play and he has to make sure — he has to handle all that.“Then being able to play from the pocket or slightly outside the pocket and making good decisions and being sound with that, taking care of the football, that’s all part of playing this position. It’s not easy. He keeps getting experience with it. That will be a huge part of how good we can be.”The plan Getsy has designed has been in the works for a long time. Clues are forthcoming.Scouting reportJordan Love, Packers quarterback
Packers quarterback Jordan Love drops back to pass during a preseason game on Aug. 26, 2023, in Green Bay.Information for this report was obtained from NFL scouts.Jordan Love, 6-foot-4, 219 pounds, is in his fourth season in Green Bay and first as the starter as he had been waiting in the wings behind Aaron Rodgers after the Packers selected him in the first round in 2020 out of Utah State.Love has appeared in 10 games and made one start and attempted a total of 83 regular-season passes. He came off the bench to complete 6 of 9 passes for 113 yards and a touchdown in a 40-33 loss in Philadelphia in Week 12 last season. After facing Brett Favre and Rodgers for more than three decades, the Bears surely are excited for a new era in the rivalry.“I’m sure the Bears have watched the preseason, and Love was solid, but I’d really look at what happened when he came in and played against Philadelphia last year,” the scout said. “I’d study that more in terms of how Green Bay is going to utilize him. Lot of defined throws off play-action. Some movement on boot to get him to the edge of the pocket. I am sure they will scheme some shot plays to push the ball downfield. This is a guy with first-round traits. He was drafted in the first round for a reason. He’s got an easy motion and easy release. He can push the ball to the third level of the field and drive it with velocity.“He’s not Justin Fields outside the pocket but he’s a really good mover. He has the ability to create off schedule and throw off platform. The question is, especially in Week 1 when he has to play an entire game against regular-season competition, how does he do when you cannot define everything for him? The Bears are going to have plans to disrupt him on third down and inside the red zone, critical game situations where you can’t just define it and say, ‘This is where you’re going to put the ball.’ He’s going to need answers as a drop-back thrower when he’s going to have to manage the pocket with pressure and read it with speed.” For a season that could define much of quarterback Justin Fields’ future with the Chicago Bears, offensive coordinator Luke Getsy has had an entire summer to consider possibilities in his playbook and deficiencies he sees in a Green Bay Packers defense in advance of the 205th meeting between the teams, all the while working to prepare his players for the season. It makes for a fascinating matchup with the Bears expecting to be better on the offensive line, improved at wide receiver with the addition of DJ Moore and deeper at tight end and running back. An offense that led the NFL in rushing a year ago likely will remain committed to a physical ground attack, but Fields’ play has everyone from general manager Ryan Poles to coach Matt Eberflus to Getsy to fans anticipating. Is Fields capable of delivering the kind of season that transforms the Bears from an organization that has stumbled in search of an elite quarterback since shortly after World War II to a franchise that has the position figured out and is prepared to be a contender for years to come? One game Sunday afternoon at Soldier Field in the national television spot on Fox will not provide all the answers, only some clues, but that won’t deter those dealing only in hyperbole from leaping to conclusions. That sets up the battle of wits between Getsy and Packers defensive coordinator Joe Barry. It’s instructive to review the two meetings from last season and note the Packers’ significant shift in strategy. They were in zone coverage 41.2% of the time Fields dropped back to pass in the first meeting, a 27-10 Packers victory at Lambeau Field in Week 2. The Bears were figuring things out offensively, searching for an identity, and Fields completed only 7 of 11 passes for 70 yards, gaining 20 yards on eight runs. Something changed for Barry in how he wanted to approach Fields entering the Week 14 rematch at Soldier Field. The Packers played zone coverage on a season-high 85.2% of Fields’ drop-backs and rallied for a 28-19 win. Fields was more productive, completing 20 of 25 passes for a season-high 254 yards. He ran six times for 71 yards, a 55-yard touchdown the highlight. It was a dramatic shift in Barry’s thinking — maybe seeing the Atlanta Falcons play zone coverage on 73.3% of Fields’ drop-backs two weeks earlier was a factor — and it worked. Fields didn’t throw for a touchdown, and the Packers intercepted two passes in the fourth quarter in zone coverage to put the game away. This wasn’t revolutionary defensive football, but the Bears might have to contend with it consistently until they prove they have answers against teams that will lean on zone coverage, which was mixed last season. Overall, Fields saw zone on 52.7% of his drop-backs. Zone coverage rarely is played in the red zone, so factor out those snaps and the figure would be higher. The Bears got Cover-3 27.4% of the time, Cover-2 18%, Cover-4 (quarters) 7.1% and saw eight snaps of Cover-0. The added challenge of playing man coverage against Fields is so many defenders wind up with their back turned to him running downfield, making them unaware of any play that could change from a drop-back pass to a dangerous run in the split-second it takes him to leave the pocket. Passing concepts against man coverage can be heavily schemed. For instance, Getsy can call for a bunch of wide receivers at the line of scrimmage with a rub designed for an open and easy throw to the Z receiver in the flat. It’s all predesigned. Play zone with a mush rush that in theory keeps him in the pocket, and more eyes are on the quarterback, making Fields go through his progressions. “I think it was really team dependent, what their main thing was,” Fields said when asked if more opponents trended to zoned coverage as the season wore on. “Some teams went more man and some teams went more zone. Regardless, just have to look at the defense and react to what they do.” Getsy pointed out the Packers had a veteran defensive backs coach last season in Jerry Gray who believed in keeping everything in front of the defense. He was replaced by Ryan Downard, potentially affecting their strategy. “Sometimes you get lucky and you pinpoint exactly who they are going to be,” Getsy said of the scouting and game-plan process. “But that’s not usually how it goes. Usually you get them probably half the time and then you need your players to make plays the other half of the time. Hopefully we can lean on that a little bit more this year.” The Bears have better players this season, which is where guys such as Moore and tight end Robert Tonyan come into play. The Bears are excited to see what wide receivers Darnell Mooney and Chase Claypool and recently paid tight end Cole Kmet can do as well. Whatever the Packers come with, the Bears need a solution. If Green Bay wants to try to force Fields to win throwing from the pocket, he must find more success in that area than he did a year ago. It’s what everyone banking on Fields and his wealth of talent is waiting for to succeed this season. No one wants to make Fields into a pure pocket passer — along the lines of a star such as Los Angeles Chargers quarterback Justin Herbert. Getsy doesn’t want to put limitations on what Fields can accomplish with his strength, speed and innate awareness of where defenders are. That’s what makes him special. But he does need to advance as a passer from the pocket. “That’s a huge part of it, right?” Getsy said. “That’s playing the position. It’s exciting that he can make plays with his feet. But being able to handle and control the offense and make sure that we’re running the ball the right direction, make sure we have the proper play. We usually give him more than one play and he has to make sure — he has to handle all that. “Then being able to play from the pocket or slightly outside the pocket and making good decisions and being sound with that, taking care of the football, that’s all part of playing this position. It’s not easy. He keeps getting experience with it. That will be a huge part of how good we can be.” The plan Getsy has designed has been in the works for a long time. Clues are forthcoming. Scouting report Jordan Love, Packers quarterback Information for this report was obtained from NFL scouts. Jordan Love, 6-foot-4, 219 pounds, is in his fourth season in Green Bay and first as the starter as he had been waiting in the wings behind Aaron Rodgers after the Packers selected him in the first round in 2020 out of Utah State. Love has appeared in 10 games and made one start and attempted a total of 83 regular-season passes. He came off the bench to complete 6 of 9 passes for 113 yards and a touchdown in a 40-33 loss in Philadelphia in Week 12 last season. After facing Brett Favre and Rodgers for more than three decades, the Bears surely are excited for a new era in the rivalry. “I’m sure the Bears have watched the preseason, and Love was solid, but I’d really look at what happened when he came in and played against Philadelphia last year,” the scout said. “I’d study that more in terms of how Green Bay is going to utilize him. Lot of defined throws off play-action. Some movement on boot to get him to the edge of the pocket. I am sure they will scheme some shot plays to push the ball downfield. This is a guy with first-round traits. He was drafted in the first round for a reason. He’s got an easy motion and easy release. He can push the ball to the third level of the field and drive it with velocity. “He’s not Justin Fields outside the pocket but he’s a really good mover. He has the ability to create off schedule and throw off platform. The question is, especially in Week 1 when he has to play an entire game against regular-season competition, how does he do when you cannot define everything for him? The Bears are going to have plans to disrupt him on third down and inside the red zone, critical game situations where you can’t just define it and say, ‘This is where you’re going to put the ball.’ He’s going to need answers as a drop-back thrower when he’s going to have to manage the pocket with pressure and read it with speed.” Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune