 We have basically divided our tier list into separate categories, each one matching a specific character class. In total, there are 5 tier lists: Mage, Priest, Assassin, Ranger and Warrior. Each one of these is further divided into tiers, from best to worst. Also, there are two main types of combat in the game (PvE and PvP), and we've taken into account both of them when ranking the heroes. In the PvE aspect of the game, you have to focus more on maximizing damage and having support heroes in your team, which will boost damage dealers (but also a solid front line), while in PvP you have to focus more on disruption and preventing the enemy team’s active skills.
How to pick the best characters in Idle Heroes
Putting together a team can be as simple as dropping a bunch of heroes together; however, that's not the right way to do it. You always want to keep a solid front line no matter the content you choose, because that's going to be your first line of defense. Afterwards, you want to either go full ham and pick some powerful attackers that have good synergy, or go for a balanced front-to-back team. 
 
Either way, supports can be key in any sort of composition because they can offer powerful heal, attack buffs, or even debuffs that will deem the enemy powerless. Make sure to read the heroes' skill descriptions well because sometimes a certain hero that is not in the general S tier can be a key player in your team, even though it might only rank as high as A-tier.  Our suggestion would be to use our Idle Heroes tier list to guide you toward picking some powerful characters but take your time to devise a good team and strategy for each type of content. Just deploying all the S-tiers into one team might not be such a great idea, since you might miss some important team synergies. 

 Assassins  |  Priests  |  Warriors  |  Rangers  |  Mages

With that in mind, here is our Idle Heroes tier list of best characters.
Original article by Sumant Meena. Updated by Mihail Katsoris.
  Assassins  |  Priests  |  Warriors  |  Rangers  |  Mages

With that in mind, here is our Idle Heroes tier list of best characters. Heroes Heroes Heroes Heroes Heroes