Since 2022, we’ve reviewed over 30 pocket knives while camping, working and tackling everyday tasks at home, assessing each one for blade sharpness, ergonomics, durability and overall design. In our latest update to this guide, Forbes Vetted editors and staffers tested 13 different knives across six categories for two months to determine the best pocket knives of 2024. Our top knife overall is the Benchmade Griptillian, which features a large, sharp blade that’s in balance with the handle. The Buck 110 Folder wins for the best outdoor pocket knife because it feels secure and durable for its size, and the Chris Reeve Knives Sebenza 31 is the best premium pocket knife. We tested 13 pocket knives for two months to determine the best pocket knives in 2024. Ahead, you’ll find all the best pocket knives, with full reviews on each one. At the end, we also included seven other knives we tested that didn’t quite make the cut, as well as more information about our evaluation process. Amazon Weight: 3.88 ounces | Blade Length: 3.45 inches | Overall Length: 8.07 inches Pros: Cons: The popular Benchmade Griptillian was first released in 2001, and while carrying a pocket knife that’s been around for over 20 years might seem old-fashioned, this pick remains a mighty folder with few flaws. Sporting an overall length of eight inches, it’s a full-size pocket knife that’s built to handle every task without strain; Benchmade did a particularly great job of distributing this knife’s weight with the blade deployed. Speaking of the blade, Benchmade designs the Griptillian in three different styles, and we tested the drop-point CPM-S30V blade, which happens to be the most popular model. After weeks of use, we found that it holds an edge incredibly well and stands up to corrosion, so you won’t spend much time sharpening it. On the opposite end, the nylon handle has an ergonomic shape, and the proprietary Axis lock is easy to use. As you might expect, the Griptillian is a durable design from tip to grip, so those who use and abuse their pocket knives shouldn’t have any problems. With an overall length of about eight inches, the Griptillian is a full-size pocket knife, but it ... [+] tackles everyday tasks without breaking a swet. While the Griptillian is our top pick, it’s not perfect. As a full-size pocket knife that weighs nearly four ounces, it’s pretty big whether you’re using it or storing it in a pocket. The design also lacks an assisted opening mechanism to quickly deploy the blade, although we had no trouble using the thumb stud. If you’re looking for a smaller Benchmade, consider the Bugout or even the Bugout Mini, our favorite small pocket knife. Otherwise, pick up the Griptillian for its overall versatility. What our testers say: “During testing, I used the knife for various tasks, including whittling sticks, and it performed admirably,” says Forbes Vetted content strategy analyst Luke Frangis. “It effortlessly sliced through small branches and proved to be efficient in various tasks, whether opening boxes or assisting in outdoor activities. It has quickly become my favorite pocket knife.” Amazon Weight: 3 ounces | Blade Length: 3.0 inches | Overall Length: 7.0 inches Pros: Cons: The Kershaw Leek has been around longer than the Griptillian, and it’s known among enthusiasts as the “ideal EDC knife.” Designed by legendary knifemaker Ken Onion (hence the “Leek” in the name), it’s something of a Goldilocks pocket knife. With a three-inch, razor-sharp 14C28N blade, it slices and dices its way through packages and perishables, and because it’s really thin, you won’t have any trouble carrying it in a pocket. We loved the sheer simplicity of the design, and the weighted stainless steel handle offered a confident grip that looks good to boot. Really, this pocket knife checks a lot of boxes because it doesn’t try to fix what isn’t broken. It just works. The Leek isn't a full-size pocket knife, but it isn't miniature either, which makes it perfect for ... [+] everyday carry. With that said, we have some concerns with the Leek. For example, the thin blade can easily snap if pressure is applied in the wrong direction, and because the handle is equally thin, applying even pressure presents its own handling challenge every now and then. If you need a heavy-duty knife that can bully its way through big tasks, a full-size option like the Griptillian would better meet your needs. But if you’re simply looking for a reliable pocket knife that’s been around for decades, handles most tasks and costs less than $100, this is a great option for the money. What our testers say: “The Leek worked well on firmer items like apples and surprised me by beautifully slicing through overripe cherry tomatoes without crushing them,” says Forbes Vetted assistant editor Jordan Thomas. “I was also able to slice through several Amazon packages and break down some cardboard boxes without a notable drop in quality.” Benchmade Weight: 1.85 ounces | Blade Length: 3.24 inches | Overall Length: 7.46 inches Pros: Cons: Take a moment to browse online knife forums and you'll quickly discover the buzz around the Benchmade Bugout. Enthusiasts praise its lightweight design, durability, grippy handle and overall excellence as a full-size pocket knife weighing less than 2 ounces. After two months of testing, we couldn’t agree more. Sporting a Grivory (nylon) handle with small bumps to improve grip, the Bugout feels secure in hand. Our tester immediately preferred the size, shape and texture of the handle over the other ultralight knife we tested, the Hogue Deka. Complete with a proprietary Axis lock, the Bugout inspires confidence. As for the blade, Benchmade went with CPM-S30V, a steel that’s relatively affordable and offers great edge retention and corrosion resistance, as well as adequate toughness. After weeks of use, the blade has held an edge that seems to be just as sharp as it was when we first unboxed it, and there are no signs of corrosion. Benchmade includes a cloth drawstring storage pouch with the Bugout, and while we would have preferred a hard-sided case, this wasn’t a major concern. Weighing less than two ounces, the Benchmade Bugout is a beautiful pocket knife for the money. You might think the Benchmade Bugout’s lightweight design would make it less durable, but we found it to be plenty rugged. The real tradeoff here is the higher price tag that often comes with ultralight gear. If you can handle the cost, you’ll get a full-size pocket knife that’s been a favorite of ours for years. Plus, if the basic Bugout doesn’t quite fit your needs, Benchmade offers the knife in a slew of different styles and the option to customize your own design. What our testers say: “After using this knife frequently over the past few weeks, mostly to open and break down boxes, the blade feels just as sharp as when I first used it,” explains tester Robert Tietjen, a former Boy Scout who lives in Florida and has often relied on pocket knives in the outdoors and beyond. “It cuts apples with ease and cleanly slices through a soft tomato without squishing it at all. Perhaps the biggest con—but not dealbreaker—is that it only comes with a cloth drawstring pouch as opposed to a sturdier, more secure carrying case.” Benchmade Weight: 1.50 ounces | Blade Length: 2.82 inches | Overall Length: 6.49 inches Pros: Cons:  If the full-size dimensions of the original Bugout are a bit too big, consider downsizing to the slightly smaller (but no less capable) Mini Bugout. Weighing 1.50 ounces, it’s incredibly light in hand, but the blade is only a half inch shorter than the Bugout, so you’re not sacrificing utility for size. And like its sibling, the Mini Bugout features a textured Grivory handle, CPM-S30V steel and Benchmade’s famous Axis lock. In every way, it’s a miniature version of our favorite ultralight folder, and that’s what makes it so great. The size of the Mini Bugout doesn't compromise its utility. Really, our biggest problem with the Mini Bugout is its price tag. While the version we tested retails for $190, the basic Mini Bugout retails for $170—that’s only $10 less than the full-size Bugout (though you can find it on sale from outlets like Blade HQ). In our opinion, a smaller version of a full-size knife with these specifications shouldn’t cost more than $150, but that hasn’t stopped the EDC (everyday carry) community from falling in love with it anyway. Look beyond the price and you’ll find every excuse to break out this mini folder. Like the original Bugout, the Mini is available in different versions, and you can customize your own. What our testers say: “I preferred this knife over the other two I tested because, while it folds up small enough to fit in any pocket—even comically small women's jean pockets)—the blade is long enough to chop various fruits and vegetables or open boxes,” says Forbes Vetted operations manager Catherine Miller. “In addition to opening boxes, a standard test I performed across all three knives was cutting a thin slice of ripe tomato, which isn’t possible with a dull knife. The Mini Bugout excelled in this test, with the blade long enough and sharp enough to easily cut a slice off the fruit without making a mess.” Amazon Weight: 7.2 ounces | Blade Length: 3.75 inches | Overall Length: 8.63 inches Pros: Cons: Getting people to agree on the best pocket knife for the outdoors is like trying to get everyone to agree on the best pizza topping—everyone has their own opinion. In our view, a pocket knife for the outdoors should be durable, portable and comfortable, which is why we like the Buck Knives 110 Folder. First released in 1963, the 110 Folder was designed to offer the strength and reliability of a fixed-blade knife without the large size, and it’s been a popular model for over 60 years. While it is a bit heavy at 7.2 ounces, the extra weight makes the 110 Folder feel more solid and durable—its heft came in handy when cutting thicker materials like canvas and small branches. And although that same weight deters us from carrying it around in a pocket every day, the included leather sheath allowed us to throw it in a hiking pack and forget it until we needed it most. The 420HC blade is incredibly tough and corrosion resistant, and while this comes at the cost of edge retention, it’s easy to sharpen the steel when it dulls. Based on our experience, we’d rather work with a knife that’s tough and easy to sharpen on the fly. The Buck 110 Folder features a durable design that outlasts the elements.  The biggest issue we have with the 110 Folder is its weight. While Buck Knives includes a sheath to carry it around, the lack of a pocket clip is a bit of a bummer, and dedicated thru-hikers and ounce-counters will likely opt for a lighter-weight knife before investing in something so heavy. Still, it’s a simple, durable design that’s easy to use, and unless you’re looking for an ultralight knife to accompany you on the Pacific Coast Trail, this one will meet your needs in the backcountry. What our testers say: “While I likely wouldn't carry this in my pocket because of the lack of a clip and weight, the belt holster makes this a great knife to carry on a long fishing trip, hike or even a hunting trip,” notes Forbes Vetted senior manager of partnerships Jessica Weisman. “I wouldn't consider this a daily carry [knife], but I will definitely bring it on any long outdoor trips in the future.” Chris Reeve Knives Weight: 3.0 ounces | Blade Length: 2.99 inches | Overall Length: 6.98 inches Pros: Cons: A premium pocket knife should feel like pure quality the moment it lands in your hand. This is exactly the experience I had with the Chris Reeve Knives (CRK) Sebenza 31. Every curve and contour of the blade is crafted to fit your hand like a glove, and the blade, made from high-quality steel, boasts a razor-sharp edge and impeccable finish. From the moment I started using it, the Sebenza 31 impressed me with its silky-smooth action, superior build quality and tiny details that stand out. Crafted from CPM MagnaCut steel, the blade delivers exceptional sharpness and strength, cutting through most every material like butter. As the blade locks into place, it makes a metallic “click” that’s oddly satisfying. For the handle, CRK uses a titanium/aluminum/vanadium alloy that’s sandblasted to improve grip—it feels a bit like fine sandpaper. And the end of the handle is finished with a bit of paracord for those you-never-know-when-it-might-come-in-handy moments. The quality craftsmanship of the CRK Sebenza 31 makes it a standout premium pocket knife. Now, a premium pocket knife won’t necessarily cut a brick in half or survive a 100-story fall. Spending an additional $100 to $300 doesn’t make the design indestructible, nor does it give the blade super powers. Instead, it allows the knifemaker to use higher-end materials and refine the build quality, and that’s what you get with the Sebenza 31. Great pocket knives can be had for less, but if quality and attention to detail are of the utmost importance, this is a superb example. In many ways the Sebenza 31 looks and feels like a work of art. It’s one of those tools you consider displaying on a shelf before using it in the real world, but when you finally work up the courage to put it to use, you won’t be disappointed with its performance. Though it comes in two sizes (small and large), I tested the smaller style and couldn’t be happier with its abilities. Spyderco Para Military 2: We tested the Spyderco Para Military 2 alongside the Benchmade Griptillian and, while we loved Spyderco's design with its curved G10 handle and easy-to-use thumb hole, it fell a bit short—literally. The blade tip dented when it accidentally hit the pavement, which was a bit concerning for our tester. Even though both knives performed similarly, the Para Military 2 costs over $100 more than the Griptillian ($265 versus $160), which makes it harder to justify the higher price. Civivi Elementum: We tested the Elementum against the Kershaw Leek in the budget pocket knife category, and while we liked its size, the Leek's weight and design felt more reliable. The Elementum handled most tasks well, cutting through Amazon packages and loads of sticky tape, but it didn't pass the crucial tomato test—we had to be careful not to squish the tomatoes while slicing. Even so, it's still a great budget option if you're looking for a pocket knife around $50. Hogue Deka Manual Folder: Weighing 2.1 ounces, the Deka Manual Folder from Hogue was tested against the Benchmade Bugout in the lightweight pocket knife category. Though we appreciated the size and shape of the Deka, it felt less polished than the Bugout, with a slippery handle and a slightly dull blade that couldn’t slice and dice as effectively. Despite being $30 cheaper and coming with a hard-sided carrying case, these advantages weren’t enough to sway us from the Benchmade knife. Spyderco Dragonfly 2: The Spyderco Dragonfly 2 is a fantastic mini pocket knife that’s often compared to the Benchmade Mini Bugout, so we decided to put them head-to-head. We loved the Dragonfly 2 for its compact size and its easy-to-use trademark Round Hole, which makes deploying the blade a cinch. However, we found the curved grip a bit awkward, even though Spyderco says it’s designed for better usability. Plus, while the blade is really sharp, it's not as versatile as the Mini Bugout’s since it’s over a half inch shorter. On the plus side, the Dragonfly 2 is much more affordable, making it a great pick if you want a popular pocket knife without spending a ton. Wesn Microblade: The Wesn Microblade is a really tiny pocket knife, smaller still than the other mini knives we tested. While it's not exactly a fair comparison, we wanted to see if such a small knife could still be useful and maybe even replace a traditional pocket knife. We found the blade to be incredibly sharp, but its size means you'll want something bigger for tasks like cutting veggies or slicing through thick rope. As a keychain knife for opening packages or handling small tasks on the fly, it's perfect. But for anything more demanding, we'd suggest going for something a bit bigger. Opinel No. 8: The Opinel No. 8 is a favorite among outdoorsy folks, especially gardeners and foragers, thanks to its sharp blade and comfortable wooden handle that’s easy to grip. However, deploying the blade can be a bit cumbersome, often requiring multiple steps or even two hands, and its shape isn’t the most pocket-friendly. That’s why the Buck 110 Folder is our preferred choice for outdoor adventures. Still, at just $19, the Opinel No. 8 is a budget-friendly option to try out without much risk if you’re curious about its capabilities. The James Brand Kline: The Kline is a beautiful pocket knife that sports a MagnaCut blade, micarta scales and titanium pocket clip. As the other high-end pocket knife tested alongside the CRK Sebenza 31 in our premium category, we loved its build quality and attention to detail. Sadly, it fell short because it’s a bit big and unwieldy, and the ergonomics didn’t feel quite right. A bump where the handle meets the blade makes the experience feel disconnected, and the fit and finish just didn’t match the CRK blade. Still, it’s a stunning, premium knife that’s perfect for big hands and big tasks. We tested the Spyderco Dragonfly 2 alongside two other mini pocket knives from Benchmade and WESN. At Forbes Vetted, we’ve published dozens of expertly backed gear guides on camping and hiking equipment, biking equipment, and hunting and fishing essentials. These include insightful roundups on EDC equipment, from pocket knives to multi-tools.   The WESN Microblade is indeed tiny, but there's a lot this little pocket knife can handle. We spent two months putting a variety of pocket knives to the test. Each Forbes Vetted staffer and contributor was given a specific category of knives and tested 2 to 3 different models to ensure we covered all the bases. Here’s what our evaluation involved:   When it comes to choosing a pocket knife knife, we spoke with Jim Wirth, CEO and founder of GiantMouse Knives, who knows a whole lot about the ins and out of knives. Here are his best tips. “When selecting your first pocket knife, focus on its intended purpose, whether for everyday tasks, outdoor adventures or something more specialized,” Wirth says. “Quality is key—look for solid craftsmanship and high-grade steel, which ensures durability and longevity. Consider the size and weight—it should feel comfortable and balanced in your hand, and be comfortable when clipped inside your front pocket if intended for everyday carry. Lastly, be aware of local knife laws to ensure your choice is legal for carry and use in your area.” In choosing the best pocket knife, you should pay particular attention to the materials used when crafting the blade, as the steel will dictate how the knife performs and in what environments you should use it. “The most crucial element in a pocket knife is the blade steel, because it defines the knife's cutting ability, edge retention, and ease of resharpening,” says Wirth. “Several examples of high-end, corrosive-resistant steels that are ideal for pocket knives include Magnacut, M390, Elmax, 20CV and S90V.” The five factors to consider when reviewing blade steel types include toughness, hardness, wear resistance, corrosion resistance and edge retention. Keep in mind, though, the improvement of one factor will likely come at the expense of another. The handle is often made from a natural material, such as wood, bone or leather, a synthetic material such as carbon fiber or fiberglass, or a type of metal. In general, natural materials retain tradition and look matured, synthetic materials reduce weight and metals improve strength. “For handle scales, titanium stands out due to its lightness, exceptional strength and resistance to flexing,” explains Wirth. “Another great handle material is G10, a fiberglass composite known for its robustness and ability to withstand variations in heat and humidity. Both materials assure lasting performance.” “Different blade shapes are specifically suited to certain tasks,” says Wirth. “For example, the sheepsfoot blade is known for its strong tip and straight edge that’s ideal for slicing rope, cutting open boxes and whittling, but it falls short for piercing or penetrating tasks.” While several different blade types exist, some shapes are better than others when it comes to everyday tasks. “Most newcomers to pocket knives tend to choose either a clip point or drop point blade,” Wirth explains. “The clip point blade, with its concave back and fine tip, is well-suited for everyday tasks that require precision cutting, piercing and slicing. The drop point blade features a convex spine that slopes gently to the point, offering both strength and control.” Pocket knives come in various shapes and sizes. If you’re using your knife in the backcountry, look for a smaller style that performs well without adding unwanted bulk. And if you’re using your knife on the job site, consider a full-size knife that can tackle repetitive tasks. A pocket knife’s locking mechanism makes it safer to use, especially during more rugged tasks that require added strength and effort. For this reason, every blade on our list features a locking mechanism. While there are many different types of locking mechanisms—from a frame lock to an Axis lock—and each will work for the majority of tasks. The most important thing you can do to care for your pocket knife is to clean the blade and dry it fully after each use. “If stainless steel products are left uncleaned, aggressive substances like fruit acids and salt water can start to corrode the steel,” says MacDonald. “In order to avoid corrosion and difficulties opening individual tools, we recommend regular cleaning in warm water and oiling the friction points. We recommend using knife oil.” Some pocket knives can also be disassembled for a more thorough cleaning. If yours falls into this category, taking the knife apart from time to time is a great way to get it fully cleaned and then fully dried, ensuring the folding action remains smooth and the blade protected from corrosive substances. Oh, and of course, you should sharpen the blade as needed.   