Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try
                        again. Embrace your Joyful Aging Journey with Wish of a Lifetime from AARP. Help Register Login Login Hi, %{firstName}% Hi, %{firstName}% 
Games
            
 
Car rental
            
 
AARP daily Crossword Puzzle
            
 
Hotels with AARP discounts
            
 
Life Insurance
            
 
AARP Dental Insurance Plans
            
 
Travel
            
 AARP MEMBERSHIP  AARP Membership — $12 for your first year when you sign up for Automatic Renewal Get instant access to members-only products, hundreds of discounts, a free second membership, and a subscription to AARP the Magazine.    AARP en Español Back  Health Close Menu Wellness Conditions & Treatments Drugs & Supplements Health Care & Coverage Health Benefits AARP Hearing Center 
 Advice on Tinnitus and Hearing Loss
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Brain Health Resources 
 Tools and Explainers on Brain Health
 Your Health 
 8 Major Health Risks for People 50+
 Back  Money Close Menu Scams & Fraud Personal Finance Taxes Retirement Money Benefits Scams & Fraud 
 View and Report Scams in Your Area
 AARP Foundation Tax-Aide 
 Free Tax Preparation Assistance
 AARP Money Map 
 Get Your Finances Back on Track
 Your Money 
 How to Protect What You Collect
 Back  Work & Jobs Close Menu Job Search Careers Small Business Employers Age Discrimination Flexible Work 
 Freelance Jobs You Can Do From Home
 AARP Skills Builder 
 Online Courses to Boost Your Career
 Careers 
 31 Great Ways to Boost Your Career
 ON-DEMAND WEBINARS 
 Tips to Enhance Your Job Search
 Back  Social Security Close Menu Webinars 
 Get More out of Your Benefits
 Enrollment 
 When to Start Taking Social Security
 Basics 
 10 Top Social Security FAQs
 Tools 
 Social Security Benefits Calculator
 Back  Medicare Close Menu Medicare Made Easy 
 Original vs. Medicare Advantage
 Enrollment Guide 
 Step-by-Step Tool for First-Timers
 Prescription Drugs 
 9 Biggest Changes Under New Rx Law 
 Medicare FAQs 
 Quick Answers to Your Top Questions
 Back  Caregiving Close Menu Basics Care at Home Medical Financial & Legal Life Balance Local LONG-TERM CARE 
 ​Understanding Basics of LTC Insurance​
 State Guides 
 Assistance and Services in Your Area
 Prepare to Care Guides 
 How to Develop a Caregiving Plan
 End of Life 
 How to Cope With Grief, Loss
 Back  Games Close Menu All Recently Played Word & Trivia Rewards Atari® & Retro Mahjongg Members Only Staying Sharp Solitare Strategy Arcade Puzzles Card Juegos Daily Mobile Apps More About Games 
 Right Again! Trivia
 
 Right Again! Trivia – Sports
 
 Atari® Video Games
 
 Throwback Thursday Crossword
 Back  Travel Close Menu Travel Tips Vacation Ideas Destinations Travel Benefits Beach Vacation Ideas 
 Fun Beach Vacations
  Road Trips 
 Road Trips For Every Personality
  Passport Access 
 Passports Can Be Renewed Online
  AARP National Park Guide 
 Black Canyon of the Gunnison
  Back  Entertainment & Style Close Menu Movies TV Music Celebrities Beauty & Style Books Movies for Grownups 
 Summer Movie Preview
 Music 
 Jon Bon Jovi’s Long Journey Back
 Looking Back 
 50 World Changers Turning 50
 Back  Family & Relationships Close Menu Sex & Dating 
 7 Dating Dos and 7 Don'ts
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Friends & Family 
 Veterinarians May Use AI to Treat Pets
 Back  Personal Tech Close Menu Home Technology 
 Caregiver’s Guide to Smart Home Tech
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Virtual Community Center 
 Join Free Tech Help Events
 Back  Home & Living Close Menu Your Home 
 Creative Ways to Store Your Pets Gear
 Recipes 
 Meals to Make in the Microwave
 Your Home 
 Wearing Shoes Inside: Pros vs. Cons
 Back  Auto Close Menu Car Buying Driver Safety Maintenance & Safety Trends & Technology AARP Smart Guide 
 How to Clean Your Car
 We Need To Talk 
 Assess Your Loved One's Driving Skills
 Driver Safety 
 AARP Smart Driver Course
 Back  Staying Sharp Close Menu Assessment Challenges Articles Videos Recipes 
 Building Resilience in Difficult Times
 
 Tips for Finding Your Calm
 
 Weight Loss After 50 Challenge
 Back  Podcasts Close Menu 
 Cautionary Tales of Today's Biggest Scams
 
 7 Top Podcasts for Armchair Travelers
 
  Jean Chatzky: ‘Closing the Savings Gap’ 
 Back  Videos Close Menu 
 Quick Digest of Today's Top News
 
 AARP Top Tips for Navigating Life
 
 Get Moving With Our Workout Series
 You are now leaving AARP.org and going to a website that is not operated by AARP. A different privacy policy and terms of service will apply.  Medicare Made Easy 
Go to Series Main Page
 Brought to you by Open Enrollment Medicare Open Enrollment Ends on Dec. 7 It's time to check your coverage Coverage 10 Things Medicare Doesn’t Cover You’ll need to plan ahead to pay for some common medical expenses Insurance 10 Things to Know About Medigap Plans Your guide to buying Medicare ​supplemental health insurance Quiz How Much Do You Know About Medicare? Take this quiz and discover how knowledgeable you are about the health insurance program Taking Stock Medicare Open Enrollment: Everything You Need to Know When it starts, when it ends, and how it works for original Medicare and Medicare Advantage Finances How Much Does Medicare Cost? Monthly premiums, other out-of-pocket expenses can add up Options Understanding Medicare’s Options: Parts A, B, C and D Making sense of the alphabet soup of health care choices Benefits 12 Things Free Under Medicare Vaccines, screenings, counseling and more Options The Big Choice: Original Medicare vs. Medicare Advantage Which path you take will determine how you get your medical care — and how much it costs Enrollment How to Sign Up: A Guide to Medicare Enrollment When you can enroll for health coverage, the best ways to do it and how to avoid penalties Overview What Is Medicare? How the federal health insurance program covers seniors and people with disabilities info-2022 5 Steps to Help You Sign Up for Medicare Benefits When to enroll and what decisions you need to make The Basics 10 Things You Didn’t Know About Medicare How the program works for older adults and those with disabilities Timeline When 9 Biggest Medicare Changes Under New Rx Law Go Into Effect A year-by-year implementation timeline of the Inflation Reduction Act’s health provisions The Latest Big Medicare Changes in 2024 More Rx drug savings, higher premiums, new MA rules Follow the Rules 10 Common Medicare Mistakes to Avoid Errors can prove costly to new enrollees Medication What You Need to Know About Part D Prescription Drug Plans How to make sure that the medicines you take are covered by the plan you choose Get Help How to Get Help Paying for Medicare Savings programs can help cover premiums, copays and deductibles Getting Coverage Medicare Eligibility: Age, Qualifications, Requirements Here are the requirements to be eligible for health care coverage Advocacy Medicare to Negotiate Prices on These 10 Prescription Drugs Popular but pricey blood thinners, diabetes medications, cancer treatments make historic list health 7 Ways to avoid higher medicare premiums Major life events can exempt enrollees from surcharges ​ Dena Bunis, You might think that when you enroll in Medicare, the federal government health insurance program will pay for everything related to your health care. It doesn’t. Tallying how much you pay out of pocket for Medicare each year can lead to serious sticker shock.​​ When you add up all the premiums, deductibles, copays and coinsurance, the average Medicare enrollee can expect to spend thousands of dollars a year to get medical care. And the tab can swing wildly each year, depending on the state of a beneficiary’s health, where he or she lives, and whether the government and insurers have instituted any price increases — or decreases. Individual plans can also tinker with the services and drugs they cover.​​ AARP Membership— $12 for your first year when you sign up for Automatic Renewal Get instant access to members-only products and hundreds of discounts, a free second membership, and a subscription to AARP the Magazine.  Join Now Medicare covers the majority of your health care expenses each year. But you still may have to pay thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket costs: Part A: No fee for the majority of beneficiaries*​​ Part B: $﻿174.70 monthly for 202﻿4﻿﻿ (automatically deducted from Social Security benefit payments). Individuals with an annual income of more than $﻿103﻿ ,000 pay a higher premium.​​ Part C (Medicare Advantage): $174.70﻿ monthly for the Part B premium for 202﻿4﻿﻿, plus any additional premium set by the insurer.​​ Part D prescription drug plan: Premium varies by plan, averages $﻿55.50﻿ monthly for 202﻿﻿4﻿. *A small number of beneficiaries (who didn’t pay enough Medicare taxes during their working years) must pay a $50﻿5 monthly premium in 2024.​​ AARP NEWSLETTERS %{ newsLetterPromoText  }% %{ description }% Privacy Policy ARTICLE CONTINUES AFTER ADVERTISEMENT Part A: $1,632 for each hospital stay in 202﻿4﻿. Part B: $240 for 202﻿4.﻿ (Some Medigap policies cover Part A and Part B deductibles.) Part C (Medicare Advantage): Amount varies by plan. Part D prescription drug plan: Amount varies by plan but cannot exceed $5﻿45 for 202﻿4﻿. Part C (Medicare Advantage): Amount varies by plan and by service. Part D prescription drug plan: Amount varies by plan and by prescription. Part A: No fee for hospital stays of 60 days or less. For 61 to 90 days, $40﻿8 per day for 202﻿﻿4. For 91 days or more, $816 per day or full cost of stay. Medicare also provides 60 “lifetime reserve days” that beneficiaries can use if they need to stay in a hospital for more than 90 days. These can be used only once. Part B: Typically, 20 percent of the Medicare-approved cost of the service for most services. Medigap policies typically cover Part A and Part B coinsurance. Part C (Medicare Advantage): Amount varies by plan and by service. 
                        
                        
                            AARP® Vision Plans from VSP™
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Vision insurance plans designed for members and their families
                        
                     ​Medicare’s out-of-pocket costs — premiums, deductibles, copays and coinsurance — can easily result in a large tab each year. If you’re struggling to meet those expenses, you might be eligible for federal and state assistance.​​ If you qualify for Medicaid , the federal-state health insurance program for people with low incomes and individuals with disabilities, it will pay some or all of your out-of-pocket expenses. Individuals on both Medicare and Medicaid are known as “dual eligibles.”. Medicare will still pay for beneficiar﻿ies to get vaccinated — including getting boosters — for COVID-19 with no out-of-pocket expenses. The program will also pay for beneficiaries to get tested, with no charges to the beneficiary, although over-the-counter tests are no longer free. You can go to covid.gov/tests and get four free tests mailed to your home.. Medicare will also pay for U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved COVID-19 treatments, such as Paxlovid.   Other programs are designed for beneficiaries with incomes that are too high to qualify for Medicaid, but who still have trouble paying their health care bills. Each program has specific income and asset limits and eligibility requirements that are adjusted annually. Your state Medicaid program or State Health Insurance Program — also known as SHIP (877-839-2675 toll-free) — can provide enrollment assistance and more details on the income caps and other eligibility criteria. Editor’s note: This story has been updated with 2024 information. Dena Bunis covers Medicare, health care, health policy and Congress. She also writes the Medicare Made Easy column for the AARP Bulletin. An award-winning journalist, Bunis spent decades working for metropolitan daily newspapers, including as Washington bureau chief for The Orange County Register and as a health policy and workplace writer for Newsday. 
        Unlock Access to AARP Members Edition 
 
 Already a Member? Login AARP NEWSLETTERS %{ newsLetterPromoText  }% %{ description }% Privacy Policy AARP NEWSLETTERS %{ newsLetterPromoText  }% %{ description }% Privacy Policy More on Medicare 
 How Much Do You Know About Medicare?
 Take this quiz and discover how knowledgeable you are about the health insurance program 
 Medicare Makes It Easier to Compare Doctors, Health Facilities Online
 
 AARP Answers: Medicare and the Coronavirus
 ARTICLE CONTINUES AFTER ADVERTISEMENT AARP Value & Member Benefits See All 
                        
                        
                            AARP Rewards 
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Learn, earn and redeem points for rewards with our free loyalty program
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            AARP® Dental Insurance Plan administered by Delta Dental Insurance Company
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Dental insurance plans for members and their families
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            The National Hearing Test
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Members can take a free hearing test by phone
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            AARP® Staying Sharp®
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Activities, recipes, challenges and more with full access to AARP Staying Sharp®
                        
                     SAVE MONEY WITH THESE LIMITED-TIME OFFERS  AARP is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that empowers people to choose how they live as they age. About Us Membership Policy & Research Newsletters AARP In Your City AARP En Español AARP樂齡會 AARP Foundation Wish of a Lifetime Senior Planet | OATS AgeTech Collaborative™ Legal Counsel for the Elderly