Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Lowest Price since August Magnetically attaching to the back of your iPhone, Apple's own MagSafe battery pack offers a lightweight, cable-free battery boost on the go, and right now it's 15 per cent off.                     The MagSafe Battery Pack is Apple's in-house battery life extender for iPhones, and it's currently at one of its lowest prices ever on Amazon thanks to the Big Deal Day sales event. It's compatible with all the latest models of the iPhone, starting with iPhone 12. That includes all iPhone 12- 14 models, including the Max and Mini. Magnetically attaching to the back of your phone, the battery pack offers a wire-free 24-hours of extra battery. Topping out at 11mm and stretching over the bottom two-thirds of the back of an iPhone, the pack is thinner than the original iPhone, and still functions with MagSafe compatible cases, so you won't have to sacrifice protection for power.
      Read more: 18 of our favorite tested phones are still majorly discounted for Prime Day: Take advantage while you still can
                     Between streaming music and TV shows, navigating new city streets, iMessaging, FaceTiming, and calling, we demand a lot from our iPhones. And while each new iPhone model boasts longer battery life, it always helps to keep an extra power source on hand to avoid the inevitable: a dead phone right when you need it most. Personally, my iPhone 12 Pro Max battery is fine most days, but I've noticed after long days at the beach or the zoo that the battery just doesn't last an entire day, especially when I can't help but take pictures of my daughter every five minutes. If you find yourself in the same situation, this is a great investment before holiday parties - or would even make the perfect stocking stuffer.
                         So, full transparency, I'm picking up the MagSafe Battery Pack while it's on sale for under it's usually steep $99 tag. While I don't view it as something I'll use on my phone every day (yet), it seems like the perfect solution to avoided being stranded with a dead phone. Plus, at $84, it's the lowest the device has been since March, according to price tracker CamelCamelCamel - and we all know Apple products rarely go on sale. So, if you don't want to wait until October's Prime Big Deal Days for another hopeful sale or the promise of a fully charged phone ahead of holiday season, you'll want to act now.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Prime Day 2024 is almost over but there are still plenty of bargains to be found. The Samsung S95D is the top of the line OLED model from Samsung for 2024. It offers a dazzling image with unbeatable contrast and rich color depth. The Pencilera app brings a long-requested feature to iPad, allowing users to snap a photo with their Apple Pencil. The answer may depend on the type of disc and how you preserve it. Whether at home or on the go, this device does everything you hope and dream a CD player should. The sales for the PS5 have slowed faster than anticipated, and I know a few key reasons why.