PALMYRA TWP. — Voters in Palmyra Township will have the chance Tuesday, May 2, to accept or reject an amendment to the township’s solar ordinance that would restrict utility-scale solar installations. “Utility-scale” means that the project would produce power for the electrical grid. Utilities, such as Consumers Energy or DTE Energy, purchase the power from such projects and sell it to their consumers. The amendment requires setbacks of 330 feet from the property lines of adjacent neighbors and imposes sound and maximum lot coverage limits. A “yes” vote would mean that most utility-scale solar projects would not happen in the township, while a “no” vote would reject the amendment that makes the solar ordinance so restrictive that most commercial solar companies would not be able to install a viable and profitable project. The ordinance prior to the amendment had a 50-foot setback requirement and unlimited lot coverage.  Polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tuesday at the Palmyra Township Hall, 6490 Palmyra Road. The Palmyra Township Board is made up of five members: Supervisor Dave Pixley, clerk Christine Whited, treasurer Mark Koester, and trustees Steve Papenhagen and Mark Crane. During a special meeting Nov. 15, 2022, the board voted 4-1 to approve the amendment. Pixley was the board member who voted against the changes. The less restrictive ordinance was the work of several planning commissions prior. This last completed ordinance was created by former planning commission chairman Pixley and his commission. The ordinance stood after a failed referendum led by Koester in 2018. Just the opposite of this Tuesday's election, in 2018, those who voted “no” were against utility-scale solar and those who voted “yes” were for utility-scale solar. Current planning commission chair Deborah Comstock filed the petition to put the current referendum on the May 2 ballot. “When I conducted the referendum, I visited many citizens in Palmyra. The majority of them were in favor of solar and the benefits it could bring to the township. ... Solar revenues from taxes go to all the area school districts, the (Lenawee Intermediate School District), to infrastructure projects and overall services to a community. Everyone benefits from the revenues solar provides,” Comstock said. “Solar is term limited, while housing construction is not. Houses are on farmland forever, solar is for 25-30 years. Having solar on a farm means there is less crop fertilization; less tilling, preventing carbon dioxide in the air; less erosion; less top-soil loss due to active farming; and less excess fertilizer running off into streams, rivers and lakes.” Palmyra resident Charles La Rose is concerned that utility-scale solar projects will drive up energy bills, negatively affecting people on fixed incomes, such as low-income residents and seniors. He also has concerns about food production decreasing. “My concern is the benefits will go only to a few landowners, instead of the community at large. The community right now is benefiting from farming as a whole; compared to the land benefiting a few owners only,” La Rose said. “It is stated new tax revenue will follow the presence of solar farms, but historically schools are funded by property taxes.” Jim Isley owns the fifth-generation Sunrise Farms in Palmyra Township, where he raises corn and soybeans. He also served as a trustee on the township board for seven years as well as township supervisor for 17 years. His term as supervisor ended in 2020. “You’re always going to look at industry or an asset to the township that will generate tax dollars, which does not require very many services,” Isley said. “As a township as a whole, solar puts a lot into our township treasury plus even more money into our local school system. It requires very little services — no sewer, no water, no fire, no EMS. To me, it looks like a win-win; a win for everybody. I receive rent on my property for the use of it and the township and schools benefit.”  For Isley, the bigger issue is private property rights.  “They’ve made the requirements so stringent that it’s likely the solar companies will not want to proceed, nor would the producer be looking at them. It makes solar non-competitive,” Isley said.  Isley said that he has had several solar developers approach him but has not responded and said that he will not respond to them until he finds out what the township will permit landowners to do. Dr. Jim Leonard, a Palmyra resident with 200 acres of land, much of which he leases for corn and soybean production, is a semi-retired veterinarian. Leonard’s grandfather bought the farm in 1929, and Leonard used to farm the property with his father. He said that growing up on the farm he saw his father often struggle to make ends meet. “I favor the choice. I wouldn’t want it for myself. I don’t think I would want that on our farm, but I would like to be able to choose that,” Leonard said. “I think my dad would have liked to take advantage of a program like the solar if he had the opportunity because it was a struggle back then. So that’s why I’m for the choice.”  Papenhagen said he supported amending the zoning ordinance because he felt it did not reflect the priorities of the majority of constituents. “The amendment to the zoning ordinance should protect both the interests of the residents who are participating in the project as well as those who are not,” Papenhagen said. “The original zoning ordinance from the planning commission did not include responsible measures for decommissioning of the structures or reasonable setbacks from non-participating landowner property lines. With that plan, a non-participating home could be surrounded on three sides by solar panels and have no say in the project.”   ESA of Maitland, Florida, has been working in Palmyra to develop a utility-scale solar farm since 2020. The project ESA would like to install would power more than 20,000 homes a year. “The ordinance would exclude any commercial solar facilities from being placed in the township,” Matt Drennan, senior director of development for ESA, said. Most U.S. solar facilities are built in rural environments because to build a solar facility open land is needed without environmental constraints as well as access to transmission infrastructure.    Solar projects can be removed at the end of their useful life and the land can be returned to crop production. Farmers potentially could receive decades of stable revenue without giving up land for permanent development. The Michigan Township Association recommends that townships have ordinances in place to ensure that any requests for such developments are aligned with the community’s wants and needs, and that the township work with its attorney on such matters, Jenn Fiedler, communications director for the MTA, said. “MTA has been involved in discussions for more than two years on legislation involving optional payment in lieu of taxes for commercial solar arrays (the bills would allow the option of exempting equipment in solar developments from state personal property tax and replacing it with an agreed-upon PILT),” Fiedler said. “Townships would likely receive only a small portion of the total taxes paid on these developments, regardless of whether or not there was a solar energy district established with a PILT or if it were taxed under state tax commission tables.” Crane said the Palmyra Township's attorney advised the board against writing an ordinance with the promise of revenue in mind.     “I am convinced that the amendment works for both the participating and the nonparticipating landowner in the township. It will allow for some large-scale solar applications but only in certain areas and circumstances. We are a rural community and many of our residents like the idea of staying that way,” Crane said. “I know that the solar companies want large, flat sections of land to make the project profitable, but that's not my job. In my opinion this ordinance works because it gives both sides some of what they want.” MTA strongly opposed legislation in 2020 mandating townships provide a PILT. Several provisions were included in 2022 legislation and the new bills. Key elements for townships are to ensure local zoning authority is retained and optionality exists for both the local unit and the applicant. The legislation provides a township, city or village, with approval from the state tax commission, the option to grant a 20-year property tax exemption to a “qualified solar energy facility.” The facility instead would then pay a specific tax based on the electricity-generating capacity of the facility. Under the PILT program for solar facilities under consideration, each facility would have a tax rate of $7,000 per megawatt per year, which Drennan said is an increase in ESA’s current tax liabilities. “ESA would like to become a proud partner of Palmyra Township where there would be job creation, sponsorships, and programs that we would like to partake in. If there is any opportunity to give back to Palmyra Township organizations, we’d love a chance to support it,” Drennan said. “ESA prides itself in being on-the-ground, door knocking developers. We sit with each adjacent neighbor in all of our projects, and Palmyra would be no different. We consult with each of them to better understand what we could do to make their viewshed more desirable to them. ... ESA is a strong supporter of any farming or grazing practices that could occur during the operations of the project.” This article originally appeared on The Daily Telegram: Palmyra Township to vote on utility-scale solar May 2 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.