This file photo shows a newly repaved section of Main Street in downtown Ann Arbor on June 30, 2023.Ryan Stanton | The Ann Arbor News ANN ARBOR, MI - Some major summerlong road projects in Washtenaw County are wrapping up, from a freshly paved Main Street in downtown Ann Arbor to a brand new roundabout south of Ypsilanti. But the list of construction season closures hasn’t dwindled much. From overnight shutdowns on U.S. 23 for construction to emergency repairs of a road washed out by heavy rains, here’s a full list of road construction that could affect commute times and travel across the area for Friday, Aug. 25 and the week ahead. ANN ARBOR Summit Street: The street is closed between Main Street and Wildt/Hisock Street through Tuesday, Aug. 29, with lane shifts also present between Main Street and Fourth Avenue for DTE Energy utility work. Ellsworth Road: The road is closed in the eastbound direction between South State Street and Platt Road for a resurfacing project, slated to run through Friday, Sept. 1. South Main Street: The northbound lane of Main Street is also closed between East Davis Avenue and East Hoover Avenue with traffic shifted to the west side of Main Street and maintained in both directions. The shift, for crews to complete utility installations at the Main and Davis development, will last until Thursday, Aug. 31. Earhart Road: The road is closed to southbound through traffic between Geddes Road and the U.S. 23 overpass through Friday, Nov. 10 for project that includes repaving, installing three mini roundabouts, building new sidewalk, installing bike lanes and making stormwater improvements. Pontiac Trail/Swift Street: All lanes of Swift Street and the southbound lanes of Pontiac Trail are closed to through traffic between Broadway and Moore streets for a city water main and street upgrade project. In addition, the Swift Street and Broadway Street intersection is limited to a single lane of traffic in each direction. The restrictions are slated to last until Sept. 1. South State Street: The street is closed to northbound vehicles between Granger Avenue and Hoover Avenue through Sept. 1 for the next phase of a two-year redesign of State and Hill streets. Southbound traffic will be shifted to the east side of the street, and the Hoover intersection will also be closed. Brooks Street and Mixtwood Road: A five-month streets project in the Water Hill neighborhood has shuttered Brooks Street to all through traffic between Miller Avenue and Sunset Road, as well as Mixtwood Road between Brooks and Red Oak Road. The construction — bringing a mini roundabout, new sidewalk and replacement water mains — is scheduled for completion by Saturday, Nov. 4. Glen Avenue: The street is closed to all traffic through Monday, Sept. 11 for a utility project. The completion date has been delayed. University of Michigan student move-in closures: Several parking and traffic restrictions are in effect through 11 a.m. Sunday, Aug. 27 for U-M student move-in. MLive/The Ann Arbor News has published a full list. North University Avenue: The street will close from Thayer Street to Fletcher Street from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Wednesday, Aug. 30 for the U-M Festifall event. Washtenaw Avenue: The road will see a single-lane closure in the westbound direction at Hill Street from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday to Friday through Friday, Sept. 29. U.S. 23: The highway on Ann Arbor’s eastern city limit will see single-lane closures in each direction overnight until Aug. 31 between Packard Street and M-14 for construction. The eastbound and westbound Washtenaw Avenue ramps to and from southbound U.S. 23 will also close for construction between 10 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 26 and 6 a.m. Aug. 27. Long-term projects: North Fifth Avenue from Detroit to Catherine streets will have a lane shift through June 2024 for a new development. Eastbound South University Avenue traffic between East University Avenue and Church Street is closed long-term for high-rise construction. The Liberty Road bridge over I-94 is reduced to single-lane traffic, with temporary traffic signals, until further notice after being damaged by a truck on March 13. The Michigan Department of Transportation plans to design and contract for a bridge replacement, officials say, though no timeline has been released for the project. OTHER WASHTENAW COUNTY PROJECTS: Pittsfield Township - U.S. 23/Michigan Avenue: A major project widening Michigan Avenue in Pittsfield Township and upgrading the U.S. 23 interchange will cause shoulder closures and lane closures on U.S. 23 south of Ann Arbor. At Michigan Avenue, northbound and southbound U.S. 23 will see 15-minute total closures closures overnight for the construction on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights, Aug. 25 to Aug. 27. The Michigan Avenue ramps to and from southbound U.S. 23 are closed, with restrictions running through Aug. 31. A single lane of Michigan Avenue is also closed in both directions from Carpenter Road to Textile Road through Wednesday, Nov. 15. The project as a whole is scheduled to run through November. Ypsilanti - Hamilton Street: A single lane in the southbound direction is closed between Pearl and Ferris streets through Aug. 31. Ypsilanti - Michigan Avenue: The street has an eastbound single-lane closure from Washington to Huron streets through Aug. 31. Other downtown Ypsilanti street closures are possible as a major utility and street overhaul project continues. See the city’s webpage on the project for updates. Ypsilanti - Huron River Drive: The road is closed to all westbound traffic between Lowell and Cornell streets for a major city reconstruction project. Officials are posting updates on the city website. Ypsilanti - Forest Avenue bridge: The bridge over the Huron River is closed through early October for rehabilitation work. York/Pittsfield townships - Bemis Road bridge: The bridge over U.S. 23 will close completely for construction from Monday, Aug. 28 to Thursday, Sept. 7. York Township - U.S. 23/Willis Road interchange: The eastbound Willis Road ramp to northbound U.S. 23 is closed for construction through Nov. 15. York Township - Stony Creek Road: The road is closed at the bridge over U.S. 23 for construction through Sunday, Nov. 5. Chelsea - Main Street: The street will see a total closure from Middle Street to Old U.S. 12 from noon to 3 p.m. on Aug. 26. Manchester Township - M-52: Both directions of the highway will see single-lane closures during daytime hours from Michigan Avenue to Austin Road for construction through Aug. 26. Washtenaw County Road Commission projects Augusta Township - Rawsonville Road: The road is closed between Talladay and Willis roads until Sept. 1 for drainage improvements. A detour map is available online. This project has been extended. Freedom Township - Hieber Road: The road will see intermittent lane restrictions between Reno and Schneider roads from from Aug. 28 to Aug. 31 for drainage and gravel resurfacing. This project was delayed. Freedom Township - Saline Waterworks Road: The road will see daytime road closures between Steinbach Road and Parker Road the week of Aug. 28 for limestone resurfacing. Superior Township - Plymouth Road bridge: The Bridge over Fleming Creek, between Ford Road and M-153, will see daytime lane closures the week of Aug. 28 for maintenance. Lyndon/Sylvan townships - Various roads: Several roads in the townships will see intermittent lane restrictions for a Consumers Energy natural gas pipeline replacement project. Pittsfield Township - Morgan Road: The road between Carpenter Road and Michigan Avenue is closed for water main and road work until Saturday, Sept. 30, an extended completion date. A detour map is available online. Pittsfield Township - Platt Road: The road will see intermittent lane closures between Bemis Road and Michigan Avenue through September for construction of a non-motorized pathway. Pittsfield Township - Crane Road: The road is closed between Textile Road and Michigan Avenue through Tuesday, Oct. 31 for sanitary sewer installation. A detour map is available online. This project has been extended. Pittsfield Township - Carpenter Road: The road will see intermittent lane closures between Textile and Ellsworth roads through October for resurfacing. Pittsfield Township - Textile Road: The road is closed between Carpenter and Crane roads for sanitary sewer installation through Oct. 31. A detour map is available online. Salem Township - Joy Road: The road is closed between Gotfredson Road and a half-mile east of the intersection from through Friday, Sept. 8 for sanitary main work. A detour map is available online. This project has been extended. Salem Township - Intersection of Joy Road and Gotfredson Road: The intersection will close through Sept. 8 for sanitary main work. A detour map is available online. This project has been extended. Salem Township - Dixboro Road: The road will see daytime closures between 6 Mile Road and 8 Mile Road from Aug. 22 to Aug. 31 for limestone resurfacing. Salem Township - Tower Road: The road will see daytime closures between Joy Road and North Territorial Road from Aug. 28 to Sept. 1 for limestone resurfacing. Superior/Ypsilanti townships - Clark Road: The road will see lane restrictions west of Leforge Road to the end of the road through Sept. 30 for road resurfacing. York Township - Mooreville Road: The road will see intermittent lane closures between Dennison Road/Stony Creek Road and Saline-Milan Road from Aug. 28 to Aug. 30 for drainage work. Ypsilanti Township - Molner Court: The road will see daytime lane closures between Georgina Street and the dead end through November for DTE Energy gas line replacement. Ypsilanti Township - Gault Drive: The road will see daytime lane closures between Ruth Avenue and Service Drive through November for DTE gas line replacement. Ypsilanti Township - Service Drive: The road will see daytime lane closures between Grove Road and Emerick Street through November for DTE gas line replacement. Ypsilanti Township - Juneau Road: The road will see daytime lane closures between Jeffery Street and Levona Street through November for DTE gas line replacement. Ypsilanti Township - Jay Avenue: The road will see daytime lane closures between Jeffery Street and Grove Road through November for DTE gas line replacement. Ypsilanti Township - Tyler Road: The road is closed between McGregor Road and Airport Drive effective Aug. 24 for emergency road repairs following a washout. Its reopening date has not yet been determined. An updated list of Ann Arbor city street closures, the weekly Washtenaw County Road Commission schedule and the MDOT road closure map are all available online. Want more Ann Arbor-area news? Bookmark the local Ann Arbor news page or sign up for the free “3@3 Ann Arbor” daily newsletter. More from The Ann Arbor News: Bus carrying Saline football team drives into ditch near U.S. 23 Students begin move-in to newly renovated Eastern Michigan University residence halls Parts of Washtenaw County get almost 5 inches of rain in 3 hours during 500-year storm Ann Arbor-area dioxane plume affecting dozens of drinking wells north of M-14, new map shows If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices