In this file photo, contractors tear up a section of Main Street between Liberty and William in Ann Arbor on Tuesday, Feb. 21, 2023.Jacob Hamilton | MLive.com ANN ARBOR, MI - State Street has a new look in downtown Ann Arbor and Main Street is nearing the end of a monthslong facelift. But across the Washtenaw County, traffic cones haven’t yet disappeared across a slew of roads and bridges. Here’s a full list of road construction that could affect commute times and travel across the area for Friday, Aug. 18 and the week ahead. ANN ARBOR Summit Street: The street will close between Main Street and Wildt/Hisock Street from Thursday, Aug. 24 to Tuesday, Aug. 29, with lane shifts also present between Main Street and Fourth Avenue for DTE Energy utility work. Ellsworth Road: The road is closed in the eastbound direction between South State Street and Platt Road for a resurfacing project, slated to run through Friday, Sept. 1. South Main Street: The Main/Huron Street intersection is under construction for the third and final phase of a major resurfacing and water main project. All vehicles lanes of South Main are closed approaching Huron, and the eastbound vehicle lanes of Huron are also shut down approaching South Main, with the restrictions set to last until Friday, Aug. 25. Between 7 a.m. Monday, Aug. 21 and 7 p.m. Tuesday, Aug. 22, South Main will also close between William and Huron streets, including the Liberty and Washington intersections for pavement marking. For a separate project, the northbound lane of Main Street is also closed between East Davis Avenue and East Hoover Avenue with traffic shifted to the west side of Main Street and maintained in both directions. The shift, for crews to complete utility installations at the Main and Davis development, will last until Thursday, Aug. 31. Earhart Road: The road is closed to southbound through traffic between Geddes Road and the U.S. 23 overpass through Friday, Nov. 10 for project that includes repaving, installing three mini roundabouts, building new sidewalk, installing bike lanes and making stormwater improvements. Pontiac Trail/Swift Street: All lanes of Swift Street and the southbound lanes of Pontiac Trail are closed to through traffic between Broadway and Moore streets for a city water main and street upgrade project. In addition, the Swift Street and Broadway Street intersection is limited to a single lane of traffic in each direction. The restrictions are slated to last until Sept. 1. South State Street: The street is closed to northbound vehicles between Granger Avenue and Hoover Avenue through Sept. 1 for the next phase of a two-year redesign of State and Hill streets. Southbound traffic will be shifted to the east side of the street and the Hoover intersection will also be closed. Brooks Street and Mixtwood Road: A five-month streets project in the Water Hill neighborhood has shuttered Brooks Street to all through traffic between Miller Avenue and Sunset Road, as well as Mixtwood Road between Brooks and Red Oak Road. The construction — bringing a mini roundabout, new sidewalk and replacement water mains — is scheduled for completion by Saturday, Nov. 4. Broadway Street: The street is closed through Monday, Aug. 21 between the Traver Creek pedestrian crossing island, just south of Jones Drive, and Plymouth Road for a project bringing water main upgrades, sidewalk improvements and pavement resurfacing. Newport Road: The road between Sunset Road and Down Up Circle, near the Bird Hills Nature Area, will see flagging and temporary signals as crews install new sidewalk through Aug. 25. Glen Avenue: The street is closed to all traffic through Monday, Sept. 11 for a utility project. The completion date has been delayed. Washtenaw Avenue: The road will see single-lane closures in the westbound direction at Huron Parkway through Aug. 21 during daytime hours. U.S. 23: The highway on Ann Arbor’s eastern city limit will see single-lane closures in each direction overnight between until Aug. 25 between Packard Street and M-14 for construction. Long-term projects: North Fifth Avenue from Detroit to Catherine streets will have a lane shift through June 2024 for a new development. Eastbound South University Avenue traffic between East University Avenue and Church Street is closed long-term for high-rise construction. The Liberty Road bridge over I-94 is reduced to single-lane traffic, with temporary traffic signals, until further notice after being damaged by a truck on March 13. The Michigan Department of Transportation plans to design and contract for a bridge replacement, officials say, though no timeline has been released for the project. OTHER WASHTENAW COUNTY PROJECTS: Pittsfield Township - U.S. 23/Michigan Avenue: A major project widening Michigan Avenue in Pittsfield Township and upgrading the U.S. 23 interchange will cause shoulder closures and lane closures on U.S. 23 south of Ann Arbor. The Michigan Avenue ramps to and from southbound U.S. 23 are also closed, with restrictions running through Aug. 31. The project as a whole is scheduled to run through November. Ypsilanti - Hamilton Street: A single lane in the southbound direction is closed between Pearl and Ferris streets through Aug. 31. Two lanes in the southbound direction will close between Washtenaw Avenue and Michigan Avenue through Aug. 18 for a major road renovation project. Read more: Construction cones aren’t forever. But new Ypsilanti bike lanes yet to reach ‘final form’ Ypsilanti - Washtenaw Avenue: A double lane closure is in effect between Summit and Hamilton streets through Aug. 18 for the road renovation. Ypsilanti - Michigan Avenue: The street has an eastbound single-lane closure from Washington to Huron streets through Aug. 31. Other downtown Ypsilanti street closures are possible as a major utility and street overhaul project continues. See the city’s webpage on the project for updates. Ypsilanti - Huron River Drive: The road is closed to all westbound traffic between Lowell and Cornell streets for a major city reconstruction project. Officials are posting updates on the city website. Ypsilanti - Forest Avenue bridge: The bridge over the Huron River is closed through early October for rehabilitation work. York Township - U.S. 23/Willis Road interchange: The eastbound Willis Road ramp to northbound U.S. 23 is closed for construction through Wednesday, Nov. 15. York Township - Stony Creek Road: The road is closed at the bridge over U.S. 23 for construction through Sunday, Nov. 5. Manchester Township - M-52: Both directions of the highway will see single-lane closures during daytime hours from Michigan Avenue to Austin Road for construction through Saturday, Aug. 26. Washtenaw County Road Commission projects Ann Arbor Township - Huron River Drive: The road will see lane restrictions between Clark Road and the Dixboro Road bridge from Aug. 21 and Aug. 24 for road resurfacing. Augusta Township - Rawsonville Road: The road is closed between Talladay and Willis roads until Aug. 25 for drainage improvements. A detour map is available online. This project has been extended. Augusta Township - Whittaker Road: The road has intermittent lane restrictions between Willow and Willis roads through Aug. 24 for drainage work. Augusta/Ypsilanti townships - Intersection of Bemis and Whittaker roads: The intersection is closed for the construction of a new roundabout through Sept. 1. A detour map is available online. Freedom Township - Hieber Road: The road will see intermittent lane restrictions between Reno and Schneider roads from through Aug. 25 for drainage and gravel resurfacing. Lima Township - Plymouth Road bridge: The Bridge over Fleming Creek, between Ford Road and M-153, will see daytime lane closures the week of Aug. 21 for maintenance. Lima/Scio townships - Parker Road bridge: The bridge over the Mill Creek, between Jackson and Gross roads, will see daytime lane closures the week of Aug. 21 for maintenance. Lyndon/Sylvan townships - Various roads: Several roads in the townships will see intermittent lane restrictions for a Consumers Energy natural gas pipeline replacement project. Manchester Township - Kirk Road: The road will see intermittent lane restrictions between Tracey Road and M-52 through Aug. 25 for forestry work. This project has been extended. Northfield Township - Jennings Road: The road will see intermittent lane restrictions between the township line and Kearney Road through Aug. 24 for drainage work. This project has been extended. Pittsfield Township - Morgan Road: The road between Carpenter Road and Michigan Avenue is closed for water main and road work until Aug. 31, an extended completion date. A detour map is available online. Pittsfield Township - Platt Road: The road will see intermittent lane closures between Bemis Road and Michigan Avenue through September for construction of a non-motorized pathway. Pittsfield Township - Crane Road: The road is closed between Textile Road and Michigan Avenue through Tuesday, Oct. 31 for sanitary sewer installation. A detour map is available online. This project has been extended. Pittsfield Township - Carpenter Road: The road will see intermittent lane closures between Textile and Ellsworth roads through October for resurfacing. Pittsfield Township - Textile Road: The road is closed between Carpenter and Crane roads for sanitary sewer installation through Oct. 31. A detour map is available online. This project has been extended. The road will also close between Lohr and State roads from Aug. 21 to Aug. 27 for railway maintenance. A detour map is available online. Salem Township - Joy Road: The road will close between Gotfredson Road and a half-mile east of the intersection from through Sept. 1 for sanitary main work. A detour map is available online. This project has been extended. Salem Township - Dixboro Road: The road will see daytime closures between 6 Mile Road and 8 Mile Road from Aug. 22 to Aug. 31 for limestone resurfacing. Salem Township - Tower Road: The road will see daytime closures between Joy Road and North Territorial Road from Aug. 28 to Sept. 1 for limestone resurfacing. Salem Township - Intersection of Joy Road and Gotfredson Road: The intersection will close through Sept. 1 for sanitary main work. A detour map is available online. Superior/Ypsilanti townships - Clark Road: The road will see lane restrictions west of Leforge road to the end of the road through Saturday, Sept. 30 for road resurfacing. Sylvan Township - Old U.S. 12: The road will close between Lienbeck and Sylvan roads from Tuesday, Sept. 5 to Friday, Sept. 22 for a culvert replacement. A detour map is available online. Webster Township - Webster Church Road: The road will see daytime closures between North Territorial Road and Valentine Road through Aug. 22 for limestone resurfacing. York Township - Mooreville Road: The road will close between Dennison Road/Stony Creek Road and Saline-Milan Road through Aug. 25 for road resurfacing. A detour map is available online. Ypsilanti Township - Juneau Road: The road will see daytime lane closures between Jeffery Street and Levona Street through November for DTE gas line replacement. Ypsilanti Township - Jay Avenue: The road will see daytime lane closures between Jeffery Street and Grove Road through November for DTE gas line replacement. Ypsilanti Township - Janet Avenue: The street will see daytime lane closures between Jay Avenue and Arthur Street through November for a DTE gas line replacement project. An updated list of Ann Arbor city street closures, the weekly Washtenaw County Road Commission schedule and the MDOT road closure map are all available online. Want more Ann Arbor-area news? Bookmark the local Ann Arbor news page or sign up for the free “3@3 Ann Arbor” daily newsletter. More from The Ann Arbor News: Man accused of fatally shooting ex-girlfriend in Saline to undergo competency exam Mock train derailment gives Michigan hazmat responders first-hand experience Ypsilanti Township plan to spend $9M in COVID relief sparks criticism over transparency United Ways unite: Washtenaw, southeastern Michigan groups merge to cover 4 counties If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices