The two telcos said the new network APIs are integrated onto Microsoft Azure Programmable Connectivity  BARCELONA—Deutsche Telekom and T-Mobile US have developed a platform with joint Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) – called T-DevEdge – with the aim of making easier for the global developer community to create connected solutions. “We can now share the capabilities of our networks directly with our customers, as we make networks increasingly intelligent and programmable. One of our new network APIs allows customers to get defined Quality-on-Demand attributes for mobile data access easily and when they need them. This enables developers to create new and valuable offerings for businesses or consumers. Now, together with T-Mobile US we are bringing this offering to a creative and engaged developer community on both sides of the Atlantic,” said Claudia Nemat, member of the board of management for technology and innovation at Deutsche Telekom. “Last year, we launched our DevEdge platform in the U.S. to give developers the tools they need to build the next generation of applications. This collaboration with Deutsche Telekom gives even more developers access to the latest network technology,” said Rob Roy, SVP of emerging products at T-Mobile. The two carriers said that Siemens Energy is the first partner to access the service and is already using the APIs to perform virtually assisted remote maintenance. The application displays critical information and guidance directly in the technicians’ field of view. With these tools, remote experts can support the technicians and help solve complex problems. “Siemens Energy uses the Quality-on-Demand network API to improve the daily work of our experts. Our remote engineers can now see the augmented video in the HoloLens 2 with minimal delay, in the best resolution. This ensures that they can provide the best possible advice to their colleagues on site and increase customer satisfaction.  Network APIs also reduce travel time and maintenance turnaround time,” said Mark Schaefer, VP of Siemens Energy Business IT. The new network APIs are integrated onto Microsoft Azure Programmable Connectivity.  “We empower developers to create powerful applications through the access to advanced network capabilities and APIs—such as quality-on-demand, identification, or location. With Azure Programmable Connectivity, developers can interact with networks in a unified way and create new network-aware application using the Azure tools they know. Our work with Siemens Energy, Deutsche Telekom and T-Mobile US demonstrates the value of a harmonized access to network APIs to enhance business processes like predictive maintenance,” said Yousef Khalidi, corporate vice president of Azure for operators at Microsoft. Deutsche Telekom and T-Mobile US also said that German firm Bosch will soon start testing network API solutions in automotive and other areas to improve customer satisfaction. Deutsche Telekom was one of the founding members of the CAMARA Alliance, with the aim of ensuring that global standards for APIs are defined and used, The CAMARA initiative consists of network operators, cloud providers, application developers and technology and operating system vendors. The alliance was announced during the MWC in 2022 and has grown up to eleven API families, more than 50 partners and over 300 people working in the different groups of the community. ABOUT AUTHOR 

 Yes No Depends   Since 1982, RCR Wireless News has been providing wireless and mobile industry news, insights, and analysis to mobile and wireless industry professionals, decision makers, policy makers, analysts and investors. © 2024 RCR Wireless News

Powered by Eight Hats