Broadband TV News Independent. Since 2003 December 5, 2022 11.35 Europe/London By Julian Clover Magyar Telekom has chosen the ThinkAnalytics Think360 platform for personalized recommendations, targeted promotions, and viewer engagement across its TV and OTT services. The deployment will benefit 1 million MagentaTV subscribers in Hungary. Magyar Telekom joins other Deutsche Telekom MagentaTV subsidiaries in deploying Think360 and is the first in the group to deploy ThinkAnalytics’ Promotional Tiles for contextual content promotions. Think360 was originally deployed at Deutsche Telekom in 2019, and is also live at Deutsche Telekom in Germany, Hrvatski Telekom in Croatia, OTE Group in Greece, and Magenta Telekom in Austria. “It is a testament to ThinkAnalytics’ reputation and Think360’s proven results that Magyar Telekom has selected ThinkAnalytics to power richer content discovery and personalization across all its Telekom TV devices including its latest Android TV platform.” said Samuel Sweet, EMEA & APAC CEO at ThinkAnalytics. “This extension of our partnership with Deutsche Telekom demonstrates the importance of our tools to monitor, manage and deliver measurable personalized content and promotions.” Think360 uses machine learning and AI to offer insight into viewer behaviour. The Magyar Telekom deployment on its MediaKind Mediaroom and MediaFirst platforms supports the Hungarian language while across the Deutsche Telekom group, Think360 already delivers personalized content discovery in German, Croatian, Greek, Turkish, and English. Filed Under: Central & East Europe, Newsline, Tech Tagged With: Magenta TV, Magyar Telekom, ThinkAnalytics Edited: 5 December 2022 11:35  Julian Clover is a Media and Technology journalist based in Cambridge, UK. He works in online and printed media. Julian is also a voice on local radio. You can talk to Julian on X @julianclover, or by email at jclover@broadbandtvnews.com. Today, consumers are increasingly using bandwidth-intensive and latency-sensitive workloads, such as 4K and 8K streaming, online gaming, and AR/VR applications. As a result, Internet Service Providers must update their networks and by extension Wi-Fi experiences and performance. … [Download the White Paper ...] Copyright © 2024 Broadband TV News LLP · Log in