Broadband TV News Independent. Since 2003 March 8, 2023 08.00 Europe/London By Julian Clover Türk Telekom is consolidating its video compression and processing across its TV and video platforms. The operator has deployed Synamedia’s virtual Digital Content Manager (vDCM). Türk Telekom has now gone live across all of its 170 channels, including 4K, on its Tivibu satellite, hybrid, and streaming services. By consolidating workflows on a single platform, Türk Telekom will future proof its video processing for its 2.9 million TV subscribers. “We chose to partner with Synamedia because its solution ticked all of our boxes,” explained Ümit Barak, Broadcasting Systems Manager and Deputy General Manager of Technology, Türk Telekom. “Synamedia has demonstrable leadership in compression and its technologies exceeded our availability and redundancy requirements for this critical infrastructure. We conducted extensive evaluations, including video quality benchmarking, and we are now secure in the knowledge we have the most comprehensive solution on the market giving us the scalability, versatility and best-in-class video quality to meet our future needs.” Part of the decision choose Synamedia was based around vDCM’s advanced compression and processing capabilities, especially its highly efficient codecs that optimise bandwidth and control costs while enhancing image quality. Using rate-controlled variable bitrate compression for AVC and HEVC, Turk Telekom is already delivering cost savings through bandwidth optimisation on its OTT service. Frank Van de Vyver, VP of Engineering, Video Network, at Synamedia, commented, “By selecting our software-centric solutions, Türk Telekom is able to protect and manage its video workflows even at the massive scale needed to support its millions of subscribers. We look forward to working with Türk Telekom as it extends Synamedia processing across all its channels and reaps the benefits of using the latest compression technologies for this consolidation.” The successful launch was the result of close collaboration between Türk Telekom, Synamedia’s local partner MeraTech, and Synamedia’s engineering teams, with all team members contributing to the design and implementation of an effective platform. Filed Under: Newsline, Tech Tagged With: Synamedia, Türk Telekom Edited: 8 March 2023 12:18  Julian Clover is a Media and Technology journalist based in Cambridge, UK. He works in online and printed media. Julian is also a voice on local radio. You can talk to Julian on X @julianclover, or by email at jclover@broadbandtvnews.com. Today, consumers are increasingly using bandwidth-intensive and latency-sensitive workloads, such as 4K and 8K streaming, online gaming, and AR/VR applications. As a result, Internet Service Providers must update their networks and by extension Wi-Fi experiences and performance. … [Download the White Paper ...] Copyright © 2024 Broadband TV News LLP · Log in