


								
									AAPL: 225.89 ( -0.16 )								 
									Copyright © 2024 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
								 Cloud games are restricted in the App Store Last updated 1 year ago The UK antitrust authority's bid to investigate Apple's browser dominance on iOS has been stopped before it really got going —  but not because of the merits of Apple's case.  The UK Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) announced in November that it would investigate the dominance of Apple and Google in the mobile browser market, with a focus on mobile gaming. In particular, the CMA wanted to examine Apple's decision to restrict cloud gaming apps in the App Store.Apple said in its appeal that because the CMA started the investigation too late, it lacked the authority to proceed. Timothy Otty, the company's lawyer, argued that the investigation should have happened in June 2022 when the CMA published a report on mobile ecosystems, which found that the two tech giants had an "effective duopoly."On Friday, the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT) agreed with Apple's argument, saying, "it might well be said that the CMA erred in law" when it didn't take action after its June report.Apple forbids cloud streaming apps from the App Store unless each game has a separate app for content review. So, developers can create an app to help users sign up for their service and find games, but they can't include the games inside one app.The CMA also mentioned "suggested underinvestment in its browser technology" in its conclusion as another factor that adds costs for developers, leading them to create mobile apps instead of streaming cloud games inside Safari.Apple doesn't restrict cloud gaming within Safari though, and only imposes restrictions in the App Store.Apple's hand might be forced But despite Apple's victory, the European Union's Digital Markets Act will make significant changes in March 2024, including requiring that companies like Apple open their platforms to allow third-party app stores. The Digital Markets Act entered into force in November 2022 and will be applicable on May 2, 2023.Many companies had supported the CMA investigation, including DuckDuckGo, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Meta, Microsoft, Mozilla, and Vodaphone. Microsoft is planning a mobile gaming store for its Xbox Game Pass service, for example.The company hopes to challenge Apple and Google with its gaming store, and a series of pledges that would make its mobile store more open than the App Store. The commitments include letting all developers access the store and offer their payment systems to users, which App Store rules also forbid.Apple says that not allowing rival app shops in its operating systems is due to security and privacy concerns. At the Viva Tech conference in Europe in June 2021, Tim Cook discussed various subjects, including customer safety."I mean, you look at malware as an example, and Android has 47 times more malware than iOS," he said. "Why is that? It's because we've designed iOS in such a way that there's one App Store and all of the apps are reviewed prior to going on the store." The UK Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) announced in November that it would investigate the dominance of Apple and Google in the mobile browser market, with a focus on mobile gaming. In particular, the CMA wanted to examine Apple's decision to restrict cloud gaming apps in the App Store. Apple said in its appeal that because the CMA started the investigation too late, it lacked the authority to proceed. Timothy Otty, the company's lawyer, argued that the investigation should have happened in June 2022 when the CMA published a report on mobile ecosystems, which found that the two tech giants had an "effective duopoly." On Friday, the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT) agreed with Apple's argument, saying, "it might well be said that the CMA erred in law" when it didn't take action after its June report. Apple forbids cloud streaming apps from the App Store unless each game has a separate app for content review. So, developers can create an app to help users sign up for their service and find games, but they can't include the games inside one app. The CMA also mentioned "suggested underinvestment in its browser technology" in its conclusion as another factor that adds costs for developers, leading them to create mobile apps instead of streaming cloud games inside Safari. Apple doesn't restrict cloud gaming within Safari though, and only imposes restrictions in the App Store. But despite Apple's victory, the European Union's Digital Markets Act will make significant changes in March 2024, including requiring that companies like Apple open their platforms to allow third-party app stores. The Digital Markets Act entered into force in November 2022 and will be applicable on May 2, 2023. Many companies had supported the CMA investigation, including DuckDuckGo, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Meta, Microsoft, Mozilla, and Vodaphone. Microsoft is planning a mobile gaming store for its Xbox Game Pass service, for example. The company hopes to challenge Apple and Google with its gaming store, and a series of pledges that would make its mobile store more open than the App Store. The commitments include letting all developers access the store and offer their payment systems to users, which App Store rules also forbid. Apple says that not allowing rival app shops in its operating systems is due to security and privacy concerns. At the Viva Tech conference in Europe in June 2021, Tim Cook discussed various subjects, including customer safety. "I mean, you look at malware as an example, and Android has 47 times more malware than iOS," he said. "Why is that? It's because we've designed iOS in such a way that there's one App Store and all of the apps are reviewed prior to going on the store." Andrew is a writer and commentator who has been sharing his insights on technology since 2015. He has authored numerous online articles covering a range of topics including Apple, privacy, and security. Andrew joined ... Next top priority on the UK CMA agenda is .... "we shall learn the meaning of the word ...... "shall".https://appleinsider.com/articles/23/01/22/apple-appeals-uk-mobile-browser-investigation-by-attacking-the-word-shall 
 If Apple allows apps like Netflix to show all different kinds of films under one app title without each movie being reviewed by Apple, then the UK's CMA (and the EU) have a point: streaming gaming apps should be able to lump multiple titles under one umbrella app, provided each game already has a clear age and content rating from a third-party and otherwise conforms to Apple's App Store guidelines.I've never understood Apple's rationale for treating streaming gaming apps differently than other streaming apps.
 If Apple allows apps like Netflix to show all different kinds of films under one app title without each movie being reviewed by Apple, then the UK's CMA (and the EU) have a point: streaming gaming apps should be able to lump multiple titles under one umbrella app, provided each game already has a clear age and content rating from a third-party and otherwise conforms to Apple's App Store guidelines.I've never understood Apple's rationale for treating streaming gaming apps differently than other streaming apps. Apple has had a cast of thousands and many years of work to create a secure store system. These cheap ass folks want the free ride without the expense s of keeping a secret environment and many frankly will be providing free virus infections with their products.I do not want want a virus infested device that corrupts my complete system in addition to the iPhone.
 Apple has had a cast of thousands and many years of work to create a secure store system. These cheap ass folks want the free ride without the expense s of keeping a secret environment and many frankly will be providing free virus infections with their products.I do not want want a virus infested device that corrupts my complete system in addition to the iPhone. 
Dooofus said:
This case had no merit to begin with. Create your own platform if you want your browser on it.
That's not the issue, read the story.
 That's not the issue, read the story. 
chasm said:
I've never understood Apple's rationale for treating streaming gaming apps differently than other streaming apps.

If you install it, the Xbox Game Pass app for iOS, currently has access to "User Location, User Contacts, User Search History, User Identifiers, User Usage Data, User Diagnostics, Other Data." And this app can pass its permissions to any gaming app that it wants to, without telling Apple or the end user. An app that streams video can't hand of security permissions to third parties, because there are no third parties executing code on your device. (As an aside, can you explain why XBox Game Pass needs access to the contacts in my address book?)In another thread today(!) you were upset that GM would have access to your car's data, (you said Google would"get all that user data.") but you don't share the same concern that Microsoft or its game developers would have access to your computer's data with Apple's or the user's knowledge. Isn't that inconsistent? Just asking politely.
 
If you install it, the Xbox Game Pass app for iOS, currently has access to "User Location, User Contacts, User Search History, User Identifiers, User Usage Data, User Diagnostics, Other Data." And this app can pass its permissions to any gaming app that it wants to, without telling Apple or the end user. An app that streams video can't hand of security permissions to third parties, because there are no third parties executing code on your device. (As an aside, can you explain why XBox Game Pass needs access to the contacts in my address book?)In another thread today(!) you were upset that GM would have access to your car's data, (you said Google would"get all that user data.") but you don't share the same concern that Microsoft or its game developers would have access to your computer's data with Apple's or the user's knowledge. Isn't that inconsistent? Just asking politely. The Live Photos feature in the Camera app on an iPhone or iPad takes about two seconds of video. Here's how to turn it into an actual video clip. Apple has released watchOS 10.6.1 and tvOS 17.6.1 to the public, as well as rereleasing iOS 17.6.1 and iPadOS 17.6.1. For the first time, Apple has made its whole podcast library available online, where it can be heard in Safari or other browsers, instead of the Apple Podcasts app. Apple is commemorating the 108th anniversary of the US National Park Service by launching a campaign to raise funds through Apple Pay donations. A record-breaking discount is available exclusively for AppleInsider readers, with the premium 2024 M4 iPad Pro 13-inch with 1TB storage now $200 off. Procreate, company behind the popular art app designed exclusively for iPad, has issued a public statement saying that it has no plans to include generative AI in its products. Most potential upgraders will find pricing to be a big factor in moving to the iPhone 16, a survey claims, with the introduction of Apple Intelligence almost as important. The Apple Sports app now offers NFL and NCAA football support just in time for the upcoming football season. Apple announced new AI language models at WWDC. These models run both locally on Apple devices and on Apple's own Apple Silicon-powered AI servers. Apple is applying to the City of Waukee in Iowa, just west of Des Moines, to return some of its land surrounding its iCloud data center back into a freshwater marsh, also known as a "prairie pothole." A report has outlined how Tim Cook has become the chief lobbyist for Apple. This is unsurprising, given Cook and predecessor Steve Jobs' history of influencing world governments. 