The last time humans witnessed supersonic travel was the legendary Concorde, which operated from 1973 to 2003. The super-speedy plane was equipped with four powerful engines and could journey from New York to London in less than four hours — a tremendous feat for the era. However, the aircraft's costly inefficiencies and risky operation forced airlines to retire it after 30 years of service. No manufacturer has yet been able to recreate the days of the Concorde, but some are trying. Boom Supersonic, a Denver-based aircraft manufacturer, is leading the pack with its faster-than-sound Overture jet that has already secured more than 100 orders from United Airlines, Japan Airlines, and American Airlines. However, some ambitious engineers hope to develop hypersonic planes capable of flying even faster, including the European startup Destinus; Hermeus, which is based in Georgia; and Venus Aerospace, which is based in Texas. Venus, in particular, was founded in 2020 but has big plans for Mach-9 travel. Insider met with the company cofounders, Venus Aerospace CEO Sassie Duggleby and the chief technology officer Andrew Duggleby, at the Paris Airshow in June to learn more about their planned jet, dubbed "Stargazer." Venus says the jet is being developed to fly at Mach 9, which is nine times the speed of sound or about 6,900 miles per hour. The company said that after taking other factors into account, the jet would be able to cross about 5,000 miles in an hour. By comparison, the Concorde flew at about Mach 2, Overture is being built for Mach 1.7, and Hermus and Destinus are designing their hypersonic planes for Mach 5. He said Stargazer would take off using traditional jet engines. Once it was away from city centers, it would switch to rocket engines to climb to 170,000 feet and reach hypersonic speeds. Most passenger airlines fly at heights of around 40,000 feet, meaning Stargazer's planned cruising altitude is about 130,000 feet higher — though still not high enough to touch space. "We were on deployment in Japan when we were looking out at Tokyo Bay one afternoon, and Andrew turned to me and said there's this new rocket engine coming down the pipeline," Sassie told Insider. "And, he said if it's ever proven, then we can put it on a plane and be home in an hour. Andrew said today's rocket engines burned subsonically and would not have enough power for Stargazer. But, supersonic combustion would produce enough thrust for hypersonic flight. This led Venus to build the RDRE. Rocket engines, in general, are also preferred because they offer much better performance at higher altitudes compared with jet engines because they do not feed on outside oxygen, which is much thinner at 170,000 feet. In October, Venus became the first company in the world to engineer "room temperature storable liquid fuels" to operate in an RDRE: "We now have both the technical knowledge and engineering to fully advance into next steps of development and flight testing," Andrew said at the time. The fictional jet was the SR-72 "Darkstar," an unmanned-hypersonic-plane concept proposed by Lockheed Martin as a successor to the SR-71 "Blackbird." Sassie described Maverick's fictional actions as "flying through the soup of the atmosphere." This would also effectively allow Venus to use traditional materials that are lightweight, like titanium — no need for a robust fuselage with heat shields or other heavy protections.  Andrew also addressed the concern of micrometeorites in the atmosphere, but pointed to Blue Origin and Virgin Galactic as examples of "public engineering that show how they would handle it." Sassie said in a press release that Venus' RDRE "demonstrates a double-digit percentage increase in efficiency over standard regular engines, making the hypersonic economy possible." The competing planemaker Destinus is using the same design on its "Destinus S" and "Destinus L" passenger planes, both of which are also at least a decade away. Andrew also said that the climb to 170,000 feet would be smooth to ensure passengers did not experience G-force: "We're looking for this to be for everyday people," he told Insider. A typical Concorde ticket cost $6,000 one-way in the late 1990s. The most-frequent Concorde flyer is Fred Finn, who flew on the supersonic plane 718 times and spent more than $2.5 million, or about $4.4 million today, on seats until the jet's retirement in 2003. Venus research showed that business travelers were willing to pay more than a regular first-class ticket price if they could cut long-haul flying to only one hour. Current first-class airfare on carriers like Emirates and Singapore Airlines is in the tens of thousands of dollars. Things like airport infrastructure and air-traffic-control flows have not been written into law and will require a lot of research and testing. The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2023 is set to amend the prior act of 2018 with improvements to safety and technology, as well as current guidance and policy. The Venus competitor Hermeus is a US startup tapped by the US Department of Defense to build a hypersonic Air Force One. Supersonic testing over land is restricted to certain areas of the US, typically in the desert. Venus told Insider that it was aiming to introduce Stargazer in the 2030s, which is one track with Destinus' timeline for its "Destinus S" hypersonic plane. Andrew said that Venus was continuing to test the engine with Airbus Ventures as an investor and that it would soon be put onto a drone for further development. Correction: July 12, 2023 — An earlier version of this story miscalculated the speed the Venus Stargazer is designed to fly. It's about 6,900 miles per hour. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to