



Sign in or Subscribe 
See Offers



  Account Subscription: ACTIVE Questions about your account? Our customer service team can be reached at circulation@metln.org during business hours at (207) 791-6000. SABATTUS - Victor Leo Dufour, passed away peacefully on Oct. 4, 2023, at hospice, after battling Multiple Sclerosis for more than ... You are able to gift 5 more articles this month. Anyone can access the link you share with no account required.  Learn more. With a Lewiston Sun Journal subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. It looks like you do not have any active subscriptions. To get one, go to the subscriptions page. With a Lewiston Sun Journal subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month.  Victor Leo Dufour SABATTUS – Victor Leo Dufour, passed away peacefully on Oct. 4, 2023, at hospice, after battling Multiple Sclerosis for more than 20 years. He was born in Lewiston to the late Victor G. and Constance (Masse) Dufour. Vic is survived by sons Colby (Kelly) and Cameron (Jenna); brothers Michael and Denis, sisters Susan (Michael) Lemay and Annette Giguere, sister-in-law Pennie Dufour; grandchildren Lincoln and Lillian; as well as aunts, uncle and cousins. Besides his parents, he was predeceased by his loving brother Ron, and his nephew Jason. Vic loved football and was a standout athlete with the Lewiston Blue Devils. As a letterman, he won many awards, was a proud member of the 1978 State Championship team, and was later inducted into the A-L Sports Hall of Fame. Until Vic’s MS diagnosis, he was employed with BIW, as a certified rigger, the only one at the time brave enough to climb crane 11 and secure the Christmas tree annually. Vic’s greatest joy were his sons. He spent countless hours with them skating, snowmobiling, fishing, and camping. His pride for them was immense, and he often told anyone who would listen; that deep love spilled over to his grandchildren. Just a few weeks ago, he belly-laughed when seeing Lillian dance with an army helmet and tutu (self-designed costume), and Lincoln at bat wiggling his rearend. Despite his debilitating illness, he never lost his sense of humor. Throughout his journey, he continued to crack jokes and even pranked the doctors and nurses – “What state are you in, Vic?” asked the doctor. “New York,” said Vic, with a wink! The family would like to thank the staff of the Androscoggin Hospice House for their exceptional care of Vic in his final days. The family invites you to a time of visitation on Thursday Oct. 12, from 10 – noon, with service beginning at noon, at Funeral Alternatives, 25 Tampa St., Lewiston. A private committal service will take place at a later date.  Those wishing, in lieu of flowers, may donate to the: Greater New England MS Society in Vic’s memory Comments are no longer available on this story Send questions/comments to the editors.