19th August 2024: digital purchasing is currently unavailable on Cambridge Core. Due to recent technical disruption affecting our publishing operation, we are experiencing some delays to publication. We are working hard to restore services as soon as possible and apologise for the inconvenience. For further updates please visit our website: https://www.cambridge.org/universitypress/about-us/news-and-blogs/cambridge-university-press-publishing-update-following-technical-disruption  We use cookies to distinguish you from other users and to provide you with a better experience on our websites. Close this message to accept cookies or find out how to manage your cookie settings. This series provides high quality advanced texts on all aspects of engineering applied to the design, construction and operation of aircraft and spacecraft, taking stock of the intense research and development that has taken place. Topics covered will include aerodynamics/structure interactions, avionics, systems design, materials technology, astronautics, launch vehicle technology, and payload and satellite technology. The books will be of interest to graduate students, research workers in universities and research institutes, and research and development workers in industry. 
To save content items to your  account,
please confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies.
If this is the first time you use this feature, you will be asked to authorise Cambridge Core to connect with your  account.
Find out more about saving content to .
 
To save content items to your Kindle, first ensure coreplatform@cambridge.org
is added to your Approved Personal Document E-mail List under your Personal Document Settings
on the Manage Your Content and Devices page of your Amazon account. Then enter the ‘name’ part
of your Kindle email address below.
Find out more about saving to your Kindle.
 
Note you can select to save to either the @free.kindle.com or @kindle.com variations.
‘@free.kindle.com’ emails are free but can only be saved to your device when it is connected to wi-fi.
‘@kindle.com’ emails can be delivered even when you are not connected to wi-fi, but note that service fees apply.
 
Find out more about the Kindle Personal Document Service.
 You can save your searches here and later view and run them again in "My saved searches". Page 1 of 3 Page 1 of 3 Email your librarian or administrator to recommend adding this to your organisation's collection.