 Maxime Dufour-Lapointe is a world-class skier, having competed in the 2014 Olympics in Sochi and in multiple World Cup competitions alongside her two younger sisters, Justine and Chloe.  In 2009, she became one of the first women to perform a backflip with a full twist in competition, according to Team Canada's website.  The 34-year-old isn't one to shy away from a challenge.  So when it came time to carve out a second career, the freestyle skier dug in and chose her long-time side hustle — science — as a new mountain to conquer.  You can now call her Dr. Dufour-Lapointe.  She'll soon be taking on a pivotal role as a family physician. And, yes, the globetrotter has decided to stay put and practice in Quebec, she told CTV News, with a laugh.  "Where else would I go? No, really, I live in Montreal," she said, though she does hope to settle in the Laurentians, eventually, so that she can continue to enjoy outdoor activities day-to-day.  It's a great stress-buster and it makes her happy.  "I'm in the wilderness, I just take my bike to go mountain biking. In the winter, I go skiing, there's a lake [where] you go swimming. My horse is close. Like, I want things to be close to my fun zone … because that's the kind of life I had as a kid," she said.  Women's moguls Olympic gold medalist Justine Dufour-Lapointe, right, poses with her sister and silver medalist Chloe, centre, and her other sister Maxime at the Sochi Winter Olympics in Sochi on Sunday, February 9, 2014. The Dufour-Lapointe sisters captured the hearts of Canadians. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Paul Chiasson
  But Dufour-Lapointe has no illusions about what it will take to work as a doctor in Quebec. She knows that her schedule will be intense, that the health-care system is in crisis and that her new medical skills are needed, perhaps more than ever before.  "It also motivates me to want to bring some change, you know. It fascinates me. [Medicine] is almost like you're an athlete of your brain and we don't even consider resting as much as we do as athletes," she said.  "And I think things are slowly moving and wanting to change toward a better situation for every worker of the health system because we're struggling right now."  She hopes that with her life experiences and her "fresh eyes," she can bring something new to the table.  "It's way bigger than myself. I think I'm coming into it wanting to do my share. And this is what I actually control. Coming in with a smile, a great attitude, wanting to learn about my patient and caring for them," she said.  "And I think joy is contagious. A good attitude is contagious…so that's how I'm approaching things for the moment."  Former skier is now finishing up hospital rotations before her residency at Charles Lemoyne Hospital. Submitted photo.  While Dufour-Lapointe is certain her experience in high-level sports has helped prepare her for this latest mental and physical challenge, it's been a bumpy run.  It took her eight years just to get her CEGEP diploma, a reflection of her steely determination to do well, no matter the task at hand.  "I decided to do my CEGEP as long as it would take me to just have the best grades. So I did it in eight years, while I was competing, while I was going on the road so that I could apply to medical school with my CEGEP degree," she said in a recent interview.  When she finally graduated CEGEP in 2014, she decided to keep competing for four more years and delayed applying to medical school. But she never gave up on her academic pursuits.  "It was sort of a gamble, really," Dufour-Lapointe said with a laugh, "but I thought I need to go to the end of sports. And it worked out."  Canada's Maxime Dufour-Lapointe takes to the air during the qualifying round in the moguls event of the World Cup Freestyle Skiing event Sunday, January 19, 2014 in Val-St-Come, Que. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Paul Chiasson
  She started studying at l'Université de Montréal in 2018, by then having made the World Cup podium four times. She quickly noted the parallels between medicine and sports.  "I brought my sports heritage with me, everything that I've learned along the way as an athlete; patience, dedication, resilience, thinking a bit more outside the box sometimes," Dufour-Lapointe said.  "In medicine, you're thrown into different departments all the time, you go to surgery, you go to emergency and then you're helping with the labour when women are giving birth. You're just juggling so many things and learning a lot like a sponge."  Being an older student with so much personal growth behind her also helped her while training, she said. "Being a bit more mature. Knowing myself better."  Maxime Dufour-Lapointe attended medical school at Universite de Montreal, after she retired from skiing in 2014. Submitted photo.  Even though she officially retired from competitive skiing in 2018, Dufour-Lapointe couldn’t turn her back on her fellow athletes.  To offer up her support she arranged a six-week break from her medical studies so she could travel with Team Canada to Beijing for the 2022 Olympics as an athlete mentor.  As a result, she's now catching up on rotations she missed, such as two weeks in the dermatology department, for example. Beginning July 1, she'll officially start her residency at Charles-Le Moyne Hospital on Montreal's South Shore.  She's considering spending an extra year to specialize in sports medicine, and also enjoys emergency and critical care work, she said "because there's a lot of techniques and you've got to be quick on your feet."  Canada's Maxime Dufour-Lapointe skis in the moguls finals at the Sochi Winter Olympics Saturday February 8, 2014 in Sochi, Russia. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Adrian Wyld
  But Dufour-Lapointe won't make any rash decisions. Even though she spent years with her body soaring in mid-air, in life she's always had her feet planted firmly on the ground, she explained.  "I still need to understand what kind of life comes with the job … I know that I need this equilibrium between work and fun," she said.  "I love medicine, but I'm not going to be a good family doctor if I'm drained. And I think quality needs to be at the forefront when you do medicine and it comes with taking care of myself first."  Former Olympic and World Cup skier Maxime Dufour-Lapointe has chosen to be a family doctor. Airports are currently facing a partial system outage, Canada Border Services Agency said Tuesday. The extent of the outage is unclear, however the agency is working with partners to fix the issue, officials said.  Inside a packed London, Ont., courtroom, the 79-year-old woman who was convicted of driving her vehicle into a troop of girl guides, killing one and injuring several others, was sentenced to two years house arrest, followed by three years of probation.  Scientists have found that human beings age at a molecular level in two accelerated bursts – first at the age of 44, and then again at 60.  More than three weeks ago, a wildfire tore through Jasper, Alta., destroying about 30 per cent of the town’s structures. Most of the buildings lost were homes and businesses.  The minimum income needed to buy a home in Canada lowered in July, according to a new report that cites dropping mortgage rates and lowering average home prices.  Walt Disney Co. on Monday agreed to have a court decide on a wrongful death lawsuit, brought by a widower in Florida, after earlier arguing the case belonged in arbitration because the man signed up for a trial of streaming service Disney+ in 2019.  The Toronto house where Meghan Markle lived is on sale for $1.89 million.  Police say they shot and killed three large dogs after the animals attacked a woman in Halifax Tuesday morning.  The chief executive of SkipTheDishes says hundreds of Canadian employees are being laid off by the food delivery service and its parent company.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. Airports are currently facing a partial system outage, Canada Border Services Agency said Tuesday. The extent of the outage is unclear, however the agency is working with partners to fix the issue, officials said.  The Ontario government is moving to close supervised consumption sites for drug users near schools and prohibit any new ones from being built near schools as well.  People across Ontario got a sight of a rare super blue moon that illuminated the night skies on Monday.  Drivers owe the City of Ottawa more than $16 million in unpaid fines for photo radar and red light camera violations over the past six years.  The number of organizations and leaders in Ottawa pulling out of Capital Pride events continues to grow in response to a statement the group made expressing solidarity with Palestinians last week.  A house cat succumbed to its injuries in a fire that started inside the bathroom of an apartment in Centretown on Monday evening.  Police say they shot and killed three large dogs after the animals attacked a woman in Halifax Tuesday morning.  Many heartfelt condolences are pouring in for Allan Andrews, a prominent figure in the hockey community on Prince Edward Island, since the news of his death was made public Tuesday morning.  A trial is underway for an RCMP officer accused of assaulting an unruly flight passenger after he was escorted off an international flight that had been diverted to the airport in Stephenville, N.L.  A trial is underway for an RCMP officer accused of assaulting an unruly flight passenger after he was escorted off an international flight that had been diverted to the airport in Stephenville, N.L.  Newfoundland has caught a lucky break with Hurricane Ernesto expected to pass south of the island, but the fast-moving storm will still bring a lot of rain in a short time overnight on Monday, Environment Canada says.  The project of the university's Folklore and Language Archive aims to find the first names of women who contributed remedies, recipes and local beliefs, but were only credited as a 'missus,' with their husband's last name and often his first name or initials.  Many of us pay our bills using online banking because it's simple, fast and usually problem free, but if you make a mistake and pay the wrong amount, it can sometimes be difficult to get your money back.  Airports are currently facing a partial system outage, Canada Border Services Agency said Tuesday. The extent of the outage is unclear, however the agency is working with partners to fix the issue, officials said.  The minimum income needed to buy a home in Canada lowered in July, according to a new report that cites dropping mortgage rates and lowering average home prices.  LHSC has announced five more senior staff have left the organization. It’s part of the hospital’s bid to knock down its $150-million budget deficit projected for 2025  Inside a packed London, Ont., courtroom, the 79-year-old woman who was convicted of driving her vehicle into a troop of girl guides, killing one and injuring several others, was sentenced to two years house arrest, followed by three years of probation.  Children’s Hospital at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) says it has reduced its paediatric surgery wait list by 26 per cent in the past year for non-urgent and non-emergent cases.  A portion of Highway 7/8 in Kitchener will be closed this weekend as the Region of Waterloo installs a new pedestrian bridge.  The Ontario government is moving to close supervised consumption sites for drug users near schools and prohibit any new ones from being built near schools as well.  The community of Ayr, Ont. is starting to rebuild after a destructive EF1 tornado tore its way through the village over the weekend.  Windsor police have released video footage of two vehicles being torched on Langlois Avenue.  The Windsor Police Service Arson Unit has launched an investigation following what has been deemed a “deliberate” fire at a home on Pelissier Street with eight people inside.  Soldiers from Windsor and Chatham, part of the Windsor Regiment (RCAC) and the Essex and Kent Scottish have made their way to Michigan for some training.  Fire crews were called to battle flames that broke out at a property in Orillia and caused significant damage in the early morning hours on Tuesday.  A fire that caused a large, dark plume of smoke into the skies over Barrie on Monday is not considered suspicious.  Provincial police charged a motorist with being impaired after a collision in Orillia over the weekend.  Homicide investigators say a 24-year-old man has been charged with second-degree murder in the stabbing death of a Surrey, B.C., man last month.  Authorities are investigating after shots were fired into a white SUV in Surrey's Newton neighbourhood over the weekend.  Two rescued otter pups have arrived at their new forever home at the Vancouver Aquarium.  Two rescued otter pups have arrived at their new forever home at the Vancouver Aquarium.  Homicide investigators say a 24-year-old man has been charged with second-degree murder in the stabbing death of a Surrey, B.C., man last month.  It could be a weekend teenage runaway. An elderly loved one, lost and disoriented. Or it could be the first indication of murder.  The chief executive of SkipTheDishes says hundreds of Canadian employees are being laid off by the food delivery service and its parent company.  A 34-year-old man has been charged with multiple offences after another man was kidnapped and sexually assaulted one week ago.  Airports are currently facing a partial system outage, Canada Border Services Agency said Tuesday. The extent of the outage is unclear, however the agency is working with partners to fix the issue, officials said.  Calgary police say a man has been charged with defrauding victims out of more than $1.3 million in fraudulent wine sales.  One of two men involved in a fatal crime spree that rocked a rural area east of Calgary will be in court Tuesday morning as police continue to search for another man.  Lethbridge police are searching for a 40-year-old woman they believe is kayaking down the South Saskatchewan River.  One person has been charged after a shooting in the parking lot of an Edmonton spray park earlier this year.  Several buildings in southwest Edmonton were evacuated on Tuesday morning after a gas leak, Edmonton Fire Rescue Services has confirmed.  Hinton and Edson RCMP are asking the public to identify a man who allegedly approached several women from behind, forcibly pulled their pants down and took photos.  Regina Transit will be adding more than 25,000 hours of bus service to some of its busiest routes.  With just a few weeks until the beginning of another school year, a number of organizations in Regina are helping families with the rising costs of school supplies needed for new and returning students.  A 34-year-old man from Estevan has been charged after Regina police say he broke into a business on the 1600 block of Winnipeg Street early Tuesday morning.  Many of Saskatchewan’s summer destinations are known for providing an opportunity to see wildlife, and one of the most elusive of the animals in the province has been making more of an appearance this year. Experts say that’s cause for concern.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  The mayor of Sandy Bay, a remote northern village, said the community has declared a state of emergency, as an intense wildfire threatens the area.  © 2024 

 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy