With the Southern state slipped put of Bharatiya Janata Party's hands in the Assembly polls 2023, state minister CN Ashwathnarayan expressed his surprise to see the result. Speaking to the media on the wave shifting for Congress in Karnataka, Ashwathnarayan said, “...Right now the people's verdict is in favour of Congress. It is very surprising to see this result. BJP in Karnataka did extremely well. We need to accept people's verdict, it is in the favour of Congress...Let's see the factors that went against BJP, let's discuss & debate later.” #WATCH | "...Right now the people's verdict is in favour of Congress. It is very surprising to see this result. BJP in Karnataka did extremely well. We need to accept people's verdict, it is in the favour of Congress...Let's see the factors that went against BJP, let's discuss &… pic.twitter.com/uJp4G3kkyU According to ECI website, Indian National Congress is leading in 137 seats, while BJP is leading in 62 seats and JD(S) is leading in 21 seats. ALSO READ: Karnataka Election Result LIVE News Updates State Congress chief DK Shivakumar had won the Kanakapura seat, attaining 107274 or 73.78% of votes. He defeated BJP's R Ashoka and JD(S)'s B Nagaraju. Commenting on BJP's defeat, BJP leader BS Yediyurappa said, "Victory and defeat aren't new to BJP. Party workers need not be panicked by these results. We will introspect about the party's setback. I respectfully accept this verdict." Following the Congress gained a confortable lead, party leader Rahul Gandhi, while speaking to the press said, "Karnataka mein nafrat ka bazaar band hua hai, mohabbat ki dukaan khuli hai (The market of hatred is closed in Karnataka, the shop of love is open)." Catch all the live action on  Elections  and get exclusive coverage on  Lok Sabha Election Results 2024 with Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App  to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.