
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- IANS) Jaipur, Sep 8 (IANS) Union Minister Arjun RAM Meghwal questioned the 'Mohabbat ki Dukaan' idea of congress leader Rahul Gandhi, seeking to know how could such an idea be promoted amid a member of an ally of the grand old party making controversial remarks on Sanatan Dharma.Meghwal referred to the remarks made by DMK leader and Tamil Nadu minister Udhayanidhi Stalin on Sanatan Dharma.Speaking to the media on the sidelines of Parivartan Yatra in Barmer, he said: "On one hand, the arrogant alliance (INDIA) talks about destroying Sanatan Dharma. I ask what Rahul and Sonia Gandhi have decided. Will you set up Mohabbat ki Dukaan like this?"This is a hate speech. No man can speak like this about any religion. Whether there are hundreds or crores of followers of that religion. It is not right to make such statements about any religion," he added.Meanwhile, Meghwal said that after Independence, many committees and commissions were formed and they had also talked about holding elections together."Simultaneelections are a part of election reform. This is a very good suggestion," he said.He also criticised Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, saying "the CM does not listen to the (Congress) high command".--IANSarc/pghMENAFN07092023000231011071ID1107029323 Meghwal referred to the remarks made by DMK leader and Tamil Nadu minister Udhayanidhi Stalin on Sanatan Dharma. Speaking to the media on the sidelines of Parivartan Yatra in Barmer, he said: "On one hand, the arrogant alliance (INDIA) talks about destroying Sanatan Dharma. I ask what Rahul and Sonia Gandhi have decided. Will you set up Mohabbat ki Dukaan like this? "This is a hate speech. No man can speak like this about any religion. Whether there are hundreds or crores of followers of that religion. It is not right to make such statements about any religion," he added. Meanwhile, Meghwal said that after Independence, many committees and commissions were formed and they had also talked about holding elections together. "Simultaneelections are a part of election reform. This is a very good suggestion," he said. He also criticised Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, saying "the CM does not listen to the (Congress) high command". --IANS arc/pgh  MENAFN07092023000231011071ID1107029323 MENAFN07092023000231011071ID1107029323 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN