Action News Jax Now  Tropical Storm Nicole (Lucia Viti) VILANO BEACH, Fla. — Vilano Beach coastline residents have stalled St. Johns County Emergency Beach Dune Project for one week.  According to Joseph Giammanco, the Director of Emergency Management for St. Johns County, FEMA’s Category B Emergency Beach Dune project is being held back a week because only 30% of the required 60 Vilano coastline homeowners responded to St. Johns County’s request to submit easements.  Describing the County’s outreach as extensive - interviews, open houses, and letters sent certified mail sent to residents living along the Vilano coastline - Giammanco said he doesn’t know why the homeowners didn’t respond.  Vilano Beach resident Vivian Browning, who spoke during public comment, prompted the Board to extend the deadline one week - until February 28 - to garner more participation.  Noting the replacement sand as essential for protecting the coastline, Giammanco said that he was surprised the residents wouldn’t accept the assistance. “The sand that we place does its job,” he said. “For these emergency-type projects we’re replacing sand to improve properties and protect homeowners.” Giammanco said that without the sand replaced because of Hurricanes Matthew and Irma, one could just imagine what the damage could’ve been with Hurricane Ian and Tropcial Storm Nicole. He added that the 60 million dollar project will be completely funded by federal, state and local money.  “We are not looking for residents to write any checks to complete this project,” he said.  Although FEMA does not require a collective yes to complete the 25 1/2-mile coastline project, Giammanco said the more the sand, the better.  “Does it make sense to do three homes and not 30?” he asked. “That’s what we’re trying to figure out.” Giammanco said that while he’s studying placing sands in sections, it’s still all about permission.  “Without permission it’s determined that the residents don’t want the project,” he concluded. “It’s not a simple answer. It’s an option looking to provide as much protection as possible.”   Lucia Viti is a seasoned journalist, photojournalist, and published author and works as a reporter for WOKV News.  Lucia is a graduate of the University of West Virginia with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Journalism. © 2024 Cox Media Group. This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. 