MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More with our comparison partner, HomeService Quotes Leonardo David is a writer and energy consultant who has worked on projects funded by the Inter-American Development Bank. An electromechanical engineer, he has written about solar energy and the electrical power industry since 2015. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. To see if you can save money on solar installation in Florida, the MarketWatch Guides team researched the state’s top solar incentives. Florida offers sales tax and property tax exemptions for solar panel systems. Homeowners can combine both incentives with the 30% federal solar tax credit for additional savings. Florida also has a statewide net metering policy, allowing solar homeowners to get paid for generating excess solar power. With Florida’s sunny climate, solar panels usually reach a higher energy output than in many other regions of the country, which can result in more excess energy production. *In July 2024, SunPower notified dealers it would be halting all new shipments and project installations. The company also noted it would “no longer be supporting new Leases and PPA sales nor new project installations of these financing options.” Compare quotes from the top rated solar installers near you. with our comparison partner, HomeService Quotes Our team researched the local solar market to learn more about incentives available in Florida. As of 2024, the state offers the following solar incentives: Florida introduced a sales tax exemption for solar energy and combined heat and power (CHP) systems in 1997. The sales tax exemption was initially supposed to last five years, but the state converted it into a permanent benefit. The solar incentive applies to the following technology: This incentive does not involve a complex application process — you simply do not get charged the state’s 6% sales tax when you buy an eligible solar system in Florida. However, to qualify for this benefit, the Florida Solar Energy Center must certify your equipment. The following table shows how much you can save on sales tax when buying a home solar system. We based the below calculations on the average cost to buy a solar system across various sizes in kilowatts (kW).  Home improvements can increase the assessed value of your property, which typically translates into higher property taxes. However, Florida has a Property Tax Abatement for Renewable Energy Property, so you do not get taxed for any increase in home value after installing solar panels.  In other words, your property taxes remain unchanged if your home becomes more valuable because of a solar panel installation. This incentive, introduced in 2013, is available through the end of 2037. Here’s how the exemption works: For this example, suppose you own a $400,000 home in Florida in a county with a 1% property tax rate, which equals $4,000 a year in property tax.  The Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) program is a financing option for solar panel systems and other home upgrades. Unlike a traditional loan, which borrowers pay back directly to the lender, borrowers of a PACE loan pay it back alongside their property taxes. Here are more details about the program: Solar experts recommend PACE financing only if you do not plan to sell your home during the loan term. Because the lender ties the loan to your property taxes, it places a lien on your home. If you want to sell your home, you must find a buyer willing to assume the PACE loan and its lien. PACE loans have no prepayment penalties, and you can remove the lien by paying the remaining balance early. The Solar and Energy Loan Fund (SELF) offers home improvement loans that range from $3,000 to $25,000. These loans carry interest rates of 5% to 9.99% with repayment periods of three to 10 years. Eligible home upgrades include: The SELF program started in St. Lucie County in 2010 as a result of a $2.9 million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy. Because of the program’s success, it later expanded to the rest of Florida. As of 2024, Florida does not have incentive programs covering specific regions or cities, beyond the statewide programs discussed above. So you will not qualify for additional incentives just for living in Orlando or Tampa, for example. The Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA) used to offer a $4,000 rebate program for solar battery storage systems, but the incentive has been removed from their official website. However, JEA still offers incentives for energy efficiency and solar water heating in Jacksonville. Solar programs are constantly changing, and governments can introduce new incentives at any time. Before installing a rooftop solar system in Florida, check that you are not missing out on any local incentives. You should check trusted references such as city and county government websites and your local utility company website. You can also ask your solar installer since companies keep track of all available financial incentives. Net metering is an electricity billing method designed to benefit solar owners. With net metering, you can send excess solar energy generation back to the grid in exchange for billing credits to cover your nighttime consumption. Along with the national tax credit, net metering is a key incentive for homeowners looking to invest in a solar system. Over time, net billing can save solar panel owners thousands of dollars. Florida makes net metering available from the state’s four investor-owned utilities (IOU), which provide electricity for 75% of the state’s population. These electric companies must offer solar homeowners net metering. Participating utilities include: The rest of Florida’s residents get electricity from smaller municipal utilities and electric cooperatives, which are not subject to the net metering policy. However, many of the small companies offer net metering voluntarily. The Florida Public Service Commission (PSC) has an updated list of all the electric utilities with net metering programs. Check here to see if your area is covered. With net metering, if your solar panels generate more electricity than what your home uses, you can sell excess production to the local electric company. This transaction is especially helpful if you are away from home during the day and cannot use solar energy directly. Without net metering, you could not sell surplus solar production, which would effectively go to waste. You would have to have a home battery to store the extra energy, and a battery can cost $12,000 or more. Here’s a quick example to show you how net metering works: To participate in a net metering program, solar owners must meet the following eligibility requirements: If applicable, solar PV system owners must pay the application fee and show proof of liability insurance to participate in net metering. This requirement does not apply to solar systems below 10 kW, which includes most residential installations. To participate in a net metering program, solar owners must meet the following eligibility requirements: If applicable, solar PV system owners must pay the application fee and show proof of liability insurance to participate in net metering. This requirement does not apply to solar systems below 10 kW, which includes most residential installations. The federal solar tax credit, officially called the Investment Tax Credit or ITC, is a nationwide incentive that allows you to claim a tax credit for your solar installation costs. The credit offers solar owners a tax deduction equivalent to 30% of their total system costs. You can combine it with other local incentives, such as sales tax and property tax exemptions in Florida. The solar federal tax credit dropped to 26% in 2020, but the Inflation Reduction Act restored the original 30% rate in 2022. The credit will remain available through 2034 before being phased out according to the following schedule: You can only claim the credit once for the tax year you install solar. So assuming you install a 5-kilowatt (kW) home solar system for $13,000, the applicable ITC is $3,900. You can deduct this amount from your next annual federal tax declaration. If the tax credit is higher than the amount of taxes you owe, you can apply the difference the following year. The solar investment tax credit for residential owners is covered in Section 25D of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, while the solar tax credit for businesses is covered in Section 48. If you install a 6 kW solar system on a Florida property that receives good sunshine conditions, you can generate around 9,766 kWh of energy per year, based on our calculations. At Florida’s average residential electricity tariff of 15.26 cents per kWh, you would save $1,490 on power bills a year. A 6 kW home solar system has a typical price of $19,860 in Florida, but the net cost drops to $13,902 after applying the 30% federal tax credit. If your solar panels saved you $1,490 per year, you could achieve a payback period of 9.3 years. If this seems like a long time, consider that quality solar panels have manufacturer warranties lasting 25 or more years. By the time you recover your investment, your solar system will have a guaranteed life of at least 15.7 years — meaning you can gain nearly 16 years of direct savings. In addition to electricity savings, you can also see an increase in your home’s value. The increased value is fully exempt from property taxes in Florida. The NREL estimates the property value increase after going solar is equivalent to 20 times your annual energy savings. So if you were saving $1,490 in energy costs per year, your home value would go up by nearly $30,000. Homeowners can take advantage of a sales tax exemption and a property tax exemption when installing solar panels in Florida. The state also offers a favorable net metering policy that compensates you when your panels generate excess power that gets sent back to the grid. Florida does not have a state income tax, which means there are no local tax credits for solar power. However, you can claim the nationwide federal solar tax credit, which equals 30% of your total system cost. There are no programs that offer free solar panels in Florida. However, some solar panel financing options allow you to go solar at zero upfront cost, including a solar loan or lease. You can then pay the solar loan or lease over time using your energy bill savings. With solar panels, Florida homeowners can take advantage of the state’s abundant sunshine — and a 6 kW home solar system can save you over $1,000 on energy bills per year. You can also participate in the state’s net metering programs, which give you power bill credits for any excess solar energy your panels generate. Plus, since Florida has a property tax exemption for solar panels, going solar can increase your home value without raising your property taxes. If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Leonardo David is a writer and energy consultant who has worked on projects funded by the Inter-American Development Bank. An electromechanical engineer, he has written about solar energy and the electrical power industry since 2015. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.