India has 29 states with at least 720 districts comprising of approximately 6 lakh villages, and over 8200 cities and towns. Indian postal department has allotted a unique postal code of pin code to each district/village/town/city to ensure quick delivery of postal services. A Postal Index Number or PIN or PIN code is a code in the post office numbering or post code system used by India Post, the Indian postal administration. The code is six digits long.
            The first three digits of the PIN represent a specific geographical region called a sorting district that is headquartered at the main post office of the largest city and is known as the sorting office. A state may have one or more sorting districts depending on the volumes of mail handled. The fourth digit represents the route on which a delivery office is located in the sorting district. The last two digits represent the delivery office within the sorting district starting from 01 which would be the GPO or HO.
            
Dunar Pin Code is 263623. Pin Code is also known as Zip Code or Postal Code. Dunar is located in district Almora, Uttarakhand, INDIA.
 The first three digits of the PIN represent a specific geographical region called a sorting district that is headquartered at the main post office of the largest city and is known as the sorting office. A state may have one or more sorting districts depending on the volumes of mail handled. The fourth digit represents the route on which a delivery office is located in the sorting district. The last two digits represent the delivery office within the sorting district starting from 01 which would be the GPO or HO.
             Dunar Pin Code is 263623. Pin Code is also known as Zip Code or Postal Code. Dunar is located in district Almora, Uttarakhand, INDIA. Top News Congress reconstitutes law, human rights and RTI department, appoints Abhishek Singhvi as chairman Prabhas to star in new war drama, historical film with Mithun Chakraborty and Jaya Prada Purani Dilli-6 vs South Delhi Superstarz Live: SDS smash 73 in powerplay, PDL-6 under pressure Latest News Congress reconstitutes law, human rights and RTI department, appoints Abhishek Singhvi as chairman  BJP membership drive to begin from Sept 1, Amit Shah calls for taking party ideology to every corner  Weekly Horoscope (Aug 19-Aug 25): Leos to get full support from partner; know about your zodiac sign  Israeli airstrike in Gaza kills 18 members of family as mediators hope for ceasefire   © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Muqabla: The mystery of the Nirbhaya case deepens. Is there a big name behind the incident?    Coffee Par Kurukshetra: Why were the election dates not been announced in Maharashtra and Jharkhand?    Kanpur Train Accident: 20 coaches of Sabarmati Express derailed near Kanpur, no injuries reported    Haryana Assembly Election: Haryana CM Nayab Singh Saini says “BJP is ready for election”    Kangana calls 'Stree 2' 'much-needed blockbuster' | 70th National Film Award | 16 Aug | E Wrap    Congress reconstitutes law, human rights and RTI department, appoints Abhishek Singhvi as chairman   BJP membership drive to begin from Sept 1, Amit Shah calls for taking party ideology to every corner   Kolkata doctor rape-murder: CBI to conduct psychological test of accused Sanjay Roy    Kolkata doctor rape-murder: IMA writes to PM Modi, seeks intervention, puts forth solutions, demands   Union Health Minister Nadda reviews mpox situation, risk of large outbreak currently low for India   Israeli airstrike in Gaza kills 18 members of family as mediators hope for ceasefire    US: Trump picks Indian-origin Tulsi Gabbard to prepare for Sept 10 debate with Kamala Harris   10 killed, including children, in Israeli strike targeting Hezbollah arms depot in south Lebanon   Bangladesh 'committed to ensuring free, fair elections': Chief Adviser Yunus at Global South Summit   US: Indian-origin man shot dead by teenager during robbery in North Carolina   Prabhas to star in new war drama, historical film with Mithun Chakraborty and Jaya Prada   'The Greatest of All Time' trailer: Thalapathy Vijay shines as 'The GOAT'    Stree 2: Who is the real Sarkata in Shraddha Kapoor, Rajkummar Rao's horror comedy film?   Bridgerton Season 4: Jonathan Bailey to return as Anthony in Netflix's historical romantic series    Kartik Aaryan to Vikrant Massey, complete list of winners at IFFM 2024   Purani Dilli-6 vs South Delhi Superstarz Live: SDS smash 73 in powerplay, PDL-6 under pressure   Former hockey stars furious after Pakistan govt withdraws invitations for Arshad Nadeem reception   Liverpool end opening-day curse with big win over Ipswich Town; Mohamed Salah scripts EPL record   Durand Cup 2024: Mohun Bagan vs East Bengal football derby cancelled amid protests in Kolkata   Carlos Alcaraz loses his cool, breaks racquet after early Cincinnati Open 2024 exit | Watch   Oppo F27 India price, launch date leaked: Here's when feature-packed smartphone set for debut   iPhone 15 gets Rs 12,000 discount on Amazon, now available at significantly lower price   BSNL 4G may lag in quality say experts: Here why?    BSNL offers 320GB 4G data, free calling with its 160-day recharge plan   Government implements new rules for bulk SIM card purchases to curb fraud calls   'India needs to create 148 million additional jobs by 2030': IMF's Gita Gopinath   Union Cabinet gives nod to two new airport, three metro rail projects across India | DETAILS   Saraswati Saree Depot IPO allotment: Key details and step-by-step guide to check status   Sensex soars 805 points to 79,911, Nifty rises 252 points to 24,395 in early trade   SBI raises lending rate by 10 basis points across tenures from August 15: Will loan EMIs go up?   