Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Friday January 06, 2023 , 1 min Read Reliance-Retail backed ﻿Dunzo﻿ is likely to raise $70 million to $100 million (up to Rs 825 crore) through convertible notes to scale its quick commerce vertical Dunzo Daily, said a report in Economic Times.  The Bengaluru-based company is still in talks to add a couple of more backers to increase the size of the funding round. Reliance Retail, which is the single largest investor in Dunzo with close to 26% stake, is likely to cut a small cheque. Investors such as ﻿Abu Dhabi Investment Authority﻿may also join the financing round, the report said.   This development comes a month after the firm raised Rs 50 crore ($6.2 million) via debentures from Blacksoil India.  YourStory had reached out to Dunzo for a response, but the company declined to comment.  The startup was initially looking to raise at least $150 million by selling a stake but later decided to opt for convertible notes to help sustain valuation amid a tough funding environment, said the report.   ﻿Reliance Retail﻿ invested close to $240 million in January last year, valuing the e-grocery firm at $775 million.   Dunzo is looking at a public listing in three years, the company's Co-founder and CEO Kabeer Biswas had said last year. Edited by Swetha Kannan 1 2 Is Tier 3 India Ready for Its Own DMart? 3 How a broken back helped this IIT alumnus find his true calling and launch a startup 4 Flipkart honours Rakhi crafters preserving India’s cultural legacy this Raksha Bandhan  5 Gaana.com: The Once Billion-Dollar Music Streaming Giant Sold for Just Rs.25 Lakhs! The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.