
					By Armando Tinoco  Staff Writer 
	Production for Dune: Part Two has wrapped, according to Timothée Chalamet. 
	The actor, who plays Paul Atreides in the sci-fi film shared a photo on Instagram from a desert location alongside his father Marc Chalamet. 
	“DUNE 2 WRAPPED (with desert dad !!),” he captioned the post. A post shared by Timothée Chalamet (@tchalamet) 
	Denis Villeneuve’s Dune sequel began production in July of this year and was filmed in several locations like Budapest, Abu Dhabi, Jordan and Italy. The follow-up film will include the addition of actors like Florence Pugh, Lea Seydoux, Christopher Walken, Austin Butler and Souheila Yacoub. They joined returning cast members including Chalamet, Zendaya, Rebecca Ferguson, Josh Brolin, Dave Bautista, Charlotte Rampling, Stellan Skarsgård, Javier Bardem and Stephen McKinley Henderson.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					Philippines Romance 'Un/Happy For You' Continues ABS-CBN Studios' Box Office Streak		
			















	News
	



	
		
					'How To Make Millions Before Grandma Dies' Secures Theatrical Releases Across North America, China & Europe		
			





 
	“Denis Villeneuve has crafted a film that is both visually extraordinary and emotionally transporting, as evidenced by its global success both critically and at the box office,” Toby Emmerich, Chairman of Warner Bros Picture Group, said in a statement when the sequel was confirmed. “We are thrilled to continue on this journey with Denis and his cast and crew, and our partners at Legendary, and can’t wait to bring the next chapter of this epic tale to theaters.”




			Watch on Deadline		




 
	Warner Bros. and Legendary Entertainment‘s official synopsis for Dune: Part Two reads: “This follow-up film will explore the mythic journey of Paul Atreides as he unites with Chani and the Fremen while on a warpath of revenge against the conspirators who destroyed his family. Facing a choice between the love of his life and the fate of the known universe, he endeavors to prevent a terrible future only he can foresee.” 
Dune: Part Two is scheduled to be released on November 3, 2023. Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	