Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Teena Jose
          

            Jun 22, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Bangalore based proptech startup Crib raises INR 15 crore in its Seed funding round co-led by We Founder Circle and Rebright Partners. The round saw participation from founders and tech operators like Vijay Shekhar Sharma (PayTM), Kunal Shah (Cred), Ghazal Alagh (Mamaearth), Ramakant Sharma (Livspace), Sandeep Aggarwal (Droom, ShopClues), Ravi Bhushan (BrightChamps, Housing), Ankur Aggarwal (Dunzo) along with various angel syndicates and funds like Imperier Holdings, FAAD, Rogue Opportunities, Sigurd Ventures, Beej Network, Dream Green Capital Venture, Supermorpheus Fund etc. The company plans to use the funds to expand its product offerings, and scale distribution to all major pincodes in India. "The real-estate as we know it today, belongs to the youth, the next generation that will soon be bound to take up the responsibilities of managing and growing their forefather's investments. We at Crib are building the digital infrastructure to support these upcoming property owners by creating the ultimate property solution," said Sunny Garg, co-founder and CEO at Crib. Founded in 2022 by Sunny Garg, Shaifali Jain and Archit Chauhan, Crib is a digital ecosystem that connects landlords, tenants and entrepreneurs. For landlords, Crib offers a SaaS based solution that drives operational excellence, streamlines finances and boosts sales making it a go-to platform for rental housing business owners, whereas for tenants, Crib offers a new-age platform to explore and book properties. "Real Estate Industry in India has the potential to become more efficient and transparent for all stakeholders through technology interventions. We are backing Crib to transform this Industry by bringing in new products and services for Landlords, Renters, Service Providers and Financing Partners" said Brij Singh, general partner, Rebright Partners. News Desk Reporter with Entrepreneur India 
          In a world where everyone is looking for the secret to success, the truth is there's no easy answer. A key is embracing a flexible mentality.
         
          Generative AI can give us mountains of information on any topic under the sun in seconds — but is it any good at marketing? I had to find out.
         
          Arsha Jones, founder and CEO of Capital City Mambo Sauce, wanted to satisfy a very specific craving — and it led to a seven-figure business.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          Planning provides direction, but true business success is driven by steadfast commitment.
         
          If you want to see improvement, you have to put in the work.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
