


Sept. 20 (UPI) -- Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg faced sharp criticism over flight delays, train derailments and transportation funding at a hearing Wednesday, as he warned a potential government shutdown could affect air travel.
Republicans at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing on Capitol Hill targeted Buttigieg with questions about a number of transportation issues, including a shortage of air traffic controllers and commercial airline pilots.
Advertisement
Buttigieg told lawmakers that the department has hired 1,500 air traffic controllers this year and is working to hire 2,600 more, as he argued a government shutdown in less than two weeks would interrupt their progress.
"A government shutdown would stop us in our tracks when it comes to hiring at exactly the wrong moment, while those who are qualified controllers in the tower would be permitted to continue working. It would stop training at just a moment when we're finally trending positive again, in terms of the number of people ready to take their seats," Buttigieg said.
Advertisement
Buttigieg agreed that despite a shortage, pilots should continue to retire at the age of 65, to which Rep. Troy Nehls, R-Texas, replied: "How about having people in the highest office in our nation over 80?"
"I think there are a lot of folks here who could do a great job regardless of their age, but I wouldn't necessarily want them flying my airplane," Buttigieg retorted.
Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., questioned Buttigieg about the more than 500 train accidents since the Norfolk Southern Railway accident in Ohio seven months ago.
While Buttigieg acknowledged the Transportation Department has work to do, he warned again that a potential government shutdown would make things worse.
"We need to ensure our transportation safety work can continue by preventing a government shutdown," Buttigieg said, as he also faced criticism over his department's requests for additional funds.
"We continue to hear about the need for more money for infrastructure investment, but it seems you're not spending the money you have already. What's going on here?" Rep. Rick Crawford," R-Ark., asked.
"Nobody's sitting around and neither are the dollars, but the gap between the fiscal year in which it's authorized or appropriated, and the moment when that construction takes place, that's very real," Buttigieg replied.
Advertisement
Rep. Brian Babin, R-Texas claimed that "despite never-before-seen levels of funds" going to the department, transportation "does not seem to be safer today."
"From what I can see your office is simply writing blank checks to fulfill Mr. Biden's climate initiatives," Babin argued, to which Buttigieg said "We're investing in roads and bridges and ports and airports and rail transit."
Buttigieg also faced questions about electric vehicles and how cold weather affects an EV's battery life, as he claimed the Biden administration is not forcing citizens to "purchase any technology."
The transportation secretary was also grilled about a plan to use the Atlantic City International Airport to house thousands of migrants.
"First of all, the Atlantic City Airport is an unacceptable place to house these people," Rep. Van Drew, R-N.J., said. "There are no services or infrastructure at the airport that could possible support this. Logistically, it is a poor concept. Further the Atlantic City airport is surrounded by facilities critical to national security."
Buttigieg replied that the issue is not under the Federal Aviation Administration's jurisdiction, as he urged lawmakers to partner with the department in two critical areas.
"One, ensuring our transportation safety work can continue by preventing a government shutdown; and two, delivering further improvements that are achievable only through new legislation."
Advertisement
Read More
White House warns of threat of looming government shutdown
Remote work marks the path to a greener future
UAW: More plants could strike without progress in negotiations 


Topics
PoliticsPete ButtigiegFederal Aviation Administration






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 1 hour ago
U.S. intelligence says Iran behind efforts to infiltrate Trump, Harris campaigns
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- The U.S. intelligence community said Monday that Iran was behind a recent hack of Donald Trump's presidential campaign and efforts to infiltrate the presidential campaign of the Democratic Party.










U.S. News // 8 hours ago
In praising Harris at Democratic convention, Hillary Clinton says 'future is here'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Democratic National Convention opened Monday in Chicago with a surprise cameo from Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris and a standing ovation for former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.










U.S. News // 4 hours ago
Trump tells defense workers he will cut energy costs 'in half' by boosting production
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former President Donald Trump on Monday pledged to cut the "cut the cost of energy in half" with a massive change of energy production and manufacturing if he returns to the White House.










U.S. News // 10 hours ago
Chicago DNC protesters breach security fence near where Bidens set to appear
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators, including some who breached a security fence. Four were arrested.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Border patrol agents find hundreds of pounds of meth in celery at San Diego crossing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents seized 629.72 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value estimated at $755,00, concealed within a shipment of celery in San Diego, the agency said Monday.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Ex-NFL player Gosder Cherilus accused of urinating on elderly woman during flight
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Gosder Cherilus, a former lineman for nine seasons in the NFL, is facing several federal charges after he is accused of urinating on an elderly woman for approximately 20 seconds during a flight from Boston to Ireland.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Hyatt hotels settles with D'Vontaye Mitchell's family, same day 4 suspects in court
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Hyatt Regency hotels said Monday it reached a settlement in the recent death of an unarmed Black man in Wisconsin allegedly at the hands of four Hyatt employees.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Former Rep. George Santos pleads guilty to federal fraud charges, faces prison time
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., pleaded guilty Monday to federal fraud charges in a plea deal that will send the former lawmaker to jail and bypass a criminal trial that was scheduled to start next month.










U.S. News // 7 hours ago
D.C. council member Trayon White Sr. arrested on $150,000 bribery charge
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- District of Columbia council member Trayon White Sr. has been charged with bribery of $150,000 in contracts kickback case, the Justice Department said Monday.










U.S. News // 9 hours ago
Harvey Weinstein to stay in N.Y. prison pending retrial on sex charges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will remain incarcerated in New York as he awaits a new sex crimes trial set for November before being returned to California to serve out his sentence there.






 Sept. 20 (UPI) -- Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg faced sharp criticism over flight delays, train derailments and transportation funding at a hearing Wednesday, as he warned a potential government shutdown could affect air travel. Republicans at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing on Capitol Hill targeted Buttigieg with questions about a number of transportation issues, including a shortage of air traffic controllers and commercial airline pilots.
Advertisement Buttigieg told lawmakers that the department has hired 1,500 air traffic controllers this year and is working to hire 2,600 more, as he argued a government shutdown in less than two weeks would interrupt their progress. "A government shutdown would stop us in our tracks when it comes to hiring at exactly the wrong moment, while those who are qualified controllers in the tower would be permitted to continue working. It would stop training at just a moment when we're finally trending positive again, in terms of the number of people ready to take their seats," Buttigieg said.
Advertisement Buttigieg agreed that despite a shortage, pilots should continue to retire at the age of 65, to which Rep. Troy Nehls, R-Texas, replied: "How about having people in the highest office in our nation over 80?" "I think there are a lot of folks here who could do a great job regardless of their age, but I wouldn't necessarily want them flying my airplane," Buttigieg retorted. Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., questioned Buttigieg about the more than 500 train accidents since the Norfolk Southern Railway accident in Ohio seven months ago. While Buttigieg acknowledged the Transportation Department has work to do, he warned again that a potential government shutdown would make things worse. "We need to ensure our transportation safety work can continue by preventing a government shutdown," Buttigieg said, as he also faced criticism over his department's requests for additional funds. "We continue to hear about the need for more money for infrastructure investment, but it seems you're not spending the money you have already. What's going on here?" Rep. Rick Crawford," R-Ark., asked. "Nobody's sitting around and neither are the dollars, but the gap between the fiscal year in which it's authorized or appropriated, and the moment when that construction takes place, that's very real," Buttigieg replied.
Advertisement Rep. Brian Babin, R-Texas claimed that "despite never-before-seen levels of funds" going to the department, transportation "does not seem to be safer today." "From what I can see your office is simply writing blank checks to fulfill Mr. Biden's climate initiatives," Babin argued, to which Buttigieg said "We're investing in roads and bridges and ports and airports and rail transit." Buttigieg also faced questions about electric vehicles and how cold weather affects an EV's battery life, as he claimed the Biden administration is not forcing citizens to "purchase any technology." The transportation secretary was also grilled about a plan to use the Atlantic City International Airport to house thousands of migrants. "First of all, the Atlantic City Airport is an unacceptable place to house these people," Rep. Van Drew, R-N.J., said. "There are no services or infrastructure at the airport that could possible support this. Logistically, it is a poor concept. Further the Atlantic City airport is surrounded by facilities critical to national security." Buttigieg replied that the issue is not under the Federal Aviation Administration's jurisdiction, as he urged lawmakers to partner with the department in two critical areas. "One, ensuring our transportation safety work can continue by preventing a government shutdown; and two, delivering further improvements that are achievable only through new legislation."
Advertisement