Archimedes, a decentralized finance (DeFi) lending and borrowing marketplace that is launching this month, has secured another round of funding, the company said in a statement Wednesday. The recently closed seed-funding round of $4.9 million was led by Hack VC. It adds to $2.4 million of pre-seed funding for a total of $7.3 million in pre-launch fundraising, the Miami-based company said. Seed-round backers included Uncorrelated Ventures, Psalion, Truffle Ventures, Cogitent Ventures, Haven VC and Palsar among others. Archimedes said it offers leverage that multiplies a user’s original yield opportunity. Leverage takers using the platform are sent a non-fungible token (NFT) that represents a yield-generating stablecoin position that has been leveraged up to 10 times the principal collateral amount. DeFi is an umbrella term used for lending, trading and other financial activities carried out on a blockchain. NFTs are digital assets on a blockchain that represent ownership of virtual or physical items and can be sold or traded. The company said its mission is to make capital efficient DeFi opportunities more accessible. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Will Canny is CoinDesk's finance reporter. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk