Although the crypto ecosystem has faced its fair share of bumps, venture capitalists are still bullish about the space and continue to look at decentralized finance (DeFi) as a promising opportunity. TechCrunch surveyed six crypto-focused investors about the road ahead for crypto adoption, their sentiment toward DeFi and how the focus in that subsector (by both investors and founders) is growing. The total value locked (TVL) on DeFi protocols has fallen roughly 77% from all-time highs around $180 billion in December 2021 to about $41 billion on Wednesday, according to DeFiLlama data. But that hasn’t stopped founders, developers and investors from diving into the space. “While TVL as a metric certainly has its flaws, we think it's still a decent measure of activity in the sector,” said Michael Anderson, co-founder of Framework Ventures. “As TVL increases, we also think it's possible that total market cap could follow.” Paul Veradittakit, general partner of Pantera, echoed that sentiment. “Naturally, we expect that in the next five years, as DeFi matures and begins catering to (as well as capturing share from) its TradFi counterparts, the TVL metric could easily surpass the $500 billion mark.” Anywhere from 20% to 50% of crypto-related pitches today are DeFi-focused, five of the investors surveyed said. With all these DeFi startups launching and pitching to investors, it’s hard to determine what it takes to stand out. “As venture investors, we’re looking to back innovators who are not afraid to experiment and create new products,” Veradittakit said. But DeFi's growth will depend on more than just rising use cases, according to Alex Marinier, founder and general partner at New Form Capital. “It will also be influenced by developments in infrastructure, regulation and financial innovation.” In general, DeFi primitives like automated market makers and lending protocols are “established and crowded,” said David Gan, founder and general partner of OP Crypto. “Founders need to go back and think about the true use cases and pain points for non-crypto/non-technical users, and then build solutions and user experiences.” Founders should highlight unique technology and clear advantages for a specific use case, Marinier said. “Too many projects are simply positioning themselves as ‘X protocol, but on Y chain,’ without offering anything truly innovative or novel.” Investors are also interested in projects that strategize or connect to institutional players. As DeFi grows, so does the need for its products to realistically accommodate institutions, Anderson said. Unfortunately, institutional players might be spooked by the market-changing events in 2022, like LUNA/Terra ecosystem exploding in May and crypto exchange FTX collapsing in November. So these investors are unlikely to return for a few years, Anderson said. “As a result, we’re focusing more on projects that are thinking about addressing new, more institutional users and markets,” Anderson added. Gan agreed: “We're investing in the building blocks for institutional adoption, projects that fill the gap in the completeness of DeFi and protocols geared toward non-crypto users.” Often revered as an astute judge of character, Queen Elizabeth II told friends that she found Donald Trump “very rude,” and mused that he must have “some sort of arrangement” with his wife, Melania.The stunning claims are made in a new biography of the late queen which is being serialized in the Daily Mail. It also says that the late monarch “particularly disliked” Trump’s habit of looking over her shoulder, as if “in search of others more interesting.”Elizabeth hosted Trump twice during her rei Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen When Marlon realised his daughter was being groomed and sexually exploited by grown men, he engaged with police, doing everything he could to keep his 14-year-old child safe.  "For a child who has been groomed and then taken to a police station to be strip searched is just massively inappropriate, its appalling," says Marlon.  The search was conducted by female officers in front of a glass door, says Marlon, meaning she was also visible to male officers. Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. Todor Merdjanov spent one month at Kim Il Sung University in Pyongyang in 2013. He wants more people to know what the country is like from the inside. ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death Keep up to date as Arsenal look set to complete £30m swoop while Chelsea continue their new striker search All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window Donald Trump has posted a series of AI-generated images on his Truth Social account falsely claiming that Taylor Swift has endorsed him for president. On Sunday night, Trump shared several screenshots of X posts showing women wearing “Swifties for Trump” shirts. Many of the photos appear to have been doctored, and one screenshot is of … "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Meanwhile Vladimir Putin’s forces launch ballistic missile attack on Kyiv Paetongtarn Shinawatra, daughter of the divisive former leader Thaksin Shinawatra, became Thailand's prime minister after receiving a royal letter of endorsement Sunday, two days after she was chosen by Parliament following a court order that removed her predecessor.  Paetongtarn is the third Shinawatra to hold the job, after her billionaire father and her aunt Yingluck Shinawatra.  Both were removed from office and forced into exile in coups, although Thaksin returned to Thailand last year as Pheu Thai formed a government.