Companies in the  Technology sector have received a lot of coverage today as analysts  weigh in on Garmin (GRMN – Research Report), Sapiens (SPNS – Research Report) and Unity Software (U – Research Report). Garmin (GRMN) In a report released yesterday, Paul J Chung  from J.P. Morgan maintained a Buy rating on Garmin, with a price target of $115.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $97.80. According to TipRanks.com, Chung is a 3-star analyst with an average return of 3.0% and a 49.0% success rate. Chung covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Resideo Technologies, Dolby Laboratories, and Motorola Solutions. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Garmin with a $108.00 average price target.
		  See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Sapiens (SPNS) J.P. Morgan analyst Alexei Gogolev  maintained a Sell rating on Sapiens on February 21 and set a price target of $19.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $20.94. According to TipRanks.com, Gogolev is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 12.8% and a 56.8% success rate. Gogolev covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Clearwater Analytics Holdings, Duck Creek Technologies, and CD Projekt SA. Sapiens has an analyst consensus of Hold, with a price target consensus of $23.25.
		  Unity Software (U) Unity Software received a Hold rating  from Oppenheimer analyst Martin Yang  today. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $37.85. According to TipRanks.com, Yang has currently 0 stars on a ranking scale of 0-5 stars, with an average return of -12.6% and a 30.3% success rate. Yang covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Universal Display, Electronic Arts, and Sony Group. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Hold analyst consensus rating for Unity Software with a $34.07 average price target, representing a -7.1% downside. In a report issued on February 15, Goldman Sachs also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $40.00 price target. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks