Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript. Advertisement Energy metabolism is the process of generating energy (ATP) from nutrients. Metabolism comprises a series of interconnected pathways that can function in the presence or absence of oxygen. Aerobic metabolism converts one glucose molecule into 30-32 ATP molecules. Fermentation or anaerobic metabolism is less efficient than aerobic metabolism. Examination of mitochondria in embryonic blood cell development exposes a mechanism that regulates mitochondrial cristae biogenesis and function during the endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition. Mitochondria are essential cellular components that are found in animals, plants, fungi, and protists. This study reports what is believed to be the first example of complete mitochondrial loss in a free-living organism, providing insights into the evolutionary plasticity of eukaryotic cells. Song et al. show that in young mice CD38 supports hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) proliferation by regulating Ca2+ signaling and mitochondrial activity. Conversely, the upregulation of CD38 during aging causes dysregulation of NAD metabolism, mitochondrial stress and HSC dysfunction. Elezaby et al. show that cardiac troponin I interacts with mitochondrial ATP synthase to increase ATPase activity. Disrupting this interaction reduces cardiac damage following transient ischemia. Zimmermann et al. present OrgaPlexing, an imaging pipeline mapping metabolic organelles and their interactions. They find changes in mitochondria, ER, peroxisome and lipid droplet dynamics that impact macrophage inflammatory lipid mediator synthesis. We show that the mitochondrial fission proteins MiD49 and MiD51 are activated by fatty acyl-coenzyme A (FA-CoA). FA-CoA binds in a previously identified pocket located within MiDs, inducing their oligomerization and ability to activate the dynamin DRP1, ultimately promoting mitochondrial fission. Activated MiDs synergize with mitochondrial fission factor (MFF) in stimulating DRP1 activity, leading us to hypothesize that MiDs act upstream of MFF during mitochondrial fission. The prevailing notion that mitochondrial diseases arise from ATP deficiency is challenged by recent evidence that oxidative phosphorylation defects trigger maladaptive stress responses consuming excess energy. We argue that this chronic state of hypermetabolism imposes energetic constraints, thus causing mitochondrial disease pathophysiology, calling for careful translational studies from organelle to organism. High-fat diet (HFD) causes mitochondrial dysfunction in white adipocytes. A study in Nature Metabolism identifies the small GTPase RalA as a culprit in mice. Upon HFD, RalA activates the fission protein Drp1 to cause mitochondrial fragmentation and dysfunction, linking mitochondrial fuel utilization in white adipocytes to systemic lipid metabolism. 

                    Nature.com 
                
 © 2024 Springer Nature Limited