Processing.... The Defense Logistics Agency has begun seeking bids for a follow-on information technology contract vehicle worth potentially $12 billion over 10 years. DLA’s J6 Enterprise Technology Services 2.0 acquisition program will support applications, infrastructure, software, hardware and research and development projects across the DLA Information Operations enterprise, according to a notice posted Wednesday on SAM.gov. Task orders will include network and telecommunication services, enterprise service delivery, cybersecurity, program and project management, cloud hosting, data and information governance analytics, and application hosting environment modernization. DLA awarded 142 companies positions on the eight-year, $6 billion JETS contract in December 2016. Vendors have until May 24 to submit offers for the forthcoming procurement vehicle. William Lietzau has stepped down from his role as director of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, marking his retirement from federal service.  The former DCSA director and 2023 Wash100 Award winner was recognized on Thursday in a Transfer of Authority ceremony, held at the National Museum of the Marine Corps. The event honored, highlighted and reflected Fintech financial services provider Array US and software company Verato were awarded spots on a $330 million indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract from the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency for credit reporting services. Both contractors will compete for delivery orders under the potential 10-year IDIQ to support DCSA’s personnel security mission, the Department of Defense said Wednesday. Array The workforce of the United States federal government is in many ways the backbone of the country’s most important missions. The Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency was established to ensure that this workforce is properly vetted and composed of the right people. In a new video interview with Executive Mosaic, DCSA Director William Lietzau shared some important The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here