Providing stock analysis for investors of the Canadian junior markets  Tantalus Labs, a British Columbia-based cannabis grower, has announced that it will cease operations. The company, which obtained its license in 2017, has filed a Notice of Intent for Restructuring (NOI) in the Canadian Federal Court. As a result, the majority of Tantalus Labs’ workforce will be laid off, with only a select few employees retained to oversee the restructuring process. Dan Sutton, CEO and founder of Tantalus Labs said that they will enter into “the process of restructuring with the mission to find a path forward for our brand and winning products to continue to deliver value to customers and distributors nationwide.” He cited the regulatory and taxation environment in the Canadian cannabis industry as a significant challenge to profitability.  “Despite continued market success by firms like Tantalus, the regulatory and taxation environment is persistently so burdensome that even today, five years into recreational legalization, free cash flow in the Canadian cannabis industry remains systemically challenged,” says Sutton.  Is it true @DSutton1986 … I’m not here to celebrate your demise… I never thought the Tesla of Cannabis would go under but …Being told @TantalusLabs has officially closed for business and all the employees have been let go? Sutton also emphasized how the problem impacts the broader cannabis industry, highlighting the results of a recent survey conducted among 120 small cannabis cultivators that revealed 85% of them believe their businesses will become insolvent within the next six months. The excise tax rate, ranging from 25 to 45% of gross sales, has hindered the ability of companies, regardless of size, to maintain sustainable business models.  Various companies, such as Fire & Flower, Navaya Inc., and Dynaleo Inc., have recently undergone restructuring or sought legal protection due to financial difficulties.  The industry has experienced significant changes since the rapid expansion leading up to cannabis legalization, prompting companies to adapt their operations to current market demands or face closure. Information for this story was found via Stratcann, and the sources and companies mentioned. The author has no securities or affiliations related to the organizations discussed. Not a recommendation to buy or sell. Always do additional research and consult a professional before purchasing a security. The author holds no licenses. In this interview, John Feneck, CEO of Feneck Consulting, offers a comprehensive analysis of the current gold and silver markets. Pharmadrug Inc (CSE: PHRX) has received approval for its majority owned joint venture, Sairiyo Therapeutics, to process with a Phase 1 clinical study in Australia. The trial aims to assess a reformulated version of oral cepharanthine, referred to as PD-001, as a treatment for cancer and medical countermeasures. Welcome to The Deep Dive, where we focus on providing investors of Canadian junior stock markets the knowledge they need to make smart investment decisions. We take a closer look at all data relating to organizations listed on the CSE and the TSX Venture to create quality stock analysis for investors. Not a recommendation to buy or sell securities. Always do additional research and consult a professional before purchasing a security.