Redding,  California, March  15, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- According to a new market research report titled, ‘Soil Conditioners Market by Type (Natural, Chemical), Solubility (Water Soluble, Hydrogels), Soil Type (Sand, Slit, Clay), Application (Agriculture, Industrial), Crop Type (Grains & Cereals, Oilseeds, Fruit & Vegetables) - Forecast to 2030,' the global soil conditioners market is projected to reach $10.34 billion by 2030, at a CAGR of 7.1% from 2023 to 2030. Download Free Sample Report Now @ https://www.meticulousresearch.com/download-sample-report/cp_id=3888 Advanced productive materials are required to fulfill the need for nutrient management in the soil to achieve better quality and yield. In the last few decades, there have been tremendous efforts to improve agricultural yields through the extensive application of chemicals and fertilizers that have long-lasting and profound effects on the environment and human beings. Therefore, the use of soil conditioners is increasing significantly across the globe to feed the world population with a limited source of land without damaging the environment. Soil conditioners play an important role in modern-day agriculture as they have the potential to improve soil fertility, texture and quality. In addition, soil conditioners are also used to excavate soil for tunneling and mining and to stabilize excavated soil. Moreover, growing organic farming and increasing alertness towards soil management boost the soil conditioners market. The global soil conditioners market is segmented based on type, solubility, soil type, application, crop type, and geography. The study also evaluates industry competitors and analyses the market at a country level. Based on type, the global soil conditioners market is mainly segmented into natural and chemical. In 2023, the natural segment is expected to account for the largest share of the soil conditioners market. The large market share of this segment is mainly attributed to factors such as increased environmental and public health concerns with the use of chemical products, increasing demand for chemical residue-free agricultural stuff, and government support for the use of natural agricultural products. This segment is also projected to register the highest CAGR during the forecast period.  Speak to our Analysts to Understand the Impact of COVID-19 on Your Business: https://www.meticulousresearch.com/speak-to-analyst/cp_id=3888 Based on solubility, the global soil conditioners market is mainly segmented into water-soluble and hydrogels. In 2023, the water-soluble segment is expected to account for the largest share of the soil conditioners market. The large market share of this segment is mainly attributed to its benefits, such as effective water-holding capacity and soil stabilization. This segment is also projected to register the highest CAGR during the forecast period.  Based on soil type, the global soil conditioners market is mainly segmented into sand, silt, clay, loam, and peat. In 2023, the sand segment is expected to account for the largest share of the overall soil conditioners market. The large market share of this segment is mainly attributed to its low water holding and nutrient retention capacity. However, the clay segment is projected to register the highest CAGR during the forecast period due to the growing need to overcome the problems of poor aeration and drainage. Based on application, the global soil conditioners market is mainly segmented into agriculture and industrial. In 2023, the agriculture segment is expected to account for the largest share of the overall soil conditioners market. The large market share of this segment is mainly attributed to increased demand for food, a decrease in arable land, and a wide range of benefits of soil conditioners in agriculture. This segment is also projected to register the highest CAGR during the forecast period due to the increasing demand for organic food and beverages. Quick Buy – Soil Conditioners Market Research Report: https://www.meticulousresearch.com/Checkout/56607439 Based on crop type, the global soil conditioners market is mainly segmented into cereals & grains, oilseeds, fruits & vegetables, and other crop types. In 2023, the cereals and grains segment is expected to account for the largest share of the soil conditioners market. The leading position of this segment is mainly attributed to the increased demand for cereal and grains and their major consumption as a staple food in many countries. However, the fruit and vegetable segment is projected to register the CAGR during the forecast period. The rapid growth of this segment is driven by the increasing demand for chemical-free fruits & vegetables. Based on geography, in 2023, Asia-Pacific is expected to account for the largest share of the overall soil conditioners market. The large share of this market is primarily attributed to large arable land, growing population, and adoption of new farming practices. However, Latin America is slated to register the highest CAGR during the forecast period, primarily due to large areas under agricultural cultivation, increasing demand for crop yield & efficiency, and growing organic farming. The key players operating in the global soil conditioners market are BASF SE (Germany), Solvay S.A. (Belgium), The Dow Chemical Company (U.S.), Loveland Products, Inc. (U.S.), Eastman Chemical Company (U.S.), Akzo Nobel N.V. (Netherlands), Evonik Industries AG (Germany), Aquatrols (U.S.), Sanoway GmbH (Austria), and Biosoil Farm Inc. (U.S.). To gain more insights into the market with a detailed table of content and figures, click here: https://www.meticulousresearch.com/product/soil-conditioners-market-3888 Scope of the report  Soil Conditioners Market, by Type     Soil Conditioners Market, by Solubility              Soil Conditioners Market, by Soil Type             Soil Conditioners Market, by Application          Soil Conditioners Market, by Crop Type            Soil Conditioners Market, by Geography Download Free Sample Report Now @ https://www.meticulousresearch.com/download-sample-report/cp_id=3888 Related Reports Biofertilizers Market by Microorganism Type (Nitrogen-fixing Microbes {Rhizobia Bacteria}, Phosphate Solubilizing Microbes), Crop Type (Cereals & Grains, Oilseeds & Pulses), Mode of Application (Seed Treatment, Fertigation), Form - Global Forecast to 2029 https://www.meticulousresearch.com/product/biofertilizers-market-5409   Agricultural Biologicals Market By Product Type (Biopesticides, Biostimulants, Biofertilizers) Source (Microbial, Biochemical), Formulation (Liquid), Mode of Application (Seed Treatment), Crop Type (Fruits & Vegetables), and Geography - Global Forecast to 2029 https://www.meticulousresearch.com/product/agricultural-biologicals-market-5314   About Meticulous Research® Meticulous Research® was founded in 2010 and incorporated as Meticulous Market Research Pvt. Ltd. in 2013 as a private limited company under the Companies Act, 1956. Since its incorporation, the company has become the leading provider of premium market intelligence in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America, and the Middle East & Africa. The name of our company defines our services, strengths, and values. Since the inception, we have only thrived to research, analyze, and present the critical market data with great attention to details. With the meticulous primary and secondary research techniques, we have built strong capabilities in data collection, interpretation, and analysis of data including qualitative and quantitative research with the finest team of analysts. We design our meticulously analyzed intelligent and value-driven syndicate market research reports, custom studies, quick turnaround research, and consulting solutions to address business challenges of sustainable growth. Contact: Mr. Khushal Bombe Meticulous Market Research Inc. 1267 Willis St, Ste 200 Redding,  California, 96001, U.S. USA: +1-646-781-8004 Europe : +44-203-868-8738 APAC: +91 744-7780008 Email- sales@meticulousresearch.com  Visit Our Website: https://www.meticulousresearch.com/ Connect with us on LinkedIn- https://www.linkedin.com/company/meticulous-research Content Source: https://www.meticulousresearch.com/pressrelease/311/soil-conditioners-market-2030  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.