They’re called forever chemicals because they don’t break down in the environment and can build up in blood and organs, according to WRAL. They’re called forever chemicals because they don’t break down in the environment and can build up in blood and organs, according to WRAL. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. They’re called forever chemicals because they don’t break down in the environment and can build up in blood and organs, according to WRAL. Twenty additional drinking water systems across North Carolina have been identified to contain toxic PFAS contaminants known as “forever chemicals," according to newly released data from the Environmental Protection Agency. Top Stories Get the latest news stories of interest by clicking here They’re called forever chemicals because they don’t break down in the environment and can build up in blood and organs.  In North Carolina, PFAS-contaminated sites are in Durham, Pittsboro, Fuquay-Varina and Asheboro, as well as Orange, Johnston and Nash Counties.  Most sites contain PFOA, the PFAS chemical used to make Teflon in non-stick cookware. In studies with lab animals, PFOA has been shown to cause harm to the liver and negatively impact growth, development, and reproduction.  Keep up with the latest news and weather by downloading the WXII app here. A recent review from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention outlines a host of health effects associated with PFAS exposure, including cancer, liver damage, decreased fertility, increased risk of asthma and thyroid disease, and decreased vaccine response in children. Legal limits for contaminants in tap water haven’t been updated in almost two decades. For more on this story, visit our news partner WRAL. NAVIGATE: Home | Weather | Watch NOWCAST TV | Local News | National | News We Love | Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.