As the leader of the data program at Eastman, Molly Leita, director of data and analytics at the specialty materials company, draws a straight line from information management and intelligence to everyday innovations. During her closing keynote at the recent ASUG Best Practices: SAP for Chemicals event held in Texas, Leita included data in the four strategic drivers of innovation in the chemical industry. Eastman is digitizing the company’s innovation pipeline, applying machine learning models to dramatically decrease new product development cycle times, in some cases from months to minutes. “First is the automation of business processes to drive productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness through large platforms like SAP,” said Leita. “Second is gaining deeper insights for better and faster decision-making from data and analytics. Third is strengthening collaborative connections virtually with customers, employees, suppliers, and partners. Fourth are new business models with digital products that create more value for customers, complimenting physical offerings to increase revenue for the company.” Headquartered in the beautiful foothills of the Appalachian mountains in northeast Tennessee, the $10.6 billion global specialty materials leader has been undergoing a digital transformation that’s intertwined with a bold vision to reinvent the industry. “We’re transitioning from a traditional chemicals organization to a company that’s committed to solving the sustainability issues essential to the survival of our industry,” said Leita. Behind Eastman’s circular economy strategy is one of the most advanced technologies available today, known as molecular recycling. The company takes waste plastic from various products that can’t be recycled by mechanical recycling, breaks it down to the molecular level, and turns it into new products of equal or better quality, creating an endless loop of materials and preventing waste from being sent to a landfill or incinerated. Eastman has announced plans to invest over $2.25 billion in three molecular recycling projects, two located in the United States and one in France. Eastman’s corporate goal is to recycle 250 million pounds of waste each year by 2025, and 500 million pounds by 2030. Data transparency is central to Eastman’s sustainability commitment. Another innovation example is the company’s partnership with GreenToken by SAP, a digital traceability solution that uses digital twin tokens on a blockchain to provide an immutable record of certified custody for every partner on the value chain. “Consumers will expect to see the sustainable lifecycle of items from raw materials to finished goods,” said Leita. “At the store, they’ll scan a bottle with a QR code on their digital device to see how much recycled material it has and where it came from.” Eastman manufactures thousands of materials that go into products people use daily spanning agriculture, consumer goods, personal care, transportation, and textiles. R&D is a major investment area where the company combines the collective know-how of experts in data and material sciences to accelerate innovation. “We’ve partnered our data scientists with material scientists in our R&D organization to digitize our innovation pipeline,” said Leita. “New product development in the chemical industry can be very manual, iterative, and time-consuming. By partnering with data science, we apply machine learning models to dramatically decrease new product development cycle times, in some cases from months to minutes.” Eastman has launched a number of digital products. The most mature is Core, a SaaS, patent-pending platform that allows Eastman’s customers in the automotive aftermarket industry to install the company’s paint protection and window film products more accurately and efficiently. Another digital offering is Fluid Genius, a patent-pending software application that helps manufacturing plants better manage the quality of heat transfer fluids for continuous, safe, and reliable operations. Fostering a digital mindset across Eastman doesn’t begin or end with the IT department. Like many forward-thinking companies, Eastman has made digital transformation equally relevant to every team. “We need all of our stakeholders across Eastman to embrace digital for the game-changer that it is,” said Leita. “Working hand-in-hand with senior and functional leadership teams, we look for places where digital will make a difference.” While technology took center stage at the conference, people and purpose were pervasive themes. When Matt Reymann, global vice president for Chemicals at SAP, joined Leita on stage, they talked about the benefits of Eastman’s shift from old school waterfall development to agile business. “We’ve become more serious about agility, which means starting small and iterating and scaling out as people use and provide feedback on innovations,” said Leita. Learn more about the global megatrends that are affecting chemical companies and providing new opportunities for growth. 