A New Zealand-based startup just got $18 million to commercialize graphite made of wood chips for EV batteries in Europe and the US. Swedish-Finnish renewable forestry giant Stora Enso, Hong Kong-based battery maker Amperex Technology (ATL), and other partners are investing in CarbonScape, which uses forestry and timber industry byproducts such as wood chips and sawdust to make “biographite.” CarbonScape explains that biographite is a “sustainable alternative to synthetic (petroleum-based) and natural (mined) graphite,” the raw material that makes up to 30% of the weight of a lithium-ion battery. CarbonScape has been working on its biographite process, which is now patented, for seven years.  Biographite has a carbon negative footprint that saves up to 30 tonnes of CO2 emissions per tonne of material compared to synthetic or mined graphite, CarbonScape says. The wood-based graphite will enable battery makers to cut the carbon footprint of each EV battery by almost 30%, potentially reducing the EV battery sector’s emissions by more than 86 million tonnes of CO2 per year by 2030. CarbonScape will use the investment money to scale the business and further develop plans for production facilities in Europe and the US. This is intriguing but of course pretty early stages. CarbonScape isn’t going to share the details of its patented process, and there are a lot of bridges that the company will need to cross to get biographite to market in Europe and the US. But this is a good start. Will automakers buy in? We don’t yet know. But there’s a need for graphite alternatives – a global supply deficit of of graphite is expected by 2030. We know that two other companies with clout are buying in, and Stora Enso is also working with Northvolt on a similar technology with wood products in batteries. So we’re going to watch this space. Read more: Wood-based batteries? Northvolt is working to develop this sustainable material technology Photo: CarbonScape To limit power outages and make your home more resilient, consider going solar with a battery storage system. In order to find a trusted, reliable solar installer near you that offers competitive pricing, check out EnergySage, a free service that makes it easy for you to go solar. They have hundreds of pre-vetted solar installers competing for your business, ensuring you get high quality solutions and save 20-30% compared to going it alone. Plus, it’s free to use and you won’t get sales calls until you select an installer and you share your phone number with them. Your personalized solar quotes are easy to compare online and you’ll get access to unbiased Energy Advisers to help you every step of the way. Get started here. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast. Tesla is a transportation and energy company. It… Michelle Lewis is a writer and editor on Electrek and an editor on DroneDJ, 9to5Mac, and 9to5Google. She lives in White River Junction, Vermont. She has previously worked for Fast Company, the Guardian, News Deeply, Time, and others. Message Michelle on Twitter or at michelle@9to5mac.com. Check out her personal blog. 
										Light, durable, quick: I'll never go back.									 
										Because I don't want to wait for the best of British TV.									 Manage push notifications