People often use low carb diets to promote weight loss and stabilize blood sugar levels. Though guidelines can vary, low carb diets typically limit foods high in carbs or added sugar. A low carb diet restricts carbohydrates, such as those found in pasta, bread, and sugary foods. It’s high in protein, fat, and vegetables. There are many different types of low carb diets.  This is a detailed meal plan for a low carb diet. It explains what to eat and what to limit. It also includes a sample low carb menu for 3 days. Low carb diets have been associated with several health benefits. People often use them to support weight loss and manage blood sugar levels. There are several types of low carb diets, and they differ based on the amount of carbs permitted each day. A typical low carb diet usually contains less than 26% of total daily calories from carbs. For those following a 2000-calorie diet, this equals fewer than 130 grams (g) of carbs per day. Generally, low carb diets limit foods high in carbs or added sugar, including sweets, starches, and refined grains. However, the foods you’re permitted on a low carb diet can vary depending on your daily carb allotment. Even higher carb foods like fruits, starchy vegetables, and whole grains can fit into some low carb diets in moderation. Here are a few of the most popular low carb eating patterns: Here are some of the foods to eat on a low carb diet: Unless you’re following a very low carb or keto diet, you may also want to include small amounts of these foods: Dark chocolate is high in antioxidants and may benefit your health if you eat it in moderation. Choose dark chocolate with at least 70% cocoa.  In addition, you can drink dry wines with no added sugar or carbs. Just be aware that both dark chocolate and alcohol may hinder weight management if you eat or drink too much. Because many beverages can be high in carbs and calories, consider choosing drinks free of added sugar whenever possible such as coffee, tea, or sugar-free sparkling water. Depending on your daily carb allowance, you might need to limit or avoid the following foods: Be sure to check the ingredient labels of foods to find options that fit into your diet. This is a sample menu for 3 days on a low carb diet plan. That said, ask a doctor or dietitian what carbohydrate allowance works best for you based on your health goals and personal preferences. To see more examples of go-to meals, check out this article on 7 healthy low carb meals in under 10 minutes. If you get hungry between meals, here are some healthy, easy-to-prepare, low carb snacks that can fill you up: Following a low carb diet while dining out can be challenging. Not only are the portion sizes often very large, but some restaurant foods are served with condiments, sauces, or side dishes that are high in added sugar or carbs. Still, at most restaurants, making your meals low carb is fairly easy. Here are a few tips to get started: If you’re avoiding carbs entirely, focus on eating animal and plant-based proteins and plenty of vegetables and fruit. That said, your body does need some carbs, so avoiding them entirely, unless directed by your doctor, may not be the best for your health. It’s also less sustainable than including a small amount in moderation. Learn about the zero-carb diet. To stay under 20 grams of carbs a day, fill yourself up with lots of vegetables, proteins, and healthy fats. You can follow a low carb diet as a vegetarian, but it can be more challenging because most plant-based protein foods also contain carbs. It’s important to ensure you’re getting enough calories and nutrients, so consulting with your doctor or a registered dietician is a good idea. Learn more about how to eat low carb as a vegetarian or vegan. Research shows that following a low carb diet while living with diabetes can help you manage the disease. Eating low carb with diabetes is similar to eating low carb without diabetes. You can generally eat and avoid the same foods. That said, you’ll need to track your blood sugar and follow the diabetes treatment prescribed by your doctor. Here’s a guide to healthy low carb eating with diabetes. There are several types of low carb diets, which vary in terms of the amount of carbs permitted per day. Generally, low carb diets limit your intake of carbs, such as those found in sugary and processed foods, pasta, and bread. Instead, they encourage a variety of non-starchy vegetables and foods high in protein and fat. For some people, low carb diets may help support weight loss and improve blood sugar control. The above meal plan gives you the basics of healthy, low carb eating and can be adjusted based on your dietary needs and preferences. Discover101 healthy low carb recipes that taste incredible. You can make several simple swaps in your current diet to help cut back on carbs. Discover a few easy ways to eat fewer carbs. Share this article To get optimal results on a low carb diet, just cutting back on carbs isn't enough. There are other aspects of the diet that are also important. People often stop losing before they reach their desired weight. If you're on a low-carb diet but not losing weight, here are 15 things you can try. A low carb diet can help you lose weight and improve health. Learn 14 foods you need to limit or avoid on a low carb diet. A list of 101 healthy low-carb recipes with photos and instructions. All the recipes are simple, taste awesome, and are made with healthy ingredients. Vegetables are a very important food group on a low-carb diet. Here are 21 healthy and delicious vegetables that are low in carbs. Many studies show that low-carb and ketogenic diets can lead to dramatic weight loss and improve most major risk factors for heart disease and… There is a lot of misinformation out there about low-carb diets. Here are the 9 biggest myths and misconceptions. Real Housewives of Dubai star Caroline Stanbury revealed she "projectile vomited" at a bar while she was on Ozempic. Here’s how side effects from… Overdoses related to compounded forms of GLP-1 weight loss drugs like Ozempic, Wegovy, and Zepbound are on the rise, FDA warns. Here's why. Health experts answer four of the most frequently asked questions about the effects weight loss drugs like Ozempic and Wegovy can have on fertility… OUR BRANDS