eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Terrence Antonio James/Chicago Tribune The tacos dorados at Diego, 459 N. Ogden Ave. in Chicago on Sept. 19, 2023. Universal Pictures/Universal Pictures/TNS/TNS Lidya Jewett, left, and Olivia Marcum in "The Exorcist: Believer." Universal Pictures/Universal Pictures/TNS/TNS Lidya Jewett, left, and Olivia Marcum in "The Exorcist: Believer." Christopher V. Sherman/Christopher V. Sherman/Visit Austin/TNS The Austin skyline from Lady Bird Lake. Michael Brosilow/HANDOUT Sarah Price and Kenneth La'Ron Hamilton in "Eurydice" at Writers Theatre in Glencoe. Rodrigo Chapa/HANDOUT "Creation of the Birds" (1957), Museo de Arte Moderno. Part of "Remedios Varo: Science Fictions" at the Art Institute. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune 2022 Holiday Cookie Contest winners on Nov. 15, 2022. Gareth Gatrell/Gareth Gatrell Owen Wilson as Mobius and Tom Hiddleston as Loki in Marvel Studios' "Loki," Season 2. Bill Hogan/Chicago Tribune People dine in the Signature Room restaurant on the 95th floor of the John Hancock Center. The restaurant closed Sept. 28, 2023. The tacos dorados at Diego, 459 N. Ogden Ave. in Chicago on Sept. 19, 2023. It’s Thursday, Chicago.We won’t blame you if you had too much fun enjoying summer’s last breath this week — when sunny skies call, we have to answer.This week we have a review for the first movie in “The Exorcist” franchise reboot, which Tribune film critic Michael Phillips thinks may fall flat for true horror fans.Food critic Nick Kindelsperger got to try the newly-opened restaurant Diego from chef Stephen Sandoval, where he found his pick for Chicago’s best fish taco.If the season’s change has you feeling a little “batty,” we have a guide for Austin, Texas. The city that bills itself as weird is also known to host thousands of bats this time of year.Enjoy the weekend, and we’ll see you back here next week.— Lauryn Azu, deputy senior editor‘The Exorcist: Believer’ review: Not today, Satan


Lidya Jewett, left, and Olivia Marcum in “The Exorcist: Believer.”Director David Gordon Green brings back Ellen Burstyn as Chris MacNeil, but the filmmaker needs to show us something new, Phillips writes. Read his review here.Review: Diego delivers on the promise of Sueños
The tacos dorados at Diego, 459 N. Ogden Ave. in Chicago on Sept. 19, 2023.The chef who wowed our critic with creative takes on Baja cuisine found a permanent home in West Town. Read Kindelsperger’s review here.‘Loki’ review: Oscar-winner Ke Huy Quan joins the Marvel series in a chaotic Season 2
Owen Wilson as Mobius and Tom Hiddleston as Loki in Marvel Studios’ “Loki,” Season 2.It’s been more than two years since the first season, but the Disney+ series is back, and is somewhat of a mess, according to Tribune TV critic Nina Metz. Read her review here.‘Reptile’ review: Benicio Del Toro stares down Justin TimberlakeAwaiting your chance at baking fame and glory? Enter the Tribune’s Holiday Cookie Contest.
2022 Holiday Cookie Contest winners on Nov. 15, 2022.If you live in the greater Chicago area and have a delicious and creative recipe for a holiday treat, why not try your hand at winning a cash prize? Read how you can enter the contest here.Review: Remedios Varo is the most extraordinary Surrealist you’ve never heard of. Now at the Art Institute.
“Creation of the Birds” (1957), Museo de Arte Moderno. Part of “Remedios Varo: Science Fictions” at the Art Institute.This is the Art Institute’s first solo exhibition dedicated to a woman Surrealist painter or to a woman artist working in Mexico. Read about Varo and how you can attend here.Signature Room restaurant and lounge close after decades in former Hancock Center
People dine in the Signature Room restaurant on the 95th floor of the John Hancock Center. The restaurant closed Sept. 28, 2023.Generations of Chicagoans celebrated holidays and milestones at the Signature Room. Read more about the closure here.Review: A beautiful ‘Eurydice’ from Writers Theatre’s new artistic director
Sarah Price and Kenneth La’Ron Hamilton in “Eurydice” at Writers Theatre in Glencoe.The ancient tragic tale of love is now on stage at Writers Theatre. “Every visual moment here has been thought through and the pacing is quite exquisite,” Tribune theater critic Chris Jones writes. Read why he thinks the show would make for a great date night here.What is it about Austin? Simply put, this ‘weird’ Texas city has it all
The Austin skyline from Lady Bird Lake.How’s this for a wicked vacation? Over 1 million freetail Mexican bats take off nightly each fall in the Texan capital city, and cruise boats on Lady Bird Lake will get you closer to the action. Read how you can plan a trip to Austin here. We won’t blame you if you had too much fun enjoying summer’s last breath this week — when sunny skies call, we have to answer. This week we have a review for the first movie in “The Exorcist” franchise reboot, which Tribune film critic Michael Phillips thinks may fall flat for true horror fans. Food critic Nick Kindelsperger got to try the newly-opened restaurant Diego from chef Stephen Sandoval, where he found his pick for Chicago’s best fish taco. If the season’s change has you feeling a little “batty,” we have a guide for Austin, Texas. The city that bills itself as weird is also known to host thousands of bats this time of year. Enjoy the weekend, and we’ll see you back here next week. — Lauryn Azu, deputy senior editor ‘The Exorcist: Believer’ review: Not today, Satan Director David Gordon Green brings back Ellen Burstyn as Chris MacNeil, but the filmmaker needs to show us something new, Phillips writes. Read his review here. Review: Diego delivers on the promise of Sueños The chef who wowed our critic with creative takes on Baja cuisine found a permanent home in West Town. Read Kindelsperger’s review here. ‘Loki’ review: Oscar-winner Ke Huy Quan joins the Marvel series in a chaotic Season 2 It’s been more than two years since the first season, but the Disney+ series is back, and is somewhat of a mess, according to Tribune TV critic Nina Metz. Read her review here. ‘Reptile’ review: Benicio Del Toro stares down Justin Timberlake Awaiting your chance at baking fame and glory? Enter the Tribune’s Holiday Cookie Contest. If you live in the greater Chicago area and have a delicious and creative recipe for a holiday treat, why not try your hand at winning a cash prize? Read how you can enter the contest here. Review: Remedios Varo is the most extraordinary Surrealist you’ve never heard of. Now at the Art Institute. This is the Art Institute’s first solo exhibition dedicated to a woman Surrealist painter or to a woman artist working in Mexico. Read about Varo and how you can attend here. Signature Room restaurant and lounge close after decades in former Hancock Center Generations of Chicagoans celebrated holidays and milestones at the Signature Room. Read more about the closure here. Review: A beautiful ‘Eurydice’ from Writers Theatre’s new artistic director The ancient tragic tale of love is now on stage at Writers Theatre. “Every visual moment here has been thought through and the pacing is quite exquisite,” Tribune theater critic Chris Jones writes. Read why he thinks the show would make for a great date night here. What is it about Austin? Simply put, this ‘weird’ Texas city has it all How’s this for a wicked vacation? Over 1 million freetail Mexican bats take off nightly each fall in the Texan capital city, and cruise boats on Lady Bird Lake will get you closer to the action. Read how you can plan a trip to Austin here. Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune