The Kids Eat Free scheme is returning to Tesco cafes across the UK between Boxing Day and January 6 meaning families can provide their children with a free healthy meal Tesco is bringing back its Kids Eat Free scheme after Christmas.  Parents can claim one free kids' meal worth up to £3.25 under the deal. The popular scheme will return to its 312 cafes across the UK between Boxing Day and January 6, 2023.  The freebie meal is given to Clubcard members with any purchase, with the cheapest being 60p. Children can chose between one free Kids Hot Meal Deal, a Kids Breakfast or Kids Pick 'n' Mix deal. Popular meals from the kids include beans or avocado on toast, fish fingers, baked chicken goujons or a sandwich. Main meals include a vegetable side dish while the sandwich pick n mix includes a piece of fresh fruit.  The scheme is part of Tesco's work to help customers save money during the Christmas season and help families provide children with a balanced meal.  Tesco cafes will have provided more than 400,000 free meals for youngsters this year.  The scheme ran during the summer school holidays, October half term and over Christmas. Jason Tarry, Tesco UK CEO, said: "We are pleased to bring back our Kids Eat Free initiative in Tesco Cafés, offering a little extra support over the Christmas holidays. "We want to help parents and carers to provide children with nutritious food – saving them some money at a time when budgets are tighter than ever. "Children can get a balanced meal and hopefully get into the Christmas spirit too." Four million children are affected by food insecurity, according to research from The Food Foundation. This is the highest level they’ve tracked since the start of the pandemic. The research also shows that households with children are more likely to experience food insecurity than households without children – 25.8 per cent versus 16 per cent. Anna Taylor, Executive Director of the Food Foundation, said the cost of living crisis has put increased pressure on vulnerable households. "So the ability for parents and carers to get a free meal in so many communities across the country is very welcome," she added. "Hunger doesn’t take a holiday so it’s vital that both the government and businesses act to support families as we head into what will be a very challenging Winter for many." James Toop, CEO of youth-led campaigning organisation Bite Back 2030 said it is a critical time for young people's health. "The cost of living crisis is impacting families' and making it much harder to afford the nutritious food children need to thrive," he said. "Tesco’s offer of a free hot balanced meal is offering support for families in a healthier way."  Tesco is also offering free carrots for Rudolph this Christmas to help children feed Santa Claus' reindeer.   Shoppers can pick up the magical reindeer's favourite snack for free from December 20 until Christmas Eve.  Christmas vegetables are priced at just 19p while fresh whole turkeys are on sale for as little as £4 per kilogram. Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter