Nika Steward lost 100 pounds after having bariatric surgery, but gained the weight back and more. She started taking weight loss drug semaglutide and lost 104 pounds in nine months. Steward said it has made her feel better than the surgery ever did. Danika (AKA Nika) Steward originally started taking the buzzy new weight loss drug semaglutide to prove to her husband that it wouldn't work. "I did not prove that point," the 39-year-old who has lost over 100 pounds told Insider. Steward, who lives in the suburbs of Raleigh, North Carolina, struggled with her weight all her life but lost 100 pounds after she had gastric bypass surgery 20 years ago. But she gained it all back in the years that followed, and put on a further 70 pounds after having her third child. Her family history of type 2 diabetes, which is closely associated with obesity, is big part of why she wants to lose weight and keep it off. Steward lost and gained weight on various diets over the years and had reached the point where she wanted to get a revision to her gastric bypass surgery, which is designed to help people who have regained weight after the initial procedure. But she decided to give semaglutide a try after her husband told her about new weight loss medications. Semaglutide was originally designed as drug for diabetes and sold as Ozempic, but was approved for weight loss by the FDA in 2021 under the name Wegovy. Confusingly, Ozempic has become the byword for the drug regardless of which version a person is taking. It has become so popular that there have been shortages of the once-weekly shot. Steward is among users who have shared their experiences of the drug with Insider. In June 2022, Steward's doctor prescribed her the drug, which is covered by her husband's health insurance. "It ended up being wildly successful and making me feel better than I ever did even after having gastric bypass surgery," Steward said. But she knows her access may be at the mercy of insurance providers in the future. Steward lost 104 pounds in the first nine months of treatment. The dose is increased slowly until a person reaches 2.4 milligrams weekly. At the start, when the dose was low, the effects were slow, Steward said, and for the first few months she tracked her calories and macros. The side effects of semaglutide can include nausea, diarrhea, and dry mouth, but Steward was hit hardest by constipation, which reared its head each time she upped her dose, as well as mild bouts of nausea. But the biggest change for Steward — and one that didn't occur with the gastric bypass — has been the "food noise" in her brain turning off. "I didn't even realize I had such disordered eating until I started this medication," Steward said. She no longer obsesses about what she is going to eat or feels guilt for what she has eaten, and instead eats intuitively. "That has been life-changing for me," Steward said. After taking the drug for almost a year, it's hard for Steward to say if she still enjoys food because it always used to come with a side of guilt. She still looks forward to coffee every day and has occasional cravings, but overall thinks she gets less pleasure from food than she used to. "I eat to live instead of live to eat," Steward said. Steward believes she's eating about 1,000 calories a day (half the recommended amount for adult women), and that's because she's making a conscious effort to eat, she said. She has a protein bar first thing in the morning because otherwise she'll forget to eat, a protein shake in the middle of the day, and whatever her family is eating for dinner. Extremely low-calorie diets, whether a person is hungry or not, can lead to malnutrition and deficiencies, according to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Sometimes Steward will decide to eat something just because it looks good, but is satisfied after a bite or two. Semaglutide has created an "off switch" that didn't previously exist, she said. Steward has much more energy than she used to and is now able to run up and down stairs and work hard on her business, she said. Her self-confidence has soared, although she said she struggles with body dysmorphia and finds it hard to identify with her new body after spending the majority of her life overweight, she said. Steward doesn't want to lose too much more weight and has accepted she may be on semaglutide for life as patients regain when they come off the drug. "I would rather be on a medication for the rest of my life than have the struggles I've had and the looming health problems," she said. Read the original article on Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.