With a weekly newsletter looking back at local history. For generations, local residents made downtown stores a part of their holiday ritual of shopping for gifts. Many of these businesses were family-run destinations that started out small, flourished on tradition and carried on for decades. In this series, The Sentinel will explore the history of 12 local shops that were present in Carlisle during the early 1960s. That era was significant for two reasons. It saw the development of Project 61, a proposal by civic leaders to use a colonial theme to beautify and restore the appearance of the downtown. Most of the photographs used in this series were taken as an early step in that process. Also, this December marks the 60th anniversary of a fire that devastated the Bowman Department Store and changed forever the look of downtown Carlisle. The vacant space left behind by that fire became the site of the present-day Comfort Suites Hotel. Each sketch in the series has information on the merchandise sold at the time along with brief details drawn from past newspaper articles along with information available through the Cumberland County Historical Society. Joseph Cress is a reporter for The Sentinel covering education and history. You can reach him at jcress@cumberlink.com or by calling 717-218-0022.  With a weekly newsletter looking back at local history. News Reporter   In 1976, the Cochran & Allen building was purchased by Dennis Gotthard who went on to own Cochran & Allen branch stores in Newville an… Founder LeGrand Baughman opened this store at 134 N. Hanover St. in Carlisle around 1950. Smith Music House grew and moved several times in downtown Carlisle. In 1976, William “Doc” Kronenberg purchased Smith Music House and renamed… Founder Samuel Kronenberg emigrated from Germany to the U.S. in the early 1860s through the port of Savannah, Georgia. With a $1,000 investment, Roy H. Wenger opened the Little Hosiery Shop in a small room at 18 W. Louther St. on Nov. 10, 1928. On Sept. 8, 1969, a merger was announced between R.J. Thompson Inc. and James H. Ross Inc. of Lancaster. Under the agreement, all the Thompson… “We are focusing on things that people really, really want instead of just filling space under the tree,” Suzy Hopper Kirk said. “We’re going … The list reads like a who’s who guide to the glory days of shopping in downtown Carlisle.  There really is no age limit for true believers in Santa Claus.  Around 11:30 p.m. on Dec. 9, Mrs. David Myers saw sparks flying from the top of the department store. She immediately told her husband, a driv… Chester Sheaffer opened Sheaffer Bros. Sporting Goods in Carlisle in 1917. In this series, The Sentinel will explore the history of 12 local shops that were present in Carlisle during the early 1960s.  At one point, Bixler's was regarded as the oldest hardware store in the nation Cole's Bicycles had its origins in World War II as a way to provide affordable transportation on the home front. Paul Dutrey was 21 when he opened the shoe store at 53 W. Louther St. in April 1922.  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.