The launch party is set to take place on Thursday and the store will then be open seven days a week FIND OUT WHAT'S ON NEAR YOU WITH OUR NEWSLETTER  We have more newsletters FIND OUT WHAT'S ON NEAR YOU WITH OUR NEWSLETTER  We have more newsletters  A new pop-up department store is coming to Cabot Circus this week. Located in the old Hollister store, which closed down earlier this year, the new department store will sell second-hand clothes, a style concept which has seen an increase in demand over the past year.  A launch party for the store is set to take place tomorrow night (Thursday) from 6pm. The stock for the store will be provided by local charity shops including Great Western Ambulance Service and St Peter's Hospice and every weekend there will be a DJ at the shop. Charity Super.Mkt founders Wayne Hemingway and Maria Chenoweth decided to open their third store here in the centre of Bristol after the success of their two pop-ups in Brent Cross, London, and The Oracle shopping centre in Reading. Read More: 'End of an era' as popular Bristol butchers to close its doors for good Department stores for ‘second-hand style’ in the two Hammerson’s retail locations have raised over £627,000 - meaning a lot of money going to the charities within the stores. The Bristol store will be open seven days a week between 10am to 8pm Monday to Saturday and 11am to 5pm on Sundays. Lisa Jones, general manager at Cabot Circus said: "Charity Super.Mkt is just the type of brand which Bristolians and our customers at Cabot Circus will love. This city has sustainability running through its heart, from the commitment to clean transport and renewable energy to our impressive recycling rate and vegan restaurants.  "We’re excited to be playing our part and hope as many visitors as possible not only shop in Charity Super.Mkt but also take a rummage through their own wardrobes to donate their pre-loved items.” CEO and Bristol native, Maria Chenoweth, said: “The creation of Charity Super.Mkt has brought charity retailers into mainstream retail, gaining locations that would have otherwise been inaccessible. "Charity Super.Mkt gives charities the opportunity to raise more funds, and that means more nursing time in hospices, more support for animals, more research into cancer and in TRAID’s case, more support for the people who make our clothes.” Ready to explore more? Follow Curiously on  TikTok  ,  Instagram  ,  Facebook  and  Twitter  . 