The old school uniforms collected by M&S will then be sold in an Oxfam store or through eBay's new “back-to-school” online shop later this summer M&S is offering money off its range of children's clothing to parents who donate old school uniforms.  The school uniforms collected by the supermarket will then be sold in an Oxfam store or through eBay's new “back-to-school” online shop later this summer.  The scheme is an extension of M&S’s existing “shwopping” partnership with Oxfam, in which customers drop off old clothing in exchange for loyalty card perks. Customers who donate their children's old uniforms to one of the Shwop boxes will then receive 20% off selected kids’ clothing at M&S. From today, the school uniform Shwop boxes will be located in the kidswear department across more than 200 M&S branches in the UK.  Customers can also donate any and all types of uniforms from any retailer, including those with school badges. M&S only requests that the clothing donated is clean and of good “hand-me-down quality”. Any school uniform that can’t be resold in Oxfam shops or on eBay will be recycled or reused wherever possible M&S has said.  Any profits from this scheme will also go towards supporting Oxfam's charitable work.  Parents will need to be aware that the 20% voucher will be awarded through the M&S Sparks loyalty scheme and that it can only be used on certain children's products.  These sadly do not include discounted items, babywear, accessories, footwear, nightwear, underwear, hosiery, and school uniforms.  When asked by the Mirror which new school uniforms were not included, M&S said this was just the decision that had been made.  The upmarket retailer and Oxfam said the partnership with eBay would help more families access affordable school uniforms. Alexandra Dimitriu, Kidswear Director at M&S, said: “At M&S, our clothing is too good to waste. Made with care and with innovative design features, our school uniform is super durable to ensure whatever your kids get up to on the playground, it can last the test of time.  "We know our customers frequently hand down our school uniform to friends and family and this season, we’re encouraging them to drop school uniform which they no longer need into one of our new Shwopping boxes where it will be resold in Oxfam shops and through our exciting pilot shop with eBay.  "It’s one of the many ways we’re trying to make our best-in-class school uniform accessible to all families, however, and whenever they choose to shop.” Lorna Fallon, Oxfam’s retail director, added that the Back-to-School Shwopping scheme was a "win-win initiative".  She said: "Donating pre-loved school uniforms through the scheme is not only better for the environment since it gives garments a longer lifecycle, it also raises funds for Oxfam’s life-saving work, and it helps parents here in the UK who may be struggling with the cost of kitting their children out for school.” Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter