KIM Kardashian has been mocked after fans noticed an "ugly" detail about her living room that made it resemble a "department store". The Kardashians star, 42, shared a video of a pianist playing Christmas tunes in the morning at her $60million mansion on Thursday.  Kim documented her lavishly decorated Christmas tree and her minimalist home as she captured the musician seated at her baby grand piano. She captioned her post: "It's that time of the year... "@philthekeys comes over every morning to wake my kids up by playing the piano while the mad morning rush is happening to calm their little souls and fill it with beautiful Christmas songs." But the SKIMS mogul's fans were distracted by the huge gray couch in the center of the room.  The low-backed piece of modular furniture featured padded sides and extended out at various angles.  One critic wrote: "[The couch] is sorta fugly but I bet it’s comfy af." Another agreed, adding: "It’s like they’re living in a department store." A third posted: "It would help having ‘the help’ make it look that smooth and tidy everyday.  "I mean, it looks like someone ran their hand along every seam, to make it pristine." Kim has been giving fans more of an insight into her huge Hidden Hills mansion on social media recently. Earlier this week, she showed off her entirely beige living room as well as her marble bedroom, which featured no decoration aside from a huge bed. The SKIMS founder lives at the pad with her four children - North, nine, Saint, six, Chicago, four, and Psalm, three. Kim celebrated a major win on Tuesday as she eventually reached a divorce settlement with Kanye West. The SKKN mogul filed for divorce in February 2021, seeking to end her marriage to the Chicago rapper after seven years. The pair have reached an agreement on all matters, including child support, custody, and property division, TMZ reported. The Hulu star and her Yeezy founder ex will get joint custody of their four children. They will reportedly have equal access to the kids, though sources have told TMZ that Kim will have them most of the time. The Skims founder will receive a massive sum in child support monthly from her ex. According to TMZ, the presidential hopeful will have to pay Kim $200,000 a month. Sources claim that it's his share of the cost to care for and maintain the lifestyle of his children and it's to be wired directly into her account on the first of every month. In addition to that sum, Kanye is responsible for 50 percent of his kids' educational expenses and 50 percent of their security costs. Last month, the U.S. Sun revealed Kim was "desperate" to finalize her divorce from Kanye but he was repeatedly stalling the case. Following Kim's decision to file for divorce, Kanye went to great lengths to delay the process. He took weeks to file his declaration of disclosure and lost six or more lawyers, with many reportedly struggling to work with him amid his outbursts online and bizarre behavior behind the scenes. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.