As a public service, The Courier Journal is making this article free for readers. Please consider subscribing at courier-journal.com/subscribe to support local journalism.  Deana Eckert, a wife and mother to two children, would have wanted to be remembered as part of a family, her niece said. "My Aunt Deana was the kindest, gentlest, and TOUGHEST woman I’ve ever had the privilege to know," said Molly Tonnies in a Facebook post. "I’m thankful everyday to have known her and that she didn’t take it personally that I botched my flower girl duties in her wedding. This just isn’t okay." Eckert, 57, had worked for Old National Bank since 2016, most recently as executive administrative officer, and was a Western Kentucky University alum, according to her social media accounts. She was one of five victims killed by a shooter Monday at Old National Bank in downtown Louisville. She died in the hospital Monday night, the Jefferson County Coroner's Office confirmed. More:How to help Old National Bank shooting victims' families She was born in Harrodsburg, Kentucky, and lived in New Albany, Indiana, according to her Facebook page. Previously, she worked at Alliance Bank in Winchester, Kentucky. “Deana had many interests, but above all hobbies and interests; she was selfless and found the most joy in pouring love into friends, family, and everyone she encountered,” a family obituary reads. In online tributes to Eckert, family and friends remembered her as "a rainbow of love," "supportive and warm," and "always friendly, kind and smiling." More:'This is hard.' Louisville mourns Old National Bank victims, calls for change at vigil Louisville Mayor Craig Greenberg said he knew Eckert personally during a Tuesday news conference. "Deana was a very kind and very thoughtful person,” Greenberg said. “She was a wonderful woman who will be missed.” Four of Eckert’s fellow employees at Old National Bank were also killed in Monday’s shooting. They were Josh Barrick, Tommy Elliott, Jim Tutt and Juliana Farmer. “There are no words to adequately describe the sadness and devastation that our Old National family is experiencing as we grieve the tragic loss of our team members and pray for the recovery of all those who were injured,” said Jim Ryan, the bank’s CEO, in a statement. Eckert is survived by her husband of 28 years, Mike; her son, Ben; her daughter, Emily; as well as her father and three brothers. Her family obituary calls for donations to the Alzheimer’s Association or Court Appointed Special Advocates instead of flowers. Funeral services will be held Friday, 3 p.m. at Northside Christian Church in New Albany, Indiana. Connor Giffin is an environmental reporter for The Courier Journal and a corps member with Report for America. Reach Connor directly at cgiffin@gannett.com or on Twitter@byconnorgiffin.