Jun 24, 2018 -Messenger photo by Hannah Wadle

KHI Solutions; LLC Co-Owner Brenda Eckard assits her two insurance agents; Lynsey Fraser; left; and Melanie Russell; right; with a Fort Dodge Growth Alliance Leadership Program application. Estherville native and KHI Solutions co-owner Brenda Eckard spends her free time running, reading, traveling, spending time at the lake, boating, and kayaking. She ended up moving to Fort Dodge in 1993 after living in many places across the country. Together, she and her husband, Darrin, have three children who have big plans themselves. Their oldest son, Joshua, is an entertainment attorney in Los Angeles. The youngest son, Colten, recently graduated from the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls with his bachelor’s degree in physics with plans on attending graduate school next fall for his master’s and doctorate degrees in astrophysics. Her step-daughter, Kaylen, will be a senior this upcoming fall in Casa Grande, Arizona, and plans on attending college after she graduates in 2019. Brenda’s husband, Darrin, is the complex manager of Iowa Cage Free. The poultry facility is the largest cage free facility in the world. In 1985, Eckard graduated from Estherville High School and studied small business management at Iowa Lakes Community College. She then started her career in the world of insurance. Because of inspiration and motivation from the former owners of KHI Solutions, John and Lin Simpson, Eckard found herself a love for serving her community and making strides toward a better city. She encourages her employees to participate in community service, just as she was encouraged by the Simpsons. . Eckard is a member of the Fort Dodge Noon Sertoma Club as well as former president of the Fort Dodge Area Chamber of Commerce, now known as the Greater Fort Dodge Growth Alliance. She is an Ambassador for the alliance and gives both monetary and time donations to various charities around Fort Dodge. “I would love for Fort Dodge to keep the momentum going,” said Eckard, who has seen great progress in the city. “There are so many wonderful things happening in our community right now.” One of the many projects that Eckard is excited about is the renewing of the downtown recreation center along with new equipment and added features. She is excited to see the restoration of the Main Street Fort Dodge program and the rest of downtown in the future. “I love giving back to a community that is so good to me … that has done so much for me,” Eckard replied, when asked if there was a reason why she continues to volunteer and spend her time bettering the city. “What makes Fort Dodge amazing is the people. One thing I noticed right away [after moving to the city] is that everyone is so friendly and willing to help people,” she said, “I am so proud to be a part of this community because people care.” Today's breaking news and more in your inbox Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Messenger News | https://www.messengernews.net | 713 Central Ave., Fort Dodge, IA 50501 | 515-573-2141 