MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS The reductions are concentrated in the firm's Pittsburgh and Philadelphia office, according to a spokesperson.  June 05, 2023 at 10:49 AM  2 minute read Law Firm Structure The original version of this story was published on The Legal Intelligencer Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott has laid off approximately 2% of its business administrative professionals, joining the ranks of firms such as Dechert and Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner in slimming down staff roles. A memo leaked by Above the Law on June 2 revealed the layoffs, indicating that the last day at the firm for individuals affected was June 1. Eckert’s director of business development and marketing Matthew Goffe did not confirm the contents of the memo, but provided additional information on the breadth of the layoffs. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Amanda O'Brien By Victoria Pfefferle-Gillot By Amanda O'Brien By Chris O'Malley Instant Insights 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Simpson Thacher to Face UK Tribunal Over Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Allegations International Edition Simpson Partner Heads to Paul Hastings, as Firm Plots Growth in Banking, Finance The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies Honoring outstanding legal achievements focused at the national level, largely around Big Law and in-house departments. Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies 
                                        SALARY/STEP INCREASES 3% Annual Across the Board Salary Increases on February 2025/2026 (Salary Increases contingent upon assessed values fo...
                                 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join The American Lawyer now! Already have an account? Sign In The American Lawyer provides the most informed and trusted source of news, data, analysis and forecasting on the global business of law. The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.