Sept. 26 (UPI) -- Baltimore police are hunting a suspect believed to have killed rising business star Pava LaPere, the 26-year-old CEO of EcoMap Technologies. Jason Dean Billingsley, 32, is on the run as police seek to arrest him on a first-degree murder warrant for the death of LaPere, who was found dead from blunt-force trauma around 11:34 a.m. Monday at an apartment, the Baltimore Police Department announced on Twitter. Police added in another statement that Billingsley was previously arrested in 2013, 2011 and 2009 for multiple charges including a sex offense, second-degree assault and robbery. Investigators are seeking to determine his possible connection to other cases. "Billingsley is considered armed and dangerous," police said. "Please contact 911 if you come in contact with this individual or have any further information." On Monday, police said a missing person's call had been dispatched just before police responded to the apartment where LaPere was found. LaPere had cofounded the company EcoMap -- which earned her a place on Forbes' "30 Under 30" list for social impact. Billingsley's motives for allegedly killing LaPere were not immediately clear. EcoMap, which had raised more than $4 million in funding and hired a team of almost 30 people, is a business-to-business company that builds software to help organizations curate their internal data, assets and other resources to help streamline communication and internal systems navigation. Its main two products are the EcoBot Chatbot, an artificial intelligence chatbot custom trained for a business' needs to provide employees with internal data and other information, and the EcoMap Platform, a centralized hub for business owners that also collects data and generates insights useful for company stakeholders. Clients of the company include The Aspen Institute, Meta, the WXR Fund and the T. Rowe Price Foundation. "The circumstances surrounding Pava's death are deeply distressing, and our deepest condolences are with her family, friends and loved ones during this incredibly devastating time," EcoMap said in a statement. "Pava was not only the visionary force behind EcoMp but was also a deeply compassionate and dedicated leader." EcoMap added that LaPere's legacy "will live on" through the company's work and fostering of a "deeply inclusive culture as a leader." The company has invited the public to a remembrance vigil for LaPere on Wednesday at the south steps of the Washington Monument in the Mount Vernon neighborhood of Baltimore. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.