By Dominic Hogan For Mailonline   Published:  12:03 EDT, 4 April 2023   |  Updated:  12:15 EDT, 4 April 2023      10 View  comments  Eden Hazard's wait to play a LaLiga game in front of the Real Madrid faithful has ended, after the Belgian forward was brought on in the second half against Real Valladolid.  The former Chelsea star had endured a seemingly interminable wait to make a LaLiga appearance at Real Madrid, having last featured in September, despite being available on the bench for 18 league games in that time.  And his reaction to entering the fray on Sunday was priceless, as he pointed at himself in disbelief with a shocked expression on his face when told the good news before taking to the field for the final 25 minutes.  Hazard has struggled for game time since his move from Chelsea, with his time in the Spanish capital repeatedly disrupted by injuries and poor form.  As a result he has made just  74 outings for Los Blancos since his £100million move from Stamford Bridge, but his team-mates seemed just as pleased as he was for him to get game time under Carlo Ancelotti.  Eden Hazard was clearly ecstatic after being told that he was coming on for Real Madrid The 32-year-old took to the field with only 25 minutes left on the clock against Real Valladolid The joy on Eden Hazard's face when he's told that he's coming on is unparalleled.Bless him man 😭💙https://t.co/vov7r9YPl9 The 32-year-old was warming up on the sidelines in his full Real Madrid tracksuit, when he was told that he would be taking to the field.  And the exact moment was caught on camera, and he can be seen gesturing to himself and winking in jubilation.  He can then be seen preparing to come on, with an equally ecstatic Luka Modric pulling at his trousers to help him get ready for action.  Having at last taken to the pitch, Hazard then wasted little time in getting involved in the game, setting up Lucas Vasquez's strike to make it 6-0 against a tired and beleaguered Valladolid.  The Belgian's fall from one of the world's leading players has been stark, having scored 16 and assisted 15 goals in 37 Premier League outings to earn his move to Los Blancos.  He did not need long before getting involved and assisted Lucas Vazquez's injury time goal However, since then he has managed just seven goals and 12 assists in almost four seasons at the club, and will likely go down as one of the club's least financially beneficial signings in their long history.  Earlier in the game, Karim Benzema scored a seven-minute hat-trick as the hosts raced into a 4-0 lead after Rodrygo opened the scoring on 22 minutes.  Marco Asensio made it five after the break with a goal on 73 minutes, before Hazard linked up with Vasquez for the sixth in the first minute of added time.  The 32-year-old is currently under contract until the end of the 2023-24 season, with his future at the club still unknown.   Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group