By Kathryn Batte For Mailonline   Published:  19:16 EDT, 30 May 2023   |  Updated:  19:18 EDT, 30 May 2023      1 View  comments  Tottenham are in talks to sign Israel midfielder Eden Avital from French club Soyaux-Charente. Avital is out of contract with the Division 1 side, who were relegated from the French top flight this season. A deal is yet to be reached but negotiations are ongoing and agreement is expected to be finalised in due course. Avital, 26, made her international debut for Israel when she was just 17. She is viewed as a quick, attack-minded midfielder who can also play on the wing. Tottenham are pursuing a deal for Eden Avital (left) and an agreement is expected soon Meanwhile, England U23 goalkeeper Fran Bentley is in talks to sign a new two-year contract with Bristol City, Mail Sport understands. Bentley captained the club in their promotion-winning season, with the Robins sealing their return to the Women's Super League at the second time of asking. The shot-stopper was an integral member of the Robins' squad and her performances in goal saw her nominated for the Championship Player of the Year Award. The 21-year-old joined Lauren Smith's side in 2021 after three years with Manchester United, which included loan spells at Sheffield United and Blackburn. Bentley is expected to put pen to paper on a new deal this week in what will be a significant boost for the club. Elsewhere, England Under-23 goalkeeper Fran Bentley is set for a new deal at Bristol City The Robins have a number of talented young players who are attracting interest from top WSL sides. Brooke Aspin is one of those players, with the defender understood to be wanted by a number of clubs. Rules state players in the women's game cannot sign a professional contract until they turn 18. Aspin will be 18 in July and, should she sign for another club, the Robins will not be entitled to any compensation. The club are desperate to avoid this scenario after they lost Lauren Hemp to Manchester City in 2018. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group