 FC Cincinnati have reached a milestone moment by winning the 2023 Supporters’ Shield, climbing from Major League Soccer’s basement to peak. The Shield – awarded annually to the team with the most regular-season points – accentuates Cincy’s transformation under head coach Pat Noonan and general manager Chris Albright, an ex-Philadelphia Union duo now in their second full season in charge. This great leap forward, mathematically sealed via a 3-2 win at Toronto FC on Saturday evening, follows three straight Wooden Spoon finishes for Cincy from 2019-21 (last place overall) upon joining MLS as an expansion team. Started from the bottom… pic.twitter.com/u1KrvXy0Yy With the Matchday 35 victory, Cincy have also secured the Eastern Conference’s No. 1 seed in the Audi 2023 MLS Cup Playoffs and ensured home-field advantage at TQL Stadium for MLS Cup presented by Audi on Dec. 9 if they advance that far. The Orange & Blue, who were already guaranteed to compete in the 2024 Concacaf Champions Cup, can still surpass the single-season points record that the New England Revolution (73) set in 2021. They have 65 points (19W-4L-8D record) with three games remaining in the buildup to Decision Day on Oct. 21. The protagonist in Cincy’s rise is captain and midfielder Luciano Acosta, who’s compiled a Landon Donovan MLS MVP-caliber season. The Argentine No. 10 is one of three Designated Players alongside defensive midfielder Obinna Nwobodo and striker Aaron Boupendza; the latter was signed midseason after Brenner’s big-money transfer to Italian Serie A side Udinese. Beyond that trio, several domestic standouts – goalkeeper Roman Celentano, center back Matt Miazga and striker Brandon Vazquez – are also vital pieces. Acosta, Miazga and left wingback Álvaro Barreal were all 2023 MLS All-Stars. This first MLS-era trophy follows Cincy's first postseason berth in 2022, when they made the Eastern Conference Semifinals before losing to Philadelphia. Below is every Supporters' Shield winner since the league's inaugural season in 1996. * FC Cincinnati still have three regular-season games remaining in 2023.