Edison International and Southern California Edison are accepting applications for the 2023 Edison International Lineworker Scholarship Program to provide the opportunity for applicants from underrepresented communities to become an SCE lineworker. The scholarship program is funded by Edison International shareholders and IBEW Local 47 and awards up to $25,000 per recipient. “Lineworkers play a vital role in safely providing reliable and affordable electric service to our customers — especially as we transition to a clean energy future that will include greater electrification,” said Heather Rivard, SCE’s senior vice president of transmission and distribution. “Our workforce has been enhanced with graduates from the 2021 Lineworker Scholarship Program. Being a lineworker is a challenging career that comes with the reward of doing valuable and essential work for the communities we serve.” Serving one of the country’s most diverse populations, Edison International and SCE believes it is critical to have a workforce that reflects the communities we serve. The focus of the program is to attract candidates who self-identify as Black, Asian Pacific Islander, Native American or female. Launched in 2021, the Lineworker Scholarship provides tuition, tools and support services, such as housing, transportation and childcare, needed to complete required training at Los Angeles Trade-Technical College and obtain a Class A driver’s license.Graduates will be eligible for a groundman/groundwoman entry-level position at SCE once they complete the Powerline Mechanic Certificate program, obtain a Class A driver’s license and complete SCE pre-employment requirements. All jobs will be located within SCE’s 50,000-square-mile service area, and the company may require graduates to relocate for their positions. The deadline to apply for the program is May 5 at 1 p.m. PT (3 p.m. CT). To apply and obtain additional eligibility information, please visit Edison International Lineworker Scholarship Program. You can also listen to ">T&D World's Line Life podcast episode featuring Djon Greer, a past scholarship recipient, for more information. 