
The #FutureisBright with Edison Scholars who will also get an opportunity for a paid summer internship with Southern California Edison
 ROSEMEAD, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Thirty high school seniors in Southern California Edison’s service area have been named 2023 Edison Scholars and will be awarded a total of $1.5 million in scholarships from Edison International. “I want to do something for the environment and make the world a better place and make an impact on the future,” exclaimed Jackie Li, one of the new Edison Scholars.

  
The Edison Scholars Program is designed to help students like Li achieve their dreams of pursuing studies in science, technology, engineering or math (STEM), cybersecurity or data analytics in college.

 
“One of my favorite things every year is seeing the faces of our newest Edison Scholars as they receive the news. The surprise visits are always filled with so much emotion, with their loved ones, classmates and school and district staff on hand to share everything from tears to laughter,” said Pedro J. Pizarro, president and CEO of Edison International. “I couldn’t be more impressed with this group. Reading their impact statements gives me hope and confidence that these bright and passionate students are going to help lead the transition to an affordable and equitable clean energy future.”

 
Beginning this year, the scholarship award increased from $40,000 to $50,000, paid over four years. In addition, Edison Scholars will also be eligible for a paid summer internship with SCE upon completing their first year of school. Scholars must meet the minimum eligibility requirements and complete the required hiring screening.

 
For the first time since 2019, the students received the scholarship news with in-person surprise check presentations delivered by Edison’s representatives during school events including a pep rally, an open house and in-classroom visits. Surprise highlights can be found here.

 
SCE will hold a reception on May 5 to celebrate the scholars at the company’s Rosemead headquarters.

 
Below is a list of the 2023 recipients:

 
Student Name
 
High School
 
Christina Agopian

 
Adolfo Camarillo High

 
Joshua Alvarado

 
South Gate Senior High

 
Fnu Anu

 
Costa Mesa High

 
Te’yana Brown

 
Options For Youth Pasadena High

 
Kayla Bullard

 
Odyssey STEM Academy

 
Antonio Camarillo

 
Montclair High

 
Arlene Cazares Garcia

 
Avalon K-12

 
David Ceballos

 
Don Bosco Technical Institute

 
Alyssa Chang

 
West Ranch High

 
Thomas Chang

 
Upland High

 
Danny Chmaytelli

 
Santa Monica High

 
Cesar Delgadillo

 
Tulare Union High

 
Dylan Iskandar

 
Mira Costa High

 
Aryan Jain

 
Calabasas High

 
Joshua Kang

 
Cerritos High

 
Janna Lee

 
Palos Verdes High

 
Nicole Lee

 
South Hills High

 
Jackie Li

 
Temple City High

 
Esther Magbagbeola

 
Chaparral High

 
Priscila Marquez

 
Cathedral City High

 
Hannah McCoy

 
Porterville High

 
Brian Ni

 
Troy High

 
Johnny Ni

 
Troy High

 
Casey Ortiz

 
Esperanza High

 
Max Peng

 
Gretchen Whitney High

 
Aimee Perales

 
James A. Garfield High

 
Mario Portillo

 
Diamond Ranch High

 
Emily Rodriguez

 
Antelope Valley High

 
Tyler Small

 
Saint Anthony High

 
Jeremiah Weetly

 
Bonita High

 
Edison International has awarded more than $15 million in scholarships to 760 students through the Edison Scholars Program since 2006. The company is committed to investing in its communities and improving pathways to a STEM education and careers, especially for underrepresented students. Edison Scholars is designed to expose students to clean energy careers and ensure a steady stream of talent as we transition to a clean energy future.

 
Edison International, the parent company of SCE, is one of the largest corporate philanthropic contributors in Southern California. The Edison Scholars Program is funded entirely by Edison International shareholders.

 
To learn more, visit the Edison Scholar 2023 Spotlight Page.

 
About Edison International
 
Edison International (NYSE: EIX) is one of the nation’s largest electric utility holding companies, providing clean and reliable energy and energy services through its independent companies. Headquartered in Rosemead, California, Edison International is the parent company of Southern California Edison Company, a utility that delivers electricity to 15 million people across Southern, Central and Coastal California. Edison International is also the parent company of Edison Energy LLC, a global energy advisory firm engaged in the business of providing integrated decarbonization and energy solutions to commercial, industrial and institutional customers.

 
Media Relations, 626-302-2255

 
Media Relations, 626-302-2255

