Advanced Search Data Privacy First-of-its-Kind Data Privacy Lawsuit Against Edmodo Offers Warnings, Lessons for Ed Tech Providers and Schools Data privacy attorneys have spent the past few weeks analyzing a first-of-its-kind FTC lawsuit against an ed tech provider — and some see it as a warning for ed tech companies and K–12 educators who prefer to avoid running afoul of the Federal Trade Commission. In late May, attorneys from the FTC and the Department of Justice filed a complaint and a proposed settlement agreement in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California; the court actions followed a year-long investigation of Edmodo, an online learning platform founded in 2008 that boasted 100 million users around the world before it shuttered its U.S. operations last September.  In its complaint, FTC and DOJ attorneys charge Edmodo with collecting personal data unrelated to educational purposes from at least 36 million U.S. children without parents’ consent and using that data for advertising, and for unlawfully outsourcing its data privacy compliance responsibilities to schools, in violation of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act Rule. Edmodo announced last August that it would cease U.S. operations three weeks later, offering no explanation on the Edmodo website, and stating that all students’ and teachers’ data would be permanently deleted after Sept. 22, 2022.  The recent court filing of the FTC complaint and settlement, though, make clear that Edmodo ceased operating in the United States only after it became the target of the feds’ investigation for data privacy violations.  The proposed settlement order — agreed to by Edmodo CEO Vincent P. Riera and its attorneys at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe of Washington, D.C. — demands that Edmodo pay a penalty of $6 million, and it spells out a number of actions the company must take to rectify its illegal data collection and retention practices, if it resumes operations in the United States. Meanwhile, attorneys who specialize in data privacy law and education technology say the detailed complaint should be closely reviewed by both ed tech providers and educators, particularly those who oversee ed tech procurement, implementation, and data privacy compliance. Attorney Harris S. Freier, partner at Genova Burns LLC and head of the firm’s Privacy and Cybersecurity Practice, told THE Journal that Edmodo’s data collection practices were “more extreme” — and more blatantly outside the law — than those of most ed tech providers, but the FTC complaint offers a number of lessons for ed tech vendors and schools, as some of Edmodo’s practices are not uncommon. “This should serve as a wake-up call to school districts and educators who have to understand what the business model is of whatever free virtual service they're using as a vital first step in determining whether or not that product or platform will bring privacy implications,” Freier said. “Another lesson is that educators must actually read the fine print, the privacy and data policies. School districts and educators must consider how any of these providers who provide virtual learning — how they are actually making money. Prudence requires some investigation to try to figure that out before signing on, because otherwise, schools are more likely to end up with something like Edmodo, where children's data is being used for non-educational purposes without the required parental consent.”  Data privacy attorneys Chanda Marlowe and Jessica B. Lee of Loeb & Loeb said the FTC complaint and accompanying settlement order offer several warnings for other ed tech companies.  “Edmodo’s biggest mistake was using personal information collected from children for advertising purposes without confirming that its practices met the COPPA Rule’s standards,” they said. “By placing the responsibility on the school or the teachers to obtain consent without providing sufficient information and confirming that consent was in fact obtained, Edmodo failed to meet COPPA’s requirements.” According to the complaint filed with the court, both the free and premium versions of the Edmodo platform collected far more personal information from students than was needed for educational purposes, and it did so without informed parental consent.  After students created an account on both the free and premium versions of Edmodo, “Defendant allowed students to provide additional information to Defendant such as school name, phone number, location, and a profile picture,” the FTC said in its complaint. “Defendant also automatically collected certain usage and device information, including cookies, IP address, device type, operating system, browser type and ID, and geographic location based on IP address. “Additionally, between at least 2018 and September 2022, Defendant collected personal information from users in the United States in the form of persistent identifiers from students’ devices and used that personal information to serve contextual advertising to students via the Free Platform, including students under 13. Between at least 2018 and September 2022, Defendant allowed its third-party advertising partners to collect persistent identifiers in the form of IP addresses from student users in the United States, enabling advertisers to identify the device on which to serve the contextual ad. The FTC said that children as young as kindergarteners had Edmodo accounts, and that about 600,000 students under 13 used the Edmodo platform in 2020 alone.  More Sponsored Articles All Webcasts 
	                        Multi-faceted environments require assessment, detection, and responses on multiple fronts. New cybersecurity strategies offer new hope for educational environments. Download today to learn more!
	                        
        		            
	                        Read more...
 All Whitepapers