We recognize there are many additional and important local stories that need to be told. To add to our coverage, we introduced daily digital editions of The Birmingham News, Huntsville Times and Mobile Press-Register. These products are separate from AL.com, but excerpts from exclusive stories appear on AL.com. Subscribers can read the full stories on AL.com and in the digital editions, available on your desktop, tablet or phone. There are apps for each edition available to download in the app store. Just $10 a month. You will be charged monthly unless and until you cancel your subscription. You may cancel your subscription at any time by calling 205-325-2211 or by visiting myaccount.AL.com. Introductory subscription offers are available to new subscribers only. New subscribers are those who have not subscribed within the past 30 days. Most AL.com stories remain free. Stories that are exclusive to the daily digital editions require a subscription to read. Your subscription helps us underwrite the work of our reporters and editors. Your subscription includes access to the digital editions of The Birmingham News, the Huntsville Times and Mobile Press-Register – a premium, ad-free reading experience focused on local issues that matter to you: 
        Still not finding the answer to your question? Please email digitalservice@al.com or call 205-325-2211 for further assistance. Your satisfaction with AL.com is our top priority.
     Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices