We swear Edmodo is not Gizmodo in disguise. The Federal Trade Commission announced a proposed $6 million settlement with education technology company Edmodo Tuesday for collecting data from kids without parental consent and using it to sell ads in violation of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). The case is unusual for several reasons, including the fact that the Edmodo went out of business while the government was still investigating. The FTC is on a tear in recent months, upending the status quo and making an example out of companies to show that you can’t, in fact, just ignore what few privacy laws exist in the United States. “This order makes clear that ed tech providers cannot outsource compliance responsibilities to schools, or force students to choose between their privacy and education,” said Samuel Levine, director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection, in a press release. “Other ed tech providers should carefully examine their practices to ensure they’re not compromising students’ privacy.” Read more Samsung's Galaxy A54 Already Feels Outdated Now That the Pixel 7a Is Out 9 of the Best Flops on Display at the Museum of Failure The Best Laptops In 2023 Edmodo was an education company serving 600,000 children, some kindergarten-age, in 2020 alone, the FTC says. It provided classroom resources and let teachers give out and collect assignments and quizzes using the platform, which meant students and parents often had no choice but to use it. It was also free, and, you guessed it, Edmodo made its money showing ads to all those little kid eyeballs, propped up by personal data including kids’ names, birthdays, ages, emails, and locations, according to the FTC. Once celebrated as the next big thing in education, Edmodo went out of business in September, 2022, right in the midst of the FTC’s investigation. At the time, education news site EdSurge reported on an Edmodo blog post, which said the company was shuttering because it was no longer possible “to maintain the level of service you deserve and that we can take pride in ourselves.” However, Edmodo’s website is now offline, and the blog post has been excluded from the Internet Archive, which preserves snapshots of webpages. By COPPA’s comically low bar for privacy, companies can’t slurp up extra data from kids and use it for advertising—unless mom and dad give their consent, in which case it’s free range. COPPA also doesn’t apply to kids older than 13. Edmodo didn’t just break COPPA rules; the FTC says it illegally forced schools to handle COPPA compliance duties for it. In other words, this country’s sorry privacy laws give companies like Edmodo a loophole big enough to drive a school bus through. All the company had to do was ask permission to monetize its captive underage audience, but, according to the FTC, it didn’t even bother to do that. Edmodo co-founders Nick Borg, Ed O’Neil, Jeff O’Hara, and Crystal Hutter could not immediately be reached for comment. The company’s lawyers did not provide a comment as of press time, we’ll update this article if we hear back. The FTC’s proposed settlement includes a $6 million penalty, which, if the order is approved by a judge, Edmodo’s owners won’t have to pay because the company doesn’t exist anymore. The FTC says that Edmodo would face binding privacy restrictions if it ever decides to start back up again. Why would the Federal Trade Commission bother shelling out resources to sue a company that can’t face consequences? The answer may lie in an attempt to establish precedent for the rest of the education technology industry, which, writ large, has a lousy reputation when it comes to privacy. Along with the FTC’s press release, the agency also published a blog post with the pithy headline “Oh no, you don’t, Edmodo.” There, FTC senior attorney Lesley Fair warns the rest of the education technology industry that “now is the time” to review privacy practices. Fair writes: Ed tech companies can’t pass the COPPA compliance buck. This is the first FTC action alleging that it’s an unfair practice for a company to require schools and teachers to comply with COPPA on its behalf. The message to the industry is unmistakable. In the final analysis, the legal responsibility for complying with COPPA remains with the ed tech operator. Mixing ed tech and advertising can lead to serious legal consequences. Ed tech providers may rely on schools to authorize data collection in lieu of parental consent if – and only if – the information collected from kids is used solely for educational purposes. Edmodo’s use of the data for commercial purposes is just one way in which the FTC says the company violated the law. With the Edmodo case, the FTC has established a clear, bold strategy. The law gives the FTC little authority compared to other agencies. It’s biggest power is its mandate to address “unfair or deceptive business practices.” Making matters worse, there are almost zero privacy laws at the federal level. COPPA is one of them, along with the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act, better known as HIPAA. Over the past few months, the FTC reached two similar settlements with healthcare technology companies. One was GoodRX, which used prescription data for ads without consent. The other was the fertility app Premom, which did the same with data about people’s menstrual cycles. In both of those cases, the companies faced paltry fines that will have little effect on their businesses. What these cases do, however, is send a message to data-hungry corporations. For years, companies got away with ignoring consumers’ expectations about privacy, burying details in terms-of-service legalese or just failing to let people know about their shady data practices all together. These recent cases are essentially a power grab attempting to set new legal precedent to finally give consumers some privacy on this godforsaken internet. The strategy appears to be making landmark settlements that go uncontested so as to scare other companies into straightening up. So far, it’s going smoothly for the FTC, but it’s early days. Experts say it’s not a given that the FTC has the authority to weigh in on these cases. Any company that wanted to fight about these issues in court would have a fair chance at winning. More from Gizmodo The Best Free AI Art Generators, Ranked 20 Things ChatGPT Can and Can't Do Sign up for Gizmodo's Newsletter. For the latest news, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Click here to read the full article. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.