The university said it will announce information about a rescheduled date in the future. Ted Rawson of Lawrenceville High in New Jersey, a 4-star prospect, has committed to play lacrosse at Syracuse in the Class of 2025. Ava Peers transferred to Syracuse from Louisville. Her younger sister is a Class of 2025 commitment to SU as well. Make sense of college realignment with this data set of which schools are in which conference ahead of the 2024-25 season. Aubrie Eisfeld of Bayport-Blue Point (N.Y.) has flipped her commitment from Syracuse to Clemson. Alexa Spallina, the younger sister of Syracuse lacrosse players Joey, Brett and Jake Spallina, has flipped her commitment from Syracuse to Clemson. Syracuse was led in the competition by its women's cross-country team, which made it to the national semifinals. Bowman, a Syracuse football commit, is ranked as the No. 20 lacrosse recruit in the country by Inside Lacrosse. The Syracuse women's lacrosse team was edged out for the attendance title for the first time in three seasons. Six Syracuse programs recorded perfect scores in 2022-23. Six former Syracuse lacrosse players made opening week Premiere Lacrosse League rosters with the 2024 season set to begin on June 1. Schools will have to decide if they are going to direct millions of dollars in payments to their own athletes in the years ahead. Orange Lacrosse Archives Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices