Much of the interest in future 6G systems has thus far focused on potential technical features and uses. A new white paper from ATIS’ Next G Alliance (NGA) looks at how the as-yet-unstandardized technology might address crucial social and economic needs. The white paper, “Beyond Speed: Promoting Social and Economic Opportunities Through 6G and Beyond” discusses how to define the specific social and economic outcomes to which future 6G systems can contribute, key aspects of digital equity, defining a trustworthy 6G network and how next-generation connectivity will directly impact economic growth. Challenges in areas including supply chain and equal access are addressed as well as those that may arise when defining Quality of Life (QoL) metrics, ATIS said. “Beyond Speed is one of the ICT industry’s most comprehensive looks at strategies for achieving a sustainable, equitable and prosperous 6G future,” said NGA managing director Mike Nawrocki. “The paper’s insights can be of use to policymakers to help them better comprehend how next-generation technological advancements can align with vital societal objectives to create a more socially and economically beneficial future.” “This collaboratively composed white paper by the NGA Societal and Economic Needs Working Group (SEN WG) focuses on five key fundamental areas in which Next G innovation can impact our future,” said Mimi Tam, NGA SEN WG chair. “It addresses how, through these elements, humans and their economic needs can be connected in a more meaningful and mutually beneficial way. We view this work as connecting the future and bridging trust, equity, sustainability, economic growth and quality of life through Next G.” In May, (NGA) announced the publication of a new report dubbed “6G Roadmap for Vertical Industries”, which focuses on the demand side of future 6G systems. The report builds on the NGA’s 2022 roadmap to 6G report, which established the North American vision for next generation communications systems. The report explores how as-yet-unstandardized 6G technology can help meet the applications needs of a broad range of industries including agriculture, automotive, education, gaming and entertainment, eHealth, industrial, mining, public safety and smart cities. NGA noted that the report traces the implications of vertical-specific use cases into applications that future 6G technology can enable and highlights promising technologies that need to be researched and engineered into operational systems. The NGA based its research on direct input from experts in the vertical industries represented to identify their 6G visions and needs. NGA had also published a report on artificial intelligence wireless networks which addresses one of the “six audacious goals” set forth in the NGA’s roadmap to 6G. The initial application of AI/ML to wireless networks began with 5G, stated NGA. However, its application in 6G will be more real-time, increasingly comprehensive and seamlessly integrated into the design of the wireless system. The white paper outlines the research and technology directions required to make the vision of an AI-native wireless network a reality. ABOUT AUTHOR 

 Yes No Depends   Since 1982, RCR Wireless News has been providing wireless and mobile industry news, insights, and analysis to mobile and wireless industry professionals, decision makers, policy makers, analysts and investors. © 2024 RCR Wireless News

Powered by Eight Hats