Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Health bosses have issued an 'urgent plea to the public' over hospital accident and emergency departments after what they described as 'unprecedented levels of attendance'. Amid reported A&E waits of 13 hours in Greater Manchester, they said staff sickness and an 'increased prevalence of flu' had led to long delays both for patients to be seen in hospitals and for ambulances to attend people's homes. It comes as one A&E department said it was 'exceptionally busy' today - and asked people attending for their 'patience and co-operation' amid the long reported waits. The situation at Stepping Hill Hospital in Stockport mirrors conditions being reported at accident and emergency departments across Greater Manchester and the nation as pressure continues to grow on the NHS.  And the Manchester Evening News has been told pressure is now being felt at GP surgeries. One patient said: "The NHS pressure is bad in primary care, too. I've had several panicky messages from my GP surgery over last few days, including this morning, saying they can only deal with urgent medical problems and asking people not to call."   NHS bosses issued a remarkable statement last night - Wednesday - saying 'today has been beyond anything we have experienced before' as the NHS Greater Manchester Integrated Care Partnership pleaded with people only to call 999 or attend A&E in an 'life-threatening' emergency.   At least 10 ambulances were also pictured waiting outside the busy A&E department of the Royal Bolton Hospital.  Professor Jane Eddleston, Greater Manchester Medical Executive lead for acute care, repeated the plea today - and in a new development also urged people with flu or Covid-like symptoms to stay at home to protect others and the NHS. The first day back after the Christmas break, she said, was 'beyond anything we have experienced before'. Prof Eddleston said: "We are making an urgent plea to the public in Greater Manchester to only call 999 or attend Accident and Emergency departments if their condition is a life-threatening emergency. "Unprecedented levels of attendance at A&E, staff sickness and increased prevalence of flu and Covid have led to very long waits in emergency departments and for ambulances. We urge the public to use alternative services to make use of NHS 111 online and phone services (111 online is for people aged five and over). "Accessing NHS 111 online, contacting your GP, or attending your local pharmacist will mean you get treatment much sooner. GP practices and pharmacies are open as normal between Christmas and new year. "As we head into the new year we also urge anyone experiencing flu or COVID-like symptoms to stay at home, so that you do not pass on your infection on to others. Both can be serious illnesses, so please take the necessary precautions to protect your loved ones, particularly those who are vulnerable, including getting your vaccines if you are eligible." Stepping Hill Hospital, meanwhile, said in a tweet: "The Emergency Department is exceptionally busy today. Please consider if other options can help with your illness or injury such as a GP, 111 or pharmacist. If you need to attend "We ask for your patience and co-operation, our team are working as hard as possible." A North West Ambulance Service spokesperson said: "The health service as a whole is currently dealing with a high number of patients. During these very busy periods, patient handovers can become a challenge. "We continually monitor the situation and work closely with our hospital colleagues to help emergency crews clear as quickly possible to enable them to respond to other patients. "As always, the public can assist by only calling 999 in life-threatening emergencies and considering other options including NHS 111 online, GPs and pharmacies for less urgent issues."   Read more of today's top stories here   