
  THE rapid immersion of new digital technologies in all areas of our lives is bringing society to a crossroads. One path leads to improved productivity, connected services and economic gain. Artificial intelligence applications could improve productivity in the UK by 25 per cent by 2035 ; e-health services are forecast to connect as many as 1.6 billion people globally and the Industrial Internet of Things is predicted to add £244 billion to the UK’s GDP by 2030.
 
  Digital transformation like this offers a once in a lifetime opportunity to put purpose and sustainability at the heart of our businesses.
 
  For every positive story, some will draw dystopian contrasts: of machines taking jobs, distrust over the use of personal data and people marginalised because they don’t have access to digital skills.
 
  We’re a long, long way from these “general AI” futures, if we ever get there, but the digital revolution is forcing us to ask ourselves where technology is taking us and where we want to take technology. The good news is that we have the chance to make a deliberate choice to ensure that the digital revolution serves society and it remains in our power to ensure digitisation works for all of us.
 
  But what makes a responsible business in this brave new world and what choices should we make?
 
  As part of an ongoing collaboration between Accenture Strategy and Business in the Community, we have set out where the opportunities exist to take positive action and how to manage the unintended consequences of digital in our latest report.
 
  The first priority is for businesses to focus on rebuilding customer relationships through simple and transparent data practices, making them feel safe online and empowering people to access the internet and make better choices.
 
  Apple’s use of simple English to explain its privacy policy is one example. Another is Barclay’s Digital Eagles programme, which works with customers to improve their digital skills.
 
  The next priority is enabling people to transition from traditional jobs to jobs of the future. This includes anticipating automation to harness digital to augment existing work processes that complement the workforce. Accenture and Airbus collaborated to develop digital-enabled, industrial-grade smart glasses to improve the accuracy and reduce the complexity of cabin furnishing in the manufacturing process of the A330 aircraft. Overall productivity for the cabin seat marking process was improved 500 per cent and the error rate reduced to zero.
 
  The third priority of today’s responsible business is to use technology as a force for good to solve global environmental and social issues such as cutting waste and improving health and education. Design with purpose is the message to deliver technology solutions that benefit society.
 
  Finally, there should be a drive to create more transparent, inclusive and productive value chains, by using technology to empower suppliers, source 100 per cent renewable energy and to track and trace goods to prevent corruption and exploitation.
 
  With the digital revolution upon us, and the impact on business and society in the balance, these are priorities and key actions that we believe need to addressed. The window in which to make these choices is remarkably small. If we want this revolution to be inclusive and sustainable, we must take steps now.
 
  It should have been a safe space for informed debate, somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day, but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse. 
 
  heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment.
 
  We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers, who occasionally find their way onto our site, to abuse our journalists and readers. We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland's conversation with itself.
 
  We are lucky at The Herald. We are read by an informed, educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories. 
 
  That is invaluable. 
 
  We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers, who tell us they don't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments, untruths and abuse.
 
  In the past, the journalist’s job was to collect and distribute information to the audience. Technology means that readers can shape a discussion. We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com
 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of  any comments you upload to this website,  so please act responsibly. We do not  pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to  our attention.  You can make  a  complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link .  We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.