
												  																			Computing and Information Technologies
																		Bachelor of Science Degree
 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 RIT’s computing and information technology degree teaches you complex computing systems and how to become well-versed in their management.    
                    88%
 
                      Outcomes Rate of RIT Graduates from this degree
                      
 
$74K
                   
                      Average First-Year Salary of RIT Graduates from this degree
                     Information technology is found in every aspect of our lives—the workplace, our homes, the way we communicate, and in much of the entertainment we consume. IT professionals, therefore, are in great demand and highly valued. RIT’s computer information technology degree embodies a hands-on approach to technology. Learn to design, implement, and manage complex IT systems by approaching complex problems and creating custom solutions that help users meet their goals. You will play an integral role in any modern organization, often working behind the scenes to deploy technology where it’s needed most. A defining aspect of the computing and information technologies degree curriculum is the breadth of technologies and the focus on integration. You will learn how to solve problems and find ways to make it work. Course work prepares you to be not just technical wizards, but also communicators and facilitators, enabling you to be successful throughout your careers.  The bachelor's in computer information systems builds on core courses so you can further your skills in two separate areas or establish even greater depth in a single area. Possible areas of concentration include: The computing and information technology degree is offered at RIT’s main campus and at RIT Croatia. Because the curriculum is the same, you can spend a semester abroad learning about computing and the Croatian culture without impacting your progress toward graduation. In the senior year of the computing and information technology degree, students are required to take Senior Development Projects I and II. This is a year-long course in which teams are composed of students from the RIT U.S. and RIT Croatia campuses. Whether you choose to study abroad or remain in Rochester, you will be working side-by-side with peers from across the world. Another highly impactful hands-on experience you will participate in is two blocks of cooperative education providing you with field training and experience through streamlined computing co-ops. Today’s careers require advanced degrees grounded in real-world experience. RIT’s Combined Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Degrees enable you to earn both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in as little as five years of study, all while gaining the valuable hands-on experience that comes from co-ops, internships, research, study abroad, and more. 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 Apply for Fall 2025 Get an early start on your application and learn what we look for. How to apply  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 What’s different about an RIT education? It’s the career experience you gain by completing cooperative education and internships with top companies in every single industry. You’ll earn more than a degree. You’ll gain real-world career experience that sets you apart. It’s exposure–early and often–to a variety of professional work environments, career paths, and industries.  Co-ops and internships take your knowledge and turn it into know-how. Your computing co-ops will provide hands-on experience that enables you to apply your computing knowledge in professional settings while you make valuable connections between classwork and real-world applications. Students in the computing and information technologies degree are required to complete two blocks of cooperative education experience. Alumna Goes from Struggling with Coding to Creating Technologies for Coders 
											Nuzhat Minhaz									 
							
																								It took Nuzhat Minhaz a few tries to find her place in the technology industry, but she now works at Microsoft and runs her own start-up organization to help cybercrime victims.
																					 Evolving Internet Architectures and Challenges: What is missing in network protocol and technologies  
											Nirmala Shenoy									 
							
																																	Did you know we face the issue of carbon footprint and energy consumption in the IT industry? Professor Nirmala Shenoy addressed issues of the internet such as what is missing in network protocols and...
																					 Find Your Own Path 
											Dominique Molee									 
							
																																	RIT provides its students with countless options to shape their future. Whether you study abroad or go on co-op, everyone leaves with their own, unique experience. Read on to see how one of our...
																					 Current Students: See Curriculum Requirements Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses.  
						This program is
						STEM designated
						when studying on campus and full time. A strong performance in a college preparatory program is expected. This includes: Transfer course recommendations without associate degree
Courses in computer science, calculus, liberal arts; calculus-based physics, chemistry, or biology Appropriate associate degree programs for transfer
AS degree in computer science, engineering science, or liberal arts 
Learn How to Apply
 
100% of all incoming first-year and transfer students receive aid.
 RIT’s personalized and comprehensive financial aid program includes scholarships, grants, loans, and campus employment programs. When all these are put to work, your actual cost may be much lower than the published estimated cost of attendance.
Learn more about financial aid and scholarships
 
              Sharon
              Mason
             
              Erik
              Golen
             
              Lawrence
              Hill
             
				                	August 30				             
FirstByte Donut Days

 
				                	September 11				             
FirstByte Donut Days

 
			June 3, 2024
		 
						Engineering faculty and cardiologist collaborate to design heart pump assessment prototype
					 Researchers at RIT are developing technology that will be able to determine the lifespan of a heart valve with more precision. 
			May 13, 2024
		 
						Students will ‘live, learn, and explore’ abroad thanks to international fellowships and scholarships
					 Throughout the course of the academic year, hundreds of RIT students prepare to compete for some of the most prestigious international fellowships and scholarships available. Intensive research projects, applications, essays, and interviews all play a critical role in their selection. 
			May 2, 2024
		 
						Alumna goes from struggling with coding to creating technologies for coders
					 Nuzhat Minhaz struggled with coding at first but found strength in being open to failure. She credits her success to the hackathon opportunities she found at RIT, which led to a job at Microsoft and the creation of her startup that aids victims of cybercrimes in Bangladesh. Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			