By Arthur Parashar  and Martin Robinson and Cameron Charters and Lauren Haughey   Published:  20:52 EDT, 8 July 2023   |  Updated:  21:14 EDT, 8 July 2023      63 View  comments  The Land Rover driver that killed eight-year-old Selena Lau may have suffered from a seizure before the tragic Wimbledon collision, sources say. A source has revealed that the 46-year-old woman who ploughed into an end of term picnic at The Study Prep School on Thursday was found to be in a 'delirious' state and had bitten through her tongue. They said the driver, who is understood not to have been over the alcohol or drug limit at the time, is believed to have had a seizure just before the crash after she 'suddenly floored the accelerator'. 'The driver was in a delirious condition and had bitten through her tongue. She'd stopped outside the school but the car took off as if the driver had suddenly floored the accelerator,' the source told The Sun.  'At this point the police believe she had some kind of seizure just before the accident.' Selena Lau, eight, was killed in the crash at The Study Prep school, London The revelations come as crowds flocked to pay their tributes to Selena - the 'cheeky girl' who was 'loved by everyone' - with the injuries of other children now also brought to light.  One of Selena's eight-year-old classmates is fighting for her life in hospital alongside a woman in her 40s.  Other children at the heart of the horror crash also suffered from numerous injuries including broken bones, according to one local teacher. They told The Telegraph: ‘A friend of mine has friends who have children who go to the school. ‘She said they have all kinds of broken bones, including a broken pelvis. I’m a teacher and I’m a mother and it could have happened to us. It could have happened to anybody.’ Yesterday, a Wimbledon councillor shared how 'the whole village is in shock' in the wake of Selena's death. Speaking at the scene of the crash on Camp Road, Thomas Barlow, councillor for Wimbledon Village, said: 'Everyone's in complete shock that something like this could happen... and the fact that this happened on the last day of term which was clearly a happy day at school is horrendous. 'The whole village is in shock, a lot of the people had connections to this school.' The driver that killed eight-year-old Selena Lau may have suffered a seizure Families leave touching tributes next to the scene of the crash on Camp Road in Wimbledon On Saturday, families consoled one another at the scene on Camp Road as they continued to bring floral tributes Touching tributes were left for Selena and the others who were injured in the devastating crash One of Selena's eight-year-old classmates is fighting for her life in hospital alongside a woman in her 40s Families embraced one another and left tributes as they come to terms with the crash that has rocked the community The eight-year-old who was a pupil at The Study Prep school in Wimbledon, south-west London, was pictured for the first time on Friday.  Her heartbroken family described Selena as a 'cheeky' young girl who was 'adored by everyone'. On Saturday, floral tributes continued to be laid at the scene for the 'shining star' pupil, who was pictured in the very school uniform she would have been wearing at the time of the crash.  The 46-year-old driver from the area, was arrested at the scene on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving. She has now been bailed, the Met has said. Heartbroken families were pictured weeping at the scene and embracing one another as they try to process the events that unfolded on the last day of term. The horror incident took place during what is usually an exciting two weeks in Wimbledon with the tennis.  Witnesses said at least one child was stuck underneath the car after the crash, which left 15 others injured, including a seven-month-old baby. Selena's classmates described her as 'beautiful inside and out' in tributes to their friend. One girl hobbled over on crutches with a card with a drawing of an angel. It read: 'I hope you are having a good time in heaven. We all miss you.' The card joined hundreds of flowers and letters lining the pavement outside of the school last night. In them, Selena was described as a 'wonderful girl' who loved to sing, dance and play piano. Another card read: 'To my friends, I am very sad that you got hurt, I wish it was me.' Emotional messages of support were also left, including a beautifully drawn picture of flowers and hearts which read: 'To Wilberforce [the name of the school building]. So sorry to hear about what happened. From Emily.' Another touching message from locals read: 'The community of Wimbledon beats and pulses as one. Let us help. We pray that the many happy memories formed at this wonderful school and in your family lives, can wrap their arms around you and, in time, bring some comfort.'  A card sitting among the flowers, likely written by a young child, read: 'To Year 3, I hope you get better soon. I hope you will be okay. Take care.' Also at the scene today was councillor for Wimbledon Max Austin who said his sister used to attend The Study Preparatory School. 'This is normally a very happy time here, everything is decorated for the tennis, the kids will get involved with it and the schools. There's a sort of crude juxtaposition between the festive atmosphere here in Wimbledon and now this. 'My sister came to school here... this is a hyperlocal school and I think the people will come together.' Janice Howard, the past mayor of Merton, added: 'I come here every week to walk, and I actually do a three-point turn here, so for me it's quite inconceivable how this could've happened, it's absolutely tragic.' Pictures from the scene show how tables and chairs were crushed by the 4x4 before it collided into the exterior wall of the main hall of The Study Prep school in Wimbledon A touching message from locals read: 'The community of Wimbledon beats and pulses as one. Let us help. We pray that the many happy memories formed at this wonderful school and in your family lives, can wrap their arms around you and, in time, bring some comfort.' A third card sitting among the flowers, written by a child, read: 'To Year 3, I hope you get better soon. I hope you will be okay. Take care.' Dozens of floral tributes have been left following the tragic incident which took place on Thursday Parents with a young child paid their respects at the scene of the crash and said: 'Everyone's affected by it, everyone is questioning how it could've happened, I'm just feeling really sorry for the families of those affected and the kids who survived. 'It's a quiet road, I'm wondering how can a car build up such speed in a short space of time, it's crazy.' Meanwhile 19-year-old Amelia, a Wimbledon local who used to attend The Study Preparatory School in 2015, laid flowers down with her brother on Saturday afternoon to pay their respects. She said: 'I think the Study is a tightly knit community, it's quite a small school so even after people left, we are all together. We came to pay our respects because it's not just a school, it's a community as well. 'I think it's quite sad because the school is far out of the way, it's not on a main road, it's not in the centre of Wimbledon, so it's shocking that this happened. The only reason you're coming down these roads is to go to the school or the golf clubs.' Today's tributes followed an outpouring of grief yesterday, with several messages left for Selena including one from her friend which read: 'I will never forget you.'  On Friday night her emotional parents said in a statement: 'Selena was an intelligent and cheeky girl adored and loved by everyone. The family wishes their privacy to be respected at this sad time.' Altogether 12 people were taken to hospital, including a seven-month-old girl, and ten of their conditions have been assessed as not life-threatening. All injured adults were parents and carers of the children - not teachers or staff. 'I will always remember you': A card for Selena left at the school A note left for Selena at the scene on Friday described the eight-year-old as a 'shining star' A heartbreaking note was left for the eight-year-old girl killed in the Wimbledon prep school crash Tears as a woman and man visited the scene on Friday and left flowers in a box and a card in tribute to those affected A major incident was declared following the horror collision in Wimbledon on Thursday morning  Local councillors said pupils and staff at the prep school would be offered counselling to help them to cope with the horrific scenes they witnessed.  Year Three pupils had gathered with parents and teachers for a picnic when the vehicle careered through the fence shortly before 10am on Thursday morning, with reports that a prizegiving ceremony was taking place when the car careered into the gathering.  One witness told MailOnline: 'I heard a bang and a scraping of metal then screams that were so shrill. It was horrendous. There was crying and wailing. I'll never forget it.'  Another witness told the Evening Standard: 'I heard a bang and a scraping of metal then screams that were so shrill. It was horrendous. There was crying and wailing. I'll never forget it.'  On Friday evening the family of the eight-year-old girl to have died in the Wimbledon horror crash released a heartbreaking statement. They said: 'Selena was an intelligent and cheeky girl adored and loved by everyone.  'The family wishes their privacy to be respected at this sad time.' The driver of the car was questioned for 24 hours and spent Thursday night in custody. There were initial reports that she may have suffered a 'medical incident' before the crash such as a heart attack or seizure.   Police confirmed on Friday she was initially taken to hospital, where her condition was assessed as not life-threatening. She has been bailed pending further enquiries to a date in late July. Detective Chief Superintendent Clair Kelland, local policing commander for south-west London, said: 'It is difficult to imagine the pain and upset the families of those involved are going through and we will do all we can to support them as our investigation continues. 'I know the impact of this tragic incident is also being felt in the wider community and we are working with our partners to ensure the appropriate support is in place. 'This was the largest local policing deployment in south-west London since 2017 and our officers, along with members of the other emergency services, were met with a challenging and traumatic scene. 'I would like to praise them for doing all they could to help those injured. I have no doubt this incident would have also had a significant impact on them, and we will ensure their welfare is looked after. 'I understand many people will want answers about how this happened and there is a team of detectives working to establish the circumstances. I would ask the community to avoid speculating on a possible cause whilst these enquiries are carried out.' Among the floral and teddy bear tributes were several notes which appeared to have been written by young children Women place flowers at the scene of the tragedy in Wimbledon on Friday morning  The Wimbledon community has been left heartbroken after the tragic crash Among the tributes was a handwritten card and bouquet from Ian Hewitt, Chairman at the All England Lawn Tennis Club Those laying flowers outside the school on Friday took comfort from one another Specialist officers at the scene of the incident on Thursday as they began investigations into the tragedy A statement from police released on Friday added: 'Detectives from the Met's Serious Collision Investigation Unit are leading the investigation and their inquiries are ongoing. They are expected to remain at the scene throughout the day. 'The investigation remains in its early stages and officers are keeping an open mind whilst following up all lines of inquiry. We ask that people do not speculate about the circumstances while this work is ongoing.' Families have been holding vigils at the bedsides of several injured children, many of whom have broken bones, including a shattered pelvis, locals have said.  A teacher, who did not want to be named, said: 'A friend of mine has friends who have children who go to the school. 'She said they have all kinds of broken bones including a broken pelvis. I'm a teacher and I'm a mother and it could have happened to us. It could have happened to anybody.' Many parents were at the event - others rushed to the school from work or home to find their children at the school left distraught by the tragedy.  Members of the Wimbledon Common Golf Club, which is opposite the school, held a minute's silence outside the school gates on Friday afternoon. Speaking afterwards, Peter Thompson, chairman of the golf club, said: 'We're close neighbours, we've got close links with The Study. 'When they were doing their refurbishments they used one of our offices. It's shocked the whole membership. 'It's just so sad to lose someone so young.' A woman wearing a blue sling around her arm was among the dozens to visit the scene on Friday. She was consoled by a loved one as she left a note which read: 'You will always be our shining star. We will miss you so much.'  Others left stuffed toys while four young girls were seen hugging each other. Another note told 'all the staff' that 'I'm so, so sorry', while one read: 'Sorry you are so unlucky. I wish you luck in heaven.'  Faiza Samad, who did not give her age, told reporters it is an end-of-term tradition to have a picnic at the school. Her daughter Rania, 12, finished at the primary school last year. Ms Samad said: 'When it happened yesterday all the mums were texting. 'My friend, her daughter was in Year Two. '(Her daughter) was in the back of the building. We were all panicked and we were texting each other.' Rania said: 'I was feeling sad when I heard it because it was an eight-year-old girl and it was her last day.' Flowers and toys placed outside the Study Preparatory School in Wimbledon, south-west London A stuffed toy dog is among the tributes laid outside the Study Preparatory school on Friday morning  A local mother, whose son, eight, goes to another school nearby said she knows people who are friends with the parents of the injured, adding: 'I have been told that a number of children injured have broken bones. One of the children has a broken pelvis apparently. 'It's such an awful thing to happen. Why people have to have such big powerful cars in this area, where the roads are quite narrow is beyond me.' Speaking to MailOnline, she added: 'I saw the air ambulance yesterday and I mistook it for a helicopter ferrying VIPs to the Wimbledon tennis championships. When I found what it was I was horrified. 'My son is eight-years old, the same age as the girl who died, but he goes to another school. I can't imagine what those parents are going through. I hope all those who've been injured pull through.'  The Met Police removed the vehicle from the scene on a flatbed truck on Thusday night for tests. Officers are also speaking to witnesses and poring over CCTV to piece together how and why the black and gold two-ton 4x4 crashed through the school's wooden fence into staff, children and their mothers and fathers.  The incident is not being treated as terror-related. A police cordon was no longer in place on Friday morning while flowers and tributes had been placed along the entrance to the school. A mother who laid a floral tribute at the scene on Friday said she had been in contact with friends whose children had been injured. 'They are very upset but did not really want to talk,' she told MailOnline. The Land Rover that crashed into the school party is towed away by police for testing on Thursday Incoming headteacher at the school Sharon Maher walks away from the crash scene on Thursday evening, head in her hands 'I can't imagine what they are going through. I know some have been at the hospital. It is just so awful.'  The mother was accompanied by her eight-year-old son, having cycled to where the Land Rover Defender crashed through a wooden fence.  Other touching tributes left said: 'To the Study and parents. So sorry for this tragic loss to the school and the family. Forever in our thoughts'. Another read: 'Our thoughts and prayers are with you all on this tragic day.' The chairman of the All England Club Tennis Club said on Friday that everyone taking part in the championship had been deeply affected by the incident. Ian Hewitt laid a wreath at the school gates on behalf of all those taking part in the tennis championship. He said: 'I wanted to offer sympathy on behalf of everyone at the club and everyone involved in Wimbledon tennis. Our sympathy goes to all of those involved in this tragic accident.' A card accompanying a bouquet of flowers said: 'On behalf of everyone at Wimbledon we wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to all those affected by the tragic events at Wimbledon Study Preparatory School. Mourners continue to leave flowers at the school throughout Friday Ian Hewitt Chairman of the All England Lawn Tennis Club lays a floral tribute at the scene of Friday morning  'Our thoughts are with all of you at this distressing time.' Witnesses told how they could hear girls as young as four 'screaming in complete horror' seconds after tragedy struck. Locals heard screams as the vehicle hit multiple people and reportedly trapped at least one child underneath it. Others saw a baby crying in the back of an ambulance after being caught up in the chaos. Anguished parents raced to the school to find out news and be reunited with their children, and families continued a night vigil as they desperately hoped for good news about their injured loved ones.  Witnesses described seeing children being carried away from the school, with one injured girl looking 'absolutely shell-shocked' and 'unable to speak'. Meanwhile the school's headteacher Helen Lowe was pictured holding hands with head mistress-elect Sharon Maher. Both appeared heavily emotional as they joined emergency services at a press conference hours after the crash. One man, who drove past the school just seconds after the crash, told The Times what he saw was 'very shocking'. The 53-year-old described the scene: 'The girls were screaming - it was harrowing. Everyone was rushing, saying a car had just driven into the grounds.' Returning past the school 20 minutes later, he saw the scale of the emergency response. He added: 'There was one little baby that was in the ambulance who was crying uncontrollably.'  Witnesses told MailOnline families were sitting on the grass just before 10am when the 'out of control' vehicle suddenly veered from Camp Road on to the lawn, forcing them to 'jump out of the way', with one saying the crash sounded 'like a bomb going off'.  Worried parents rushed to the school and one couple were seen escorting their daughter, who was wearing a blue school uniform dress, to their car. The little girl was walking along the road, supported by both parents, with both her shoes missing.  School governor John Tucker (left), outgoing headteacher Helen Lowe (centre) and incoming headteacher Sharon Maher (right) at a press conference on Thursday Wimbledon MP Stephen Hammond said: 'Since being declared by the local police a major incident, you've seen that we've had fire, air ambulance, ambulance and police on the scene'  Police officers investigate after the car crashed into a school building in Wimbledon Police officers set up a cordon line after the incident in South West London on Thursday Metropolitan Police Detective Chief Superintendent Clair Kelland appeared emotional as she spoke to the media yesterday Tables and chairs were crushed by the 4x4 before it hit the exterior wall of the main hall. Metropolitan Police Detective Chief Superintendent Clair Kelland teared up as her voice broke in a press conference while she confirmed that a girl aged eight had died, adding: 'Our thoughts are with her family at this incredibly difficult time.' One local told the Daily Mail: 'It is an absolute travesty. The poor family, on the last day of school. They could well have been getting ready for a summer holiday and then this happens. It is heartbreaking. 'You have to ask why do people drive these massive cars? It is so sad.' On Thursday the car, covered in a green tarpaulin, was loaded on a police flat-bed lorry and driven away past broken and bent metal railings. The Land Rover appeared to have driven towards the school from the direction of the nearby Royal Wimbledon Golf Club. The school, which teaches girls aged four to 11, sits on a quiet 20mph road at the edge of Wimbledon Common, just a mile from the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club, where The Championships tennis tournament is taking place.  Houses on the road, in an affluent area of the capital, regularly sell for more than £2million; larger properties can sell for up to £6million. Police, the fire brigade, an air ambulance and 15 other ambulances were sent to the school after the first 999 call was received at 9.54am. Chief Paramedic Dr John Martin from the London Ambulance Service told reporters: 'At 9.54 we received a 999 call to a collision on Camp Road in Wimbledon. Local residents said they feared there had been a terror attack as emergency vehicles converged on the scene (a view of the Land Rover that crashed into the school)  The driver is believed to have been a woman in her 40s. She was arrested but subsequently bailed Remnants of the celebration including tables with cloths could be seen in the aftermath of the horror crash The 4x4 was taken away from the school on Thursday evening, covered by a green tarpaulin Emergency services at the scene of the horror crash in Wimbledon An air ambulance is seen arriving near Camp Road in Wimbledon Police officers cordon off Camp Road in Wimbledon after a Land Rover collided with a school building on Thursday  'We dispatched multiple resources including specialist critical care paramedics, London's air ambulance and 15 ambulances. We declared a major incident. We treated 16 patients on scene. Sadly, as we've heard, one eight-year-old girl died.' Wimbledon's Tory MP Stephen Hammond said he believed several people had been critically injured, adding: 'This is an extraordinary tragedy and the local community will feel it very hardly. Here is the Metropolitan Police statement, issued at 2.18pm on Thursday:  'We can now confirm that sadly a child has died following an incident where a car collided with a building at a school in Wimbledon. Detective Chief Superintendent Clair Kelland, local police commander for south west London, said: 'This is tragic news and our thoughts are with the girl's family and friends, and everyone affected. 'We remain at the scene and are continuing our investigation into the full circumstances of the incident.' 'We can also confirm that the driver of the vehicle, a woman aged in her 40s, has been arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving. 'Police were called at 09:54hrs on Thursday, 6 July to reports that a car had collided with a building at The Study Prep, a school in Camp Road, Wimbledon. 'Officers attended, along with paramedics from the London Ambulance Service and London's Air Ambulance. 'There have been further injuries and we await an update from the London Ambulance Service. 'The driver of the vehicle stopped at the scene. We are not treating this incident as terror related.' 'This is the local school and most of the children will have come from Wimbledon. Many years ago, my own daughter went there so I know what a great school it is. The whole of Wimbledon is in shock.' Wimbledon resident Julie Atwood said: 'My daughter used to go to this school. It's a girls' school. Wimbledon is like a little village. For this to happen in Wimbledon is unheard of. It's terrible.' Flowers were placed near the school by New Malden residents Sophia Graham, 27, and Tayla Landsberg, 22, on Thursday who said: 'When we found out one of the kids had died it was awful. 'When the police made their announcement it was so sad to see even them get emotional. It's made a big impact on everyone. 'Kids walk in the Common freely without thinking about it.' Ms Landsberg said: 'It's usually very peaceful, very bubbly with lots of fun activities going on.' A local mother added: 'I think everyone is in complete shock and desperately trying to work out what happened. The school is such a part of this community. Everybody is just very, very upset and thinking about the children and parents who are still in hospital as well as the eight-year-old.'  One local told MailOnline he was told a woman had suffered a seizure before crashing. It is believed she was leaving the nearby Royal Wimbledon Golf Club when the accident took place. During a press conference, John Tucker said: 'As you'll perhaps appreciate, the school community is profoundly affected by this tragedy'. Mr Tucker declined to comment further as he stood beside the school's head mistress Helen Lowe, who was holding hands with head mistress-elect Sharon Maher. One local, Zac Powell, said parents had begun arriving at the school within 15 minutes of the crash, desperate to see if their children were safe. He said: 'I arrived at around 10.15am. I saw a lot of distraught parents rushing from the scene on my arrival. 'Since then I have seen a lot of parents coming and picking up their children with expressions of relief or despair.' Another local told the Mail: 'It is terrible. The children were on the grass with their teachers enjoying a tea party for the end of the school year.' The school's chairman of governors, John Tucker, said the school had been 'profoundly affected by this tragedy'. In a statement, the school said it was 'profoundly shocked by the tragic accident'. It said: 'Our thoughts are with the bereaved family and with the families of those injured at this terrible time.  'It is still far too soon to fully understand what happened, but we are well aware of the significant impact this dreadful event will have on our pupils and their families.  'Their welfare remains our top priority and we will be doing everything we can to support them, especially those who suffered injuries.' St George's NHS Trust in Tooting, which is about four miles away from the school, told BBC News that staff had received 'a number of patients' in connection with the incident, who were being 'cared for by our specialist clinical teams'.  Downing Street said that the Prime Minister's thoughts were with the family of the girl who died in the 'terrifying' incident.  The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Rishi Sunak wanted to thank the emergency services for their swift response. He said: 'The Prime Minister's deepest condolences are with the family of the girl who has tragically lost her life. 'His thoughts are with all those injured and involved in the horrific collision in Wimbledon this morning. This will have been a terrifying experience for all of the children, staff and parents.' Multiple ambulances are seen on Camp Road in Wimbledon on Thursday morning  Dozens of officers and emergency workers remain at the scene near Wimbledon Common  A fire truck and an ambulance are seen near the scene of a 'serious collision' in Wimbledon  Police, firefighters and tactical units were called to the scene of a 'serious collision' at The Study Prep school on Camp Road at just before 10am Education Secretary Gillian Keegan added: 'The staff and children of the Study Preparatory School should have been enjoying their last day of term and my thoughts remain with them and the wider community at this devastating time.' Stephen Hammond said: 'It was very clear, very quickly, that it was a major incident and the local police declared it just that. 'I think you will have seen by the sheer scale of the response from the paramedics, air ambulance, fire brigade and the police what an important and serious incident this is. 'And what a sad incident - it is tragically on the last day of term, for this young girl to have lost her life. 'This is a well-liked, well-respected, well-known school. 'Most of the children who go here will be Wimbledon families, and this will cause shock across the whole of the local community.' The London Air Ambulance earlier told the BBC that 'a fair amount of resources' were called to the area, including 'response officers' and a 'hazardous area response unit'.  Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said: 'I'm heartbroken at the news that an eight-year-old girl has so tragically died following the incident. 'My thoughts are with her loved ones, the school and wider community at this extremely difficult time, and on behalf of all Londoners I want to extend my deepest condolences to them. My heart goes out to everyone affected.' London Ambulance Service confirmed on Friday it sent 15 ambulances to the incident and treated 16 patients at the scene. Twelve were taken to hospital. 
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have been moderated in advance. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group