It's no secret that keeping software up to date is one of the key best practices in cybersecurity. Software vulnerabilities are being discovered almost weekly these days. The longer it takes IT teams to apply updates issued by developers to patch these security flaws, the more time attackers have to exploit the underlying vulnerability. Once threat actors gain access to corporate IT ecosystems, they can steal or encrypt sensitive data, deploy ransomware, damage systems, and more. When there's a known exploit for a critical vulnerability, the need to deploy patches becomes critical. At the same time, while IT teams race to keep their operating systems, business applications, and web browsers up to date and fully patched, they have to exercise caution, since applying patches without proper testing can introduce more problems than it solves. The reality is, many organizations are struggling to maintain the upper hand against threats. According to Action1's 2021 Remote IT Management Challenges Report, 78% of organizations admit that they failed to patch critical vulnerabilities in a timely manner during the past year, and 62% said they suffered a breach due to a known vulnerability for which patch was available but not yet applied. Fortunately, effective and continuous patch management is within reach. This article explains the challenges and the key best practices for overcoming them. Organizations often focus on keeping their operating systems patched. While OS patching is certainly critical, third-party software is also subject to vulnerabilities that need to be addressed. Indeed, organizations use a wide range of third-party applications, from databases to web browsers, which need to be constantly patched, too. While small offices may have only a few workstations and servers to worry about, large organizations often have a huge number of devices to keep patched. And it's not just the sheer volume that's a problem — each device might have its own hardware configuration and installed software, which adds a great deal of complexity to the patch management process. Moreover, the move to a work-from-anywhere format means IT teams often do not have direct access to the IT assets they need to update, which makes it even more harder to keep all corporate machines up to date with the latest security updates. Indeed, on-premises patch management tools have become outdated in the modern era of remote and hybrid work. The Action1 study found that 38% of IT teams cannot get information about all updates in one place and prioritize them effectively, and nearly as many (37%) say they have to use too many non-integrated tools to track and deploy updates. Moreover, some patch management solutions are often so complicated that they require a dedicated specialist to use. To establish an effective patch management process, consider the following best practices: The Action1 cloud-native patch management platform supports all of the best practices detailed above. It relieves IT teams from the strain of manual patching by providing them with intelligent automation capabilities and empowering them to enforce continuous patch compliance for their remote and in-office machines. Even better, you can cover your first 100 endpoints completely free. Watch as experts simulate real-world threats to demonstrate compelling advantages. Get actionable steps and tools to harness the full potential of GenAI while protecting your sensitive data. Get the latest news, expert insights, exclusive resources, and strategies from industry leaders – all for free.