If not listed, please contact your TV provider. UEFA Women's Champions League is coming to CBS Sports Golazo Network. The 2022-2023 UWCL semifinals and final will stream live on the network, the first-of-its-kind, 24-hour online soccer streaming channel. The U.S.-based digital network is devoted to all things football and is available on CBSSports.com, the CBS Sports app, Pluto TV and Paramount+.  The semifinals begin on Saturday when Chelsea FC host FC Barcelona and the action continues Sunday with VfL Wolfsburg against Arsenal for the series' first leg. Second leg semifinals will begin on Thursday, April 27, and conclude Monday, May 1. The UWCL final will take place in Eindhoven, Netherlands on June 3 at Philips Stadium. The final five matches of the UWCL tournament will stream across CBS Sports Golazo Network through a sublicensing agreement with DAZN for the games. The digital network will provide in-depth analysis throughout the UWCL semifinals and final with live studio programming, including Morning Footy and Box 2 Box. CBS Sports will also offer additional editorial coverage on CBSSports.com, and on the Attacking Third soccer podcast and social media accounts. Fans can tune into the semifinals for live studio coverage, a halftime show, and a post-match show. Details on coverage for the UWCL final will be announced at a later date. Take a look at the upcoming semifinal coverage schedule: UEFA Women's Champions League Semifinal Coverage All times ET April 22 Chelsea FC Women vs. FC Barcelona - Leg 1 7:30 AM CBS Sports Golazo Network CBS Sports Golazo Network Post-Match Show 9:30 AM CBS Sports Golazo Network April 23 VfL Wolfsburg vs. Arsenal WFC - Leg 1 9:30 AM CBS Sports Golazo Network April 27 Box 2 Box: Special Edition Pre-Match Show 12:00 PM CBS Sports Golazo Network FC Barcelona vs. Chelsea FC Women - Leg 2 12:45 PM CBS Sports Golazo Network CBS Sports Golazo Network Post-Match Show 2:45 PM CBS Sports Golazo Network May 1 Box 2 Box: Special Edition Pre-Match Show 12:00 PM CBS Sports Golazo Network Arsenal WFC vs. VfL Wolfsburg - Leg 2 12:45 PM CBS Sports Golazo Network CBS Sports Golazo Network Post-Match Show 2:45 PM CBS Sports Golazo Network © 2004-2024 CBS Interactive. All Rights Reserved. CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc. Commissioner.com is a registered trademark of CBS Interactive Inc. The content on this site is for entertainment purposes only and CBS Sports makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of the information given or the outcome of any game or event. There is no gambling offered on this site. This site contains commercial content and CBS Sports may be compensated for the links provided on this site. Images by Getty Images and US Presswire