Spectrum Networks is a corporate training and professionals services enterprise Spectrum Networks has signed a strategic partnership agreement with Autodesk to combine their best offerings with Spectrum Network’s industry-leading technology training services. Spectrum Networks’ customers will now benefit through its partnership with Autodesk, a leader in 3D design, engineering, and entertainment software. Autodesk’s technology empowers innovators everywhere to solve challenges big and small, from greener buildings to smarter products to more mesmerizing blockbusters. Over 100 million people use Autodesk software like AutoCAD, Revit, Maya, 3ds Max, Fusion 360, SketchBook, and more to unlock their creativity and solve important design, business and environmental challenges. Spectrum now provides comprehensive training courses on Autodesk software within the domains of architecture, engineering, construction, product design, manufacturing, media, and entertainment. “We’re pleased to welcome Spectrum Networks to our network of Autodesk Learning Channel Partners that are global leaders in the field of training delivery and help equip the current workforce and the next generation with the knowledge and skills they need for a successful career.” Astrid D., Autodesk Learning Partner Channel Partner Manager – EMEA “We are excited to join hands with Autodesk - known for it’s powerful and professional-grade software tools, which are used by a wide range of industries and organizations around the world. The partnership with Autodesk is an exciting opportunity for us to be able to provide access to in-person as well as virtual trainings on various Autodesk software, to their channels and end customers alike. There is an inherent need for design professionals in the realm to engage in continuous learning via authorised trainings and certifications that equip them to resolve real-world challenges and promote job readiness for the graduates of tomorrow” remarked Pournami Nair, Vice President - Sales & Alliances, Spectrum Networks. Spectrum Networks is a corporate training and professionals services enterprise serving the Africa, Middle East & Asia Pacific regions. The team has trained over 150,000 professionals by means of public and private class deliveries, custom made bootcamps, specialized workshops and webinars – made available through multiple training delivery models including classroom trainings, virtual instructor-led classes and hybrid modalities. The company has been instrumental in reskilling and upskilling some of the leading enterprises and government entities in the region. Spectrum Networks covers the Middle East as well as the APAC regions, with offices and training centers located in the UAE, KSA, Turkey, Tunisia, India and Singapore. 
              Get Breaking News Alerts From Gulf News
             We’ll send you latest news updates through the day. You can manage them any time by clicking on the notification icon.