Embrace your Joyful Aging Journey with Wish of a Lifetime from AARP. En español AARP Fraud Watch NetworkTM is a free resource for all. With AARP as your partner, you’ll learn how to proactively spot scams, get guidance from our fraud specialists if you’ve been targeted, and feel more secure knowing that we advocate at the federal, state, and local levels to protect consumers and enforce the law. Protecting consumers goes back to AARP’s founding. Learn more about our history.  Knowledge gives you power over scams. The AARP Fraud Watch NetworkTM equips you with reliable, up-to-date insights, alerts and fraud prevention resources to help you spot and avoid scams and protect your loved ones. We even cover the latest scams in the news.  If you've been targeted by scams or fraud, you are not alone. Our trained fraud specialists provide support and guidance on what to do next and how to avoid scams in the future. The AARP fraud helpline, 877-908-3360, is free and available to anyone. We also offer online support sessions for further emotional support.    AARP fights for consumers by advocating for laws and regulations to stop scams and shut down fraud attempts.  We also provide a voice to consumer concerns and help shape the public discussion on fraud.   
  Sign up for free, biweekly Watchdog Alerts to have information on the latest scams delivered right to your email and phone.             Find out if your financial organization has received the AARP BankSafe training to fight financial exploitation at aarp.org/banksafe.                          Kathy Stokes
Director of Fraud Prevention, Fraud Watch Network Amy Nofziger
Director of Victim Support, Fraud Watch Network 

Doug Shadel
External Speaker, Fraud Watch Network   Paul Greenwood
External Speaker, Elder Abuse AARP members make possible free resources like AARP Fraud Watch Network. Support our nonprofit, nonpartisan work that empowers people to choose how they live as they age by becoming a member today.  AARP Tele-Town Hall: Hear the latest on how you can stay safe from scams from a recorded Tele-Town Hall on May 9, 2024. Experts shared current scam tactics and how you can recognize and avoid them.      Nancy LeaMond, AARP’s chief advocacy and engagement officer, says that urgent action and a coordinated effort by law enforcement, regulators and policy makers are needed on consumer fraud.     AARP’s The Perfect ScamSM podcast won the “Best Use of a Podcast” award in the 2020 Shorty Social Good Awards, which it shared with CNN. Finalists included brands such as HBO and GoFundMe. AARP’s Amy Nofziger reacts to the recent leak of Social Security numbers in Newser: “My first piece of advice is don’t panic, because most likely your information was already out there.” — 8/16/2024 AARP Director of Fraud Prevention Programs Kathy Stokes appeared on Scripps News where she talked about how to identify and avoid peer-to-peer payment app scams. — 8/13/2024 The New York Times reports on ways to avoid online scams that are affecting older Americans in particular. Amy Nofziger offers tips and the AARP Fraud Watch Network Helpline is cited as a resource.      — 8/10/2024 AARP Fraud Watch Network works with industry, federal regulators, law enforcement and other nonprofits to help deliver the message of fraud prevention. Current partners include:                             AARP is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that empowers people to choose how they live as they age. You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The provider’s terms, conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits. You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The provider’s terms, conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits. You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The provider’s terms, conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits. Your email address is now confirmed. You'll start receiving the latest news, benefits, events, and programs related to AARP's mission to empower people to choose how they live as they age. You can also manage your communication preferences by updating your account at anytime. You will be asked to register or log in.    


  In the next 24 hours, you will receive an email to confirm your subscription to receive emails
                                    related to AARP volunteering. Once you confirm that subscription, you will regularly
                                    receive communications related to AARP volunteering. In the meantime, please feel free
                                    to search for ways to make a difference in your community at
                                    www.aarp.org/volunteer
 Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try
                            again.