Anyone using platforms including Airbnb, Fiverr, Upwork, Uber, Deliveroo and Etsy could be impacted Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters A warning has been issued that HM Revenue and Customs is planning a big crackdown from January 1 2024 - and it will impact on anyone making a bit of money on the side. Mirror Money reports that a business services expert said people may be unaware of the new legislation which is coming into force from the start of 2024. From January 1, HMRC has instructed popular side hustle platforms - including Airbnb, Fiverr, Upwork, Uber, Deliveroo and Etsy to record how much money people are making through them and report it to the tax office. The Government says r eporting rules for digital platforms changes will ‘mean that tax authorities have similar visibility of income for sellers on digital platforms as they would have with traditional businesses.’  Businesses covered include apps and websites which facilitate the provision of goods and services such as the provision of taxi and private hire services, food delivery services, freelance work and the letting of short-term accommodation. The move is part of a wider crackdown on tax avoidance from people boosting their income through working side hustles, freelancing and self-employment.  If you make more than £1,000 alongside your regular job in the tax year then you need to register yourself as self-employed and report your income to HMRC. You then have to pay tax on this income.  The rule change should not directly impact you if you are following the rules as those with a side hustle will still be expected to fill in a tax return and pay the tax they owe to HMRC.  It will impact people who are not doing this or under-reporting their earnings, as HMRC will soon be able to spot discrepancies between the information provided by a digital platform and the individual, giving them grounds to launch an investigation.  HMRC is set to invest nearly £37million in this initiative and employ 24 full-time staff to launch and enforce these measures, which aim to “bear down on detect and tackle tax evasion”.  Seb Maley, CEO of tax insurance provider for self-employed workers, Qdos, commented: “This legislation has flown under the radar, but will have big implications for anyone renting their place out on Airbnb, freelancing on Upwork or Fiverr, or driving for Uber – whether that’s as a side hustle or full-time job.  “The crux of it is that HMRC doesn’t trust the growing number of people with side hustles in the UK to accurately report how much money they’re making this way – so the tax office will go directly to these platforms, who will become responsible for recording this information and handing it over to HMRC.  “HMRC will then compare it with the tax returns submitted by these people. If the numbers don’t add up, HMRC has everything it needs to launch a tax investigation. Needless to say, it’s vital that people earning money this way make sure of their tax compliance.  “The Minimum Trading Allowance is £1000 a year. So anyone earning more than this via self-employment, and above the personal allowance, needs to pay tax on that income. The latest figures suggest there are 7.25m gig workers in the UK, with one in six adults working a gig job once a week – with this in mind, the incoming measures are set to impact millions.”  You will need to register for self assessment tax if in the last tax year:  