Whitney Young decided to leave her job in 2022 to freelance and pursue creative endeavors. In her position at Rochester's chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, Young handled social media, marketing, photography and community outreach, skills she now uses in a new role: TikTok influencer. According to a survey from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employers reported 10.9 million job openings last December. Over 4 million Americans quit or switched jobs; a trend named the "great resignation." Pew research shows the three primary reasons for the mass exodus are low pay, lack of opportunities for advancement, and feeling disrespected at work. "I've tried to go the corporate job route multiple times," Young said. "It just goes against my hardwiring." Young's leap of faith was three years in the making. She confessed the instability of leaving a guaranteed paycheck is "intimidating," but "you have to embrace the discomfort; if it doesn't work out, you can always go back and get a job." In 2022, many people with jobs took it easy on the clock. "Quiet quitting" is the term, and a Gallup survey revealed 50% of the U.S. workforce did not go above and beyond to meet their job tasks. Two surveys show the trend is real; current and future employers are flocking from traditional employment. The first survey by Upwork states 20% of current employees are considering freelancing – 86% of people ages 13 to 38 are willing to try out influencing, according to data company Morning Consult. Influencing through her successful following on TikTok seemingly came out of nowhere for Young. "I've never had more than 4-5,000 followers on any app," She said. "Somehow, I have amassed just over 100,000 followers in just a few months." Young attributes the success to authentically being herself on the TikTok page that features LBGTQ+ and queer culture content for women and those who identify as non-binary. The account is beginning to turn a profit. Young has two pieces of advice for those who want to follow the same path and achieve success on social media. "One, I would pick one niche or topic and stick to that for three months," she said. "The other part is to make the content that you really enjoy making. When you do that, attract connection and people." Contact Robert Bell at: rlbell@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter: @byrobbell & Instagram: @byrobbell. This coverage is only possible with support from our readers. This article originally appeared on Rochester Democrat and Chronicle: TikTok tips for success shared by Rochester NY influencer New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.