From January 1, HMRC has instructed popular side hustle platforms - including Airbnb, Fiverr, Uber, Deliveroo and Etsy to record how much money people are making through them and report it HMRC will be stepping up its efforts on collecting tax from people earning extra cash with side hustles from next year.  From January 1, HMRC has instructed popular side hustle platforms - including Airbnb, Fiverr, Upwork, Uber, Deliveroo and Etsy to record how much money people are making through them and report it to the tax office.  The move is part of a wider crackdown on tax avoidance from people boosting their income through working side hustles, freelancing and self-employment.  If you make more than £1,000 alongside your regular job in the tax year then you need to register yourself as self-employed and report your income to HMRC. You then have to pay tax on this income.  The rule change should not directly impact you if you are following the rules as those with a side hustle will still be expected to fill in a tax return and pay the tax they owe to HMRC.  It will impact people who are not doing this or under-reporting their earnings, as HMRC will soon be able to spot discrepancies between the information provided by a digital platform and the individual, giving them grounds to launch an investigation.  HMRC is set to invest nearly £37million in this initiative and employ 24 full-time staff to launch and enforce these measures, which aim to "bear down on detect and tackle tax evasion". Seb Maley, CEO of tax insurance provider for self-employed workers, Qdos, commented: “This legislation has flown under the radar, but will have big implications for anyone renting their place out on Airbnb, freelancing on Upwork or Fiverr, or driving for Uber – whether that’s as a side hustle or full-time job. “The crux of it is that HMRC doesn’t trust the growing number of people with side hustles in the UK to accurately report how much money they’re making this way – so the tax office will go directly to these platforms, who will become responsible for recording this information and handing it over to HMRC. “HMRC will then compare it with the tax returns submitted by these people. If the numbers don’t add up, HMRC has everything it needs to launch a tax investigation. Needless to say, it’s vital that people earning money this way make sure of their tax compliance. Self-assessment is the system HMRC uses to collect tax from people who don’t pay it automatically from their wages. So if you do extra work alongside another job - you may need to register.  You will need to register for self assessment tax if in the last tax year: There are different ways to register depending on your circumstance and you can find out if you need to on the Gov.uk website through its questionnaire here. If you do need to register, you can do so online or by calling the self-assessment helpline on 0300 200 3310. Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter