Fast typists can make money at their keyboards on these nine sites that pay you to type. 
    This article was subjected to a comprehensive fact-checking process. Our professional fact-checkers verify article information against primary sources, reputable publishers, and experts in the field.
   We receive compensation from the products and services mentioned in this story, but the opinions are the author's own. Compensation may impact where offers appear. We have not included all available products or offers. Learn more about how we make money and our editorial policies. 
Typing is a skill that can be used to earn money on the side without requiring any specialized knowledge or expensive software. From data entry services to legal transcription, there’s a whole world of opportunities where you can get paid to type. Apps or platforms like Fiverr and GoTranscript offer various jobs for typists, with wide-ranging tasks and solid pay rates.
 
We researched nine websites you can try if you're looking for a side hustle to make extra money with your keyboarding skills.
 












            Earn Up to $75/Hour Working From Home
        


                
  
    Free 3-class intro teaches you how to launch a bookkeeping business — avg. hourly rate for this skill is $75/hour.
  

                
  

            


Access the training















            Earn Money Online by Taking Surveys
        


                
  
    Get your share of $55,000 paid out daily to Survey Junkie users.
  

                
  

            


Sign up for free















            Get Paid Up to $225 a Month Doing Simple Tasks
        


                
  
    Get paid to take surveys, play games, read emails ... even to go grocery shopping.
  

                
  

            


Sign up today and get a $5 bonus















            Get FREE Products for Sharing Your Opinion
        


                
  
    Get new free products and offers from PINCHme every day — simply apply, try, and make your voice heard. You can even apply for multiple products at once!
  

                
  

            


Get free products here



 
                
  
    Free 3-class intro teaches you how to launch a bookkeeping business — avg. hourly rate for this skill is $75/hour.
  

                
  

             
                
  
    Get your share of $55,000 paid out daily to Survey Junkie users.
  

                
  

             
                
  
    Get paid to take surveys, play games, read emails ... even to go grocery shopping.
  

                
  

             
                
  
    Get new free products and offers from PINCHme every day — simply apply, try, and make your voice heard. You can even apply for multiple products at once!
  

                
  

             
What it is: Fiverr is an online platform where freelancers can offer services for a minimum of $5. There are plenty of gigs available, ranging from data entry jobs to transcription services. 
 
Freelancing on Fiverr is a great side hustle for those with fast typing skills and a high WPM rate if you want to find a variety of potential typing jobs in one place.
 
How to get started: To start selling your services as a typist on Fiverr, all you need to do is to sign up for a free account, create a “gig” (a service you are offering), and wait for a client to contact you directly. You can also look for work by using the search feature to find and apply for gigs that meet your qualifications.
 
What it is: Upwork is an online freelancer marketplace (similar to Fiverr) where clients post jobs and freelancers can submit proposals to complete the work. Like Fiverr, Upwork offers a range of freelance work options for typists and virtual assistants. 
 
Freelancers get paid directly through Upwork, which makes it a relatively secure method for getting paid to type. 
 
How to get started: To start working on Upwork, all you need to do is sign up for a free account, create an impressive portfolio and profile, and set up your payment method.
 
What it is: Rev is a speech-to-text company that accepts transcribers, captioners, and subtitlers for audio and video files. Freelancers are paid per audio or video minute, with weekly payouts via PayPal. 
 
Rev is a good choice for people who are both good listeners and fast real-time typists. If you’re interested in transcription or captioning work as a typing job, then Rev is a good choice.
 
How to get started: To be eligible to work for Rev, you will need to complete a basic grammar test, as well as pass an audio transcription test. While there is no special equipment required, a good pair of headphones is recommended for the job.
 
What it is: FlexJobs is a subscription-based platform for remote work. Clients post their jobs on the platform, and you apply for them as you would with a regular job posting. FlexJobs charges a fee to use its services, but it guarantees that all of its postings are legitimate. 
 
If you’re willing to shell out some money to find legitimate remote typing work, then FlexJobs can be a good option.
 
How to get started: To be eligible for jobs on FlexJobs, you will need to create an account and pay the subscription fee. The fees start at $9.95 for a 1-week subscription and the amount increases for longer subscriptions. 
 
What it is: TranscribeMe is a transcription platform that offers both part-time and full-time jobs. It pays per hour for completed transcriptions, which generally range from $15 to $22 per hour. 
 
It’s an excellent option for freelancers who prefer shorter typing or transcription jobs that are between 2 and 4 minutes.
 
How to get started: To start working at TranscribeMe, you must pass an entrance exam. TranscribeMe does not require special equipment, but headphones will make the job easier. Once accepted, you will be able to log in and start working right away, with no limit to your daily hours.
 
What it is: Scribie is another transcription platform that allows you to work as a freelance transcriber, reviewer, proofreader, or quality control (QC) specialist. Scribie pays per audio minute, and the pay ranges from $5 to up to $20 per audio hour at the higher rates. You’re not for actual hours worked. For example, a 6-minute file would earn you anywhere from $0.50 to $2.   
 
This is a good option for freelancers who want to start their careers as a  transcriptionist, or who are interested in quality control.
 
How to get started: To get paid to type at Scribie, you need to create an account and submit a test file. Scribie will then grade your test for certification. Additionally, to work for Scribie, you will need a laptop or desktop computer, a good pair of headphones, and a verified PayPal account.
 
What it is: If you want to work as a freelance transcriptionist, captioner, translator, or subtitler, GoTranscript is a good option. The company pays its freelancers per audio minute (not per hour of work), but you can choose from short- or long-term projects depending on your preferences. 
 
GoTranscript is a suitable choice for fast and accurate typists who want to make money to work from home.
 
How to get started: To work for GoTranscript, you need to register on their website and pass the transcription test. They require an accuracy rate of 95%, so you should take some time beforehand to prepare. If you know several languages including English, you can earn more working as a foreign subtitler. 
 
What it is: Amazon Mechanical Turk is an Amazon platform for people looking for gigs that involve small micro-tasks, such as data entry and transcription. It works through the concept of crowdsourcing, where tasks that can’t be done by artificial intelligence are offered to a pool of gig workers to complete for a small fee.
 
Mechanical Turk is a good option for people who prefer quick tasks as well as variety in their typing work. 
 
How to get started: You will need to set up an account with Amazon and then register for Mechanical Turk. You may also have the chance to get paid more if you participate in its Premium Qualifications feature. After you are set up, you can start applying for tasks that interest you.
 
What it is: Clickworker is another crowdsourcing platform that focuses on completing short individual tasks called “micro-jobs.” They are usually data oriented and require quick and accurate completion. Some jobs may require more complex tasks, such as data categorization and tagging and web research.
 
Clickworker is a good choice for people who are willing to invest more time in understanding the tasks before they start work.
 
How to get started: One of the Clickworker’s advantages is that it’s available for desktop and mobile users. You simply need to register and create an account to start searching for tasks. There are no qualification tests, so you can start working as soon as you set up your account.
 


What does a typist do?

A typist types out documents according to instructions, typically from a written document or audio recording. This could include data entry jobs, transcription services, and other typing-related tasks.



How much can I make by typing?

According to Indeed, the average hourly rate for typists in the United States is $16.46. Data entry pays an average of $17.68 per hour, and transcriptionists can earn an average of $18.70 per hour. The amount you can get paid to type will depend on your speciality, typing speed, length of experience, and other factors. You typically need an internet connection for work-from-home jobs for typing, and beginners tend to make less than people with faster typing skills.



Are there legit online typing jobs?

Yes, there are many reliable typing jobs available such as transcribing audio into text, copying information from hard copies into digital format, and data entry. Research the company you are interested in working for to ensure its legitimacy before committing to the work.




 A typist types out documents according to instructions, typically from a written document or audio recording. This could include data entry jobs, transcription services, and other typing-related tasks. According to Indeed, the average hourly rate for typists in the United States is $16.46. Data entry pays an average of $17.68 per hour, and transcriptionists can earn an average of $18.70 per hour. The amount you can get paid to type will depend on your speciality, typing speed, length of experience, and other factors. You typically need an internet connection for work-from-home jobs for typing, and beginners tend to make less than people with faster typing skills. Yes, there are many reliable typing jobs available such as transcribing audio into text, copying information from hard copies into digital format, and data entry. Research the company you are interested in working for to ensure its legitimacy before committing to the work. 

Earn up to $75/hour working from home
Bookkeeping is a basic (but powerful) way to earn money online.
And while $75/hour might sound like a lot of money, the data backs it up: Thanks to its high profit, low cost nature, Foundr Magazine has described it as one of the most profitable businesses you can start …
Plus, data from a 2021 survey by Intuit shows that the average hourly rate for this in-demand skill jumped from $69/hour to $75/hour! This unique skill can help you supplement your existing income … or even replace your current job.
Start learning how to launch a bookkeeping business by taking this free 3-class intro from Bookkeepers.com. The classes cover: 

How you can own a virtual bookkeeping business.
What it takes to run a profitable virtual bookkeeping business.
How to land high paying clients … even if you've never done bookkeeping!

BTW: You don’t need to be a math savant or even have an accounting degree. Like anything, it does take work, but you can be successful even if you’re busy with kids, family, or a regular 9-5 job.
Enter your first name and email here to access the training

SPONSORED

 Bookkeeping is a basic (but powerful) way to earn money online. And while $75/hour might sound like a lot of money, the data backs it up: Thanks to its high profit, low cost nature, Foundr Magazine has described it as one of the most profitable businesses you can start … Plus, data from a 2021 survey by Intuit shows that the average hourly rate for this in-demand skill jumped from $69/hour to $75/hour! This unique skill can help you supplement your existing income … or even replace your current job. Start learning how to launch a bookkeeping business by taking this free 3-class intro from Bookkeepers.com. The classes cover:  BTW: You don’t need to be a math savant or even have an accounting degree. Like anything, it does take work, but you can be successful even if you’re busy with kids, family, or a regular 9-5 job. Enter your first name and email here to access the training 
If you’re a fast typer and want to make some cash in your free time as an independent contractor, typing jobs are a great source of extra income. Typing jobs include data entry jobs, transcription work, and copy-typing services. 
 
Whether you prefer working on crowdsourced tasks from Mechanical Turk or Clickworker, or you want to start your own freelance typing business on Fiverr or Upwork, there are many job opportunities you can use to make money online just by using your keyboard. In order to get paid to type, all you need to do is decide what type of work you prefer and create an account to offer your services.
 


More from FinanceBuzz:

7 things to do if you’re barely scraping by financially.
Do you owe the IRS >$10K? Ask this company to help you eliminate your late tax debt.
12 legit ways to earn extra cash.



        Learn how you can escape the paycheck-to-paycheck grind.
    







 
 More from FinanceBuzz: 
 
        Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards Credit Card
       3% cash back Sponsored Get vetted side hustles and proven ways to earn extra cash sent to your inbox. 

        By submitting this form you agree to receive emails from FinanceBuzz and to the privacy
          policy and terms.
      
 Opinions expressed here are the author's alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline, or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by these entities. FinanceBuzz has partnered with CardRatings for our coverage of credit card products. FinanceBuzz and CardRatings may receive a commission from card issuers. FinanceBuzz is an informational website that provides tips, advice, and recommendations to help you make financial decisions. We strive to provide up-to-date information, but make no warranties regarding the accuracy of our information. Ultimately, you are responsible for your financial decisions. FinanceBuzz is not a financial institution and does not provide credit cards or any other financial products. FinanceBuzz.com does not make any credit decisions.