Business Journal Daily | The Youngstown Publishing Company STEUBENVILLE, Ohio — Eastern Gateway Community College has been awarded $914,000 in federal funding for electric vehicle technology training, including installation of equipment and technology. The funding was included in a comprehensive government funding package passed by Congress in late 2022. It was part of $19 million in directed spending for projects in the 13th District by former U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan. Michael Geoghegan, Eastern Gateway president, said in a news release distributed today that the Mahoning Valley is quickly becoming “the Voltage Valley” and expressed his appreciation to Ryan for helping secure the training funds. “We have an opportunity to be world leaders in electric vehicle technology. Eastern Gateway is ready to train the workers who will build and install the technology and the parts to equip electric vehicles,” he said. “We thank Congressman Ryan for seeing the future and we can’t wait to prepare our students to take the next step in their careers in electric vehicle technology and equipment.” The grant positions Eastern Gateway for continued leadership in training in the electric vehicle space, according to Arthur E. Daly, EGCC senior vice president and chief development officer. The community college already is working with “industry leaders like Ultium Cells,” he said, and soon will work with Foxconn in 2023, which took over the former General Motor Lordstown Complex. “We have a unique mission with a unique student body at Eastern Gateway,” said Daly. “The average age of an Eastern Gateway student is 33 years old. Many are for the first time fulfilling the dream of going to college, and we offer them an opportunity to graduate with a college degree, debt-free.” Copyright 2024 The Business Journal, Youngstown, Ohio. Education August 16 YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – The Community Foundation of the Mahoning Valley has awarded 73 students $130,747 in scholarships to help them along as they continue their education at colleges across the country. “We are incredibly proud of the students who applied… Education August 16 SHARON, Pa. – The wins are coming early for Shenango Athletics as the campus’s six sports teams look to fall 2024 competition.  However, this success didn’t come on the field or court, but in the form of $14,000 in fundraising… Education August 13 SALINEVILLE, Ohio – A space that was previously used as a bank drive-thru is now a new addition to the Utica Shale Academy Training Center, the organization announced Tuesday. The 1,250-square-foot space was recently enclosed and will house the center’s… Now Available Check out the latest issue of The Business Journal 
				Just $99/year or $10/month will get you full
				access to all of our articles every month.
			 
				Already a subscriber? Log In
 Stay up to date with all of our latest news, events, and resources All Content © 2024 Business Journal Daily | The Youngstown Publishing Company Flipbooks are available to paid subscribers only. Subscribe now or log in for access.