Eli Lilly and Co., announced Wednesday that it will reduce the price of insulin and cap the monthly cost to most of its insulin users at $35 starting in May, putting the life saving drug within reach for more Americans with diabetes. "We're stepping up because we know the current U.S. health system has gaps," CEO David Ricks said during a Wednesday press call. "While the current system largely ensures affordable access to insulin for most people with diabetes, a result of notable progress by the industry and by government. The system still does leave a few behind." Indiana General Assembly 2023:Massive medical bills? Delayed care? These bills could help. The Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical company said 85% of pharmacies will automatically reduce prices and cap monthly cost, but patients who go to the other 15% of pharmacies will have to download a savings card from the company's website to see the reduced price. The company is reducing its insulin costs by 70% and will charge $25 a vial for its non-branded insulin, making it the cheapest mealtime insulin on the market. Later this year, Lilly said, the company will cut the price of Humalog by 70%. In addition, starting in April, the company will introduce a new insulin injection similar to its Lantus injection, Rezvoglar, for $92 for a five-pack of KwikPens. Sa'Ra Skipper, an Indianapolis resident who has faced prices as high as $1,000 a month for her Lilly insulin, said the expansion of the affordable insulin will save lives. "People should not be choosing between paying their light bills and paying for insulin," she said. While her employer's insurance keeps her costs affordable, she's comforted to know that no matter where she works, she can access $35 monthly insulin. And she wants pharmaceutical companies and insurers to continue to make insulin accessible for all, including those who can't afford copayments. The move comes amid a national debate over the high cost of prescription drugs, particularly insulin. In his State of the Union address last month, President Joseph Biden asked Congress to pass legislation capping the monthly cost of insulin at $35 for all who need it. While Medicare already has such a limit in place, younger patients with diabetes often pay far more. More:Eyeing health care costs, Indiana lawmakers want to ban doctor noncompetes More than 11% — about 37 million Americans —have diabetes, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. About 1.6 million people report using insulin for their diabetes. Insulin has become so pricey that studies show that as many as one in six people with diabetes ration their supply. Lilly, along with major insulin makers Novo Nordisk and Sanofi, have faced multiple lawsuits from patients and government regulators, including allegation of rising their prices in lockstep with each other. California was the latest state to sue the three insulin makers, and distributors, for keep pricing artificially high, accusing them of violating laws on competition. Lilly has also faced pressure from the community to reduce prices. Last November, a verified Twitter account posing as Lilly tweeted that "insulin is free now," prompting many of the social media users to point out the need for affordable insulin. This is not the first time that Lilly has taken steps to make insulin more affordable. In 2019, the company introduced Insulin Lispro, the same molecule as its Humalog insulin, for $137.35, a 50% lower price than the brand version. Now, Lispro will be available for less than a quarter of that price. Under pressure from patient advocates and lawmakers, the company launched a savings program that allowed people to download a card that would cap their prices at $35 in 2020. It's unclear how many people found financial relief from the program. "We made some impact and we've improved and tried to become more and more aggressive," Ricks said. During the media call, company executives also urged government officials to help reduce costs by passing a $35 monthly insulin cap and other insulin makers and insurance companies to adopt cost cutting measures. Contact IndyStar reporter Shari Rudavsky at shari.rudavsky@indystar.com. Binghui Huang can be reached at 317-385-1595 and Bhuang@gannett.com