  Tue 20 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters A new drug hailed as a “turning point in the fight against Alzheimer’s” after it was found to slow the progression of the disease could be available on the NHS within 18 months, experts believe. Donanemab slowed memory and thinking decline by between 20 and 60 per cent depending on the memory test used and the changes in the brain associated with Alzheimer’s disease that the participant had. This meant that people with the disease could still perform day-to-day tasks, such as managing finances, taking medication, shopping and housekeeping. Despite the fanfare surrounding the drug, i’s science writer, Stuart Ritchie, suggests the hype has gone too far, that the drug has only modest effects and that we’re “years” from a cure. Donanemab is a new drug that scientists believe could have a profound effect on those with Alzheimer’s. In a study, researchers examined almost 1,800 people with early-stage Alzheimer’s. Half of them received a monthly infusion of donanemab and the other half were given a placebo over an 18 month period. After one year on donanemab, nearly half of the people taking it had no decline in memory and thinking skills. People taking donanemab also had a 40 per cent reduction in the decline of their ability to carry out daily activities, such as managing finance, driving and carrying out hobbies. The trial only lasted 18 months, so longer term testing needs to take place. In addition, almost all of the participants were from a white background, so more tests are required among a more diverse sample group to ensure the drug will work for everyone. Side effects reported in the study included headaches, swelling or microbleeds in the brain known to be related to amyloid, and reactions to the intravenous drip. The vast majority of side effects (82.4 per cent) were either mild or were detected in tests but didn’t cause any symptoms, however. There were also three deaths (0.4 per cent of participants) in the trial related to brain swelling, while 1. 6 per cent of participants had serious symptoms relating to brain swelling. Eli Lilly is the company behind the new Alzheimer’s drug, donanemab. The American pharmaceutical company is based in Indiana and has offices in 18 countries. Its products are sold in approximately 125 countries around the world. The company was founded in 1876 by, and named after, Colonel Eli Lilly, a pharmaceutical chemist and veteran of the American Civil War. All drugs in the UK need to be approved for use by the Medical and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), which allows the product to be legally used in the UK. Before the drug can be made available on the NHS, it will also need to be reviewed by the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (Nice). Nice provides clinical guidance, quality standards on treatment and care and considers the cost-effectiveness of drugs, as well as assessing its benefits and side effects. In the event donanemab is approved for use by the MHRA and Nice, the earliest the drug might be available on the NHS is 2025. Sian Gregory, Research Communications Manager from the Alzheimer’s Society, told i: “I think the earliest we could see donanemab on the NHS is 2025. The drug has shown evidence of slowing progression in the early stages of Alzheimer’s disease, so we would expect Eli Lilly to submit an application to the MHRA for regulatory review in the UK, especially as another drug was submitted in May. We hope both the MHRA and Nice make a swift decision as and when that happens.” All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.