
                
                    
                        Let BioPharma Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              NASH is estimated to affect millions of adults in the U.S., but has proven a challenging target for the many drugmakers and smaller biotechnology companies that have sought to develop a therapy for the disease. That list includes large companies like Gilead, AstraZeneca and GSK. Intercept Pharmaceuticals has come the closest, with the Food and Drug Administration set to decide on approval of its drug in NASH this month. However, its future is uncertain after a key advisory panel in May voted against recommending an OK. Similarly, obesity was for years difficult to treat with pharmaceuticals until the recent success of GLP-1 agonists like Novo Nordisk’s obesity drug Wegovy and diabetes medicine Ozempic, and Eli Lilly’s Mounjaro, which is approved for diabetes and expected to soon be for weight loss as well. Akero said its results suggest people taking GLP-1s for diabetes or obesity could be better treated for NASH by adding its drug. The study data showed efruxifermin paired with a GLP-1 drug led to a 65% relative reduction in liver fat versus baseline measurements, while a GLP-1 drug alone led to a 10% relative reduction. The trial’s main goal was to assess safety and side effects, which for Akero’s drug was mostly nausea. Two treated patients did not complete treatment, one of whom discontinued due to nausea. In a presentation Monday, Akero compared the liver fat reduction for the combination to data from studies of other drugs from 89bio, Altimmune, Madrigal Pharmaceuticals, Novo and Lilly. According to RBC Capital Markets analyst Brian Abrahams, the study’s small size and some differences between study groups limit how much can be read into the results. “That being said, we believe the directional effects are likely still very clear,” he wrote in a note Monday. Akero shares climbed about 7%, to nearly $50 apiece, in trading on Monday.  Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Study results are expected for two closely watched obesity drugs, while key tests await for a high-priced AbbVie acquisition and one of 2023’s largest IPOs. Obesity drugs like Wegovy are proving useful in many diseases. Polycystic ovary syndrome, a chronic condition that can cause infertility, may be one. Subscribe to BioPharma Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Study results are expected for two closely watched obesity drugs, while key tests await for a high-priced AbbVie acquisition and one of 2023’s largest IPOs. Obesity drugs like Wegovy are proving useful in many diseases. Polycystic ovary syndrome, a chronic condition that can cause infertility, may be one. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines