A punitive road pricing scheme aimed at forcing people out of their cars could see commuters paying €38 to drive to work.  A single journey from Maynooth into Central Dublin would cost €38 while a trip from Cork to Dublin would cost €163 under a ‘Road Usage Charge’ being considered by the State’s transport infrastructure body.  The Exchequer is facing a shortfall of between €1.5billion and €3billion in lost revenue from road tax and fuel duty receipts as drivers switch to electric vehicles.  Government-backed Transport Infrastructure Ireland (TII) has been tasked with finding ways to address the funding gap in tandem with cutting harmful emissions from transport by 50% by 2030.  One of the measures under consideration would be to charge motorists for using the national roads network.  Sources said while the work on the project is long-term, ‘fundamental and profound’ changes are on the way. The source said: ‘What they are looking at is the revenue shortfall once people transition away from non-combustible fuel, how are we going to offset that loss into the future?’  ‘The thinkers in the Department of Finance and Department of Transport said: “Let’s get research on this.” And road pricing all across Europe and the world is where people are going. That’s what we are looking at.’  The issue has the potential to start a revolt similar to the one against water charges.  Project Bruce (which stands for ‘better road user charging evaluation’) was set up under TII to address the climate challenge.  Documents released to the Irish Daily Mail show that there are four key options available to the Government, as a number of privately-funded motorway projects come back into State hands from 2030 onwards.  Under the fourth option of distance-based pricing, it could cost as much as €38 to drive from Dublin to Maynooth. Under a price minimisation approach, it would cost 70c. Every option except the price minimisation strategy would cover the cost of maintaining the national road network and ‘in some instances’ generate ‘significant’ revenue for the State.  Analysis was also conducted whereby only motorways and connected dual carriageways are tolled. The analysis for only pricing the motorways said that it would require ‘very high’ prices, particularly at peak periods. The higher price would reflect the fact that far fewer roads would be tolled under this option. Under this model, Dublin to Maynooth could cost a driver up to €50.  A Limerick to Galway journey could cost upwards of €90, or as little as €4, depending on the strategy the Government takes.  Well-placed figures acknowledge there would be political ramifications with the transformation that is required. The source added: ‘Road pricing is seen as an equitable form. If you were out in a rural area, road pricing would be much cheaper because you don’t have access to public transport.  ‘There is a hierarchy there. In an urban environment road pricing would be a lot higher because there are more public transport options.’  One is the removal of pricing altogether on existing routes, another is to maintain existing measures in place, such as tolls.  A third is to implement road charging prices on the motorway networks and connected dual carriageways.  The fourth is to implement a pricing mechanism on the entire national road network.  A Department of Transport spokesman confirmed that a fifth option was also being examined. He added: ‘This is at a very early stage as significant traffic modelling work will be required.’ Under the fourth option, analysis provided under the Freedom of Information request shows an approach to minimise the prices charged on the National Road Network would see a journey from Limerick to Galway cost €1.92.  However, if the charge system were to try to ‘reduce demand’ it could cost upwards of €67.50.  The review found the approach that would minimise costs to motorists would actually see a continued increase in emissions. However, taking the most punitive approach would see around an 11% reduction in emissions. A balanced approach to maintain current demand would see a minimal reduction in emissions. The State could earn anything between €280million or €2billion depending on the approach the Government decides to take. Key findings of the work undertaken so far notes the project is ‘complex and challenging’. The report adds: ‘High levels of pricing may be required to drive transformational change. ‘Significant revenue can be generated even with a low distance-based charge extended across the network.’  The report also noted there was a need for a ‘wide network’ which would mean ‘less disruption and pollution for local communities’. It stated: ‘The greater the extent of the RUC (road user charging) network the more minimal the propensity of re-routing journeys along local roads to avoid tariffs.’  The report adds: ‘As Project Bruce moves through the different stages of development, it is critical that the potential impacts on various stakeholders and the public are fully assessed, understood and ultimately accepted.  ‘Any new model could be in play for decades so it is important to be informed of our options and deliberate in our choices.’  The report adds: ‘Implementing RUC without regard to equity could have significant adverse impacts on individuals who already struggle to make vital trips to work, school and services. On the other hand, if designed with explicit equity objectives in mind user charging fees could improve mobility for all people.’ Countries and cities around the world are looking at similar models. In Australia, EV cars are charged on a distance-based system, with the Netherlands implementing road pricing in 2030. Hawaii has also had RUC pilots. A spokesman for the Department said Project Bruce was ‘at an early stage’ and was looking at a number of options and tolling systems that would ensure ‘improved climate and economic performance’ into the future.