Former This Morning star Dr Ranj Singh has clarified his friendship with Phillip Schofield’s ex lover after an old photo of them resurfaced. Mr Schofield left ITV’s This Morning via a statement posted on his Instagram, and later admitted that he had an ‘unwise but not illegal’ affair with a much younger male colleague — which in turn lead to him leaving ITV altogether, as well as being dropped from his talent agency YMU. Dr Ranj Singh, who was the show’s resident doctor for over a decade, recently posted a statement about the circumstances surrounding his own departure — saying that there was a toxic work environment that went ‘far beyond Phillip.’ Following his statement, an old photo of Dr Singh and Mr Schofield’s lover from six years ago re-surfaced on social media — with him explaining that in the photo, the man was 21 and the caption behind it was a joke. ‘Just some facts for those people deliberately misconstruing this picture,’ Dr Singh wrote. ‘[Mr Schofield’s ex] and I worked together at This Morning. He was 21 when we took this picture at the studio. And it was obviously taken as a joke.’ Dr Singh recently posted a lengthy statement surrounding his departure from ITV and This Morning over the weekend following Mr Schofield’s departure, saying that he raised concerns surrounding bullying and discrimination two years ago — before he was, as he believed, ‘managed out’ after raising the concerns. In a statement posted on social media, Dr Ranj said that he hopes his concerns ‘will finally be taken seriously’ following Mr Schofield’s departure, and that ‘something good comes from all this.’ ‘I was on the show for 10 years and I genuinely loved and valued working there,’ Dr Ranj wrote. ‘However over time I grew increasingly worried about how things were behind-the-scenes and how people, including myself, were being treated. ‘I didn’t know the truth about what was going on with Phillip, but I do know the issues with TM go far beyond him. It takes more than one person to create a culture.’ Dr Ranj claimed that he raised these concerns with senior executives at ITV, saying that as well as being an on-screen doctor, he was heavily involved in diversity, anti-bullying and mental health projects across ITV. However, he said that he was ‘managed out’ after raising these concerns. ‘As we’ve seen, no review or investigation is foolproof,’ he added. ‘Still, I was assured that certain things were going to be addressed and changes made. I haven’t worked on the show since… and I’m not the only one who has spoken up or experienced similar. ‘The whole process was pretty heartbreaking and even affected my mental health. But I’m happy to say that I’ve found my feet again, know my worth and have found my tribe.’ Mr Schofield has since responded to the claims in a fiery statement on his Instagram, writing ‘Now I no longer work on This Morning I am free to say this. I hope you have noticed that it’s the same handful of people with a grudge against me or the show who seem to have the loudest voice. ‘This Morning IS the best show to work on, with the best people. In all the years I worked there there was no toxicity. You can listen to those persistently loud voices if you like. But the thousands of guests over the years, thousands of staff and crew, hundreds of presenters and contributors all know it, it IS a family of wonderful, talented, kind, hard, working people.’