The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 Have a question for Nicole Gregory or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Nicole Gregory,
                                                    Alena Hall
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. A medical alert system can give older adults who live alone an important sense of safety and security. Should they fall or become suddenly ill, they can push a button on a small, wearable device to connect to a call center agent for emergency help. Medical alert systems can cost more than $100 and require monthly subscription fees from $20 to $55, plus more for additional services like automatic fall detection. According to a recent Forbes Health survey of 2,000 U.S. adults conducted by OnePoll, 54% of users surveyed spend between $21 and $40 a month on their medical alert system service. Medicare doesn’t cover medical alert systems, but there are other ways to reduce or eliminate the cost.
    FEATURED PARTNER OFFER  Partner Offers feature brands who paid Forbes Health to appear at the top of our list. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services 75% Off MGMini 	Using Code MEGASAVINGS	Medical Guardian MGMiniThe MGMini is the smallest and lightest mobile device on the marketPowerful device with step counting, activity tracking, GPS, fall detection (optional) Water-resistant and shower-proof with up to 5 days of battery lifeCan be worn in two ways: Around the neck or attached to a belt clipAvailable in 4 colors: Pearl, Silver, Black & Rose Gold	Learn More	On Medical Guardian's Website  *Dependent on the plan and participating health care providers—coverage may vary Medical alert systems (including watches, bracelets and necklaces) like Life Alert, Medical Guardian and others can be critical to the health of older adults, so why doesn’t Medicare cover them? Because they don’t fit Medicare’s definition of “durable medical equipment,” says Casey Schwarz, an attorney at Medicare Rights, a national nonprofit dedicated to making sure older adults get full access to Medicare benefits. “Federal law defines what Medicare pays for,” she says. “And since they are not medical devices, they’re not part of the medical benefit.” She compares them to items like home wheelchair ramps, which are essential for mobility but aren’t medically necessary. When you enroll in Medicare, you’re automatically covered by Part A, which includes hospital care, skilled nursing facility costs, hospice, lab tests, surgery and home health care. Part B is optional and costs $164.90 a month in 2023 for most people. It’s typically deducted from your monthly Social Security benefit. Part B covers services deemed medically necessary for diagnosing or treating a medical condition and medical equipment like canes, oxygen tanks and blood sugar test strips. Medicare coverage can change, as witnessed during the COVID-19 pandemic when telehealth proved essential in keeping patients connected with their physicians and care team. However, the services covered changed—not the devices through which patients received those services, explains Schwarz. “Medical alert systems, like iPads [used to connect to telehealth services], are not covered by Medicare,” she says. If you’re interested in a medical alert system for yourself or a family member, consider health insurance coverage through another part of Medicare called Part C, or Medicare Advantage plans. These are plans offered by major private health insurance companies approved by Medicare. For a monthly premium, they provide the same Medicare Part A and Part B coverage, plus other benefits, such as vision, dental and over-the-counter medications. Some Medicare Advantage plans cover medical alert systems, also referred to as personal emergency response systems (PERS). Medicare Advantage plans vary from state to state, so check if medical alert systems are covered by plans where you live. 75% Off MGMini - Using Code MEGASAVINGS Note: Product details and price are accurate as of the publication date. Some older adults eligible for Medicaid insurance might find they have coverage for medical alert systems. Medicaid is a federal program administered by individual states, and eligibility depends on your income and assets. “There are different programs within Medicaid that serve different populations and offer waivers that are flexible in terms of what is covered,” says Schwarz. “Folks who require a nursing home level of care may have medical alert devices paid for,” she says. Medicaid’s Home and Community Based Services (HBCBS) program, for instance, offers waivers to older people who wish to receive long-term care services at home rather than in an institution. (A waiver is an exception to a Medicaid eligibility requirement.) Some states do cover personal emergency response systems through this program. There are several ways consumers can pay less for a medical alert system, and people who already participate in programs like health savings accounts may be covered for both the device and plan. Here are some payment assistance options to consider. From time to time, medical alert system companies waive shipping fees or offer discounts for bundling products or paying for months of service in advance. When comparing systems, always call or check online for such discounts before making a purchase. Health savings accounts allow you to save money before it’s taxed and use it for qualified medical expenses exclusively.



Powerful Protection at the Touch of a Button
Know you have maximum protection with 4G LTE, Enhanced Location Monitoring (GPS,) WiFi, long-lasting battery life and optional fall detection designed to go wherever you go. For your free quote, click or call Medical Guardian at 800-544-1814.

					Get your free quote!
				


 


 Powerful Protection at the Touch of a Button Know you have maximum protection with 4G LTE, Enhanced Location Monitoring (GPS,) WiFi, long-lasting battery life and optional fall detection designed to go wherever you go. For your free quote, click or call Medical Guardian at 800-544-1814. Do medical alert systems qualify? The IRS uses a list of allowable medical deductions to determine what expenses are covered under an HSA. An item called “medical information plans” is an allowable deduction. Since many medical alert systems keep digitized records of its customers’ health, they can be considered an allowable medical tax deduction and, therefore, an allowable expense for an HSA. Long-term care insurance is a way to pay for medical expenses, such as a home care aide or nursing home costs, without wiping out retirement savings—and it often covers medical alert systems. Check your long-term care insurance policy to see how much of the costs can be reimbursed. While it’s possible to get a medical alert system for free or at a reduced cost, whether those options are available to you depends on several factors, including your insurance coverage and financial situation. If you have health insurance, there’s a chance your medical alert system may be covered. While Medicare Part A and Part B won’t cover a medical alert system (unless it’s deemed medically necessary by your doctor), some private insurance policies may, though options are limited. If your insurance company won’t cover your device, chances are it may at least be tax deductible if it’s listed as a medically necessary device or prescribed by your doctor. Other resources that may help with securing financial coverage for your medical alert system include Medicaid (via Home and Community Based Services or the Money Follows the Individual programs), veteran services, local Area Agency on Aging groups and AARP. Are you a veteran? “Check out the Veterans Direct Care program, which may provide cash assistance that you could use for home safety,” says Schwarz. Meanwhile, PACE, or Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly, is a Medicare and Medicaid program for people 55 and older who wish to stay in their communities, and it offers an alternative way to access doctors at a nursing home level of care. This program is flexible in coverage criteria, explains Schwarz, so medical alert systems may be covered. Just know it’s not available in every state. Medicare does not cover medical alert systems like Life Alert; however, if a device is prescribed as medically necessary by your doctor, you may receive a discount or coverage. A basic Life Alert system can be purchased for $49.95 a month, with an installation cost of $198. GPS monitoring and bathroom monitoring can be added for a separate cost of $20 per month, and a bundled system, which includes GPS and bathroom monitoring, costs $89.95 per month. Many private insurance companies do not cover medical alert systems. Speak with your insurance provider and review your plan details to determine if medical alert systems are included in your coverage. The monthly cost of a medical alert system varies based on the company you choose to purchase from and which features you choose to purchase. Most services cost $15 to $60 per month; however, installation and additional costs for add-on features, such as GPS tracking and additional buttons, may apply. As most medical alert systems work with a monitoring center to track any emergency events that might occur, a monthly fee is typically required for this connectivity and the call center’s services. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Nicole Gregory is an editor and writer in Los Angeles who has contributed to the Los Angeles Times, the Orange County Register, Vegetarian Times, Good Housekeeping, Family Circle, New Woman and Living Fit, among other publications. She enjoys interviewing medical experts and researchers about their work and is passionate about communicating accurate and relevant health information to the public.
			 
				Alena is a professional writer, editor and manager with a lifelong passion for helping others live well. She is also a registered yoga teacher (RYT-200) and a functional medicine certified health coach. She brings more than a decade of media experience to Forbes Health, with a keen focus on building content strategy, ensuring top content quality and empowering readers to make the best health and wellness decisions for themselves.
			