I’m taking this new year, new me thing very seriously this year, and have booked my first driving lesson.  It’s always top of the list on my ‘New Year Goals,’ and time and time again I’m left at the end of the year with no progress made.  I have had my learners permit a year, so it’s definitely time to get the ball rolling and prove that getting the learners permit wasn’t a waste of my time and money. I’ve always found excuses for not starting — school; college; money — all different ways in saying I don’t have the time, when it’s probably just me subconsciously being petrified of the idea.  My younger brother, 20, has a full license, and my younger sister, 18, has completed her 12 lessons — with my other younger sister, 17, just having got her learners permit with plans to start lessons as soon as possible.  They’re all passing me out, and I’ve figured this year is the year I will learn how to drive (nothing like good ole’ sibling rivalry). My sister has been taking lessons in Limerick, where I am based, and so I figured I’d use the instructor she has experience with, and has recommended.  I will be the first person to say I wish I started when I was 17 — I sat the theory test, and failed it, and forgot about it then — using all my favourite excuses to kick the can down the road, so they say.  If I had just redone the test following that first failure, I would (surely) have a full license by now, six years later. As well as that, I think the older you get the more scared you get. Despite that, and despite the ball of fear in my stomach, I do think this is the right time for me — there’s no time pressure on getting a license; I am (fortunately) financially stable enough to comfortably pay for lessons; and I am organised enough to make the time for regular lessons.  I know when I start lessons the driving instructor will obviously have their own brakes etc on the passenger side, so I know there is no fear of crashing or anything like that — I think regardless I’m still going to be nervous about being behind the wheel. Ahead of my first lesson, my main concern is that I don’t have people around me who can help me practice. I’m from Cork, so all my family are there, and all my friends have left Limerick following finishing college. I daresay, I am not the only one in the situation where I don’t have people on hand to help me. Of course, there is the element of fear of failure — which I think is one of my biggest fears. At the end all of the smaller, minute fears are because I don’t want to fail — or I at least not have to sit about 40 lessons. I’ve been putting it on the long finger for so long now, that I genuinely can’t actually picture myself driving around?  But, in a way, that’s making me even more determined.