Dorset charity Diverse Abilities has secured planning permission for a new therapy pool with support from Bournemouth-based Ken Parke Planning Consultants and Poole-based David James Architects. Approval of the plans is a major milestone in Diverse Abilities' £1 million Splash Appeal to build the centre and therapy pool.  The development is due to be built within the campus of the charity’s Beehive Adult Centre in Manor Avenue, in Poole, which offers care and support for adults with complex needs. David James Architects has been a supporter of Diverse Abilities for several years.   David has also personally been involved on the panel to drive the Splash Appeal forward and as part of this drive DJA provided a free design service to deliver a much needed state-of-the-art therapy pool. Ken Parke provided all his skills free of charge in achieving a planning approval.  Ken said: “The hydrotherapy pool promises to provide life changing water-based therapy for many of the adults supported by Diverse Abilities. “Research has shown that one of the greatest issues for people with mobility impairments is the weight of gravity taking its toll on those who spend a great deal of time in a chair or bed, especially in terms of pain and wellbeing.   “The pool will be a fantastic asset for the charity to provide much-needed treatment and will give people the opportunity to enjoy the feeling of being free and relaxed while having fun at the same time.   “All at KPPC feel privileged to support Diverse Abilities and wish the charity the very best with its plans.” To bring the scheme alive, Poole-based Kube Visuals provided images free of charge that allowed the planners to appreciate the dynamic and innovative design.   Diverse Abilities previously gained planning permission for a pool complex at the Beehive in 2015 but continuing research into the multitude of benefits of hydrotherapy has resulted in a re-think on the design and configuration of the interior of the pool, which now needs to be longer.  Diverse Abilities provides hydrotherapy for children at its specialist school but has no facilities to continue this when they become adults, even though they need and deserve it just as much.  It says that most of the adults supported by the charity are unable to use public swimming pools due to the low water temperature and poor accessibility.  In addition, there are no warm pool facilities in Dorset dedicated to providing therapy for adults with lifelong disabilities. Without a therapy pool the charity says it is unable to meet the increasingly complex needs of a growing number of adults with profound disabilities. A spokesperson for Diverse Abilities said: “We are incredibly grateful to David James Architects, Ken Parke Planning Consultants and Kube Visuals for their generous support of this project and bringing the charity a step closer to realising this vital new facility.”  The Beehive provides a base for 50 adults with conditions including Cerebral Palsy, epilepsy, chromosomal disorders, undiagnosed syndromes and profound and multiple learning disabilities, to enjoy life enriching activities and much-needed therapy.  Its other services and facilities include Langside specialist School in Poole, an advice team and children’s respite home.  Diverse Abilities is holding a range of events and fundraisers to help hit its £1m target for its Splash Appeal. Nicky Godding is editor of The Business Magazine. Before her journalism career, she worked mainly in public relations moving into writing when she was invited to launch Retail Watch, a publication covering retail and real estate across Europe.   After some years of constant travelling, she tucked away her passport and concentrated on business writing, co-founding a successful regional business magazine. She has interviewed some of the UK’s most successful entrepreneurs who have built multi-million-pound businesses and reported on many science and technology firsts.    She reports on the region’s thriving business economy from start-ups, family businesses and multi-million-pound corporations, to the professionals that support their growth and the institutions that educate the next generation of business leaders.