The veteran-owned small business will help develop and manage CMS's first-ever SaaS Governance Program MILLSBORO, Del., Dec. 6, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Aquia Inc., a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business specializing in cloud and cybersecurity professional services, today announced that it has been awarded a subcontract from Noblis to support its four-year contract with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for the Office of Information Technology Program Project Management Support. Under the contract, Noblis will provide program and contract oversight as well as technical and programmatic support. As a subcontractor, Aquia will work alongside Noblis to help create CMS's first-ever software-as-a-service (SaaS) governance program and assess third-party SaaS applications' security risks using a federated review process. "By leveraging our innovative industry-leading Software Bill of Materials ingestion Application Programming Interface, we can continuously monitor relevant components of CMS' evolving third-party SaaS applications," said Chris Hughes, chief information security officer and co-founder at Aquia Inc. "We can also evaluate the applications against CMS's risk tolerance and bolster the agency's software supply chain security efforts to align with the Cybersecurity Executive Order." Under this agreement, Noblis and Aquia will: This award builds on Aquia's cybersecurity and application security support for CMS through its Noblis subcontract announced in December 2021. CMS is the largest agency in the federal government by expenditure and is responsible for the personally identifiable and personal health information of more than 177 million people in the United States. Aquia Inc. is a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business committed to Securing the Digital Transformation. Aquia is a developer-centric company founded in 2021 by military veterans with a passion for the intersection of security/velocity and decades of experience driving transformational change across public sector, enterprise, and top-tier technology companies. At Aquia, we value trust, accountability, transparency, and diversity; and we've built these tenants into the DNA of our company. For more information, visit www.aquia.us. Contact:Ashling Knight***@aquia.us Photo(s):https://www.prlog.org/12942912 Press release distributed by PRLog SOURCE  Aquia Inc.