
        Please do not leave this page until complete. This can take a few
moments.
       Due to our new system upgrade, we are requesting all existing users to update their password. Create a new password Forgot your
                    password ? Maynard-based JM Coull, Inc., one of the larger commercial contractors in Central Massachusetts, will close, according to an announcement posted on its website. “It is with great excitement about "what's next" and great pride for "what has been" that the ownership group at JM Coull, Inc. announces the winding down and eventual closing of our design-build and construction management business as we complete and close out each of our current construction contracts,” read the company’s website on Friday. The statement is signed by owners Andy Coull, Chris Oldham, and Richard Gilfoy. Founded in 1984, the company’s major projects in the past few years have including completion of Primetals Technologies’ 183,000-square-foot manufacturing and office facility in Sutton in 2020 and building the American Heritage Museum in Stow.  When ranked by number of local employees, JM Coull is the 12th largest construction firm in Central Massachusetts, according to information submitted to the WBJ Research Department of its annual list of the largest commercial contractors. That ranking is based off the 22 local employees the company said it had in 2021, as JM Coull didn’t respond to requests for information in 2022. The company listed several MetroWest life science projects among its portfolio, including a Natick cell biology lab and product holding facility for Marlborough medical device manufacturer Boston Scientific Corp. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register This website  uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Our privacy policy To ensure the best experience on our website, articles cannot be read without allowing cookies. Please allow cookies to continue reading. Our privacy policy