  Internet of Things devices are equipped with sensors that enable them to exchange data with a centralized network and even with each other. The IoT comprises a wide range of products, from voice-activated assistants such as Google’s Alexa to autonomous vehicles to smart appliances to manufacturing equipment and much more. Leveraged wisely, IoT technology can help a variety of companies significantly improve the customer experience—indeed, even companies that produce IoT devices can use those devices’ innate capabilities to provide a continuous feedback loop that leads to a better, more responsive CX. Here, 15 members of Forbes Technology Council discuss ways companies across industries can smartly leverage the functionality and capabilities of IoT technology to improve how their customers interact with, benefit from and enjoy their products and services. Internet of Things technology can help improve customization and personalization of the customer experience throughout a company’s website. Through things such as personalized offers, customized pop-ups and specific messages, you can get customers to be more engaged, spend more time on your website and, eventually, make more purchases. - Peter Abualzolof, Mashvisor IoT technology enables large companies to simultaneously track and manage thousands of assets, ensuring their complex systems run smoothly. IoT can enable nationwide rental car fleets to track vehicles, insurance companies to offer usage-based auto insurance, healthcare companies to monitor at-home devices, and railroads to detect problems with rail cars before an emergency occurs. - William Bain, ScaleOut Software, Inc. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? One way companies can use the IoT is to monitor their supply chains. IoT devices can be placed on trucks and trains, or they can be used to track products through warehouses, allowing companies to get real-time information on how well their supply chain is functioning. This allows them to identify bottlenecks before they happen and make adjustments as needed. - Leon Gordon, Pomerol Partners IoT integrations add a further dimension to traditional contact center communications, introducing a continuous feed of data from the customer in the form of smart meter readings, healthcare monitoring or wellness device outputs. The new stream of information enables organizations to trigger automated, ultra-personalized communications to their customers, making the most of micro-moments. - Martin Taylor, Content Guru According to a report from the UN, restaurant industry food waste causes methane gas emissions via landfills. Integrating 5G IoT sensors in the restaurant industry to manage supply and demand and automate the end-to-end food flow process at each step—from the kitchen all the way to the consumer’s plate—can help reduce food waste. This can be a good use case to not only address climate change and hunger, but to also improve the customer experience. - Hassan Abbas, Ericsson One way companies can leverage the IoT is by providing remote support and services using connected devices. For example, IoT-enabled products can allow customers to access real-time customer service, receive product updates and troubleshooting instructions, and even remotely control their devices. This can help companies provide a more tailored customer experience and improve customer satisfaction and loyalty. - Charos Boboyorova, boboyorova.com I believe that medical companies can leverage IoT technology to improve the customer experience by creating more personalized and proactive healthcare services. For example, IoT-enabled wearables and sensors can track patient data and provide real-time feedback to healthcare providers, allowing them to intervene before a condition worsens. - Marc Fischer, Dogtown Media LLC In the space ecosystem, companies can leverage the functionality and capabilities of the IoT by using it to provide more accurate and reliable tracking and monitoring of space assets, such as satellites or spacecraft. By using IoT-enabled sensors and devices, companies can monitor the performance and condition of space assets. This helps improve reliability, leading to a better customer experience. - Shelli Brunswick, Space Foundation Using IoT sensors, retail companies can track and analyze customer movement patterns within the store to gain insights into the most frequently visited areas and popular products. This data can be used to optimize product placement and store layout, making it easier for customers to find what they are looking for and improving their overall shopping experience. - Pavel Orlov, Innowise Group IoT-enabled beacons can be used by brands to send targeted notifications to customers as they move through a store, providing them with information about products and offering them exclusive discounts. Brands track customers’ first-party data, which could be used to create personalized recommendations based on their browsing history and preferences. - Sireesha Chilakamarri, AdMedia IoT technology can provide data to personalize the customer experience. For example, suppose a company is primarily product-based. In that case, IoT technology can be embedded in its product to gather information about the use of the product and the ways customers interact with it. This can provide insights that can be used to personalize those interactions, leading to a more robust customer experience. - Jeffrey Ton, InterVision Automotive companies can use the IoT to provide remote vehicle diagnostics and schedule predictive maintenance. Real-time data from IoT sensors can be analyzed to identify potential issues and enable proactive scheduling of service appointments. Over-the-air software updates and enhancements can also be provided, improving the overall driving experience and performance of the vehicle. - Soumyarka Mondal, Sybill Inc. Companies can gain increased visibility into the supply chain and receive information faster via the IoT. Often, the customer experience is poor due to a gap in communication. “Where is my product? When can I expect service? Why can you not meet the service-level agreement?” These types of issues can often be corrected with better insights—the IoT can provide that key information. - Guy Courtin, Tecsys Inc. IoT-enabled smart inventory systems can help companies reduce theft and optimize inventory levels. This can help to improve the customer experience by ensuring fair prices and product availability. - Avani Desai, Schellman Companies can monitor the streaming data from IoT devices to understand device usage frequency and detect any trouble signals. Combining this data with other structured and unstructured customer data will equip them with enough intelligence to proactively identify and fill gaps in service experience before these gaps turn into potential concerns. - Vasudeva Akula, VOZIQ AI 