Mechanical Mechanical Engineering Helpful Links Navigate OHIO Connect With Us Undergrad Programs Graduate Programs Research People Mechanical engineers are designers and problem solvers. They touch our lives every day through the creation of machines, the building of our manufacturing robots, energy systems, and fabrication of artificial organs. They use the powerful tools of math, science and technology to analyze and solve problems. Combined with the knowledge of society and inner creativity they come up with the best solutions to make an impact in today's global society.   Now more than ever, energy is one of our world's most pressing issues. Our new energy engineering program is one of only a handful in the country that will prepare you to work on sustainable energy solutions, evaluate life cycle energy costs, and address fossil fuel shortages and effects on the environment. You'll study topics from energy economics and policy to fuel conversion and energy systems to become a well-rounded engineer, ready to face the most significant challenges of the century. Our energy engineering program will prepare you to work on sustainable energy solutions, evaluate life cycle energy costs, and address fossil fuel shortages and effects on the environment. Our undergraduate degree program in mechanical engineering will teach you how to design and create, work in teams, communicate, and lead innovation of new technology, materials, and energy systems. With a master's degree in mechanical engineering, you'll have the opportunity to develop the next generation of biomedical devices and diagnostic tools, design alternative energy systems, and develop new materials and manufacturing systems.  Our doctoral candidates on the mechanical engineering track are researching ways to improve society through environmental remediation, innovative energy systems, and application of machine technology to health care. View All Upcoming Events   View All News Stories  A time-honored tradition at OHIO, Welcome Week 2024 is packed with activities that cater to new and returning students, setting the stage for a successful and vibrant semester.  OHIO's Gordon K. Bush Airport has been awarded $2.5 million in state funding to support improvements to its existing 12,000-square-foot box hangar space.  Researchers from several fields at Ohio University recently collaborated to make lateral flow assay biotests less expensive and more accessible allowing more people to take potentially life-saving tests. © 2024 Ohio University. All rights reserved.