  A visitor views the video wall in the lobby of Emerson Electric's headquarters building in St. Louis. Emerson is making a bid to buy National Instruments for $7.6 billion. [AP PHOTO/TOM GANNAM] NEW YORK — Emerson Electric Co. is going public with its $7.6 billion bid for National Instruments, saying the company has avoided serious buyout negotiations since early last year. Emerson bumped up its cash offer for the maker of scientific measuring equipment and software to $53 per share in November, up from a per-share offer of $48 that it had made back in May. Shares of National Instruments jumped nearly 12% in Tuesday afternoon trading. Emerson said that it's tried numerous times to initiate private discussions with National Instruments Corp. since May. The St. Louis company said that when it provided its increased bid in November, National Instruments said it had formed a group to look at the proposal and evaluate options. But Emerson said since that time National Instruments has resisted engaging. Emerson, which makes process controls systems, valves and analytical instruments, noted that it did meet with National Instruments earlier this month, but that National Instruments shared "limited, high-level" information about its business and was unwilling to provide more detailed information. Emerson said it was told by National Instruments that would be the extent of its engagement. Last week National Instruments Corp. said that it was conducting a strategic review and put in place a "poison pill," a financial maneuver that companies use to ward off unwelcome suitors. The elements of each poison pill vary, but they're all designed to give corporate boards an option to flood the market with so much newly created stock that a takeover becomes prohibitively expensive. "Although Emerson would have preferred to reach an agreement privately, given National Instruments' announcement that it is undertaking a strategic review, and after refusing to work with us toward a premium cash transaction over the past eight months, we are making our interest public for the benefit of all National Instruments shareholders," Emerson President and CEO Lal Karsanbhai said in a prepared statement. National Instruments, which is based in Austin, Texas, said in a statement on Tuesday that it will evaluate Emerson's proposal and wants to "pursue a comprehensive strategic review process inclusive of other counterparties rather than negotiate exclusively with Emerson, which (National Instruments) believes would be detrimental to shareholder interests." Emerson is interested in National Instruments' differentiated electronic test and measurement offerings and technology stack of intelligent devices, controls and software. Emerson has purchased 2.3 million shares of National Instruments and says that it has approval to increase its stake. Shares of Emerson fell almost 7% on Tuesday.     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Receive a daily newsletter containing a list of the day's funerals and obituaries. Receive a weekly newsletter every Thursday about restaurant reviews and health ratings in the Decatur area. Sign up to receive links to the Saturday and Monday comics and puzzles pages. Help select Player of the Week and get results Thursday & Saturday. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist As it develops, sent straight to your inbox. Would you like to receive our daily news? Sign up today!  Receive a daily newsletter containing a list of the day's funerals and obituaries. Receive a weekly newsletter every Thursday about restaurant reviews and health ratings in the Decatur area. Sign up to receive links to the Saturday and Monday comics and puzzles pages. Help select Player of the Week and get results Thursday & Saturday. Get the new edition of Living 50 Plus sent to you bi-monthly via email. Access easy, no passwords and enlarge text if needed Get the email newsletter of Living 50 Plus sent to you bi-monthly.  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.