Solutions to Nigeria’s newborn mortality rate might lie in existing innovations Research into more efficient AI hardware and software supported by AMD donation Imperial and Vietnamese partners explore UK and Vietnam's pathways to net zero    Get inspired at a world leading Mechanical Engineering Department. Top Links Find out more about our Department See our PhD opportunities Discover more about our research Find out what a BEng, MEng, or MSc in Mechanical Engineering could lead to Meet some members of the Department's alumni community  Find out more about the history of the department Listen to the Mechanics of Materials podcast Congratulations if your place with us is confirmed! We look forward to seeing you soon. If you have applied and your status on UCAS is unsuccessful, then that is the final outcome on your application following reconsideration by the admission team. It is not possible to appeal directly to us or ask for further consideration at this time of the year.  Due to competition for places we are only able to guarantee places to those who have met all the terms of their offer. If spaces were available after we had allocated them to those who met the terms of their offer, then we have considered very carefully those who narrowly missed the terms of their offer and allocated these too. Thank you for the time and effort you have spent on your application to our course, we are sorry you are not joining us.  If your high school grades change as a result of a formal appeal, these will be accepted by us until 31 August.  We do not operate any waiting lists or open our course for clearing. If you haven't applied to Imperial in this admissions cycle, you would need to apply to the College in the next admissions cycle. For more information please visit Exam results: what next? Find out more about our undergraduate programme and taught postgraduate Master's programme. Find out more about completing your PhD in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Find out more about our world class facilities for research, partnerships with industry and internationally recognised experts.  What's it like to be a first year student in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Imperial College London? Find out from Isabela's video diary. Isabela shows us what it's like to be a first year student.  What's it like to be a first year student in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Imperial College London? Find out from Isabela's video diary. Rohan explains the academic side of being a Mech Eng student. Rohan explains the academic side of being a Mechanical Engineering student at Imperial College London.  Leeds, clubs and societies and becoming more independent " I would encourage people from Leeds and northern cities to come to London because it's actually an amazing place...it has some standard and I think it really does live up to that"    Isabela films her first week as a Mech Eng student.  From São Paulo to London! Meet Isabela, she shares what life is like in the first couple of weeks of joining us. Find our more about our fire science group Fire is all around us and almost unavoidable. Fire science has much work to do to protect people, the environment and create a safer world.  What is NDE, and why do a PhD in this field?  Lecturer Dr Peter Huthwaite, and current research students Naomi Shipway and Xiaotang Gu explain what NDE is all about, and why a PhD in this field is worth doing.  The Department of Mechanical Engineering showcased its work to the public Photos of the event can be found on our Flickr account.  A video comparing different cooling methods for battery cells. This video showcases a research paper from our department's Electrochemical Science and Engineering group, comparing different cooling methods for lithium-ion battery cells.  Read the research paper Demonstration of sporting wearables The Biomechatronics Laboratory at Imperial College (http://www.biomechatronicslab.co.uk/) and Athletec introduce the first wearable smart Taekwondo kick tracking system.  Imperial  student and Taekwondo black belt Yuhua Gu demonstrates.  Mechanical Engineers brought robots and fire tornados to the 2017 Imperial Festival. Adults and children alike explored the fun side of Mechanical Engineering. Find out more New evidence suggests there was a fire on board the Titanic before it set sail from Belfast. An Imperial expert in fire finds evidence for a surprising theory about the Titanic – that it was already on fire when it left port, and this contributed to its rapid sinking. Find out more  How prototype sensor technology may make robotic prosthetics more user-friendly in the future Dr Ravi Vaidyanathan discusses how prototype sensor technology may make robotic prosthetics more user-friendly for people in the future. To find out more about the research discussed in this video please click here.  Our department's annual research showcase.  Guest speaker: Alan Begg FREng, ex Senior Vice President of Group Technology at SKF Our department's annual research showcase.  Guest speaker: Nick Molden, founder and CEO of Emissions Analytics Our department's annual research showcase.  Guest speaker: Dr Barbara Lane,  UK leader for the Applied Innovation and Technology Group at Arup Third-year student Alice shares her experience of studying Mechanical Engineering at Imperial. Third-year student Alice shares her experience of studying Mechanical Engineering at Imperial College London. A second year student unboxes remote learning kits sent by our department. A second year student unpacks the contents of the remote learning lab kits sent by our department.  Two Spanish students reflect on their life at Imperial Spanish students Juan studying Physics and Carmen studying Mechanical Engineering reflect on their experiences of life at Imperial, living in London, managing a work-life balance. Record number of Imperial academics win Royal Society of Chemistry Prizes 12 June 2024 Imperial celebrates its international scholars and continues to grow programmes 27 March 2024 Celebrating Success in the 2023-2024 MPT Cohort 27 March 2024 21 March 2024 18 March 2024 15 March 2024 13 March 2024 
Imperial College LondonSouth Kensington CampusLondon SW7 2AZ, UKtel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111


                Campuses & maps
                
