On Tuesday, the US Department of Treasury announced the introduction of sanctions against four individuals and one legal entity associated with the Wagner Group private military company and its founder Yevgeny Prigozhin. Source: European Pravda, citing the  statement in the press release of the US Department of Treasury. Companies in the Central African Republic, the United Arab Emirates and Russia that participated in illegal gold transactions to finance Wagnerites to provide them with weapons, in particular in Ukraine and Africa, were restricted. It concerns mining company Midas Resources SARLU, based in the Central African Republic and associated with Prigozhin. It is claimed that it funds the activities of the Wagnerites both in the country and abroad at the expense of profits from the sale of extracted gold. Another South African company, Diamville, was involved in a gold sale scheme last year, which involved converting it into US dollars, which were planned to be withdrawn after the introduction of US sanctions against several Russian financial institutions. Dubai-based distributor Industrial Resources General Trading provided financial support to Prigozhin through trading with Diamville and helped with the transfer of cash to Russia. Russia's DM Company Ltd. also participated in the scheme. The sanctions were also imposed on Russian citizen Andrey Ivanov, the head of the Wagner Group of companies, who in the spring of 2023 worked closely with Prigozhin's Company Africa Politology and high-ranking officials of the government of Mali, dealing with arms sales and mining companies. The Wagner Group was created in 2014 and was active in a number of countries where Russia has important interests – in particular, Syria, Libya, the Central African Republic and Ukraine. Among other things, they committed war crimes and crimes against humanity there. After Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, the Wagnerites took part in reprisals against civilians. The Wagner Group is currently recruiting prisoners from Russia. Back in 2017, the United States added the Wagner Group to the trade "black list", and late in 2022, it imposed new restrictions on technology exports for the Wagner Group in order to further limit its capabilities due to its participation in the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Journalists fight on their own frontline. Support Ukrainska Pravda or become our patron!  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.