Arsenal news: The Gunners welcome PSV Eindhoven to the Emirates Stadium later tonight in their first Champions League game since 2017 Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Arsenal make their long-awaited return to the UEFA Champions League this evening after six years away from the competition. The Gunners welcome PSV Eindhoven to north London for the first of six group fixtures. Both teams come into the contest on the back of unbeaten starts to the season. Mikel Arteta's men have won four of their opening five games in the Premier League, scoring nine and conceding four. PSV have won every game in the Eredivisie and sit top of the table having scored 13 and conceded only once. The 24-time Dutch champions are making an appearance in the Champions League group stage for the first time since 2018, looking to qualify for the knockout round - something they haven't done since 2016. Tonight's game is the first of six games for Arsenal in the group stage. In two weeks they will face RC Lens before taking on La Liga outfit Sevilla after the October international break.  The Gunners are favourites to progress as group winners, with some even backing the north Londoners to challenge for the title at Wembley Stadium in June,  For some supporters, they would have noticed that the advertisement for tonight's game identifies the location being the 'Arsenal Stadium', instead of the 'Emirates Stadium'. READ MORE: Arsenal news and transfers LIVE - Gabriel Martinelli update, Ivan Toney bid, Trossard hint READ MORE: Arsenal have three options to achieve Champions League success as Real Madrid predictions emerge The reason for that is due to UEFA regulations on stadium sponsors. The rules mean that Arsenal's home ground will be referred to as 'Arsenal Stadium' in every European fixture. The same rule applies to Manchester City's Etihad Stadium. As per the same UEFA regulations, the holders' home ground is referred to as the 'City of Manchester Stadium' - which it was called before it was renamed as the Etihad. 