Those whose business model revolves around selling products and services online need a reliable eCommerce platform that is efficient, reliable, and secure, while featuring all the advanced functionality you could possibly want under one umbrella. For a long time, relying on custom solutions was the only way to go to achieve that. But ever since Shopify came around, everyone is free to utilize its powerful capabilities without having to know anything about domains, hosting, or other technical minutiae. One of its strongest selling points is the fact it’s fully mobile-friendly. Since roughly half of your web traffic will be accessing your online store from a mobile device these days, having a shop that’s optimized for mobile is a must. This is one of the many reasons why so many shop owners are hiring the best Shopify development companies to help them migrate their online store to the platform. Given how ridiculously easy it is to manage even for non-tech savvy individuals, it’s not hard to see why. But that doesn’t mean it’s dumbed down by any means. In fact, integrating third-party services and adding custom functionality to Shopify is a breeze. By working with the best Shopify development agencies, you will be able to integrate whatever your heart desires, whether it be chatbots, advanced checkout functionality, social media, and other functional and security tweaks. The only question that remains is knowing where to look for the best candidate for the job and not getting lost in a flood of information that’s out there. The good news is, we’ve done most of the heavy lifting for you, so you won’t have to spend hours upon hours researching it! Each company has something unique to bring to the table, so this is what we’re going to be focusing on. The idea is to give you the information necessary and help you pick the most suitable Shopify developer for your business needs. With that out of the way, the following are what we believe to be the top Shopify development companies in India: At eFlair Webtech, the level of professionalism, transparency, and devotedness to excellence shines through the competition. This becomes apparent and easy to see from the moment of initiating contact with their warm-hearted and knowledgeable team of experts who are inclined to learn everything there is to know about your business to provide cutting-edge eCommerce solutions, custom-tailored to your business’ needs. Ever since 2011, these industry professionals have established a reputation of maintaining a laser-sharp focus on your mutual goals and are willing to work around the clock to ensure your Shopify store is ready on time. From there on out, the world is your oyster, and you can work with them to further customize its appearance, add additional functionality, third-party integrations, and optimize it for maximum conversion. And yes, you can always count on them for updates, maintenance, and support! Ever since 2009, Codal has kept delivering nothing but the best Shopify development services. Known for their modern approach on all things eCommerce, they will make sure to develop an online store that has all the bells and whistles of a professional solution worthy of the world’s leading brands. Apart from tending to the functional and programming side of things, they also have a talented in-house designer team that will customize your theme. Whether you’re a small business or a large enterprise, they have the skills and the know-how necessary to help you reach your eCommerce goals. Having a substantial international presence and tons of great reviews from clients all around the globe, Lantern Sol will not only build you a first-class Shopify store, but also help you make all the strategic decisions necessary to make it a success. Whether you’ve already envisioned how your store should look or you’re looking for additional guidance, this company will have your back. Not only is their team knowledgeable in building Shopify stores inside and out, but also ready to answer your questions in a timely manner at any time you need help. Pivofy is known as one of the top Shopify development companies in the US and abroad. Giving value and concrete results to their clients lies at the heart of their vision and it’s well reflected in the output they produce. No matter the size of your company, they are confident to be able to skyrocket your online sales by tweaking your Shopify store as close to perfection as possible by utilizing technological breakthroughs and combining them with an innovative approach. At the end of the day, thousands of satisfied customers from every nook and cranny of the world can hardly be wrong! Covering everything from Shopify migration to Shopify design, Knectar consider themselves to be a Swiss army knife of eCommerce development. If you’re new to the world of eCommerce, you already know how important it is to be working with a reliable platform that drives sales for you day in and day out, and this Shopify development company will help you get there. And if you’re already a seasoned veteran who wants to migrate an already established online store to Shopify to utilize its strengths, these experts have all the tools you need to ensure a smooth transition. Enjoying one of the highest ratings on Clutch, Resourcifi has more than earned the honor of being ranked among the best Shopify development agencies in India and abroad. Having worked with small businesses and enterprises alike, these talented developers will make it happen, whether you operate in healthcare, hospitality, banking, gaming, or any other industry. As of right now, their in-house team consists of more than 200 experienced developers. And best of all? Whenever there’s something you want to ask or discuss with them, their friendly customer support department is just a phone call away. This is one of the top Shopify development companies in India that promises to grow your sales by 10x. So not only will they build a top-notch Shopify store you can be proud of, they’ll also optimize it for mobile and the search engines. If you need their help with marketing and advertising, they also specialize in Facebook Ads, Google Ads, and other digital marketing channels where hungry buyers are looking for exactly the type of products and services you’re selling. These Indian web development and eCommerce specialists have been brushing their skills since 2004 - talk about experience! Throughout the years, they have become a devoted team of industry experts that always deliver on their promises. Organized implementation of their clients’ ideas is one of their key strengths. They pay attention to details and always deliver on time. With Dynamic Dreamz, you always know who you’re working with as all the workload is handled by their in-house team - they promise to never outsource a thing. Specializing in Magento to Shopify and other eCommerce solutions, the talented team at Emizen Tech works with small businesses and Fortune 500 clients to deliver competitive and futuristic digital solutions of all kinds. The Shopify stores they create are efficient, visually appealing, SEO and mobile optimized, and flawless in overall quality. Whenever you need a custom theme, a plugin, or third-party functionality integrated, look no further. Shopify’s popularity has been growing throughout the years. Nowadays, it has become the go-to platform in the eCommerce space and it’s not without a solid reason (multiple reasons, in fact). It all boils down to the following: Shopify development can cover a lot of things, ranging from customization, optimization, third-party integration, custom functionality and features, theme modification, etc. Although everyone should be proficient enough to start with the vanilla version of the platform due to how simple and non-demanding it is to use while still retaining its power, eventually, you may desire to add additional functionality on top of it. This is where the best Shopify development companies come in. Despite the relatively low learning curve Shopify is famous for, you’re going to need a qualified and experienced web developer to squeeze the maximum potential out of it. In the section below, we’ve listed the main reasons why you may consider hiring a Shopify developer. Depending on your exact needs, the exact workflow may be slightly different, but for the most part, Shopify development consists of the following phases: Shopify is incredibly popular among SMEs and large corporations alike. In fact, some of the world’s leading brands have an online store that’s powered by Shopify. You have probably heard about these: The total cost of Shopify development depends on several different contributing factors, so there’s no one-size-fits-all answer. This includes the scope of the project, features requested, pricing model, and where the company is based. If you’ve agreed to be charged per hour, expect to pay somewhere in the ballpark of $50 to $150 per hour if you’re working with a US-based developer. If you want to save a bit of money, it makes sense to go with a Shopify development company India, because the rates they charge are much lower. Typically, this would be somewhere between $25 and $50 an hour. Since some clients view the hourly-based pricing model as unpredictable, many prefer to pay a fixed project fee. In this case, expect to pay between $500 and $15.000, depending on the price-influencing factors listed above. Whether you’re selling products or services, Shopify won’t leave you disappointed. Even if you’re selling a product with tons of variations (this is typically the case with clothing stores that list the same item in different colors and sizes), the platform allows you to add them in with ease. Thanks to its tiered pricing model, it’s suitable for anyone, from small businesses to large enterprises alike. Feel free to get started with the basic version and scale on demand as your business grows. To ensure you’ll be working with the best Shopify designers and developers with years and years of experience under their belts, you should stick to a predetermined set of criteria to make your final choice. Before you decide on the Shopify developer you’re going to be working with, it’s a good idea to ask them some questions. Then, you can make a more accurate assessment of how well suited they are to undertake the project. Depending on what type of services you’re looking for, you may want to give additional thought to how important it is to you that the developer you’ll be working with offers a wide range of services. In general, newcomers to the eCommerce space should give preference to the best Shopify designers and developers that offer everything you need under one roof. This allows you to build a solid foundation for all your future entrepreneurial endeavors. Plus, it will be that much more motivating to start with an online store that’s both functional and awesome-looking! Unless you’re comfortable with entrusting the fate of your eCommerce business to a complete amateur, there’s no reason to aim for anything less than what the best Shopify development companies can offer. Asking them how long they’ve persevered in this competitive industry will give you a solid idea about how knowledgeable they are and whether they have the skills necessary to bring your eCommerce vision to life - exactly as you’ve always imagined it to be. As powerful as Shopify may be, eventually, you may want to think about integrating third-party services and plugins to give you access to additional functionality. For instance, you may want to configure your store in a way that it automatically posts a tweet any time you add a new product. Or perhaps you want to integrate advanced analytics. With custom third-party functionality, your imagination is the only limit! Since roughly half of your visitors use mobile devices to access your online store and view its contents, having it optimized for mobile is no longer a choice - these days, it’s a must. Otherwise, you risk delivering a subpar user experience that could turn a potential customer away. In case you’re using paid ads to drive traffic to your online store, securing the highest possible ROI is essential. Even though encountering unexpected obstacles on the road is the reality of any kind of digital development, the best Shopify development companies should be able to give you a rough estimate of how long it’s going to take. This allows you to organize your schedule better and plan ahead with a reasonable amount of accuracy. Transparency is the key to any efficient collaboration. The best Shopify development agencies tend to approach things from a customer-centric angle, meaning that they will be willing to take the extra time to sit down with you and explain how things work. But to give you the much-needed peace of mind, it can also be good to take the proactive role in communicating so as to ensure you’ve given your chosen development team all they need to get the ball rolling. This is a big one. In practice, even the most robust Shopify store will require maintenance at some point - it’s only a matter of time. To avoid the technical headaches of having to do it yourself (especially if you lack the knowledge necessary), you’re going to need someone to cover your back as you focus on running and growing your business. So always ask if ongoing maintenance and support is included in the price. Disclaimer: This article is a paid publication and does not have journalistic/editorial involvement of Hindustan Times. Hindustan Times does not endorse/subscribe to the content(s) of the article/advertisement and/or view(s) expressed herein. Hindustan Times shall not in any manner, be responsible and/or liable in any manner whatsoever for all that is stated in the article and/or also with regard to the view(s), opinion(s), announcement(s), declaration(s), affirmation(s) etc., stated/featured in the same.  Catch all the Business News, Market News, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.