The announcement signifies a significant shake-up in the streaming giant’s advertising approach.  Topsort develops retail media technology for small businesses to use auctions as a way to create effective advertising.  In 2024, Meta will begin requiring advertisers running political or issue ads on its platforms to disclose when their ads are “digitally created or altered” through the use of AI.…  A few months after TikTok teamed up with Redbox to feature content on more than 3,000 kiosks, the short-form video app is partnering with more companies to expand its advertising…  Reddit said Wednesday that the platform is revamping its privacy settings with an aim to make ad personalization and account visibility toggles consistent. Most notably though, it is removing the…  Redbox, the operator of DVD rental kiosks, today announced a new deal with TikTok that allows the company to feature popular content from the short-form video app on more than…  Roku is partnering with Shopify to give users the ability to purchase products from Shopify merchants through their TVs, the hardware company announced Tuesday. Viewers will be able to interact…  Weeks after Meta launched a suite of generative AI-based tools to help advertisers create different campaigns, LinkedIn has introduced its own tool to suggest different copies of an ad. The…  Meta today announced an AI Sandbox for advertisers to help them create alternative copies, background generation through text prompts and image cropping for Facebook or Instagram ads. The first feature…  Major tech organizations are racing to ship generative AI tools. And yet, a few companies have remained silent, including Apple and Meta. Today, the organization led by Mark Zuckerberg said…  MiO Marketplace, a platform for media publishers and buyers, shared the deck it used to raise an angel round of $550,000 at a $3.6 million pre-money valuation.  TikTok is adding new targeting and boosting features for its Promote advertising tool, the company announced on Wednesday. Promote first launched in 2021 as a way for creators to turn…  Amid declining ad revenue and advertiser exits, Twitter announced today that it has teamed up with adtech companies DoubleVerify and Integral Ad Science (IAS) to tell advertisers if their ad…  TikTok’s parent company ByteDance is making some pretty heavy bets on the healthcare space as it acquired Amcare, which runs high-end children’s and women’s hospitals across China. The buyout cost…  Just over a year after launching a major project targeting thousands of sites blatantly flouting cookie tracking rules in Europe, regional privacy campaign group noyb has fired off another batch…  A few months on from a tracking controversy hitting privacy-centric search veteran, DuckDuckGo, the company has announced it’s been able to amend terms with Microsoft, its search syndication partner, that…  A ruling put out yesterday by the European Union’s top court could have major implications for online platforms that use background tracking and profiling to target users with behavioral ads…  How does one build, scale and navigate the headwinds of a recession, especially as consumer behavior changes dramatically?  Peacock, the streaming service of Comcast’s NBCUniversal, ended the second quarter with 13 million paid subscribers, parent company Comcast reported this morning. In the first quarter, there were 13 million…  Google is again delaying plans to phase out Chrome’s use of third-party cookies — the files websites use to remember preferences and track online activity. In a blog post, Anthony…  As regulation, platform dynamics and consumer choice continue to eat into the adtech stalwart known as cookies, it’s leaving a gap in the market for advertising solutions that can work…  Chartbeat, a website that tells publishers about their readers, is getting the private equity treatment. Launched out of Betaworks in 2009, the service offered real-time analytics back when Google Analytics…  Featured Article Are we seeing the ad market truly tumble? And if so, what should we expect to shake out from the decline?  Sophisticated AI systems like OpenAI’s GPT-3 can write prose that’s impressively human-like, or at least good enough to fool the average person. They’ve been used to generate essays, poetry, stories,…  Sundar Pichai, boss of Google and its parent Alphabet, told employees to “be more entrepreneurial” and work with “more hunger” in a staff-wide email that warned of consolidation, several news…  Disney struck an advertising agreement with The Trade Desk, making it possible for brands to target automated ads across Disney’s linear and streaming properties — Hulu, ESPN+, ABC, Freeform, ESPN,…  Featured Article Even with inflation, and a potential recession on the horizon, now is the time to reach out to existing customers and stick with them through the ups and downs.  I remember the dread I felt as a startup worker during downturns when I read about mass layoffs at tech firms that had previously been considered ascendant.  Featured Article The rapid expansion of the growth marketing industry has created a significant problem for startups looking to hire.  Consumer rights groups in Europe have filed a new series of privacy complaints against Google — accusing the advertising giant of deceptive design around the account creation process that they…  Powered by WordPress VIP