Florida State football returns from a much-needed bye week following a successful first four weeks of the 2023 college season. The No. 5 Seminoles (4-0, 2-0 ACC) will host Virginia Tech (2-3, 1-0) at 3:30 p.m. Saturday at Doak Campbell Stadium. (Broadcast: ABC) The Seminoles began the season ranked as No. 8 in the Associated Press Poll, jumped as high as No. 3 following wins over then-No. 5 LSU 45-24 in a second-half runaway at Camping World Stadium in Orlando in Week 1 and opened their home schedule with a 66-13 romping of Southern Miss in Week 2. They have fallen in the polls in three straight weeks with close road victories over Boston College (31-29) and Clemson (31-24 in overtime). The Hokies have had an up-and-down season through five games, but a 38-21 victory last week over Pittsburgh snapped a three-game skid. They are 0-2 on the road this season and enter as 24-point underdogs, as of Thursday morning, per BetOnline. Follow along here for live updates and coverage from the game, or Democrat beat writers Ehsan Kassim (@Ehsan_Kassim) and Jack Williams (@JackGWilliams) on X, the app formerly known as Twitter. While Virginia Tech gave Florida State football a scare, the Seminoles were able to remain unbeaten and pulled away late with a 39-17 victory over the Hokies in front of a sold-out crowd of 79,560 at Doak Campbell Stadium. FSU (5-0, 3-0 ACC) has won 11 straight games dating back to last season. Trey Benson led the Seminoles with a career-best performance of 11 rushes for 200 yards and two touchdowns, including an 85-yard TD midway through the fourth quarter. He also had a 62-yard TD run in the third quarter.  FSU lead 22-0 after the first quarter but saw the Hokies cut the lead down to five points to start the second half before reasserting control. Check back with the Tallahassee Democrat for further updates on the Seminoles’ victory. Running back Trey Benson continued his hot game with a career-best 85 yard touchdown run on the first play following the turnover on downs to extend the FSU lead to 39-17 with 8:28 left in the game. Benson earlier in the game rushed for a then-career-best 62-yard TD run in the third quarter. He is up to 10 rushes for 192 yards and two touchdowns for the day. His previous career-high was 162 against Syrcause last season in November. Benson had 189 yards coming into the game. The Seminoles have 170 rushing yards and 440 total yards of offense. Florida State’s defense came up with a stop when it needed it the most on a fourth down deep into its territory. The Seminoles were able to tackle quarterback Kyron Drone for a 21-yard gain on 4th and 22 to force a turnover on downs to take over on its own 15 with 8:39 left and a 32-17 lead. Jared Verse recorded his second sack of the game and of the season on the drive. The Seminoles were also aided by an offensive pass interference call on the Hokies, as well as a holding call to force the fourth and extremely long situation. The Hokies are going to get the ball back, trailing 32-17 heading into the fourth quarter. The Seminoles will punt the ball from their own 24, giving VTech a chance to cut into the two-score game. Before the end of the third quarter, reserve cornerback Azareye'h Thomas headed to the locker room with an undisclosed injury. FSU already lost starting wide receiver Johnny Wilson to an apparent lower body injury earlier in the third quarter. Ryan Fitzgerald connected on a 26-yard field goal for the Seminoles after a drive faded out in the red zone to extend the lead to 32-17. Destyn Hill had a 30-yard catch on the drive and Keon Coleman added a pair of catches. A targeting call against Virginia Tech's Jalen Stroman benefited the Seminoles on the drive. The one-score game did not last long. Trey Benson broke out for a 62-yard rush to score the first points since the first for FSU to put it ahead 29-17 with 14:19 left in the third quarter. Benson has his first 100-yard rushing game of the season with 106 yards on eight rushes. One play earlier, Johnny Wilson caught a pass from Jordan Travis for a first down. He went down on the field and was assisted off the field following the injury. He went to the injury tent. Kentron Poitier came into replace him on the next play. The Hokies started the second half with a 99-yard kickoff return from running back Bhayshul Tuten. The TD cut the lead to just five points for FSU and the Hokies have now scored 17 unanswered points since FSU led 22-0 after the first quarter. FSU leads 22-17 with 14:47 left in the third quarter. Florida State football jumped out to a 22-0 lead after the first quarter, but the second quarter belonged to Virginia Tech. The Seminoles lead 22-10 at halftime. Led by quarterback Kyron Drone, the Hokies outscored the Seminoles 10-0 in the quarter. In the second quarter, Virginia Tech out-gained FSU 126-1. The Seminoles outgained the Hokies 198-9 in the first quarter.  At halftime, FSU has 199 yards, while Virginia Tech has 135 yards. The Hokies are averaging 6 yards per rush, with Drones leading the way with seven rushes for 63 yards, including a 40-yard rush. Bhayshul Tuten has seven rushes for 27 yards and a score. Jordan Travis is 11 of 15 for 101 yards and two scores but has been sacked twice. Johnny Wilson leads the team with three receptions for 41 yards and two scores, while Kyle Morlock has added four grabs for 30 yards. Trey Benson leads the team with seven rushes for 40 yards and Lawrance Toafli had three rushes for 43 yards, including a 28-yard TD run. The Hokies get the ball coming out of halftime with a chance to cut the game to a one score game. Following a 22-point explosion in the first half, the Seminoles had the ball twice in the second quarter and were forced to punt twice. Virginia Tech’s offense came to life, scoring a 29-yard field goal and then a Bhayshul Tuten 5-yard touchdown gave the Hokies their first touchdown of the game. With 46 seconds remaining, it is 22-10 FSU. Virginia Tech will open with the ball to start the second half. Of note, with his second TD pass, Jordan Travis is tied with Danny Kanell with 57 career touchdowns in his FSU career. A 40-yard run on third down from Virginia Tech QB Kyron Drone helped the Hokies finally get on the board in the second quarter. After Malcolm Ray recorded a PBU on a ball at the line on second down, the FSU defense forced the Hokies into a 29-yard field goal, which John Love connected on. The Hokies were aided by a 15-yard roughing the passer call on Byron Turner Jr. earlier on the drive on a play where cornerback Azareye’h Thomas recorded an interception. The Seminoles lead 22-3 with 9:37 left in the first half. A common theme on the first three drives for FSU has been Johnny Wilson. Jordan Travis hit Wilson for an 18-yard TD on third and nine for the third score of the game and the second TD for the duo. Travis is 9-for-12 passing for 98 yards and two scores. Wilson had three catches for 41 yards. The Seminoles are 5-of-5 on third downs, with three TDs coming on the “money down.” That was a point of emphasis this week. Kyle Morlock has been more involved with his three catches (five targets) for 26 yards. The Seminoles lead 22-0 after one quarter. They have out-gained the Hokies 198-9. Running back Lawrance Toafili scored his first touchdown of the season for the Seminoles, breaking out for a 28-yard touchdown run on third and seven. Toafaili is up to three rushes for 43 yards already. Trey Benson added a 19-yard run earlier on the drive. He has six rushes for 40 yards. The Seminoles lead 15-0 with 4:44 remaining. They have 151 yards of offense to 1-yard for the Hokies. Great opening drive for Florida State, as the drive ended with Jordan Travis hitting Johnny Wilson in the end zone for a 7-yard touchdown pass. Brian Courtney lined up in the backfield and took the ball in for the two-point conversion. The Seminoles were faking all the way. Travis was 4-for-4 passing for 41 yards on the opening drive and added three rushes for 13 yards. The Seminoles lead 7-0 early and forced a three-and-out on the Hokies first drive. The Seminoles-Hokies will begin on ESPNEWS with the Red River Rivarly between Texas and Oklahoma still on-going on ABC. Tatum Bethine, Jared Verse, Johnny Wilson and Fabien Lovett are the captains for FSU today. Virginia Tech calls tails and wins the toss and elects to defer to the second half. FSU will receive first. Kickoff time has been re-adjusted to 3:45 p.m., per FSU Sports Information. The staring lineups were announced. Akeem Dent returns to the lineup and Darius Washington will start at left tackle. Bless Harris does not appear to be dressed out and is out. Robert Scott is dressed out and went through warmups. It remains to be seen if he'll play. Offense:  QB - Jordan Travis RB - Trey Benson RB - Lawrence Toafili WR - Johnny Wilson WR - Destyn Hill WR - Keon Coleman LT - Darius Washington LG - Casey Roddick C - Maurice Smith RG - D’Mitri Emmanuel RT - Jeremiah Byers Defense: DE -Patrick Payton DE - Jared Verse DT - Josh Farmer DT - Braden Fiske CB - Jarian Jones CB - Fentrell Cypress S- Shyheim Brown S- Akeem Dent  LB - Tatum Bethune LB - Kalen DeLoach Special teams: K - Ryan Fitzgerald P - Alex Mastramanno LS - James Rosenberry Kentron Poitier is dressed out for the Seminoles. He has been out for much of fall camp with an undisclosed injury and looks poised to make his season debut. Akeem Dent (hamstring) is dressed out for FSU and looks like he will return this week. He went down with his injury against Southern Miss and has been out for the last two games. His return would be a major boon for the FSU’s secondary - which has struggled the last few games.  Left tackle Robert Scott is dressed out for the Seminoles, while Bless Harris is not. Harris has started the first four games at left tackle but went down with an undisclosed injury during the week in practice Tuesday. Scott is expected to start in his place today. The quarterbacks, led by Jordan Travis, are now warming up. Travis is joined by Tate Rodemaker and AJ Duffy. Brock Glenn has not come out with the rest of the QBs. Mike Norvell said a couple of weeks ago that Glenn sustained an injury against Southern Miss - his collegiate debut and only appearance - and will be out for a while. Glenn returned to practice last week during the bye week. He has worked more and more in practice but is not poised to return just yet.  Norvell did note Glenn is expected back this season. Ja’Khi Douglas (shoulder) is dressed out for the Seminoles, as is Deuce Spann. Douglas went down with an injury in the preseason and looks poised to make his season debut. Spann missed the last two games due to an illness. Two representatives for the Pop-Tart Bowl and one for the Gator Bowl are here today, as well as two scouts for the Senior Bowl. The Washington Commanders, Miami Dolphins and New York Giants all have scouts at the game. The “cinematic recap” for the Clemson game is on the big scoreboards as Virginia Tech is warming up. Jared Verse is running sprints from the end zone to the 50-yard line for FSU. The rushing game needs to get going for FSU against Virginia Tech, meaning that the effort needs to expand and move off of Trey Benson. Toafili, debatably the No. 2 running back, can help if he gets going. Keon Coleman and Johnny Wilson have powered the passing effort this season, but FSU's tight ends have played a massive role in keeping the Seminoles' passing game elite. Bell is second in receiving yards has scored two touchdowns. And against Clemson, Brown played all 82 snaps, grading out at 74.8 by Pro Football Focus (PFF), finishing highly in rush defense, tackling and coverage. As the Seminoles' top piece in the secondary, he could really be the spark plug to a fast start. - Jack Williams It's 80 degrees right now in Tallahassee under partly sunny skies. There's a 0% chance of rain into the evening, and temperatures are drop into the mid-70s by 7 p.m. Winds are blowing north-northwest at 8-12 mph, and that's expected to continue or slightly decrease as the game goes along. - Dan Rorabaugh Florida State is reportedly going traditional Saturday against the Hokies, with gold helmets and pants and their usual garnet home jerseys. Virginia Tech is going with their maroon helmet and pants with white road jerseys. - Dan Rorabaugh Mark Jones will be on the play-by-play, Louis Riddick will be the analyst, and Quint Kessenich will report from the sidelines. Streaming options include fuboTV, which offers a free trial to potential subscribers.