BLACKSBURG, Va. — Purdue makes its first road trip of the season, playing at Virginia Tech's Lane Stadium. The Boilermakers are coming off last week's 39-35 loss to Fresno State, while the Hokies won their season opener a week ago against Old Dominion. More:Purdue football kickoff at Virginia Tech delayed due to weather Purdue and Virginia Tech are playing for the second time. The Hokies won 51-24 in 2015 at Purdue. ∎ Will Josh Kaltenberger play? Center was a position that was getting deep on the depth chart last week. With true freshman Jimmy Liston listed as out, that's a promising sign that Kaltenberger is able to go. Kaltenberger started late last season after an injury to Gus Hartwig. He is listed as questionable for Virginia Tech. Kaltenberger was snapping to quarterback Hudson Card during warmups. More:Tyrone Tracy once blew off Lamar Conard. Now he plays for him with Purdue football ∎ Tight end Garrett Miller, who hasn't played a game since the 2021 season, is listed as questionable. His return would be a big boost for the offense. ∎ After handling kickoff duties last week, Caleb Krockover is out. Julio Macias, who has been injured, made the trip. More:Can Boilers rebound? Purdue football vs. Virginia Tech: Scouting report, prediction ∎ Last week's stars: Can they repeat their strong starts? That's Dillon Thieneman (10 tackles, 1 interception, Big Ten Freshman of the Week) on defense and Deion Burks (4 receptions, 152 yards, 2 TD) on offense. Noon ET Saturday, Sept. 9, 2023. TV: ESPN2 Radio: 96.5 FM in Lafayette, 1260 AM in Indianapolis Streaming options: SiriusXM Channels 205 and 968, Varsity Network, ESPN+, Fubo, Paramount+, Sling Virginia Tech is a 3-point favorite, according to Draft Kings. The over/under is 48 total points. Scattered storms are possible in Blacksburg, Virginia, with temperatures in the 70s. Can Boilers rebound? Purdue football vs. Virginia Tech: Scouting report, prediction What to know:Purdue football vs. Virginia Tech odds, TV, streaming, players to watch Defensive adjustments:Purdue football looks to rectify mistakes on defense at Virginia Tech Kaltenberger return likely:Purdue football anticipates center Josh Kaltenberger returning against Virginia Tech