Emma Watson stepped away from acting after wrapping on Harry Potter, and while the actress has done some film projects since then, she’s also been involved in fashion, activism, her family’s business, and even dipped her toes into the worlds of producing and directing. But is she done with acting as a whole? It’s clear she enjoys her life right now, but here’s what she has said. Unlike the formerly retired Cameron Diaz, who had to officially stage a comeback with her upcoming Back in Action movie with Jamie Foxx, Emma Watson is not officially out of the game. In fact, when asked about the prospect by Financial Times, she admitted she “absolutely” will be seen in front of a camera again. Yes, absolutely. But I’m happy to sit and wait for the next right thing. I love what I do. It’s finding a way to do it where I don’t have to fracture myself into different faces and people. And I just don’t want to switch into robot mode any more. Does that make sense? But taking some time away from acting has clearly been positive for the star and fashionista. Emma Watson’s last role on the big screen occurred when she joined the cast of Greta Gerwig’s Little Women, where she played eldest March daughter Meg in a retelling of the classic female-led literature project. She's not just sitting on her laurels, however. In 2023, she got into Oxford and has been working on a Masters in Creative Writing, as well. Previously, she signed on as the face Prada's fragrance Paradoxe; in fact, she actually went a step further and directed a short for the scent last year. Watson also spoke about missing out on family life while she was in the throes of filming movies like Harry Potter and later projects including Beauty and the Beast, The Perks of Being a Wallflower, and Little Women. Now that she has more free time, she said she loves being involved in the family business: alcohol. There was definitely a gap when Alex took more of a role here. But now that I’m not making films every year there’s a bit more time to play with. For me, getting involved with the creative side of the gin has been fun because I have a voice and I can bring everything that I’ve learnt to help. Alex is the expert on gin, and dad is the expert on wine, but it’s really nice to be asked to be involved. Her brother Alex (aka the guy in that picture with Watson and her magical floating dress) has a gin brand he’s named Renais while her father Chris has owned a winery in the Chablis, France since 1991. So lately, she's had the free time to participate in those ventures, as well. All in all, it's very clear the actress has a wide swathe of interests, but she's still very connected to the fans and other members of the Harry Potter cast, as evidence by her returning for the memorable Harry Potter: Return To Hogwarts special last year. Given she does still have an interest in the acting business, we'll be sure to keep you updated on her next big screen adventure ... whenever she manages to squeeze it in that is. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.