[Source] A woman in China was recently arrested for running an alleged wage scam with her husband wherein she took up 16 simultaneous jobs to earn a salary without ever lifting a finger. Justice strikes: The woman, who was identified by the pseudonym Guan Yue, was arrested during a job interview in Hangzhou province, according to a local report published on Aug. 30.  Together with her husband, Chen Qiang, who is accused of serving as a lookout for other opportunities, the couple reportedly amassed a fortune big enough to buy a villa in Baoshan, Shanghai, in just three years. How she pulled it off: Local reports alleged that Guan would apply to a job at a company, take photos of her interview and later send those to her current workplace chat, pretending she was “meeting with clients.” More from NextShark: South Korean online game ‘Lost Ark’ shatters record on Steam with half a million concurrent players To keep things in order, she would reportedly keep track of all the important details of her jobs on paper, such as her joined date, her position in that company and her salary card numbers from different companies. Splitting the gig: Using the same scamming tactics, Guan and Chen would sometimes “sell” their gig to other cohorts whenever they were overwhelmed by the number of jobs they had for a fee and a commission. At one point in the three-year operation, Guan reportedly held 16 simultaneous jobs. Shining a spotlight: A similar case was reported earlier this year after Liu Jian, the head of an internet technology company, brought wage scams to the attention of the police in January. Liu told authorities he hired eight people who boasted an impressive resume and extensive experience working for large companies in October 2022. More from NextShark: LA director of photography under fire for alleged abuse, harassment The core team leader reportedly earned a 20,000 yuan (approximately $2,740) monthly salary, while the others only received about half of that as monthly pay. Unveiling the scam: Liu decided to terminate the hires after they failed to deliver positive results three months into their job. One of the employees accidentally sent a photo as proof of resignation from a different company after the termination, purportedly showing that the employee had been working two simultaneous jobs. Making arrest: Pudong police in Hangzhou reportedly arrested 53 people, including the employee Liu reported to the authorities, on March 8. The total amount of financial damage the scammers caused was around 50 million yuan (approximately $6.8 million). More from NextShark: Waitress Who Kicked Out Racist CEO for Attacking Asian Family Sets an Example Enjoy this content? Read more from NextShark! Psychiatrist who said Trump spread 'shared psychosis' to his followers fails to win back Yale gig New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. Who will take over Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.