published author share on 閱讀中文版本 HR, payroll and employee engagement platform Employment Hero has named Kevin Fitzgerald (pictured above) for the role of Managing Director, Asia. Based in Singapore and with over a decade of experience in tech, Fitzgerald will spearhead the platform's growth in the region, especially in supporting SMEs. Fitzgerald brings sales and leadership experience from the tech industry, having worked on utilising technology to enhance the capabilities of employees. Drawing on his past experience as an accountant, Fitzgerald also brings a deep understanding of the financial workings of a company as well as a passion for solving compliance-related issues for business. Speaking on his appointment, Fitzgerald said: "I believe that technology can be a game changer for companies of all sizes, and I look forward to leading Employment Hero’s growth in Asia by providing local businesses with the tools they need to effectively manage their workforce and succeed." Ben Thompson, CEO of Employment Hero, added: "We’re thrilled to welcome Kevin to the Employment Hero team and look forward to his contributions to the growth of our business in Asia. His extensive experience, combined with his passion for utilising technology to enhance employee capabilities, makes him the perfect fit for this role." Originally from Ireland, Fitzgerald has lived and worked in the UK, Australia, and now Singapore for the last five years. Most recently before joining Employment Hero, he was Chief Revenue Officer at Spenmo, and he has also tenured with Pavilion, Xero, and Robert Walters. Photo / Provided  share on Follow us on  Telegram and on Instagram @humanresourcesonline for all the latest HR and manpower news from around the region!  Related topics Free newsletter Get the daily lowdown on Asia's top Human Resources stories. We break down the big and messy topics of the day so you're updated on the most important developments in Asia's Human Resources development – for free. humanresourcesonline.net. is an online publication of Lighthouse Independent Media. ©  Lighthouse Independent Media. All rights reserved. Human Resources Online is not responsible for the content of external sites.