 The mining sector has put itself in a difficult position, underinvesting in new copper projects when copper demand is rising. The good news for those looking for a copper investment is that there are still a number of new copper projects in the works. One of these projects is the Warintza copper project in southeastern Ecuador. Warintza is a world-class large-scale resource with expansion and discovery potential. There have been four major discoveries since the project started and the Mineral Resource Estimate at the project has been expanded from earlier in 2022. Most recently, Canadian mining company Solaris Resources (TSX:SLS) (OTCQB:SLSSF), which owns Warintza, reported new assay results from a series of holes aimed at delineating resources at the Warintza East discovery. Highlights from the results are as follows: Warintza East was discovered in July 2021, with eight holes covering the overlapping periphery included in the Warintza Central Mineral Resource Estimate (“MRE”)¹ in April 2022. These follow-up drilling results significantly expand the drilled dimensions of the Warintza East footprint to the east and southwest, with the deposit remaining entirely open towards strong soil anomalism to the northeast and southeast. Warintza stands out in an environment where under-investment in new copper mines and exploration is jeopardizing the metal-intensive energy transition. Massive amounts of copper will be needed for everything from electric vehicles to renewable energy infrastructure. Companies have instead focused on expanding mines with stronger guarantees of shareholder returns, playing it safe, but in turn, neglecting to invest in new projects. This focus on short-term shareholder returns and paying out dividends or using cash for share buybacks has left the discoveries to junior mining companies that are developing some of the most promising projects in the world. New copper mines take decades to achieve commercial production, and only exploration being done at projects right now has a chance of coming online in time for it to make a difference for future production levels. Additionally, new discoveries have typically been of lower grades, making the Warintza Project an exceptional outlier in an environment when alarms are sounding for supply and demand dynamics. Lower grades ultimately make the copper more expensive to extract, but the potential for the high-grade “superpit” at Warintza is exactly what companies are looking for. The future of copper is bright, but only if we see more investments in new projects like Warintza. Solaris Resources is one of the few mining companies that is making such investments, and the prospects for the Warintza project look very promising.   I specialize in the mining industry, focusing on top global mining stocks. My reporting covers the latest industry news, company/project developments, and profiles of key players. With a degree in finance and economics from the University of Toronto, I've contributed to a wide range of industry publications. Beyond my professional pursuits, I have a keen interest in global business and a love for travel. Comments are closed. If you would like to receive our free newsletter via email, simply enter your email address below & click subscribe. Tweet with hash tag #miningfeeds or @miningfeeds and your tweets will be displayed across this site. August 19, 2024  August 15, 2024  August 16, 2024  August 15, 2024  August 14, 2024  You have reached your free article limit on MIningFeeds.com Create a free account in seconds and get access to: Terms & Conditions apply © 2024 MiningFeeds.com. All rights reserved.(This site is formed from a merger of Mining Nerds and Highgrade Review.)   
Email address: 


 

 You have successfully subscribed to the newsletter There was an error while trying to send your request. Please try again.