SUBSCRIBE Try 6 issues free Energy prices have dropped since the spring but are set to rise again in October when the new Ofgem energy price cap comes into effect. What will happen to gas and electricity bills later in 2024? 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Energy prices fell to their lowest level in almost three years during July but the good news looks likely to be short-lived, with bills set to rise in the autumn and winter months. The 28 million UK households sitting on the Ofgem energy price cap saw their gas and electricity bills fall by 7% on 1 July. This followed a drop of more than 12% on 1 April. It means that, until the end of September, the average annual bill for a home powered by a variable dual-fuel energy tariff will be around £400 a year (£33 a month) cheaper than it was at the start of 2024 at £1,568. If you're on a fixed tariff, your prices won't have changed. Subscribe to MoneyWeek today and get your first six magazine issues absolutely FREE Don't miss the latest investment and personal finances news, market analysis, plus money-saving tips with our free twice-daily newsletter Don't miss the latest investment and personal finances news, market analysis, plus money-saving tips with our free twice-daily newsletter But analysts at Cornwall Insight expect the price cap to rise in October. The Ofgem cap sets the maximum your energy supplier can charge you for unit rates (per kilowatt hour, or kWh) and standing charges. Your actual gas and electricity bill will depend on how much energy you use, meaning your costs could be higher or lower than the figures given by the regulator Ofgem. To ensure you pay the right amount for your energy, it's worth taking a meter reading at least once a month - or signing up for a smart meter. While many households will be pleased to see another reduction in their bills over the summer, experts predict that energy costs may rise again this autumn and winter. We've looked at the latest predictions about where energy bills are headed. According to the latest price cap predictions from energy consultancy Cornwall Insight, bills could rise significantly later in 2024. The company's analyses are respected given they have often proved to be accurate over the last three years. Cornwall's latest research, published on 19 August, suggests Ofgem's price cap could rise to £1,714 per year in October, pushing typical gas and electricity bills up by 9% from its current level. This is blamed on rising wholesale prices, the Russia-Ukraine war, supply issues and the UK's reliance on imported energy. It expects a "modest increase" again for the January to March 2025 cap but warns recent tensions in the Russia-Ukraine war could push prices up further. We will find out what the October to December cap is on 27 August. It will be based on a wholesale price assessment period that runs from 17 May to 17 August. Cornwall Insight has warned that its latest set of predictions mean another cost of living squeeze is on the way. Principal consultant, Dr Craig Lowrey, said: “This is not the news households want to hear when moving into the colder months. Following two consecutive falls in the cap, I’m sure many hoped we were on a steady path back to pre-crisis prices. However, the lingering impact of the energy crisis, has left us with a market that's still highly volatile and quick to react to any bad news on the supply front. “Despite this, while we don't expect a return to the extreme prices of recent years, it's unlikely that bills will return to what was once considered normal. Without significant intervention, this may well be the new normal." Lowrey has previously called on the next government to work on reforming the Ofgem price cap system. He added: “While long-term solutions are being developed, it's critical to focus on immediate strategies to manage energy bills. "Most political parties have proposed reforms to how energy bills are structured, with a review of standing charges front and centre. However any change to bills creates winners and losers, so we urge whoever is in government come 5th July to proceed with caution. Additionally, we would encourage greater discussion on other reforms, such as social tariffs, which could support the pursuit of lower bills over the following months and years. “Looking to long-term bill reduction, we've heard pledges about investing in wind farms, solar power, nuclear energy, and other renewable infrastructure from various parties. However, concrete details on the implementation of these plans are scarce. It's essential to be transparent with the public, these initiatives require substantial investment – and therefore cost - and time to come to fruition. While renewables are the path to sustainable bill reductions, it will take a long time for households to see these changes reflected in their bills.” Ofgem is currently consulting on the future of the energy price cap. It says the mechanism is likely to be unfit for the net zero age. Cornwall Insight has at least delivered some potential good news for the longer term. It recently said wholesale forecast trends presented a "ray of hope" for households. Its most recent quarterly 'Power Curve' forecast, which tracks the wholesale energy market's projected prices, estimates they will be 13% lower on average over the next 12 months. It means prices could come in 27% below the firm's last set of forecasts. This improved outlook came in the wake of the mildest European winter for five years. The energy consultancy estimates prices will remain relatively flat over the next three years, before beginning to drop away from 2028. By then, it expects improved gas supplies to be better supported by bolstered renewable energy output. However, it says wholesale prices are likely to remain well above averages seen from the last decade by 2031. Once inflation is taken into account, they could still be more than 10% above the most expensive prices from the late-2010s. Cornwall Insight puts this down to a continued European reliance on gas imports. "Tight margins for renewables developers combined with commodity prices staying comparatively high, mean substantial drops are unfortunately not currently on the cards," said the consultancy's senior modeller, Tom Edwards. “This period of relative stability does however provide a crucial window of opportunity. As we move forward, our forecasts show continued investment in renewable energy infrastructure is paramount. By diversifying our energy mix and continuing our drive for innovation, it is clear we can unlock a future where energy affordability becomes the norm, not a fleeting moment.” Energy customers pay a fixed daily charge covering the costs of being connected to a supply, such as cable and substation maintenance. The amount varies depending on where you live in Great Britain. There has been anger about charges going up - in many areas, the charge has doubled over the past two years - and the inability to reduce these fixed fees. At present, they mean you're paying around £334 a year (£369 for standard credit customers) before you've even used any energy. In April, Ofgem hiked the amount it allows suppliers to charge due to “increasing network costs”. The regulator recently conducted a consultation into the future of standing charges and said it is reviewing more than 40,000 responses. The outcome of this review could have a major impact on energy bills. Experts predict scrapping standing charges would see prices rise significantly. While everyone is seeing an increase in the amount they have to pay to cover the costs of the nation's energy infrastructure, Ofgem has brought standing charges for prepayment meters in line with the rest of the market. This move means the so-called 'prepayment premium' has ended for good, saving households with this type of meter £49 a year, while slightly increasing bills for direct debit customers. The government's Energy Price Guarantee had temporarily equalised standing charges, but expired in April. Since they made a comeback in July 2023, fixed energy deals have generally struggled to compete with the Ofgem energy price cap rate. However, experts have recommended that people urgently consider one ahead of the anticipated October price cap hike. Ben Gallizzi, comparison website Uswitch's energy expert, said: "The long-term outlook still remains very uncertain and it is expected that prices will remain at a similar level in the first quarter of next year. Households should therefore avoid being lulled into a false sense of security from falling energy bills this summer, as the reprieve will be relatively short-lived. “It’s important to prepare now for future price rises and consider locking in rates while there are competitive deals to choose from. There are plenty of 12-month fixed tariffs available that are cheaper than the predicted price cap for October, which can offer price certainty on what you’ll pay for a year and potentially help you save on your bills.” To help you keep energy bills low, we have gathered some top tips in our article looking at 13 ways to reduce your energy costs. If you're interested in the best ways to improve your energy efficiency and reduce costs, we explore: radiators vs electric heaters, heated airers vs tumble dryers, and wood burning stove vs central heating. Our team, led by award winning editors, is dedicated to delivering you the top news, analysis, and guides to help you manage your money, grow your investments and build wealth. Henry Sandercock has spent more than eight years as a journalist covering a wide variety of beats. Having studied for an MA in journalism at the University of Kent, he started his career in the garden of England as a reporter for local TV channel KMTV.   Henry then worked at the BBC for three years as a radio producer - mostly on BBC Radio 2 with Jeremy Vine, but also on major BBC Radio 4 programmes like The World at One, PM and Broadcasting House. Switching to print media, he covered fresh foods for respected magazine The Grocer for two years.   After moving to NationalWorld.com - a national news site run by the publisher of The Scotsman and Yorkshire Post - Henry began reporting on the cost of living crisis, becoming the title’s money editor in early 2023. He covered everything from the energy crisis to scams, and inflation. You will now find him writing for MoneyWeek. Away from work, Henry lives in Edinburgh with his partner and their whippet Whisper. 
What are the different pension fees you could be paying and what can you do if you're overpaying? Here's everything you need to know
 
By Harriet Meyer

Published 19 August 24

 
Japan's stock market crash could ultimately mean “lower prices and better valuations” for investors
 
By Alex Rankine

Published 19 August 24

 
Ulster Bank is offering savers the chance to earn 5.2% on their cash savings, but you need to act fast as easy access rates are falling. We have all the details
 
By Marc Shoffman

Last updated 8 January 24

 
Savings and investing app MoneyBox has boosted the rate on its cash ISA again, hiking it from 4.75% to 5% making it one of top rates. We have all the details.
 
By Ruth Emery

Published 3 October 23

 
NS&I Premium Bonds holders can check now to see if they have won a prize this month. We explain how to check your premium bonds
 
By Kalpana Fitzpatrick

Published 3 October 23

 
Two lucky NS&I Premium Bond winners are now millionaires this October. Find out here you are one of them
 
By Kalpana Fitzpatrick

Published 2 October 23

 
After almost 70 years of operating in the UK, one of India’s largest bank is shutting up shop in the UK retail banking market. We explain everything you need to know if you have savings or a current account with Bank of Baroda
 
By Vaishali Varu

Published 24 August 23

 
From credit cards and current accounts to cashback websites, there are plenty of ways to earn cashback on the money you spend
 
By Vaishali Varu

Last updated 15 August 24

 
Check the regulations governing pension savings carefully before you decide to retire abroad.
 
By David Prosser

Published 16 August 23

 
The CEO of John Lewis has said the retailer will consider introducing buy now, pay later initiatives for lower-priced items.
 
By Pedro Gonçalves

Published 15 August 23

 Moneyweek is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 