Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 A federal agency leading the investigation into the March explosion at a West Reading chocolate factory is at odds with the state commission that oversees utility services.The National Transportation Safety Board issued a statement Monday announcing it had removed the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission as a party to the investigation of the March 24 blast at an R.M. Palmer Co. plant that killed seven workers. The PUC was informed of the decision through a letter dated Monday.The NTSB has been leading the investigation into the fatal explosion, which initial findings have shown to be caused by a natural gas leak.According to the NTSB statement, the PUC has refused to provide information requested by the board. In particular, the PUC has not provided unredacted inspection and investigation reports pertaining to UGI Utilities Inc., the natural gas pipeline operator whose assets were involved in the explosion.“The NTSB has used the party system for decades as part of the agency’s investigative process, which allows the sharing of factual investigative information during the early phases of an investigation,” the federal agency’s statement reads. “This sharing of information is critical to a comprehensive and efficient investigation and ensures a party to an investigation has sufficient information to take any immediate actions necessary to ensure safety.”The statement goes on to say that federal regulations expressly authorize the NTSB to inspect any records related to an accident investigation and obligate any party to an investigation to provide any requested information related to an incident.“As a party, the PUC was required to comply with these regulations,” the statement reads.The NTSB said the PUC was designated as a party to the investigation based on its oversight of UGI as a natural gas pipeline operator in Pennsylvania, and because the PUC could provide qualified technical personnel who could actively assist in the NTSB investigation.

Officials from the PUC responded to the NTSB statement later Monday, saying in a statement of their own that they are not allowed to share the requested information.“The NTSB issued a subpoena to the PUC to obtain documents considered confidential security information, which we cannot legally release under state law,” the PUC statement said.The PUC statement says that the agency is committed to safety, including through collaboration with other investigative agencies. The statement says the PUC is continuing to explore resolutions to the disagreement with the NTSB, and that the matter had been referred to the Pennsylvania Office of Attorney General.The PUC statement says it has offered compromises but that so far the NTSB has not accepted any of them.“The PUC has given the NTSB options for inspecting the original unredacted reports at the PUC’s Harrisburg office or signing a nondisclosure agreement, as provided for under state law,” it reads. “The NTSB has refused — demanding instead that they be given copies of the full unredacted internal, nonpublic reports, which contain confidential security information.”The PUC statement says the commission is prohibited from turning over the unredacted information by Pennsylvania’s Public Utility Confidential Security Information Disclosure Protection Act — a state law that NTSB officials believe is preempted by federal law.“Pennsylvania public officials and/or government employees who release confidential security information face criminal penalties  — including imprisonment, fines and removal from office or loss of employment — and the PUC has strict policies and controls for handling confidential security information,” the statement says.The investigationThe NTSB has provided preliminary findings of its ongoing investigation of the explosion at the R.M. Palmer plant.A report released July 18 said a leak in a fitting on an out-of-use natural gas service line appears to be the cause of the explosion.The report — the second the NTSB has so far issued — blames a fitting known as a service tee for causing a leak that led to the fatal explosion.The service tee, which is a fitting used to make lateral connections, was installed in 1982. The service line that was connected to the service tee was retired by UGI in 2021 when the building’s natural gas meter was relocated from the basement to a spot on its exterior.However, the 1982 service tee remained connected to the natural gas system at full system pressure.The NTSB investigation found that the 1982 service tee had cracks that were leaking natural gas. Investigators said there was a small leak on the new service tee.The NTSB said the 1982 service tees were used from the late 1960s to the early 1980s, but they were added to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s list of materials with “poor performance histories relative to brittle-like cracking” in September 2007.The NTSB investigation doesn’t specify what is believed to have ignited the gas leak, but does offer some possibilities. It says that the leaking 1982 service tee was located near a steam line, a condensate line and several heated chocolate pipelines.Investigators saw general corrosion and a crack in the steam line.The NTSB investigation is ongoing. The July 18 report is noted to be preliminary and subject to change. The National Transportation Safety Board issued a statement Monday announcing it had removed the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission as a party to the investigation of the March 24 blast at an R.M. Palmer Co. plant that killed seven workers. The PUC was informed of the decision through a letter dated Monday. The NTSB has been leading the investigation into the fatal explosion, which initial findings have shown to be caused by a natural gas leak. According to the NTSB statement, the PUC has refused to provide information requested by the board. In particular, the PUC has not provided unredacted inspection and investigation reports pertaining to UGI Utilities Inc., the natural gas pipeline operator whose assets were involved in the explosion. “The NTSB has used the party system for decades as part of the agency’s investigative process, which allows the sharing of factual investigative information during the early phases of an investigation,” the federal agency’s statement reads. “This sharing of information is critical to a comprehensive and efficient investigation and ensures a party to an investigation has sufficient information to take any immediate actions necessary to ensure safety.” The statement goes on to say that federal regulations expressly authorize the NTSB to inspect any records related to an accident investigation and obligate any party to an investigation to provide any requested information related to an incident. “As a party, the PUC was required to comply with these regulations,” the statement reads. The NTSB said the PUC was designated as a party to the investigation based on its oversight of UGI as a natural gas pipeline operator in Pennsylvania, and because the PUC could provide qualified technical personnel who could actively assist in the NTSB investigation. Officials from the PUC responded to the NTSB statement later Monday, saying in a statement of their own that they are not allowed to share the requested information. “The NTSB issued a subpoena to the PUC to obtain documents considered confidential security information, which we cannot legally release under state law,” the PUC statement said. The PUC statement says that the agency is committed to safety, including through collaboration with other investigative agencies. The statement says the PUC is continuing to explore resolutions to the disagreement with the NTSB, and that the matter had been referred to the Pennsylvania Office of Attorney General. The PUC statement says it has offered compromises but that so far the NTSB has not accepted any of them. “The PUC has given the NTSB options for inspecting the original unredacted reports at the PUC’s Harrisburg office or signing a nondisclosure agreement, as provided for under state law,” it reads. “The NTSB has refused — demanding instead that they be given copies of the full unredacted internal, nonpublic reports, which contain confidential security information.” The PUC statement says the commission is prohibited from turning over the unredacted information by Pennsylvania’s Public Utility Confidential Security Information Disclosure Protection Act — a state law that NTSB officials believe is preempted by federal law. “Pennsylvania public officials and/or government employees who release confidential security information face criminal penalties  — including imprisonment, fines and removal from office or loss of employment — and the PUC has strict policies and controls for handling confidential security information,” the statement says. The NTSB has provided preliminary findings of its ongoing investigation of the explosion at the R.M. Palmer plant. A report released July 18 said a leak in a fitting on an out-of-use natural gas service line appears to be the cause of the explosion. The report — the second the NTSB has so far issued — blames a fitting known as a service tee for causing a leak that led to the fatal explosion. The service tee, which is a fitting used to make lateral connections, was installed in 1982. The service line that was connected to the service tee was retired by UGI in 2021 when the building’s natural gas meter was relocated from the basement to a spot on its exterior. However, the 1982 service tee remained connected to the natural gas system at full system pressure. The NTSB investigation found that the 1982 service tee had cracks that were leaking natural gas. Investigators said there was a small leak on the new service tee. The NTSB said the 1982 service tees were used from the late 1960s to the early 1980s, but they were added to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s list of materials with “poor performance histories relative to brittle-like cracking” in September 2007. The NTSB investigation doesn’t specify what is believed to have ignited the gas leak, but does offer some possibilities. It says that the leaking 1982 service tee was located near a steam line, a condensate line and several heated chocolate pipelines. Investigators saw general corrosion and a crack in the steam line. The NTSB investigation is ongoing. The July 18 report is noted to be preliminary and subject to change. Copyright © 2024 The Morning Call