newsPolitics By Allie Morris and Robert T. GarrettStaff Writers By Allie Morris and Robert T. Garrett Staff Writers 5:41 PM on Dec 28, 2022 CST AUSTIN – State regulators are investigating Atmos Energy for failing to deliver natural gas to North Texas residents during the recent cold snap. The Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates the oil and gas industry, said Wednesday it had launched a probe into what caused the low gas pressure that left an unknown number of customers without heat and other necessary appliances. It comes as Gov. Greg Abbott criticized the energy company’s actions as “unacceptable” and called on Attorney General Ken Paxton and Railroad Commission Chair Christi Craddick to take swift action. “It is apparent that Atmos Energy acted irresponsibly and was unprepared for the event,” wrote Abbott, a two-term Republican, in a pair of letters sent Wednesday. Get the latest politics news from North Texas and beyond. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy In a written statement released late Wednesday, Atmos Energy said it fell short for customers who experienced interruptions in gas service last week. The company provided no information about how many were affected or what caused the problems. “Though we worked to restore service as quickly and safely as possible, we apologize for that service disruption,” the company said. “We are committed to working with our regulators and key stakeholders to address those issues in order to provide reliable natural gas service to all our customers.” The problems began after an arctic blast swept into Texas last week and sent temperatures plummeting below freezing. On Friday, the cities of Grand Prairie and Arlington opened warming centers for residents experiencing very low natural gas pressures. In a news release issued Friday, the city of Grand Prairie said Atmos Energy tankers were injecting gas into the lines, but the network had not yet recovered. According to the Railroad Commission, Atmos reported that gas pressure had returned to normal as of early Friday afternoon. Grand Prairie Mayor Ron Jensen complained to WFAA-TV (Channel 8) that the gas supplier gave him false assurances supplies would be unaffected. “Atmos had told me — and I told my citizens — no worries,” Jensen said.  “Take care of our citizens,” he said. “Take care of your customers. Do what you say you’re going to do.” Abbott said many Atmos customers in North and central Texas went without natural gas needed to heat their homes for an “unacceptable time” and reportedly were unable to reach customer service representatives for help. “Atmos Energy, like all gas utility providers, has a duty to provide life-critical service to its customers,” he wrote Craddick and Paxton. During coordination calls with the Texas Energy Reliability Council, Abbott said, Atmos did not “properly communicate the extent of its failure and made no requests for assistance, which is the whole purpose of the council.” He urged the Railroad Commission, which regulates the state’s oil and gas industry, to take “concrete action” to ensure the issues are not “repeated the next time that winter weather engulfs our state.” A spokesperson said the commission launched an investigation on Tuesday by asking Atmos to provide a detailed account of the customers who lost service, explanations of what caused the low pressure and a plan to address the issues, among other things. During the cold snap, spokesperson Andrew Keese said the commission was in “immediate communication with Atmos and directed the company to quickly resolve the issue which included the company bringing in additional technicians to affected areas and adding call center staff to answer calls from impacted residents.” Paxton’s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Allie Morris, Austin Bureau Correspondent . Allie has covered Texas politics since 2017 and written about everything from tax policy to child protection. She previously worked for the San Antonio Express-News and in New Hampshire, as the statehouse reporter for the Concord Monitor.  Robert T. Garrett, Austin Bureau Chief. Bob has covered state government and politics for The Dallas Morning News since 2002. Earlier, he was a statehouse reporter for three newspapers, including the Dallas Times Herald. A fifth-generation Texan, Bob earned a bachelor’s degree from Harvard University. 