The Borough of Chambersburg has been working for nearly 25 years to replace 26 miles of cast iron pipes that have been carrying natural gas underground to customers for 100 years. It's an arduous task that requires digging up streets. There are just about five miles left to go, but until now it's been too expensive to replace them due to their location under state roads. A $5,227,953 grant will make it possible for the borough to carry out this final phase, so it can safely and efficiently serve its 6,000 customers for years to come. A representative from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, part of the U.S. Department of Transportation, was at Borough Hall on Tuesday to present a big check to town leaders. Authorized by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, the Natural Gas Distribution Infrastructure Safety and Modernization Grant Program will provide nearly $1 billion over five years to modernize high-risk natural gas distribution pipes owned by municipalities. Chambersburg is among 30 operators in 20 states to win $200 million in funding this year. "This is really quite unusual and we do thank you for it," Chambersburg Borough Council President Allen Coffman said, noting it's rare to get a grant this large with no match required. The grant came at the perfect time, as previous funding for pipe replacement is running out, Borough of Chambersburg Gas Superintendent John Leary said. Replacing these last miles of natural gas pipeline "will make those areas safer as well as enabling the customers in this area to continue to get low utility bills through continuing low price, environmentally friendly natural gas," he said. Not just warehouses:Pressure building as I-81 continues driving development in Franklin County Downtown revitalization:Is downtown Chambersburg 'more exciting' than ever? Here are the details There's been a "significant reduction in potential for methane release" since the borough started replacing the pipes, according to Leary. It also ensures downtown businesses have reliable service and serves historically disadvantaged parts of the borough. Chambersburg and Philadelphia are the only two municipalities in Pennsylvania that offer their own natural gas utility. It's estimated that borough customers pay 44% less for natural gas than the average private utility customer. Amber South can be reached at asouth@publicopinionnews.com.