LIVINGSTON COUNTY — On Friday, May 26, Attorney General Dana Nessel's Office announced it's taking legal action against Scott Schlicht and Schlicht Ponds on behalf of the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, due to the company’s repeated violations of environmental laws. The company constructs ponds for residences. It also advertises general excavation projects, pond design, construction and maintenance, as well as dredging of bottomlands within lakes, canals and streams in all Michigan counties. Several counties are included in the complaint, including Livingston, Genesee, Jackson, Macomb, Oakland, Roscommon and Washtenaw. Schlicht Ponds is accused of failing to secure a legally required permit from EGLE — or else obtaining the permit but violating its conditions. The company received multiple notices from EGLE but continued to commit violations. One of the violations in Livingston County happened in January 2018 at a residence in Pinckney. A permit was secured to dredge 222 cubic yards of sediment from Zukey Lake. In July, an EGLE inspector observed “suspended solids discharging outside of the permitted dredge area because of defendant’s (Schlicht Ponds’) failure to install a turbidity curtain to isolate the dredge area in Zukey Lake,” according to the official complaint. A violation notice was issued that August, but restoration work wasn't required. Not long before that, at a residence in Hartland, a permit was issued on Dec. 14, 2017, to dredge about 1,667 cubic yards of sediment from Bullard Lake. The following August, EGLE inspected the property and found unauthorized dredging of spoils placed in wetlands. EGLE also observed excavation of wetland above the ordinary high-water mark, causing enlargement of the lake. In September 2018, a violation notice and order to restore was issued to the resident and to Schlicht Ponds. EGLE worked with the resident over the next few months while he personally completed the restoration. Subscribe: Get all your breaking news and unlimited access to our local coverage Through the complaint, EGLE is seeking compliance with environmental law from Scott Schlicht and Schlicht Excavating Inc. — as well as statutory civil fines for what it says are numerous violations over a period of several years. EGLE is requesting the court impose “appropriate civil fines,” for the violations, as well as other relief, but does not state a specific monetary amount. — Contact reporter Tess Ware at tware@livingstondaily.com. Follow her on Twitter @Tess_journalist. This article originally appeared on Livingston Daily: AG files suit against company for legal violations, including in Livingston County New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.