Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition The Connecticut Lottery Corporation (CLC) is moving its headquarters and claims center to a new facility at 15 Sterling Drive in Wallingford.As part of the relocation, CT Lottery will maintain operations with a few planned interruptions.The last day for in-person claims at CT Lottery’s Rocky Hill office will be 8:30 a.m. – noon on Aug. 22. In-person claims at the new Wallingford headquarters are expected to begin the week of Aug. 28. The specific date will posted at www.CTLottery.org.During their brief closure period:
Prizes up to $599 may be claimed in-person at CT Lottery retailers or by mail.
Prizes up to $5,000 may be claimed in-person at High-Tier Claim Centers or by mail.
Prizes $5,001 – $49,999 may be claimed by mail or may be held until the CT Lottery’s Wallingford Headquarters is open for in-person claims.
Prizes $50,000 and above must be held until the CT Lottery’s Wallingford Headquarters is open for in-person claims.
For mail-in instructions, visit www.CTLottery.org/ClaimPrize.CT Lottery will also honor any winning claim that will expire during this brief closure period. Those prizes will only be processed by mail or in-person at the new headquarters and claims center in Wallingford. Prizes that expire during this brief closure period will not be paid by CT Lottery retailers or High-Tier Claim Centers.All claims made by mail should be mailed to CT Lottery’s new mailing address effective Aug. 21:CT Lottery Claims Department
15 Sterling Drive
Wallingford, CT 06492

 As part of the relocation, CT Lottery will maintain operations with a few planned interruptions. The last day for in-person claims at CT Lottery’s Rocky Hill office will be 8:30 a.m. – noon on Aug. 22. In-person claims at the new Wallingford headquarters are expected to begin the week of Aug. 28. The specific date will posted at www.CTLottery.org. During their brief closure period: For mail-in instructions, visit www.CTLottery.org/ClaimPrize. CT Lottery will also honor any winning claim that will expire during this brief closure period. Those prizes will only be processed by mail or in-person at the new headquarters and claims center in Wallingford. Prizes that expire during this brief closure period will not be paid by CT Lottery retailers or High-Tier Claim Centers. All claims made by mail should be mailed to CT Lottery’s new mailing address effective Aug. 21: CT Lottery Claims Department
15 Sterling Drive
Wallingford, CT 06492 Copyright © 2024 Hartford Courant