Nearly 200 countries have agreed to protect 30 percent of Earth's lands and oceans by 2030. The deal was reached early this morning at the UN Biodiversity Conference (COP15) in Montreal following two weeks of negotiations. The only holdouts to the deal were the US and the Vatican, though the Biden administration has a domestic plan to conserve 30 percent of US land and water by 2030. With the agreement, each participating country agrees to hitting over 20 environmental targets by the end of the decade. A key condition is the so-called 30x30 plan to protect at least 30 percent of land, inland water and coastal areas by 2030. That forms the basis of an international agreement similar to the 2015 Paris climate accord. Along with the protection of habitats, nations have pledged to reduce pesticide risks by 50 percent, reduce nutrient runoff from farms and the rate at which invasive species are introduced to ecosystems. The Plenary: Adoption of Decisions has officially started! 🌿Watch live in order to learn what is happening at #COP15 🌱🎥 : https://t.co/pl4ZsxsZ76 pic.twitter.com/p3Blysb4qm — UN Biodiversity (@UNBiodiversity) December 19, 2022 Nations now have eight years to stop the loss of biodiversity being driven by humans due rainforest destruction, species exploitation, pollution and more. Previous agreements, like the biodiversity targets set at Aichi, Japan in 2010, saw nations fail to achieve the goals set. This time, though, there's a monitoring framework to keep track of progress. In addition to protecting species, the draft COP15 agreement urges nations to recognize and respect "the rights of indigenous peoples and local communities, including over their traditional territories." However, Amnesty International wrote that the deal was a "missed opportunity to protect indigenous peoples' rights," as it didn't explicitly recognize their lands and territories as a separate category of conserved area. Another point of disagreement was between wealthy and poor countries over funds. Nations in South America and Africa that house the world's largest rainforests wanted assurances from rich countries that they'll receive money to battle poaching, illegal deforestation and other issues, according to The Washington Post. At one point in negotiations, delegates from developing countries walked out of on talks over funding issues. The agreement must "align the resources and the ambitions," said Columbia's environmental minister Susana Muhamad. The Democratic Republic of Congo's environment minister, Ève Bazaiba, added that "when it comes to fauna, we need to have the means to achieve this objective." The COP15 agreement follows a breakthrough deal at the COP27 climate conference, approving a climate damage fund for developing nations. How well the plan will be implemented remains to be seen, though. "While agreements are great, if we’re going to save life on Earth, now we have to roll up our sleeves and do it," the Center for Biological Diversity's Tanya Sanerib wrote. "The planet faces an extinction crisis like none ever before witnessed by humankind, with 28 percent of species across the global facing extinction." If you’re looking for an iPad that’s more affordable than cutting-edge, Amazon has the 2021 base model for only $199. This ninth-generation edition could be great for kids, seniors or anyone content with a perfectly solid tablet that forgoes the latest and greatest hardware. Right now, brand new subscribers can get Apple Music for free for three months instead of the usual one-month trial. Alphabet’s Waymo unveiled its sixth-generation Driver system on Monday with a more efficient sensor setup. Despite dropping the camera and LiDAR sensor counts, its new setup allegedly lowers costs while maintaining safety redundancies. Final Fantasy XVI at last has a PC release date. It will hit Steam and the Epic Games Store on September 17. Zoom can now handle one million simultaneous participants. This is after hundreds of thousands of people hopped on webinar calls to support Vice President Kamala Harris. Apple Podcasts on the web now allows you to do a whole lot more than just listen. Amazon's revived Echo Spot is back on sale, this time for $55. The Echo Show 5 and Echo Dot are on sale too. Gamescom 2024 is almost here. Exhibitors from over 60 countries will descend on Cologne, Germany, for what is now the industry’s biggest gaming event following E3’s demise. You can watch the opening-night showcase right here on Tuesday, August 20. Here is a list of the best PC games you can get right now, as chosen by Engadget editors. The biggest news stories this morning:   Fortnite returns to iOS, How to choose the best TV for gaming right now, Microsoft boosts Windows’ FAT32 partition size limit. Here's a guide to picking the best TVs for 4K gaming, plus a few of the best gaming TVs you can get right now. The US Department of Transportation has laid out a plan to deploy vehicle-to-everything tech across the country. The aim is to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries on America's roadways. X owner Elon Musk says that the company is shutting down operations in Brazil effective immediately. The company claims one of its legal representatives was threatened with arrest if it did not "comply with his censorship orders." In an Instagram story, Adam Mosseri has revealed that the app is testing a vertical grid for users' profiles. A recap of recent Engadget reviews, including our impressions of the Dyson OnTrac, Pixel 9 Pro Fold and Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. How to watch all of Xbox's Gamescom streams. All told, there are four events to check out. The company revealed that it did suffer a security breach wherein people's names, emails, addresses, phone numbers, social security numbers and mailing addresses had been stolen. A federal court granted an injunction against Fox-Disney-Warner's planned launch for Venu Sports. Google says the wording that was in a form sent out to Team Pixel members for device access "missed the mark" and has been removed. OpenAI says it thwarted an Iranian influence campaign that used ChatGPT to generate fake news stories and social posts in English and Spanish. In a blog post on Friday, the company wrote that it identified and banned accounts generating content for five websites pretending to be news outlets. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.