IKEA is launching a new interior design service that gives customers one-on-one assistance in decorating — and furnishing — their rooms. The product-centric company is moving further into service offerings, moving from putting the work in customer's hands with apps to letting "IKEA designers" take care of everything. IKEA says they’ll hold your hang through everything from picking out products to having them shipped over. It's also leveraging its ownership of TaskRabbit to link customers with DIY experts to put ordered furniture together when it arrives. Clearly, IKEA thinks everyone has gotten comfortable enough with video calls over the last few years, as everything is done digitally, but the process does seem pretty straightforward: It starts with a questionnaire on the IKEA USA site and then three one-on-one video calls. Customers get a mood board and initial plans for the space to align the vision, followed by a meeting to approve ideas and products. They come out of it with 3D renderings, a mood board, floor plan, drawings, a list of products and material options. IKEA already offers something similar for kitchens, with customers able to schedule an appointment for their kitchen to be measured and designed for free with an IKEA kitchen planner. Anyone living in the US can opt for an online meeting for this service, as well. The new interior design service does come at a cost, with meetings with an IKEA interior designer cost $99 per room for an individual and $299 per room for businesses. The prices aren't bad considering the average interior designer will cost anywhere between $50 and $500 per hour, according to Forbes. Though IKEA also profits from any furniture chosen with the interior designer and, while their offerings aren't designer prices, they can still add up to a sizeable bill. If you’re looking for an iPad that’s more affordable than cutting-edge, Amazon has the 2021 base model for only $199. This ninth-generation edition could be great for kids, seniors or anyone content with a perfectly solid tablet that forgoes the latest and greatest hardware. Right now, brand new subscribers can get Apple Music for free for three months instead of the usual one-month trial. Alphabet’s Waymo unveiled its sixth-generation Driver system on Monday with a more efficient sensor setup. Despite dropping the camera and LiDAR sensor counts, its new setup allegedly lowers costs while maintaining safety redundancies. Final Fantasy XVI at last has a PC release date. It will hit Steam and the Epic Games Store on September 17. Zoom can now handle one million simultaneous participants. This is after hundreds of thousands of people hopped on webinar calls to support Vice President Kamala Harris. Apple Podcasts on the web now allows you to do a whole lot more than just listen. Amazon's revived Echo Spot is back on sale, this time for $55. The Echo Show 5 and Echo Dot are on sale too. Gamescom 2024 is almost here. Exhibitors from over 60 countries will descend on Cologne, Germany, for what is now the industry’s biggest gaming event following E3’s demise. You can watch the opening-night showcase right here on Tuesday, August 20. Here is a list of the best PC games you can get right now, as chosen by Engadget editors. The biggest news stories this morning:   Fortnite returns to iOS, How to choose the best TV for gaming right now, Microsoft boosts Windows’ FAT32 partition size limit. Here's a guide to picking the best TVs for 4K gaming, plus a few of the best gaming TVs you can get right now. The US Department of Transportation has laid out a plan to deploy vehicle-to-everything tech across the country. The aim is to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries on America's roadways. X owner Elon Musk says that the company is shutting down operations in Brazil effective immediately. The company claims one of its legal representatives was threatened with arrest if it did not "comply with his censorship orders." In an Instagram story, Adam Mosseri has revealed that the app is testing a vertical grid for users' profiles. A recap of recent Engadget reviews, including our impressions of the Dyson OnTrac, Pixel 9 Pro Fold and Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. How to watch all of Xbox's Gamescom streams. All told, there are four events to check out. The company revealed that it did suffer a security breach wherein people's names, emails, addresses, phone numbers, social security numbers and mailing addresses had been stolen. A federal court granted an injunction against Fox-Disney-Warner's planned launch for Venu Sports. Google says the wording that was in a form sent out to Team Pixel members for device access "missed the mark" and has been removed. OpenAI says it thwarted an Iranian influence campaign that used ChatGPT to generate fake news stories and social posts in English and Spanish. In a blog post on Friday, the company wrote that it identified and banned accounts generating content for five websites pretending to be news outlets. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.