After Elon Musk finalized his purchase of Twitter last October, Mark Zuckerberg's Meta reportedly began working on a social media platform of its own, codenamed Project 92. During a company-wide meeting on Thursday, Meta chief product officer Chris Cox showed off a set UI mock-ups to the assembled employees, which were promptly leaked online. The project's existence was first officially confirmed in March when the company told reporters, "We're exploring a standalone decentralized social network for sharing text updates. We believe there's an opportunity for a separate space where creators and public figures can share timely updates about their interests." A set of design images shared internally in May were leaked online as well. The new platform, which Cox referred to as “our response to Twitter,” will be a standalone program, based on Instagram and integrating ActivityPub, the same networking protocol that powers Mastodon. The leaked images include a shot of the secure sign in screen; the main feed, which looks suspiciously like Twitter's existing mobile app; and the reply screen. There's no word yet on when the app will be available for public release. “We’ve been hearing from creators and public figures who are interested in having a platform that is sanely run, that they believe that they can trust and rely upon for distribution,” Cox said, per a Verge report. Celebrities including Oprah and the Dalai Lama have both reportedly been attached to the project. A24’s hilarious-looking Y2K has teens battling ancient computers and bloodthirsty Tamagotchis. The trailer for Kyle Mooney’s feature film is a retro-soaked good time. It's Gamescom time! Follow along with Senior Reporter Jessica Conditt, Contributing Reporter Kris Holt and Executive Editor Aaron Souppouris Valve is kicking Counter-Strike players out of matches if they use a feature found on some Razer and Wooting keyboards. Anova will soon charge customers to use its sous vide app, because everything must be a subscription. The company’s also removing Wi-Fi and Bluetooth functionality from its first-generation cookers. To aid those who could use some help winding down, we’ve rounded up a few games that purposefully deemphasize aggression but aren’t overly cute or so stripped-down that they’re boring. Apple's M2-powered iPad Air has dropped to its lowest price to date. You can pick up one with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage for $729. Waymo's self-driving cars have finally stopped honking at each other in the middle of the night. A game developer called Amazing Seasun Games is demonstrating NVIDIA's Avatar Cloud Engine (ACE) technology through its upcoming multiplayer mecha game Mecha BREAK at Gamescom this year. xMEMS's new micro-cooling chip could bring active cooling to any device. Here's a list of the best games for Nintendo Switch and Nintendo Switch Lite, from A to Z trigger, as chosen by Engadget editors. Lucasfilm has decided not to renew The Acolyte for a second season, according to Deadline and Variety. The biggest news stories this morning:   The 22 best PC games you can play right now, Apple Podcasts gets a web interface, X closes its operations in Brazil. The next entry in the Pacific Rim franchise could be an origin story for the universe, set before the events of the 2013 film by Guillermo del Toro. If you’ve ever browsed Razer’s selection of gaming peripherals and thought, “You guys need to step up your RGB game,” HP has just the accessory for you. The company’s newest HyperX microphone, unveiled on Tuesday at Gamescom, has over 100 LEDs for “a stunning visual” with “energetic style.” Here's the latest list of the best laptop for college and university students, as reviewed by experts from Engadget. If you’re looking for an iPad that’s more affordable than cutting-edge, Amazon has the 2021 base model for only $199. This ninth-generation edition could be great for kids, seniors or anyone content with a perfectly solid tablet that forgoes the latest and greatest hardware. Right now, brand new subscribers can get Apple Music for free for three months instead of the usual one-month trial. Alphabet’s Waymo unveiled its sixth-generation Driver system on Monday with a more efficient sensor setup. Despite dropping the camera and LiDAR sensor counts, its new setup allegedly lowers costs while maintaining safety redundancies. Final Fantasy XVI at last has a PC release date. It will hit Steam and the Epic Games Store on September 17. Zoom can now handle one million simultaneous participants. This is after hundreds of thousands of people hopped on webinar calls to support Vice President Kamala Harris. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.