    Farm management software provider FarmIQ is shedding 25% of its workforce and adopting a new operating model to boost revenue. The revamp will also see chief executive Will Noble leave the company in August. Owned by Pamu, Silver Fern Farms, Farmlands Co-operative, MSD, Vet-Ent and AgResearch, FarmIQ is map-based farm management software used by over 3,500 farms. Noble says that while the company has achieved subscriber growth, it has been slower than anticipated. He puts this down to farmer sentiment. "Farmers have had a terrifically difficult 12-18 months and in times of uncertainty many delay purchasing decisions," he told Rural News. Prior to the decision to reorganise FarmIQ employed 69 people. "Through a combination of disestablishments and not filling positions that were, or beame, vacant the headcount has reduced by about 25%," explains Noble. He says a price review isn't on the cards. "However, our product and marketing team is reviewing the structure of our packs with a view to encourage increased subscription uptake," he says. At the same time, major shareholder Pamu has agreed to provide support in ancillary areas such as corporate services, human resources, and finance. The state farmer's newly appointed chief technology & digital officer, Tammy Lemire is joining the FarmIQ board. Noble will be replaced by chief operating officer, Gavin McEwen, who assumed the role of executive general manager leading the business under the new model and reporting to the board. Noble says FarmIQ plays a critical role in many farming businesses. "Over the past three years, we've implemented a tremendous amount of change to modernise the ten-year-old FarmIQ infrastructure. "In addition, we've released our new field app built on entirely new technology with enhanced online and offline functionality and acquired farm modelling programme Farmax in a partnership with AgResearch." Noble adds that during the same period, the FarmIQ team has built modern API infrastructure powering integrations with companies such as NZ Merino, ANZCO, TracMap, OSPRI/NAIT. He points out that like other agri-supply businesses, FarmIQ has faced revenue headwinds for more than a year. As a result, they are joining several other firms in their industry currently reducing staff numbers as farmers close their wallets to cope with massive regulatory change, uncertainty, increased input costs, geopolitical uncertainty, volatile farm gate prices, and repeat extreme weather events. The new chairman of state farmer Landcorp (Pāmu) John Rae says the business is a unique asset.
 The new chairman of state farmer Landcorp (Pāmu) John Rae says the business is a unique asset. New Zealand's leadership on sustainability is the 'goldmine' that has to be unlocked, says Silver Fern Farms (SFF) chief executive Dan Boulton.
 New Zealand's leadership on sustainability is the 'goldmine' that has to be unlocked, says Silver Fern Farms (SFF) chief executive Dan Boulton. Farmlands shareholders have re-elected sitting directors Dawn Sangster and Gray Baldwin for another three-year term.
 Farmlands shareholders have re-elected sitting directors Dawn Sangster and Gray Baldwin for another three-year term. More than 200 working dogs from Pamu farms around the country are the first to provide their DNA to Massey University for a project to protect the future of the New Zealand working dog breeds.
 More than 200 working dogs from Pamu farms around the country are the first to provide their DNA to Massey University for a project to protect the future of the New Zealand working dog breeds. Rural trader Farmlands is expanding its footprint in the North Island.
 Rural trader Farmlands is expanding its footprint in the North Island. Entries for the 2024 Sustainable Business Awards are now open, with new categories. Taranaki Regional Council is working to eradicate pest plants from 570 sites around the region – about three times as many as six years ago. Agricultural and environmental consultant, Louis Batley, has been named as the FarmIQ Systems Emerging Rural Professional of the Year for 2024, the top contender in a field of highly impressive and talented nominees. Climate Change Minister Simon Watts says updates to the New Zealand Emission Trading Scheme have been made to ensure New Zealand has a more credible market. The Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) is expanding a scholarship programme for tertiary students as part of its efforts to boost on-the-ground support for farmers and growers. Dairy farmers are set to vote next month on three candidates for two board seats. Visit archives  OPINION: If you're wondering where the extreme rhetoric of the Maori Party, with tacit approval from our chinless media, leads… OPINION: Rural services such as banks, health and postal services have been declining for years, so this mutt was tickled… RSS FacebookTwitter  Copyright - © 2024 RuralNewsGroup. All Rights Reserved.