Here's a top pick of restaurants, bars and pubs around Newcastle where you can enjoy a summer season of boozy brunches including a new one-off option for this Saturday Get the latest news from Newcastle straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Newcastle straight to your inbox We have more newsletters From chic cocktails served under garlands of wisteria to a 'mad' event including fishbowls of drinks served with 'council tapas' snacks, Newcastle boasts a constantly-evolving bottomless brunch scene. You may have thought you'd tried every version going of the bottomless brunch but new options, including twists on the original idea, are always popping up. The Mad House cocktail bar in the city centre, for instance, has come up with that fishbowl and homely finger food brunch combo while this weekend sees Victors on Newcastle Quayside add a one-off brunch to the mix. Read more: 10 hidden Newcastle bars And the flowery bar's own bottomless options include sushi rolls and Social Butterfly cocktails. Themed bottomless brunches also have become hugely popular around Newcastle - and there have been various imaginative themes including Mean Girls and Lady Gaga drag events and even ones served in the buff, while a previous survey has listed the top bottomless brunches for students. Below are details of a range of options around Newcastle if you're looking for some bottomless action. Plus there are links to all the venues so you can check out serving times as well as any vegetarian, vegan and non-alcoholic alternatives plus booking information. Hard Rock Cafe The rock restaurant on Newcastle Quayside, which recently hosted a nineties-theme Bottomless Britpop Brunch featuring local indie band The National Anthems, now offers a regular bottomless brunch with drink choices of prosecco, wine - red, white or rose - plus Coors light and Strongbow cider including the dark fruits version, to accompany a two-course meal. For a starter, you can have nachos, chicken wings or bruschetta while mains include mac 'n' cheese, chilli con carne, burgers, pulled pork sandwich and grilled chicken salad. It's served between noon and 4pm daily and 90-minute slot cost £35 per person. There's a choice to upgrade drinks to cocktails for £10. See the whole menu here and for more about Hard Rock Cafe, which opened in 2021, see here. The Mad House  Ok, so turkey dinosaurs, fishfingers and, er, baked beans might not normally spring to mind when you're considering brunch options but then this is not your usual city cocktail bar. The Pink Lane venue, which is billed as 'funky, quirky and full of surprises', describes the food options on its bottomless brunch menu as 'council tapas'. And that apparently means chicken nuggets, Smilies and fries are on the platter too. Drinks-wise, there's prosecco, lager and cocktails and the latter - which include unlimited pornstar martini, espresso martini, Mad Island iced tea or its own 'infamous' strawberry duckari and aperol spiritz - come served in fishbowls. Bottomless fishbowls, just imagine it. The cost of the 90-minute brunch, which is served on Friday tea-times and any time between noon and 4pm at weekends, is £34.95 for 90 minutes. Adding to the bar's quirky attractions are its range of seating areas - the venue is laid out like a house with a kitchen, living room, bedroom and garden - so customers can sit on a toilet; at a table made from a bath or perhaps in a sandpit surrounded by swings. To book see here. Victors  Further along the quayside, this Asian-inspired restaurant dripping with florals and glamour - which opened last year, as one of just four branches in the UK - is getting into the bottomless brunch act for the Bank Holiday weekend with a one-off event this Saturday, May 27. Brunch will be served on its new Wisteria Terrace (wisteria trees are its trademark) with a choice of sittings at noon, 2pm or 4pm. The offer, costing £40, is of two small plates from a pick of its popular dishes making up The Hamptons Brunch special menu - which include the likes of popcorn chicken, shrimp tempura sushi rolls, avocado hummus and Spanish padron peppers - plus a choice from three drink options to enjoy over a 90-minute session, which will be accompanied by a backdrop of live entertainment including DJs. The bottomless drinks options are endless glasses of prosecco, bellinis or Victors’ best-seller Social Butterfly cocktail which is a mix of gin, poppy liqueur, lemon juice and rose syrup, topped with prosecco. To book see here. The Forth Hotel Traditional pubs are now in on the bottomless brunch act too and among them is this classic-meets-contemporary favourite in Pink Lane, just up from Central Station. In an environment of exposed brickwork, local artwork, chandeliers and cosy open fires (not to mention its hidden-away courtyard roof terrace), the pub's customers can enjoy brunches at weekends which offer something a bit different. Besides prosecco, the limited drinks options over the 90-minute booking sessions include Bloody Mary cocktails and Camden Hells lager for those in need of sterner stuff and these can go down a treat with a pick from traditional breakfasts, including a full vegetarian or vegan version, or how about Belgian Waffles with fresh berries and maple syrup? The cost is £25 per person: see here. Revolucion de Cuba Offering a Cuban twist on brunch, the restaurant-bar off the Cloth Market invites people, for £30, to pick a dish, add a side of patatas bravas and mix and match bottomless drinks to their hearts' desire and that means Strawberry Daiquiri, prosecco; Mimosa; Cuban Iced Tea; San Miguel; Disaronno Fizz or Aperol Spritz - or a mix of all, presumably not in the same glass, over 90 happy minutes. Those food choices are just as varied and interesting such as an avocado brunch; breakfast burrito; a Cuban take on Eggs Benedict - think pulled pork in a citrus-and-garlic mojo marinade and mustard and smoky paprika alongside the eggs and Hollandaise - plus chorizo or halloumi hash. Full breakfasts options are on the menu too too as well as a Churros Tower of American-style pancakes loaded churros ad sweet extras. Check it all out here.  Turtle Bay A two-hour brunch this one and for £32.50 you'll be spoiled for choice at the vibrant Caribbean restaurant in Newgate Street which is renowned for its fiery favourites, comfort food hot pots and huge range of cocktails. And an unlimited number of those cocktails - about 20 to pick from - are on offer for those two hours alongside options such as fizz and Red Stripe. The food choice includes any breakfast, brunch, burger or roti dish - and adding extra interest on those main breakfasts are the likes of jerk chicken, sauces, curried chickpeas and jerk bacon. There's an enormous selection on the menu but check carefully as it points out that some dishes do include a small supplement. See the menu here. Pitcher & Piano With its cracking views of the Tyne and river front, the quayside restaurant-bar is already enough to tempt and its bottomless brunch should do the rest with a £34 menu, available at weekends, offering a pick of brunch dishes and bottomless options of prosecco, bellini, mimosa, aperol spritz or pints of Amstel. There's the likes of hash brown nachos and breakfast brioche alongside full English - plus a veggie version - and avocado, houmous, tomatoes, eggs and chilli flakes on sourdough. And here's something else interesting - although it will cost £6 more. To end on a sweet note you can add a strawberry and prosecco ice cream bar, which is dipped in white chocolate, strawberries, meringue pieces and redberry coulis. See the menu here and if all that floats your boat book here. Banyan Free-flowing drinks to accompany the popular £34.95 brunch on offer at this city centre restaurant-bar include an interesting-sounding Poached Pear Spritz and Apricot and Grapefruit Fizz alongside other cocktails, prosecco and Coors. The non-alcoholic cocktail options sound pretty tempting too. As for the accompanying food, choices include breakfast hash and French toast or if you want to up the ante for a fiver more there are other options such as Alpine Chicken Shnitzel and Rustic Ciabatta Steak Melt. Read more here. Twenty Twenty With a name taken from its range of 20 cocktails and 20-inch pizza, the Bigg Market restaurant's offer includes sharing one of those giant pizzas plus popcorn to soak up 90 minutes of bottomless prosecco, pints (Budweiser or Appleshed Cider) or Mimosa or Bellini. The cost is £29.95, with a choice of a bottomless cocktail upgrade for £10. See here. For the latest What's On news, announcements and reviews direct to your inbox, go here to sign up to our free newsletter Read Next See final preparations at Frate as Newcastle's 'hidden' container village prepares for Bank Holiday visitors 10 places to enjoy a brunch Newcastle Cathedral to host a Gin & Rum Festival  Guide to North East distilleries Top Newcastle rooftop bars 