e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 The High Plains and Clearview library districts as well as the Loveland Public Library offer a variety of programs and activities for all ages.Check out this list of library events for the week of April 1-7.Clearview LibraryCheck out the game behind the new Dungeons & Dragons movie at noon Saturday at the Windsor-Severance Library, 720 Third St., Windsor. Teens ages 12-18 are invited to come and learn the rules and skills of the popular interactive game. Registration is required to attend and can be done by going to http://bit.ly/3lR6p4E.Pick up some new reading materials for the week when the bookmobile makes a stop at 3 p.m. Monday at Harmony Ridge, 36181 Kingswood Drive, Windsor. All ages are welcome to come out and see what the bookmobile has to offer.Family Bingo: Earth Day is set for 3:30 p.m. Monday at the cafeteria at Range View Elementary School, 700 Ponderosa Drive in Severance. The family-friendly event is open to families with children of all ages. Prizes will be awarded to winners. Registration is required. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3KeybjR.The bookmobile is scheduled to make a stop at 4:30 p.m. Tuesday at 55 Resort Apartments at Water Valley, 500 Apex Drive, Windsor. All ages are welcome to come and see what materials the bookmobile has to offer.Windsor Family STEAM Hour will take place at 4 p.m. Wednesday at Grandview Elementary School, 1583 Grand Ave., Windsor. The event welcomes families with children of all ages for a fun hour of exploring tech toys and STEAM activities. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/430XdLQ.Foster the love of reading in children by attending Imagine Stories Together at 6 p.m. Wednesday online. The group will be reading the book, “Rump: The True Story of Rumpelstiltskin” by Liesl Shurtliff. Kits for the program will be available for pick up upon registration. For more information, or to register, go to http://bit.ly/3nxLN1C.

Teens ages 12-18 are invited to join the library’s Teen Advisory Group is scheduled to meet at 6 p.m. Thursday in the Teen Tower at the library, 720 Third St., Windsor. The group will help plan special programs, collaborate with peers and give feedback and suggestions to library staff. Registration is required to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/432pPo3.Wrap up the week on a fun note by attending the library’s Family Art Challenge at 4 p.m. on the library’s Facebook page. The event will have families working together to create a piece of art that will be displayed in the library. This month’s challenge is to make your own board game. Art kits are available for pick up upon registration. For more information, or to register, go to http://bit.ly/3zhjCqA.High Plains LibraryHead on over to the Kersey Library for a storytime at 11:30 a.m. Saturday at 332 Third St. Attendees can enjoy books, songs and a craft together for a fun start to the weekend. Registration is required to attend and can be done by going to http://bit.ly/3lP3B82.Have you penned some poetry? Then drop off your work at the Farr Library to celebrate National Poetry Month. Patrons of all ages and skill levels are welcome to bring in their sonnets, epics, haikus and any other poetry anytime during the week for a chance to win a prize from the library. The Farr Regional Library is located at 1939 61st St., Greeley. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3lRaQMQ.Riverside Tales for Tots is scheduled for 9:30 a.m. Monday at the Riverside Library and Cultural Center, 3700 Golden St., Evans. The program is designed for children ages 18-months to 3 years and their caregivers and will include books, songs and movements that develop early literacy skills. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact Ellen at (888) 861-7323.Farr Tales for Tots Storytime will take place at 9:30 a.m. Tuesday at the Farr Regional Library, 1939 61st St., Greeley. The program is designed for children ages 18-months to 3 years and their caregivers and will include stories, songs, plays and more to help foster an early love of reading. Registration is not required, however space is limited to the first 30 attendees. For more information, contact Audrey at (888) 861-7323.Get a jump on retirement by attending Understanding Social Security Choices at 6 p.m. Tuesday at the Centennial Park Library, 2227 23rd Ave., Greeley. The program will discuss how to increase benefits, how Social Security is determined, taxation and more. All ages are welcome to attend. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact Bethany at (888) 861-7323.Registration is open for the Short Story Discussion Club, set for 6:20 p.m. Tuesday online. The group, open to adults age 18 and older, will start out with a reading of a short story before getting into an engaging discussion about the piece. Participants will receive a link to the short story and meeting upon registration. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3M32zQI.Centennial Park Twinkle Babies is scheduled for 9:30 a.m. Wednesday at the Centennial Park Library, 2227 23rd Ave., Greeley. The program is designed for little ones ages birth to 18-months and their caregivers. Participants will learn songs, listen to stories and take part in activities that promote healthy development. Registration is required to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3nw8VxJ.The bookmobile is scheduled to make a stop at Briggsdale School at 1:30 p.m. Wednesday at 515 Leslie St. All ages are invited to come and see what the bookmobile has to offer.Children of all ages are invited to attend the Riverside Snack Club at 4 p.m. Wednesday at the Riverside Library and Cultural Center, 3700 Golden St., Evans. Attendees will have a chance to play games, listen to stories from other cultures and try new snacks. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact Ellen at (888) 861-7323.Kevin Cook is back with a brand new series called Kevin Cook — Alive in Colorado! at noon Thursday at the Farr Regional Library, 1939 61st Ave., Greeley. The program is open to all ages and registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact the library at (888) 861-7323.Get help sprucing up your resume at the Resume Writing Workshop hosted by the Centennial Park Library at 6 p.m. Thursday at 2227 23rd Ave., Greeley. Adults age 18 and older can get help with creating a resume, cover letter as well as some tips and tricks to helping make your resume stand out. Registration is required and can be done by going to http://bit.ly/40IXsJl.Cap off a long week by attending the Farr Family Storytime at 10:30 a.m. Friday at the Farr Regional Library, 1939 61st Ave., Greeley. The program, designed for children ages 3-5 years and their caregivers, will feature stories, songs, plays and music. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact Audrey at (888) 861-7323.Students in grades 3-5 are invited to register for Beyond the Classroom: Fractal Fun, set for 2 p.m. Friday at the Centennial Park Library, 2227 23rd Ave., Greeley. The program will help students explore fractals, or repeating patterns, through building and creating different multimedia designs. For more information, or to register, go to http://bit.ly/40LHYo8.Loveland Public LibraryAll Ages Virtual Storytime is scheduled for 10 a.m. Monday on the library’s Facebook pages and YouTube channel. The program is designed for children of all ages and will feature stories, songs and activities. Registration is not required to view the program. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3TUWjMH.CSU Master Gardeners will take place at noon Monday in the Gertrude Scott Meeting Room at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. Susan Bonsall will be presenting a discussion on low water vegetable gardening. Registration is not required and all ages are welcome to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3G3fPAN.Book Chat: Let’s Talk Books will take place at 4:30 p.m. Monday at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program, designed for teens ages 11-17, will allow participants to choose a book and discuss their thoughts with a teen librarian. Registration is not required to participate in the program. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/40nHLre.Baby and Toddler Storytime is set for 11 a.m. Tuesday at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program helps foster early literacy skills in little ones ages birth to 3 years through stories, rhymes, music and more. Registration is not required, however, space will be limited to first come/first served. For more  information, go to http://bit.ly/3zhm6W0.Join the library for Wildlife Window with Kevin Cook at 10 a.m. Wednesday in the Gertrude Scott Meeting Room at 300 N. Adams Ave. The program will feature a presentation on how encounters with wildlife enrich our daily lives. All ages are welcome to attend the presentation and registration is not required. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3MiO0Zt.Kids ages 4 and older are invited to attend the library’s Brickmasters meeting at 3:30 p.m. Wednesday at 300 N. Adams Ave. The group will use the library’s collection of LEGOs to build unique structures that will remain on display all month. Registration is not required to participate in the event. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3Zq6Al9.Join Miss Claudeth for a bilingual storytime at 11 a.m. Thursday at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program will feature books, stories, music and plays in both English and Spanish for children ages birth to 5 years and their caregivers. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/40F5cfo.Waggin’ Tales will take place at 4 p.m. Thursday in the Children’s area at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program pairs youngsters with a licensed therapy dog and its owner to practice reading skills. Registration is required and can be done 30 minutes prior to the start of the program. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3Zr5ANu.Expand your computer skills by attending Excel Basics at 1 p.m. Friday in the iLearn Classroom at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program, open to adults age 18 and older, will teach attendees about the program’s interface, entering data, selecting and sorting data and more. Registration is required to participate in the program. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3TUudRx. Check out this list of library events for the week of April 1-7. Check out the game behind the new Dungeons & Dragons movie at noon Saturday at the Windsor-Severance Library, 720 Third St., Windsor. Teens ages 12-18 are invited to come and learn the rules and skills of the popular interactive game. Registration is required to attend and can be done by going to http://bit.ly/3lR6p4E. Pick up some new reading materials for the week when the bookmobile makes a stop at 3 p.m. Monday at Harmony Ridge, 36181 Kingswood Drive, Windsor. All ages are welcome to come out and see what the bookmobile has to offer. Family Bingo: Earth Day is set for 3:30 p.m. Monday at the cafeteria at Range View Elementary School, 700 Ponderosa Drive in Severance. The family-friendly event is open to families with children of all ages. Prizes will be awarded to winners. Registration is required. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3KeybjR. The bookmobile is scheduled to make a stop at 4:30 p.m. Tuesday at 55 Resort Apartments at Water Valley, 500 Apex Drive, Windsor. All ages are welcome to come and see what materials the bookmobile has to offer. Windsor Family STEAM Hour will take place at 4 p.m. Wednesday at Grandview Elementary School, 1583 Grand Ave., Windsor. The event welcomes families with children of all ages for a fun hour of exploring tech toys and STEAM activities. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/430XdLQ. Foster the love of reading in children by attending Imagine Stories Together at 6 p.m. Wednesday online. The group will be reading the book, “Rump: The True Story of Rumpelstiltskin” by Liesl Shurtliff. Kits for the program will be available for pick up upon registration. For more information, or to register, go to http://bit.ly/3nxLN1C. Teens ages 12-18 are invited to join the library’s Teen Advisory Group is scheduled to meet at 6 p.m. Thursday in the Teen Tower at the library, 720 Third St., Windsor. The group will help plan special programs, collaborate with peers and give feedback and suggestions to library staff. Registration is required to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/432pPo3. Wrap up the week on a fun note by attending the library’s Family Art Challenge at 4 p.m. on the library’s Facebook page. The event will have families working together to create a piece of art that will be displayed in the library. This month’s challenge is to make your own board game. Art kits are available for pick up upon registration. For more information, or to register, go to http://bit.ly/3zhjCqA. Head on over to the Kersey Library for a storytime at 11:30 a.m. Saturday at 332 Third St. Attendees can enjoy books, songs and a craft together for a fun start to the weekend. Registration is required to attend and can be done by going to http://bit.ly/3lP3B82. Have you penned some poetry? Then drop off your work at the Farr Library to celebrate National Poetry Month. Patrons of all ages and skill levels are welcome to bring in their sonnets, epics, haikus and any other poetry anytime during the week for a chance to win a prize from the library. The Farr Regional Library is located at 1939 61st St., Greeley. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3lRaQMQ. Riverside Tales for Tots is scheduled for 9:30 a.m. Monday at the Riverside Library and Cultural Center, 3700 Golden St., Evans. The program is designed for children ages 18-months to 3 years and their caregivers and will include books, songs and movements that develop early literacy skills. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact Ellen at (888) 861-7323. Farr Tales for Tots Storytime will take place at 9:30 a.m. Tuesday at the Farr Regional Library, 1939 61st St., Greeley. The program is designed for children ages 18-months to 3 years and their caregivers and will include stories, songs, plays and more to help foster an early love of reading. Registration is not required, however space is limited to the first 30 attendees. For more information, contact Audrey at (888) 861-7323. Get a jump on retirement by attending Understanding Social Security Choices at 6 p.m. Tuesday at the Centennial Park Library, 2227 23rd Ave., Greeley. The program will discuss how to increase benefits, how Social Security is determined, taxation and more. All ages are welcome to attend. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact Bethany at (888) 861-7323. Registration is open for the Short Story Discussion Club, set for 6:20 p.m. Tuesday online. The group, open to adults age 18 and older, will start out with a reading of a short story before getting into an engaging discussion about the piece. Participants will receive a link to the short story and meeting upon registration. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3M32zQI. Centennial Park Twinkle Babies is scheduled for 9:30 a.m. Wednesday at the Centennial Park Library, 2227 23rd Ave., Greeley. The program is designed for little ones ages birth to 18-months and their caregivers. Participants will learn songs, listen to stories and take part in activities that promote healthy development. Registration is required to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3nw8VxJ. The bookmobile is scheduled to make a stop at Briggsdale School at 1:30 p.m. Wednesday at 515 Leslie St. All ages are invited to come and see what the bookmobile has to offer. Children of all ages are invited to attend the Riverside Snack Club at 4 p.m. Wednesday at the Riverside Library and Cultural Center, 3700 Golden St., Evans. Attendees will have a chance to play games, listen to stories from other cultures and try new snacks. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact Ellen at (888) 861-7323. Kevin Cook is back with a brand new series called Kevin Cook — Alive in Colorado! at noon Thursday at the Farr Regional Library, 1939 61st Ave., Greeley. The program is open to all ages and registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact the library at (888) 861-7323. Get help sprucing up your resume at the Resume Writing Workshop hosted by the Centennial Park Library at 6 p.m. Thursday at 2227 23rd Ave., Greeley. Adults age 18 and older can get help with creating a resume, cover letter as well as some tips and tricks to helping make your resume stand out. Registration is required and can be done by going to http://bit.ly/40IXsJl. Cap off a long week by attending the Farr Family Storytime at 10:30 a.m. Friday at the Farr Regional Library, 1939 61st Ave., Greeley. The program, designed for children ages 3-5 years and their caregivers, will feature stories, songs, plays and music. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, contact Audrey at (888) 861-7323. Students in grades 3-5 are invited to register for Beyond the Classroom: Fractal Fun, set for 2 p.m. Friday at the Centennial Park Library, 2227 23rd Ave., Greeley. The program will help students explore fractals, or repeating patterns, through building and creating different multimedia designs. For more information, or to register, go to http://bit.ly/40LHYo8. All Ages Virtual Storytime is scheduled for 10 a.m. Monday on the library’s Facebook pages and YouTube channel. The program is designed for children of all ages and will feature stories, songs and activities. Registration is not required to view the program. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3TUWjMH. CSU Master Gardeners will take place at noon Monday in the Gertrude Scott Meeting Room at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. Susan Bonsall will be presenting a discussion on low water vegetable gardening. Registration is not required and all ages are welcome to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3G3fPAN. Book Chat: Let’s Talk Books will take place at 4:30 p.m. Monday at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program, designed for teens ages 11-17, will allow participants to choose a book and discuss their thoughts with a teen librarian. Registration is not required to participate in the program. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/40nHLre. Baby and Toddler Storytime is set for 11 a.m. Tuesday at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program helps foster early literacy skills in little ones ages birth to 3 years through stories, rhymes, music and more. Registration is not required, however, space will be limited to first come/first served. For more  information, go to http://bit.ly/3zhm6W0. Join the library for Wildlife Window with Kevin Cook at 10 a.m. Wednesday in the Gertrude Scott Meeting Room at 300 N. Adams Ave. The program will feature a presentation on how encounters with wildlife enrich our daily lives. All ages are welcome to attend the presentation and registration is not required. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3MiO0Zt. Kids ages 4 and older are invited to attend the library’s Brickmasters meeting at 3:30 p.m. Wednesday at 300 N. Adams Ave. The group will use the library’s collection of LEGOs to build unique structures that will remain on display all month. Registration is not required to participate in the event. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3Zq6Al9. Join Miss Claudeth for a bilingual storytime at 11 a.m. Thursday at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program will feature books, stories, music and plays in both English and Spanish for children ages birth to 5 years and their caregivers. Registration is not required to attend. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/40F5cfo. Waggin’ Tales will take place at 4 p.m. Thursday in the Children’s area at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program pairs youngsters with a licensed therapy dog and its owner to practice reading skills. Registration is required and can be done 30 minutes prior to the start of the program. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3Zr5ANu. Expand your computer skills by attending Excel Basics at 1 p.m. Friday in the iLearn Classroom at the library, 300 N. Adams Ave. The program, open to adults age 18 and older, will teach attendees about the program’s interface, entering data, selecting and sorting data and more. Registration is required to participate in the program. For more information, go to http://bit.ly/3TUudRx. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group