The Do Portugal Circus will perform this month at the Staten Island Mall, New Springville. (Courtesy of Do Portugal Circus)(Courtesy of Do Portugal Circus) STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. - Prepare to welcome another exciting summer weekend on Staten Island and immerse yourself in a realm of lively and thrilling adventures. Discover a marketplace of vendors, catch a movie screening, enjoy a free waterfront music concert and much more. Here are six local things to do this weekend. Do Portugal Circus / Aug. 18-27, showtimes vary Originating in Mexico, the Do Portugal Circus is arriving on Staten Island for the first time -- ready to enchant residents with performances running from Friday, Aug. 18, through Sunday, Aug. 27. The Do Portugal Circus brings a show for all ages, including flying trapeze, motorcyclists in the Globe of Death, aerialists, dancers, jugglers and more. Show times are listed below. Monday-Friday: 7:30 p.m. Saturday: 2 p.m., 5p.m. and 8 p.m. Sunday: 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. Location: Staten Island Mall, New Springville Admission cost: $20-$25 Friday Summer Night Market at the Empire Outlets / Aug. 18, 3 to 8 p.m. Celebrate the summer season at a vendor market at the Empire Outlets in St. George. Shop from local small businesses and entrepreneurs as you enjoy food from local restaurants and caterers. There will be two levels of entertainment, including local performers and artists. Admission cost: Free Location: Empire Outlets Guided By The Stars: A Musical Celebration of Astrology / Aug. 18, 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Find out the song your zodiac sign would sing and what that could mean about you. The stars align with Guided By the Stars: A Musical Celebration of Astrology cabaret! Purchase your tickets for the 7 p.m. show and the 9:30 p.m. show on Ticketmaster . Admission cost: Tickets $25 + ($20 drink/food minimum per person) Location: St. George Theatre Film screening: On the Waterfront / Aug. 19, 5 to 8 p.m. Join The Noble Maritime Collection for a free screening of the 1954 classic film “On the Waterfront” this Saturday. Directed by Elia Kazan and starring Marlon Brando and Eva Marie Saint, the movie won eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture. Set in New York Harbor during John A. Noble’s era on the waterfront, it even features a cameo by the legendary Italian ocean liner SS Andrea Doria. Reservations are required. Reserve your spot on The Noble Maritime Collection website. Admission cost: Free Location: Snug Harbor Cultural Center & Botanical Garden, Building D, Livingston Sea Shanty Sessions / Aug. 20, 2-4 p.m. Shanty singers gather in person and give you an authentic experience of maritime songs in an appropriately historic setting. The sessions are free and family-friendly, and you are encouraged to sing along if the mood strikes you! If you can’t make it this weekend, The Noble Maritime Collection holds a session on the third Sunday of every month. Admission cost: Free Location: Snug Harbor Cultural Center & Botanical Garden Summer Concert: Volker Goetze World Trio featuring Yacouba Cissoko and surprise guest / Aug. 20, 3 to 5 p.m. As the final performance of the Porches and Pavilion Summer Concert Series at the Park, the city Parks Department invites you to enjoy a Sunday afternoon filled with global musical sounds with the Volker Goetze World Trio at Almer G. Russell Pavilion in Conference House Park. Bring the family. Bring a chair. Enjoy the soothing sounds at the seaside! Admission cost: Free Location: Conference House Park,Tottenville If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices