Relatives reunited across campus to experience Trojan Family Weekend. Over the past weekend, visiting families were given a glimpse into what life as a USC student entails. Trojan Family Weekend provided families ample opportunities to experience campus life, with more than 200 events to choose from. The festivities kicked off Thursday morning with a spirited performance from the Trojan Marching Band. For the next four days, students and families were offered a selection of events including lectures, tours and receptions, as well as a concert by ’80s band ABC. Alumni Park, which served as a check-in point for registered families, was adorned with all sorts of decorative ornaments, including a banner that read, “Welcome Trojan Families.” A sense of rekindled vibrancy filled the park as students sat down with the rest of their families to share breakfast for what may have been the first time since they left after move-in day.  Beyond giving relatives a sense of the social elements of campus, Trojan Family Weekend also offered insight into the University’s educational aspects. Friday morning began with a Dean’s Reception hosted by each individual school, allowing family members to learn more about the specific school their student is in. Following the receptions was a President’s Address from President Carol Folt at Bovard Auditorium. Folt thanked the attending relatives and students, then delved into a deep discussion about USC’s recent programs and initiatives, which she calls “moonshots.” She ended her address by noting the importance of establishing trust between families and the University. Patti Mora — mother of Keilah Mora, a freshman majoring in stage management — had prior experience attending Trojan Family Weekend from her son who also attended USC.  “This is my third time, but it’s awesome every time I come. I’m enjoying it,” Mora said.“The best part of being here? This weekend? To know that I’m gonna get to see her a little more than I’ve been able to see her the last couple of months.” Keilah Mora said she looked forward to her mom seeing what her USC life looks like the most.  Ivan Rubio, a freshman majoring in business administration, said he was also excited by the prospect of getting to show his family what he’s been up to. “It feels nice that [my parents] can come onto campus as I’m living my life now and they just experience everything that I’ve been living for the past couple of months,” Rubio said. He couldn’t wait to attend Sunday’s football game against Arizona with his mom, Cynthia Rubio, because the games tend to get “a bit crazy,” he said. Ironically, Cynthia Rubio is a graduate of the University of Arizona. The Trojans defeated the Wildcats 43-41 in a triple overtime thriller.   One of the most popular activities students took their parents to were the pre-game tailgates. On Saturday afternoon, USC hosted its own Trojan Family Weekend Tailgate as students, families and fans flocked to Alumni Park to indulge in food, drinks and games before kickoff.  Megan Ly, a senior majoring in health and the human sciences, said it was cool to see her uncle enjoy a tailgate. Her uncle, Sinh Ly, said getting to experience the craze of the tailgates brought a sense of nostalgia. “It’s been a blast, so I really enjoy[ed] it. It’s been a while since I’ve been on a college campus so it’s bringing back a lot of memories, but I’m definitely having a lot of fun here with my niece,” Sinh Ly said. Planning a large-scale event like Trojan Family Weekend is a daunting task, said Associate Vice President of Cultural Relations & University Events Adam Rosen. “Trojan Family Weekend is a year-long planning process,” Rosen said. “We have two staff that are devoted full time to doing Trojan Family Weekend. We start as soon as this ends and we wrap up and we debrief and figure out what needs to be adjusted for next year, and we start immediately back in on that process.  The artist for the annual Trojan Family Weekend concert is meticulously selected, he said. This year, ’80s pop band ABC was brought in to provide families a sense of familiarity.  For Rosen, Trojan Family Weekend is an opportunity to show family members how great of an institution USC is, he said. Many of the parents seemed to have enjoyed their weekend stay at USC. Steve Hall — father of Matthew Hall, a freshman majoring in applied and computational mathematics — said he was so happy with his time at Trojan Family Weekend that even he wants to be a USC student. “It’s very relaxed and everybody seems safe and comfortable and he seems happy,” Hall said. “[My wife and I] want to go here.” We are the only independent newspaper here at USC, run at every level by students. That means we aren’t tied down by any other interests but those of readers like you: the students, faculty, staff and South Central residents that together make up the USC community. Independence is a double-edged sword: We have a unique lens into the University’s actions and policies, and can hold powerful figures accountable when others cannot. But that also means our budget is severely limited. We’re already spread thin as we compensate the writers, photographers, artists, designers and editors whose incredible work you see in our daily paper; as we work to revamp and expand our digital presence, we now have additional staff making podcasts, videos, webpages, our first ever magazine and social media content, who are at risk of being unable to receive the compensation they deserve. We are therefore indebted to readers like you, who, by supporting us, help keep our paper daily (we are the only remaining college paper on the West Coast that prints every single weekday), independent, free and widely accessible. Please consider supporting us. Even $1 goes a long way in supporting our work; if you are able, you can also support us with monthly, or even annual, donations. Thank you. This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website.  Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer. These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features. Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site. We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain. We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings. These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience. If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here: We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page. Google Webfont Settings: Google Map Settings: Google reCaptcha Settings: Vimeo and Youtube video embeds: The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them: