Comment Veza, a platform that helps to secure identity access across apps, data systems and cloud infrastructure, today announced that it raised $15 million in a funding round led by Capital One Ventures and ServiceNow — valuing the company at $415 million. Bringing Veza’s total raised to $125 million, co-founder and CEO Tarun Thakur says that the proceeds will be put toward product development, expanding Veza’s sales capacity and supporting its go-to-market execution. “Veza was not looking to actively raise capital,” Thakur said. “The new investors were attracted to Veza because of the unique security challenges we address — the core problem of securing identity and authorization end-to-end. Veza was keen to take on these new investors because of the strategic market presence and insights that these professionals and organizations bring to the table.” Data breaches continue to dominate headlines, costing organizations $4.45 million on average, according to IBM’s latest study. In a survey from One Identity — which, granted, sells identity management software — 95% of organizations say that they struggle with digital ID management. That’s put companies on high alert — to the benefit of cybersecurity startups like Veza. While investment in cybersecurity has fallen below the record highs recorded in previous years, investors — including Capital One and ServiceNow, evidently — remain optimistic. Thakur founded Veza in 2020 alongside Maohua Lu and Rob Whitcher, launching the startup out of stealth in April 2022. The three met at Thakur’s previous company, Datos IO, which was acquired by Rubrik roughly two years ago. Veza, like other identity management solutions on the market, enables companies to enforce policies, monitor in real time for violations and risky permissions and automatically block or revoke unauthorized access to products and services. Leveraging what Thakur describes as an “authorization graph,” Veza attempts to make sense of the authorization metadata in a company’s internal apps and databases.  “Since traditional identity solutions are built on a relational database, they are transactional, lack the visibility into the modern enterprise and don’t show the reality of an organizations’ permissions,” Thakur said. “Our mission is to invent the future of access control, make it automated and put data security back within reach.” Palo Alto-based Veza, which expects to employ 150 people by the end of the year, claims to have over a hundred customers today, including Wynn Resorts, Blackstone, Expedia, SoFi, Warby Parker, Wayfair, Zoom and Intuit. The company’s client portfolio has more than tripled since Veza came out of stealth, Thakur says, despite competition from SailPoint, CyberArk, Saviynt, Okta, Obsidian and others. And it has three years of runway. “As breaches continue to rise and with the SEC’s new rules about cybersecurity disclosure, CIOs are now taking a very active role to share with their boards on privileged access dashboards and KPIs in order to build transparency on access debt that organizations have,” Veza said —  referring to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s recently-passed rules on requiring the prompt disclosure of cybersecurity incidents. “These are becoming critical business initiatives and leading identity security is becoming increasingly top of mind for boards, CEO, CIOs, CTOs and CISOs.” Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Powered by WordPress VIP