Today's e-Edition Get Morning Report and other email newsletters  Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Today's e-Edition 
			Trending:		 With summer well underway, there’s no shortage of Bay Area happenings to add to your calendar.Moveable Feast: 6 to 9 p.m. Aug. 9, 23 and 30, 1350 N. Main St., Walnut Creek. Immerse yourself in an upscale, progressive food and beverage tour featuring three of Walnut Creek’s best restaurants. Enjoy gourmet bites and beverages, exclusive culinary presentations and eye-catching public art stops. $140. bit.ly/MoveableFeast2023San Francisco Fringe Festival 2023: Aug. 10-26, 277 Taylor St., San Francisco. The 32nd annual Fringe Festival, the second oldest in the U.S., will present 45 performances by 15 indie theater companies. $5 to $15. theexit.org20th Anniversary New Works Festival: Aug. 11-20, Lucie Stern Theatre, Palo Alto. TheatreWorks’ New Works Festival offers an opportunity to experience new plays and musicals in their early stages of development. Prices vary. theatreworks.org/new-works/nwf20Benicia Peddlers Fair: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Aug. 12, First Street, Benicia. Featuring more than 300 dealers from across the country, this 60th annual fair offers connoisseurs and new collectors alike an opportunity to peruse decorative antiques, vintage textiles and fashion, pottery, porcelain, paintings, prints, jewelry and more. Free admission. beniciapeddlersfair.orgBay Area Aloha Festival: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Aug. 12, San Mateo County Event Center, San Mateo. Enjoy a festival featuring Hawaiian and Pacific Islander food vendors, lei-making workshops, ukulele classes, candy lei-making, lomi lomi Massages, traditional net-making, raffle drawings, plus live hula, Tahitian, contemporary and traditional Hawaiian entertainment. Free admission. pica-org.orgLaurel Street Fair World Music Festival: 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Aug. 12, Laurel District, 4222 MacArthur Blvd., Oakland. Reimagine and recreate Oakland’s beautiful Laurel District as a global celebration of music, cuisine, folkloric arts, artisans, and cuisine. Free admission. visitoakland.com/events/annual-events/laurel-streetfairFree Range Flower Winery Anniversary Party: 12 to 6 p.m. Aug. 12, 2271 S. Vasco Road, Livermore.  FRFW will be celebrating its five-year anniversary at a party featuring local musician Honey Gold Jasmine, who is releasing her new video and single, “Bottomless Mimosas,” at the party. Free admission; tastings priced separately. freerangeflowerwinery.com

Spirit of ’45 — Living History Day: 2 to 10 p.m. Aug. 12, 635 Phelan Ave., San Jose. Take a trip back in time as the 14-acre History Park is transported to the 1940s with a vintage car show, a World War II Tent City, a Victory parade, food trucks, swing dancing and music featuring the vocals of the Swingin’ Blue Stars and Back in Time. $0 to $25. historysanjose.org/programs-events50th Annual Gravenstein Apple Fair: Aug. 12-13, Ragle Ranch Regional Park, Sebastopol. Experience farm life through hands-on demonstrations, savor foods made by local chefs using local ingredients, sip locally made beverages and learn about the history of Gravenstein farming, all while enjoying live music from two main stages. $0 to $30. gravensteinapplefair.comHarmony Unleashed — Music and Art for Mother Earth: 1 to 5 p.m. Aug. 13, Presidio Tunnel Tops, 210 Lincoln Blvd., San Francisco. Meet artist Felicia Gabaldo and celebrate her colorful murals at  the unveiling of a new public art installation, “Iconic Visions, a project of Ancestral Futurism.” Free. bit.ly/HarmonyUnleashed2023 CineQuest Film Festival: Aug. 15-30, various venues in Silicon Valley. Film lovers will want to flock to Silicon Valley for this film and creativity festival featuring dozens of inventive works. $9 to $14 per screening; $179 to $500 festival passes. cinequest.org/tickets-passes‘Hot August Nights’ Hayward Street Party: 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. Aug. 17, B and Main Streets, Hayward. Enjoy a summer night in Downtown Hayward complete with live music, food vendors, a beer and wine garden, a car show and a family fun zone. Free admission. bit.ly/HaywardStreetPartyThe Alice — Immersive Cocktail Experience: Aug. 17 to Sept. 10, Lakeside Drive, San Jose. Reality bends and curiosity reigns supreme at this topsy-turvy tea party. Create your own liquid concoctions under the watchful eye of The Mad Hatter in this dive down the rabbit hole to experience the magic of Wonderland. $47 to $55. bit.ly/TheAliceCocktailExperienceNeedle Felted Mushrooms Workshop: 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Aug. 19, The Ruth Bancroft Garden & Nursery, Walnut Creek. Learn how to needle felt your own cute, mini mushroom garden. This class will introduce you to basic needle felting materials and easy techniques for sculpting wool. $80 to $105. bit.ly/MushroomNeedleFeltingSF Pizza, Bagel and Beer Festival: 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Aug. 19, 1630 Stockton St., San Francisco. This event in San Francisco’s storied North Beach brings together more than 45 local pizzerias, bagel bakeries and breweries for a sensational afternoon of food and community. $30 to $150. bit.ly/SFPBBF‘Mrs. Winchester, or A Gun in the First Act’: 8 p.m. Aug. 19, Ashby Stage, 1901 Ashby Ave., Berkeley. Guns, grief and ghosts, oh my! In a sprawling mansion of her own design, Sarah Winchester navigates a complex legacy in this theatrical production: She’s lost everything, but gained a fortune. $20 to $22. bit.ly/MrsWinchesterAshbyScotts Valley Art, Wine and Beer Festival: Aug. 19-20, Skypark, 361 Kings Village Road, Scotts Valley. This festival offers fine art booths, live music and a car show, plus food and drink stalls. Free admission. svartfestival.comSounds of the Shores: 5 to 7 p.m. Aug. 20, Marlin Park, 500 Cringle Drive, Redwood City. Enjoy beautiful summer weather while snacking on bites and listening to live music from local artists on the water’s edge of the Redwood Shores lagoon. Free admission. bit.ly/SoundsoftheShores‘Chinatown Dragon’: Now through Aug. 20, 636 Jackson St., San Francisco. Embark on an adventure through Chinatown to search for the elusive Chinatown Dragon. This immersive experience blends Chinese culture and contemporary entertainment with kung fu, circus, music and magic. $19-$99. greatstartheater.org/chinatown-dragonAuthor Talk with Dave Newhouse and Andy Dolich: 6:30 p.m. Aug. 23, Oakland Public Library, 1687 Mountain Blvd., Oakland. Explore the rich history of Oakland’s sports teams as the authors discuss their new book, “Goodbye, Oakland: Winning, Wanderlust and a Sports Town’s Fight for Survival.” Free. montclairfriends.org/Mike Super — ‘Magic & Illusion’: 8 p.m. Aug. 25, 2400 First St., Livermore. See “America’s Got Talent” finalist Mike Super live at The Bankhead. Imagine mind-blowing illusions combined with the hilarity of a headline comedian. $25 to $75. livermorearts.org/events/mike-super-magic-illusion‘Sondheim on Sondheim’: Aug. 25 to Sept. 10, Contra Costa Civic Theatre, 951 Pomona Ave., El Cerrito. Enjoy an intimate portrait of famed songwriter Stephen Sondheim in his own words and music. With exclusive interview footage, audiences get an inside look at the personal life and artistic process of the renowned composer. $10 to $40. ccct.org/sondheim-on-sondheim‘Escape’ Art Exhibition: Now through Aug. 26, Eleanor Harwood Gallery, 1275 Minnesota St., San Francisco. This group show celebrates the transformative nature of summer. Each artist points to various forms of escape, ranging from summer vacations and daydreaming to finding solace and growth in challenging emotional situations. Free admission. bit.ly/EscapeExhibitionAugustfest — ‘Throwing it Back to the ’90s’: 12 to 8 p.m. Aug. 26, 21st Amendment Brewery, 2010 Williams St., San Leandro. The brewery is celebrating 23 years in the Bay Area with a birthday bash featuring live music, food trucks, a Kids Zone and plenty of great beer. Free admission. bit.ly/Augustfest2023Testicle Festival: 3 to 7 p.m. Aug. 26, Estrada Deer Camp, 196 Hazel Dell Road, Watsonville. Fill up on tasty chicken at this barbeque fundraiser featuring delicious eats, live music, a raffle, live and silent auctions, Cow Pie Bingo and the popular “It’s All in the Sauce” Contest. $30 to $75. agri-culture.us/news/13th-annual-testicle-festivalPalo Alto Festival of the Arts: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Aug. 26-27. University Ave., Palo Alto. This festival, hosted by the Palo Alto Chamber of Commerce, attracts more than 300 fine art and contemporary craft displays, 60 Italian street painters and attractions that include a kids art studio, stage and street entertainment, gourmet food, wines and micro-brews. Free admission. paloaltochamber.com/festival-of-the-artsOpera in the Vineyard: 5 to 8 p.m. Aug. 27, Garré Vineyard and Winery, 7986 Tesla Road, Livermore. Join Livermore Valley Opera for its ever-popular Opera in the Vineyard series which features beautiful voices paired with Garré’s award-winning wines. $80. bit.ly/OperaintheVineyardSan Francisco Mime Troupe ‘Breakdown’: Now through Sept. 4, various venues throughout the Bay Area. In an insane society, how can we help those struggling with actual mental illness? And who is driving the country insane? The social worker? The news anchor? SFMT will answer these questions and more in this new musical comedy. Free admission. sfmt.orgSummer Arthouse Film Festival: Now through Sept. 10, 288 S. Second St., San Jose. 3Below Theaters is presenting a film festival comprised of six series including ‘Retro Film and Cult Classics of 1973,’ ‘Family Film Fest,’ ‘Exhibition on Screen,’ ‘After School Specials: Coming of Age Movies,’ ‘Bond Days,’, and ‘Slapstick Sundays.’ $12 to $175. 3belowtheaters.comWorld Arts West Dance Festival: 1 to 4 p.m. Sept. 10, Presidio Tunnel Tops, 210 Lincoln Blvd., San Francisco. This festival promises exhilarating and diverse dance performances that honor the deep and rich artistry of cultural dance traditions from around the globe. Free admission. worldartswest.org‘Sight Unseen: International Photography by Blind Artists’: Now through Sept. 17, 1601 Civic Drive, Walnut Creek. This exhibition presents work by the world’s most accomplished blind photographers. Each artist brings their inner vision into the seeing world, revealing a rich visual and emotionally complex blend of physical and conceptual artworks. Tickets are at a pay-what-you-can cost. bit.ly/SightUnseenBedford‘Photosynthesis’ Summer Light Show: At dusk nightly all summer, Golden Gate Park, 100 John F. Kennedy Drive, San Francisco. Enjoy an amazing night of music and psychedelic visuals in Golden Gate Park as the iconic Conservatory of Flowers is transformed into a canvas of colorful light art. Free. bit.ly/PhotosynthesisLightShowSF Summer of Music: 2 to 5 p.m. Sundays through September, various San Francisco venues. Hear local musicians performing in nine neighborhoods across the city. Free admission. summerofmusicsf.comWorld’s Largest Dinosaurs: Now through Jan. 21, 2024, at 55 Music Concourse Drive in San Francisco. The California Academy of Sciences presents an awe-inducing exhibit on the largest land animals to ever walk the planet. Some of these huge-o-saurus creatures were up to 140 feet long, ate unbelievable amounts of trees and plants and weighed up to 90 tons. $28.75 to $42.50. bit.ly/CASdinosaursAlameda Point Antiques Faire: 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the first Sunday of each month, 3900 Main St. in Alameda. Browse more than 800 booths of vintage and antique home decorations, clothing, furniture, jewelry, art, pottery, books and collectibles at one of the largest antique shows in Northern California. $0 to $20. alamedapointantiquesfaire.comHave an entertainment event to add? Submit it online at forms.gle/Cu9J6Ks2fQiQUcKk8. Moveable Feast: 6 to 9 p.m. Aug. 9, 23 and 30, 1350 N. Main St., Walnut Creek. Immerse yourself in an upscale, progressive food and beverage tour featuring three of Walnut Creek’s best restaurants. Enjoy gourmet bites and beverages, exclusive culinary presentations and eye-catching public art stops. $140. bit.ly/MoveableFeast2023 San Francisco Fringe Festival 2023: Aug. 10-26, 277 Taylor St., San Francisco. The 32nd annual Fringe Festival, the second oldest in the U.S., will present 45 performances by 15 indie theater companies. $5 to $15. theexit.org 20th Anniversary New Works Festival: Aug. 11-20, Lucie Stern Theatre, Palo Alto. TheatreWorks’ New Works Festival offers an opportunity to experience new plays and musicals in their early stages of development. Prices vary. theatreworks.org/new-works/nwf20 Benicia Peddlers Fair: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Aug. 12, First Street, Benicia. Featuring more than 300 dealers from across the country, this 60th annual fair offers connoisseurs and new collectors alike an opportunity to peruse decorative antiques, vintage textiles and fashion, pottery, porcelain, paintings, prints, jewelry and more. Free admission. beniciapeddlersfair.org Bay Area Aloha Festival: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Aug. 12, San Mateo County Event Center, San Mateo. Enjoy a festival featuring Hawaiian and Pacific Islander food vendors, lei-making workshops, ukulele classes, candy lei-making, lomi lomi Massages, traditional net-making, raffle drawings, plus live hula, Tahitian, contemporary and traditional Hawaiian entertainment. Free admission. pica-org.org Laurel Street Fair World Music Festival: 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Aug. 12, Laurel District, 4222 MacArthur Blvd., Oakland. Reimagine and recreate Oakland’s beautiful Laurel District as a global celebration of music, cuisine, folkloric arts, artisans, and cuisine. Free admission. visitoakland.com/events/annual-events/laurel-streetfair Free Range Flower Winery Anniversary Party: 12 to 6 p.m. Aug. 12, 2271 S. Vasco Road, Livermore.  FRFW will be celebrating its five-year anniversary at a party featuring local musician Honey Gold Jasmine, who is releasing her new video and single, “Bottomless Mimosas,” at the party. Free admission; tastings priced separately. freerangeflowerwinery.com Spirit of ’45 — Living History Day: 2 to 10 p.m. Aug. 12, 635 Phelan Ave., San Jose. Take a trip back in time as the 14-acre History Park is transported to the 1940s with a vintage car show, a World War II Tent City, a Victory parade, food trucks, swing dancing and music featuring the vocals of the Swingin’ Blue Stars and Back in Time. $0 to $25. historysanjose.org/programs-events 50th Annual Gravenstein Apple Fair: Aug. 12-13, Ragle Ranch Regional Park, Sebastopol. Experience farm life through hands-on demonstrations, savor foods made by local chefs using local ingredients, sip locally made beverages and learn about the history of Gravenstein farming, all while enjoying live music from two main stages. $0 to $30. gravensteinapplefair.com Harmony Unleashed — Music and Art for Mother Earth: 1 to 5 p.m. Aug. 13, Presidio Tunnel Tops, 210 Lincoln Blvd., San Francisco. Meet artist Felicia Gabaldo and celebrate her colorful murals at  the unveiling of a new public art installation, “Iconic Visions, a project of Ancestral Futurism.” Free. bit.ly/HarmonyUnleashed 2023 CineQuest Film Festival: Aug. 15-30, various venues in Silicon Valley. Film lovers will want to flock to Silicon Valley for this film and creativity festival featuring dozens of inventive works. $9 to $14 per screening; $179 to $500 festival passes. cinequest.org/tickets-passes ‘Hot August Nights’ Hayward Street Party: 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. Aug. 17, B and Main Streets, Hayward. Enjoy a summer night in Downtown Hayward complete with live music, food vendors, a beer and wine garden, a car show and a family fun zone. Free admission. bit.ly/HaywardStreetParty The Alice — Immersive Cocktail Experience: Aug. 17 to Sept. 10, Lakeside Drive, San Jose. Reality bends and curiosity reigns supreme at this topsy-turvy tea party. Create your own liquid concoctions under the watchful eye of The Mad Hatter in this dive down the rabbit hole to experience the magic of Wonderland. $47 to $55. bit.ly/TheAliceCocktailExperience Needle Felted Mushrooms Workshop: 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Aug. 19, The Ruth Bancroft Garden & Nursery, Walnut Creek. Learn how to needle felt your own cute, mini mushroom garden. This class will introduce you to basic needle felting materials and easy techniques for sculpting wool. $80 to $105. bit.ly/MushroomNeedleFelting SF Pizza, Bagel and Beer Festival: 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Aug. 19, 1630 Stockton St., San Francisco. This event in San Francisco’s storied North Beach brings together more than 45 local pizzerias, bagel bakeries and breweries for a sensational afternoon of food and community. $30 to $150. bit.ly/SFPBBF ‘Mrs. Winchester, or A Gun in the First Act’: 8 p.m. Aug. 19, Ashby Stage, 1901 Ashby Ave., Berkeley. Guns, grief and ghosts, oh my! In a sprawling mansion of her own design, Sarah Winchester navigates a complex legacy in this theatrical production: She’s lost everything, but gained a fortune. $20 to $22. bit.ly/MrsWinchesterAshby Scotts Valley Art, Wine and Beer Festival: Aug. 19-20, Skypark, 361 Kings Village Road, Scotts Valley. This festival offers fine art booths, live music and a car show, plus food and drink stalls. Free admission. svartfestival.com Sounds of the Shores: 5 to 7 p.m. Aug. 20, Marlin Park, 500 Cringle Drive, Redwood City. Enjoy beautiful summer weather while snacking on bites and listening to live music from local artists on the water’s edge of the Redwood Shores lagoon. Free admission. bit.ly/SoundsoftheShores ‘Chinatown Dragon’: Now through Aug. 20, 636 Jackson St., San Francisco. Embark on an adventure through Chinatown to search for the elusive Chinatown Dragon. This immersive experience blends Chinese culture and contemporary entertainment with kung fu, circus, music and magic. $19-$99. greatstartheater.org/chinatown-dragon Author Talk with Dave Newhouse and Andy Dolich: 6:30 p.m. Aug. 23, Oakland Public Library, 1687 Mountain Blvd., Oakland. Explore the rich history of Oakland’s sports teams as the authors discuss their new book, “Goodbye, Oakland: Winning, Wanderlust and a Sports Town’s Fight for Survival.” Free. montclairfriends.org/ Mike Super — ‘Magic & Illusion’: 8 p.m. Aug. 25, 2400 First St., Livermore. See “America’s Got Talent” finalist Mike Super live at The Bankhead. Imagine mind-blowing illusions combined with the hilarity of a headline comedian. $25 to $75. livermorearts.org/events/mike-super-magic-illusion ‘Sondheim on Sondheim’: Aug. 25 to Sept. 10, Contra Costa Civic Theatre, 951 Pomona Ave., El Cerrito. Enjoy an intimate portrait of famed songwriter Stephen Sondheim in his own words and music. With exclusive interview footage, audiences get an inside look at the personal life and artistic process of the renowned composer. $10 to $40. ccct.org/sondheim-on-sondheim ‘Escape’ Art Exhibition: Now through Aug. 26, Eleanor Harwood Gallery, 1275 Minnesota St., San Francisco. This group show celebrates the transformative nature of summer. Each artist points to various forms of escape, ranging from summer vacations and daydreaming to finding solace and growth in challenging emotional situations. Free admission. bit.ly/EscapeExhibition Augustfest — ‘Throwing it Back to the ’90s’: 12 to 8 p.m. Aug. 26, 21st Amendment Brewery, 2010 Williams St., San Leandro. The brewery is celebrating 23 years in the Bay Area with a birthday bash featuring live music, food trucks, a Kids Zone and plenty of great beer. Free admission. bit.ly/Augustfest2023 Testicle Festival: 3 to 7 p.m. Aug. 26, Estrada Deer Camp, 196 Hazel Dell Road, Watsonville. Fill up on tasty chicken at this barbeque fundraiser featuring delicious eats, live music, a raffle, live and silent auctions, Cow Pie Bingo and the popular “It’s All in the Sauce” Contest. $30 to $75. agri-culture.us/news/13th-annual-testicle-festival Palo Alto Festival of the Arts: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Aug. 26-27. University Ave., Palo Alto. This festival, hosted by the Palo Alto Chamber of Commerce, attracts more than 300 fine art and contemporary craft displays, 60 Italian street painters and attractions that include a kids art studio, stage and street entertainment, gourmet food, wines and micro-brews. Free admission. paloaltochamber.com/festival-of-the-arts Opera in the Vineyard: 5 to 8 p.m. Aug. 27, Garré Vineyard and Winery, 7986 Tesla Road, Livermore. Join Livermore Valley Opera for its ever-popular Opera in the Vineyard series which features beautiful voices paired with Garré’s award-winning wines. $80. bit.ly/OperaintheVineyard San Francisco Mime Troupe ‘Breakdown’: Now through Sept. 4, various venues throughout the Bay Area. In an insane society, how can we help those struggling with actual mental illness? And who is driving the country insane? The social worker? The news anchor? SFMT will answer these questions and more in this new musical comedy. Free admission. sfmt.org Summer Arthouse Film Festival: Now through Sept. 10, 288 S. Second St., San Jose. 3Below Theaters is presenting a film festival comprised of six series including ‘Retro Film and Cult Classics of 1973,’ ‘Family Film Fest,’ ‘Exhibition on Screen,’ ‘After School Specials: Coming of Age Movies,’ ‘Bond Days,’, and ‘Slapstick Sundays.’ $12 to $175. 3belowtheaters.com World Arts West Dance Festival: 1 to 4 p.m. Sept. 10, Presidio Tunnel Tops, 210 Lincoln Blvd., San Francisco. This festival promises exhilarating and diverse dance performances that honor the deep and rich artistry of cultural dance traditions from around the globe. Free admission. worldartswest.org ‘Sight Unseen: International Photography by Blind Artists’: Now through Sept. 17, 1601 Civic Drive, Walnut Creek. This exhibition presents work by the world’s most accomplished blind photographers. Each artist brings their inner vision into the seeing world, revealing a rich visual and emotionally complex blend of physical and conceptual artworks. Tickets are at a pay-what-you-can cost. bit.ly/SightUnseenBedford ‘Photosynthesis’ Summer Light Show: At dusk nightly all summer, Golden Gate Park, 100 John F. Kennedy Drive, San Francisco. Enjoy an amazing night of music and psychedelic visuals in Golden Gate Park as the iconic Conservatory of Flowers is transformed into a canvas of colorful light art. Free. bit.ly/PhotosynthesisLightShow SF Summer of Music: 2 to 5 p.m. Sundays through September, various San Francisco venues. Hear local musicians performing in nine neighborhoods across the city. Free admission. summerofmusicsf.com World’s Largest Dinosaurs: Now through Jan. 21, 2024, at 55 Music Concourse Drive in San Francisco. The California Academy of Sciences presents an awe-inducing exhibit on the largest land animals to ever walk the planet. Some of these huge-o-saurus creatures were up to 140 feet long, ate unbelievable amounts of trees and plants and weighed up to 90 tons. $28.75 to $42.50. bit.ly/CASdinosaurs Alameda Point Antiques Faire: 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the first Sunday of each month, 3900 Main St. in Alameda. Browse more than 800 booths of vintage and antique home decorations, clothing, furniture, jewelry, art, pottery, books and collectibles at one of the largest antique shows in Northern California. $0 to $20. alamedapointantiquesfaire.com Have an entertainment event to add? Submit it online at forms.gle/Cu9J6Ks2fQiQUcKk8. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group