In a report released on May 15, T J Schultz from RBC Capital maintained a Buy rating on HF Sinclair Corporation (DINO – Research Report), with a price target of $59.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $39.39. J Schultz covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Archrock, Enterprise Products Partners, and EnLink Midstream. According to TipRanks, J Schultz has an average return of 14.3% and a 63.65% success rate on recommended stocks.  HF Sinclair Corporation has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $59.91, which is a 52.09% upside from current levels. In a report released on May 8, Wells Fargo also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $48.00 price target. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  DINO market cap is currently $7.74B and has a P/E ratio of 2.76.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 51 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of DINO in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. HollyFrontier Corp. is an independent petroleum refiner and marketer. It specializes in gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, and modified asphalt. The firm operates through the following segments: Refining; Lubricants and Specialty Products; and Holly Energy Partners, LP (HEP). The Refining segment includes the operations in El Dorado, Tulsa, Navajo, Cheyenne, and Woods Cross Refineries. The Lubricants and Specialty Products segment offers base oil production activities, by-product sales to third parties, and intra-segment base oil sales to rack forward which includes includes the purchase of base oils and the blending, packaging, marketing and distribution and sales of finished lubricants and specialty products to third parties. The HEP segment relates to all of the operations of HEP. The company was founded in 1947 and is headquartered in Dallas, TX.  Read More on DINO: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks