


Publisher - India Education news, Education in India, Global Education, Universities news, Colleges, Career Options, admission, jobs, examinations, Exam results, University News, Education News

 McMaster graduates are some of the most employable in the world, according to a new ranking from Times Higher Education. McMaster ranked fifth in Canada and 81st internationally in the 2022 Global Employability Ranking. This global ranking includes 250 universities across 44 countries. “McMaster graduates are known worldwide for their creativity, innovation and collaborative spirit,” says McMaster President David Farrar.“This global ranking emphasizes the value employers place in those skills, and the international reputation our graduates have in the workforce.” Conducted by the HR consultancy group Emerging and published by Times Higher Education, the Global Employability Ranking surveys managers and recruiters from top companies across the world to reveal which universities they believe best prepare their students for the workforce. Managers and recruiters are asked to evaluate universities based on the following criteria: Graduate skills; specialization; academic performance; focus on work expertise; digital performance; and internationality. This year, there were a total of 99,000 votes cast by employers from 24 countries around the world.   Prev Post				 McMaster University’s International Students Share Food From Their Home Countries Next Post  Lt Governor calls upon Youth Clubs, Women Entrepreneurs, Tourism Entrepreneurs, Innovators to come together to showcase Vibrant & Progressive Jammu Kashmir during India’s G-20 Presidency  

				Empowering the Future: Nestlé’s Commitment to Youth Development in Central and…			

  

				Five-Day National Workshop on India’s National Security and Disaster Management…			

  

				AMUAAQ organizes Blood Donation Camp on Independence Day in Doha			

  

				Nepal Foreign Minister Arzu Rana Deuba  meets Prime Minister Narendra Modi			

 Welcome, Login to your account. Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you.