In a report released on August 3, T J Schultz from RBC Capital maintained a Hold rating on EnLink Midstream (ENLC – Research Report), with a price target of $13.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $11.69. J Schultz covers the Energy sector, focusing on stocks such as Williams Co, Delek US Holdings, and HF Sinclair Corporation. According to TipRanks, J Schultz has an average return of 15.6% and a 67.99% success rate on recommended stocks.  Currently, the analyst consensus on EnLink Midstream is a Hold with an average price target of $12.80, a 9.50% upside from current levels. In a report released yesterday, Wells Fargo also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $12.00 price target. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  ENLC market cap is currently $5.45B and has a P/E ratio of 15.95.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. EnLink Midstream LLC engages in transmission, processing and marketing of natural gas and crude oil. It operates through the following segments: Permian, North Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Corporate. The Permian segment includes natural gas gathering, processing, and transmission activities and crude oil operations in the Midland and Delaware Basins in West Texas and Eastern New Mexico and crude operations in South Texas. The North Texas segment includes natural gas gathering, processing, and transmission activities in North Texas. The Oklahoma segment includes natural gas gathering, processing, and transmission activities, and crude oil operations in the Cana-Woodford, Arkoma-Woodford, northern Oklahoma Woodford, STACK, and CNOW shale areas. The Louisiana segment includes natural gas pipelines, natural gas processing plants, storage facilities, fractionation facilities, and NGL assets located in Louisiana and crude oil operations in ORV. The Corporate segment includes investments in the Cedar Cove JV in Oklahoma, ownership interest in GCF in South Texas, derivative activity and general corporate assets and expenses. The company was founded in October 2013 and is headquartered in Dallas, TX.  Read More on ENLC: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks