NY Cannabis Insider is working with students at Syracuse University on a series of stories about cannabis education programs throughout the  state. As statewide marijuana legalization has started to open up opportunities for New Yorkers seeking to work in the cannabis industry, colleges and universities across the state are now offering cannabis-related courses to prepare students for careers. Columbia-Greene Community College in Hudson, New York, is one such college. Sign up for the NY Cannabis Insider newsletter Maya Greene is the cannabis program coordinator at Columbia-Greene, and she stresses that the importance of the program lies in getting people ready to work in the industry. “Our goal is to try to get the students graduated quickly, employable as soon as possible,” Greene said. Columbia-Greene started organizing online cannabis coursework during its fall 2022 semester for less than 20 students, beginning with a retail and sales microcredential. More recently, it began to offer another microcredential: cultivation and processing, Greene said. Both microcredentials currently consist of three classes each across a seven-week program, with students able to choose one or both tracks. Upon successful completion of the program, they are given certifications. Students can either take the program by itself or take it as an elective to supplement other coursework at Columbia-Greene. The cost is $639 per student plus fees, which can vary. But even with legalization in New York State, collegiate cannabis studies programs face challenges. One challenge is that students are not allowed to touch cannabis plants when taking these courses. Columbia-Greene has figured out a way to work around these restrictions: offering its cannabis studies coursework entirely online. “We did that intentionally because there were some concerns about offering on-campus classes that were plant-touching, like having access to cannabis to teach a cultivation class,” Greene said. Instead of teaching how to grow cannabis or how to be a budtender, Columbia-Greene teaches students how cannabis is grown and the requirements associated with being a budtender. “The key for us is making that online programming innovative, interactive and trying to pull from professionals to create really well-rounded content that students are interested and engaged with,” she said. Another issue that cannabis programs at colleges face is ensuring that their programs are as equitable as possible, such as in enrolling students who have been negatively impacted by the War on Drugs. One way Greene says Columbia-Greene is working to advance equity is by teaching students the social and cultural history of cannabis, as well as focusing on how marginalized groups have been affected by policies of prohibition and criminalization. “Let’s talk about the history,” she said. “Let’s educate, then let’s talk about how we have a diverse group of students enrolling in these classes and ensuring that we’re meeting the needs of our community.” Greene says the program looks at the racial makeup of the students enrolled in the program as well as the backgrounds of each student, including those who have been incarcerated in the past for simple possession of cannabis. Greene also says the program has seen a number of farmers enrolling as students. Some have told her they are unsure their farm can survive, and they’d like to have a backup plan. “Maybe cannabis is that,” she said. Related: Cannabis education at Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn Related: Digging into SUNY Morrisville’s cannabis industry minor Related: Cornell’s cannabis and hemp program already ‘normalized’ at the university Related: Syracuse University’s cannabis curriculum offers students entryway into industry While the cannabis studies program at Columbia-Greene is focused on preparing students for long-term careers in the cannabis industry, they also have support for students seeking internships. While all internships are offered through employers and not through the college, Greene says the college has structures to allow students to seek internships with employers in the cannabis industry. “We have an office that has … an outside website that we use, where companies can host internship opportunities,” Greene said. “And essentially, we send the student to the website, where they can enroll for or apply for an internship.” Greene also emphasized the importance of answering any questions that may come from the public — including public officials — about the cannabis program. She says Columbia-Greene is working with the Cannabis Workforce Initiative, which is a collaboration between Cornell University and the Workforce Development Institute. The Cannabis Workforce Initiative offers workshops and makes information available to any member of the public who might have questions about cannabis programs. Greene says Columbia-Greene has been working with lawmakers to make sure the pipeline is there for students in the cannabis studies program to be able to find work in the industry upon graduation. “We want to do that in a way that’s equitable and is giving a fair shake to people who maybe did not have those opportunities prior,” Greene said. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices