Published 4:40 pm Thursday, January 19, 2023 
By Crystal Stevenson
 Portions of downtown Lake Charles will reopen to the public today while others will remain shuttered as Entergy continues to repair its electrical grid. The Calcasieu Parish Police Jury facilities and services affected by the power grid repairs will reopen for normal business at 8 a.m. today. The 901 Lakeshore Drive building and the Old Calcasieu Courthouse have been closed since Wednesday. Police Jury services such as in-person permits will also reopen. CPPJ departments including Planning and Development, Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness and Facility Management will also be open. Lake Charles City Hall and the Lake Charles Civic Center, however, will remain closed today. City spokesperson Katie Harrington said Entergy informed their offices that the earliest their power will be restored is at noon today. Harrington said events booked for this weekend at the Lake Charles Civic Center are scheduled to go on as planned. Civic Center personnel are contacting event organizers directly to address individual events. Public Safety and Public Works Operations remain operational, and City Transit will continue to run its normal routes. The Water Billing Office, located inside the City Transit Building at 1155 Ryan St, remains open with its regular business hours. The American Press offices will also remain closed with an estimated return to power also at noon today. The American Press print plant — which is located on U.S. 90 and will have no interruption with its utilities — will continue to produce the newspaper during the outage. Yordan Alvarez will lead the charge for the Houston Astros (67-56) on Monday, August 19, when they clash… In one of the many exciting matchups on the MLB slate today, the Minnesota Twins and the San… Alex Bregman and the Houston Astros will meet Rafael Devers and the Boston Red Sox on Monday at… When the Houston Astros host the Boston Red Sox on Monday, August 19 at Minute Maid Park, it… The Cleveland Guardians versus the Milwaukee Brewers is one of many strong options on today’s MLB schedule. Wager…