
                                                        Industry Overview
                                                     Digital & Trend reports Overview and forecasts on trending topics Industry & Market reports Industry and market insights and forecasts Companies & Products reports Key figures and rankings about companies and products Consumer & Brand reports Consumer and brand insights and preferences in various industries Politics & Society reports Detailed information about political and social topics Country & Region reports All key figures about countries and regions 
                    Market forecast and expert KPIs for 1000+ markets in 190+ countries & territories
                 
                            Insights on consumer attitudes and behavior worldwide
                         
                    Business information on 100m+ public and private companies
                 Explore Company Insights
                         
                        Detailed information for 39,000+ online stores and marketplaces
                     
                    Directly accessible data for 170 industries from 150+ countries
                    and over 1 Mio. facts.
                 Statista+ offers additional, data-driven services, tailored to your specific needs. As your partner for data-driven success, we combine expertise in research, strategy, and marketing communications to deliver comprehensive solutions. Contact us directly for your individual offer. Full-service market research and analytics Strategy and business building for the data-driven economy Transforming data into content marketing and design Statista R identifies and awards industry leaders, top providers, and exceptional brands through exclusive rankings and top lists in collaboration with renowned media brands worldwide. For more details, visit our website. Industry-specific and extensively researched technical data (partially from exclusive partnerships). A paid subscription is required for full access. To access all Premium Statistics, you need a paid Statista Account 
                                    Additional Information
                                 
                                Show sources information
                            
                                Show publisher information
                            
                                Use Ask Statista Research Service
                             June 2024 Uruguay 2018 to 2029 Data provided by Statista Market Insights are estimates.Definition:  The Pharmaceuticals market covers remedies used to cure, treat, prevent, and diagnose diseases. These small molecule drugs or biologic medical products may be called drugs, medications, or medicines. Prescription drugs and over-the-counter (OTC) drugs are both included. Depending on the regulations in each country, these products are provided by pharmacies, hospitals, physicians, and/or drug stores, and/or they can be bought elsewhere. They may be administered in the form of pills, capsules, gels, ointments, injections, infusions, lozenges, or aerosols/sprays. Structure:  The market is subdivided into Oncology Drugs, Anti-Diabetes Drugs, Anti-Rheumatic Drugs, Vaccines, Dermatological Drugs, Antiviral Drugs, Immunosuppressants, Bronchodilator Drugs, Sensory Organ Drugs, Anti-Hypertensive Drugs, Anti-Coagulants, Anti-Fibrinolytic Drugs, Multiple Sclerosis Drugs, Lipid-Lowering Agents and Other Pharmaceuticals. The Pharmaceuticals market is organized in markets that cover drugs used in specific medical fields, i.e., medicines for a specific disesase or a certain type of medicine. They include original brands, biosimilars, generics, and orphan drugs.The Oncology Drugs market covers pharmaceutical products specifically developed for the treatment and management of various cancers. The Anti-Diabetes Drugs market covers medications designed to manage blood glucose levels and improve insulin sensitivity in individuals with diabetes. The market Anti-Rheumatic Drugs includes pharmaceuticals specifically developed to alleviate symptoms, reduce inflammation, and modify the progression of rheumatic diseases. The Dermatological Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals formulated to treat and manage a wide range of skin conditions such as eczema, acne, and rosacea. The Antiviral Drugs market includes medications designed to treat viral infections and reducing the severity and duration of symptoms. The Immunosuppressants market covers pharmaceuticals that suppress the immune system's activity. The Bronchodilator Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals designed to relax and widen the airways in the lungs. The Sensory Organ Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals targeting the treatment of disorders and conditions affecting sensory organs such as the eyes, ears and nose. The Anti-hypertensive Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals designed to lower blood pressure levels. The Anti-Coagulants Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals developed to prevent the formation of blood clots or to dissolve existing clots. The Anti-Fibrinolytics Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals designed to inhibit the breakdown of blood clots. The Multiple Sclerosis Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals aimed at managing and modifying the course of multiple sclerosis. The Lipid-Lowering Agents market covers pharmaceuticals developed to reduce levels of cholesterol and other lipids in the blood. The Other Pharmaceuticals market provides information on additional specialties that are not covered by the main markets. Additional information:  Market values represent the revenues generated by manufacture prices paid to primary vendors, either directly or through distribution channels (excluding VAT). Reported market revenues include spending by consumers (B2C), companies (B2B), and governments (B2G). Company examples: Novartis, Roche, Pfizer, Merck & Co, Johnson & Johnson, AbbVie, Sanofi. Definition:  The Pharmaceuticals market covers remedies used to cure, treat, prevent, and diagnose diseases. These small molecule drugs or biologic medical products may be called drugs, medications, or medicines. Prescription drugs and over-the-counter (OTC) drugs are both included. Depending on the regulations in each country, these products are provided by pharmacies, hospitals, physicians, and/or drug stores, and/or they can be bought elsewhere. They may be administered in the form of pills, capsules, gels, ointments, injections, infusions, lozenges, or aerosols/sprays.  Structure:  The market is subdivided into Oncology Drugs, Anti-Diabetes Drugs, Anti-Rheumatic Drugs, Vaccines, Dermatological Drugs, Antiviral Drugs, Immunosuppressants, Bronchodilator Drugs, Sensory Organ Drugs, Anti-Hypertensive Drugs, Anti-Coagulants, Anti-Fibrinolytic Drugs, Multiple Sclerosis Drugs, Lipid-Lowering Agents and Other Pharmaceuticals. The Pharmaceuticals market is organized in markets that cover drugs used in specific medical fields, i.e., medicines for a specific disesase or a certain type of medicine. They include original brands, biosimilars, generics, and orphan drugs.The Oncology Drugs market covers pharmaceutical products specifically developed for the treatment and management of various cancers. The Anti-Diabetes Drugs market covers medications designed to manage blood glucose levels and improve insulin sensitivity in individuals with diabetes. The market Anti-Rheumatic Drugs includes pharmaceuticals specifically developed to alleviate symptoms, reduce inflammation, and modify the progression of rheumatic diseases. The Dermatological Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals formulated to treat and manage a wide range of skin conditions such as eczema, acne, and rosacea. The Antiviral Drugs market includes medications designed to treat viral infections and reducing the severity and duration of symptoms. The Immunosuppressants market covers pharmaceuticals that suppress the immune system's activity. The Bronchodilator Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals designed to relax and widen the airways in the lungs. The Sensory Organ Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals targeting the treatment of disorders and conditions affecting sensory organs such as the eyes, ears and nose. The Anti-hypertensive Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals designed to lower blood pressure levels. The Anti-Coagulants Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals developed to prevent the formation of blood clots or to dissolve existing clots. The Anti-Fibrinolytics Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals designed to inhibit the breakdown of blood clots. The Multiple Sclerosis Drugs market covers pharmaceuticals aimed at managing and modifying the course of multiple sclerosis. The Lipid-Lowering Agents market covers pharmaceuticals developed to reduce levels of cholesterol and other lipids in the blood. The Other Pharmaceuticals market provides information on additional specialties that are not covered by the main markets.  Additional information:  Market values represent the revenues generated by manufacture prices paid to primary vendors, either directly or through distribution channels (excluding VAT). Reported market revenues include spending by consumers (B2C), companies (B2B), and governments (B2G).  Company examples: Novartis, Roche, Pfizer, Merck & Co, Johnson & Johnson, AbbVie, Sanofi. Pharmaceutical Products & Market Pharmaceutical market: worldwide revenue 2001-2023 Pharmaceutical Products & Market Total global pharmaceutical R&D spending 2014-2028 Pharmaceutical Products & Market Pfizer's total revenue 2006-2023 Pharmaceutical Products & Market Top 10 biotech and pharmaceutical companies based on market cap 2024 To download this statistic in XLS format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PNG format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PDF format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PPT format you need a Statista Account As a Premium user you get access to the detailed source references and background information about this statistic. As a Premium user you get access to background information and details about the release of this statistic. As soon as this statistic is updated, you will immediately be notified via e-mail. … to incorporate the statistic into your presentation at any time. You need at least a Starter Account to use this feature. * For commercial use only 
                            Basic Account
                         
                            Starter Account
                         
                    The statistic on this page is a Premium Statistic and is included in this account. 
                            Professional Account
                         1
                        All prices do not include sales tax. The account requires an annual contract and will renew after one year to the regular list price.
                     
                Global positioning
             
                Key company data
             
                Segments
             
                Competitors
             
                Research and Development
             * For commercial use only 
                            Basic Account
                         
                            Starter Account
                         
                    The statistic on this page is a Premium Statistic and is included in this account. 
                            Professional Account
                         1
                        All prices do not include sales tax. The account requires an annual contract and will renew after one year to the regular list price.
                    