Those who have spent money on Fortnite can now apply to receive a refund as part of Epic Games' $245 million settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The suit was originally raised due to allegations that Fortnite users had purchased in-game currency and goods as a result of disingenuous design practices rather than an authentic urge to buy the products. In light of these allegations, Epic Games and the FTC agreed to a settlement as part of a wider $520 million agreement. Those looking to take advantage of the refund can head over to the FTC's official website to see if they're eligible. You could be eligible for a refund if you were charged in-game currency for items you didn't want between January 2017 and September 2022, if your child made charges to your credit card without you knowing between January 2017 and November 2018, or if your account was locked between January 2017 and September 2022 after you complained to your credit card company about wrongful charges. In order to make a claim through the FTC, you must be at least 18 years old. However, those younger than 18 can have a parent or guardian fill out the form on their behalf. The deadline for claims is January 17, 2024. Describing the settlement on their site, the FTC stated that "Epic Games, the company responsible for Fortnite, agreed to pay $245 million to settle FTC allegations related to in-game purchases. According to the FTC, the company charged parents and gamers of all ages for unwanted items and locked the accounts of customers who disputed wrongful charges with their credit card companies." To apply for a refund, you'll also need a claim number or your Epic Account ID, the latter of which can be tracked down on the Epic Games website. Looking for an alternative game to Fortnite? Check our lists of the best co-op games as well as the best free games. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.