SUNRISE, FL - APRIL 28: Head coach Jim Montgomery talks to Brandon Carlo #25 of the Boston Bruins during a break in action during the game against the Florida Panthers in Game Six of the First Round of the 2023 Stanley Cup Playoffs at the FLA Live Arena on April 28, 2023 in Sunrise, Florida. (Photo by Joel Auerbach/Getty Images)Getty Images For months, the Bruins rolled through the second half of the regular season without a hint of pressure. They buzz-sawed their way through everybody. Long before the regular season ended, they were always going to win the Atlantic Division and always going to eventually win the Presidents’ Trophy because they were so far ahead. There was no risk involved and no truly big games. They played free and easy and dominated. But on Sunday, this Bruins team that hasn’t faced any real consequences from a loss all year will have to play with unfathomable pressure on them. They’re trying to not only survive but live up to the Stanley Cup-or-failure standard that their record regular season created. A loss wouldn’t just end their season. After a record-breaking regular season, history would judge the 2022-23 Boston Bruins as chokers, a cautionary tale for what happens to a team who peaks way too early. If they lose, they’ll spend the entire offseason and in some cases the remainder of their careers regretting it. Fair or not, they’ll become a measuring stick against which failing favorites are measured. Worse still, if Patrice Bergeron and/or David Krejci retire, they’d be sending two franchise icons out on an awful note. Even if they don’t retire, there’s no way to bring this roster back under the salary cap. The Bruins went all-in on this year. Not winning the Stanley Cup would be disappointing. Not getting out of the first round would be catastrophic. Florida, on the other hand, has been handling pressure for months just to get in the playoffs. They were heavy underdogs in this series. They can play free and easy, riding momentum and no expectations into Sunday. The Bruins have a lot to fix and not a lot of time to get that done. It starts in goal where Linus Ullmark has been bad the last two games. Whether it’s mental or physical or both, he needs to get right or sit down. “I think Linus is fine. I looked at him in the eyes a few times when he came back to the bench and I liked the way his eyes were looking,” Jim Montgomery said. “He looked intense and he looked keen.” It’s more likely he’s just trying to protect whatever is left of his goalie’s confidence than that he actually believes that. Because no matter what Ullmark’s eyes look like, his arms, legs and stick have been shaky. The Bruins either need Ullmark to find himself or Jeremy Swayman to step in and shine. They need to fix other things too, but it’s hard to envision a Game 7 win without good goaltending. Outside of the goal, Montgomery has only so many buttons to press or levers to pull. He’s already tinkered with lines and the roster. Even if he goes back to Trent Frederic or Matt Grzelcyk, there’s only so much it’s reasonable to think those guys can contribute or change. The answer has to come from the veterans, the signature faces of the franchise. Their legacy is on the line too. There’s no exaggerating the stakes. If the Bruins win on Sunday, everything they wanted is still in reach. If they lose, it will haunt them forever. Follow MassLive sports columnist Matt Vautour on Twitter at @MattVautour424. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices