
Published: Apr 11, 2023 12:18 pm 
 Epic Games hasn’t been shying away from anime collaborations in the last year, with an Attack on Titan crossover confirmed to be coming since the start of Chapter Four. With the release of the v24.20 update, players are finally getting an opportunity to unlock Eren, use some classic AoT weapons, and visit an important location from the anime. Here’s all the information you need to know about where to find the Jaeger Family Basement in Fortnite. The Jaeger family basement can be found in the southeast corner of Anvil Square, underneath the house there. Players will need to approach it from the south side and then go down the stairs, where a door will lead into an area with a set of lab equipment that must have once belonged to Eren’s father. This marks one of the additions inspired by AoT to the map. It’s part of the quests to unlock Eren Jaeger’s set, so expect many players to be landing there in coming weeks as they try to unlock this beloved anime character. This specific quest unlocks the key from the anime that was given to Eren by his father as a back bling and contributes toward unlocking the Jaeger skin. According to the v24.20 blog, we don’t know exactly where this feature is outside of it being hidden somewhere inside the Anvil Square POI. Players should look under buildings in that area for a new basement when the update goes live. Once we know the exact location of the Jaegers’ basement at Anvil, we’ll update this guide with more information. Eren was seeking out his family basement from even the earliest points in the anime, even if that wasn’t always clear to him. In it, players will find loot laying around among science equipment. Once you’ve found the basement, make sure to search the rest of the POI to get the special AoT chests to complete your other quests. Related: Where to get the Thunder Spears in Fortnite It’s not often Epic adds a hidden new location like this, so players are likely to be curious about where to find it as soon as the update launches. There may even be a quest that requires players to find it as part of the event. If there is, we’ll make sure to update this article with more details.