By If you're unaware, the Epic Games Store is currently doing their mystery game promotion. Essentially, every Thursday at 10 am CT, Epic Game Store users can claim a new free game for the week. Once you've claimed this game, it's yours to keep forever. Sounds like a pretty sweet deal, and who isn't down for free games? Death Stranding kicked off the mystery game promotion with a bang. However, the free games that have since followed haven't been nearly as good. That being said, this week's title, Grime, is one of the better games you'll want to add to your library. It's a Metroidvania and souls-like side-scrolling ARPG with a thriller atmosphere. It's received very positive reviews on Steam, so if that's your thing, then we recommend checking it out. At the same time, you want to be ready for Train Valley 2, which is the new free game starting July 13.  If you're a fan of simulation, strategy, and micromanagement games, then Train Valley 2 will most likely catch your eye. Essentially, it is a train tycoon puzzle game where you take your railroad company “from the days of the Industrial Revolution and into the future,” More broadly, you'll be solving complex logistical and transportation problems. It may not be everyone's cup of tea, but you really can't complain when the Epic Games Store is offering it up for free. Other than that, we'll be covering all the noteworthy mystery games in the Epic Games Store promotion as it develops. So, if Train Valley 2 didn't pique your interest, keep an eye on Gaming.net because it's only a matter of time before another title does. Riley Fonger is a freelance writer, music lover, and gamer since adolescence. He loves anything video game-related and grew up with a passion for story games such as Bioshock and The Last of Us. Magical Bakery: Everything We Know 10 Best Games Like Planetiles The Next Free Epic Games Store Titles Have Leaked Epic Games Store Unveils Upcoming Free Games: Jitsu Squad and Mighty Fight Federation Video Game Release Dates (2024) Epic Games Store Is Giving Away Death Stranding for Free Advertiser Disclosure: Gaming.net is committed to rigorous editorial standards to provide our readers with accurate reviews and ratings. We may receive compensation when you click on links to products we reviewed. Please Play Responsibly:   Casino Games Disclosure:  Select casinos are licensed by the Malta Gaming Authority. 18+  Copyright © 2024 Gaming.net