Digital Replica Edition Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Digital Replica Edition 
			Trending:		 Heat guard Duncan Robinson  Duncan Robinson was minus-20 in 6:48 through three quarters and hadn’t scored for Miami, which trailed by eight heading into the fourth quarter. Then Robinson scored eight in the first 70 seconds of the fourth quarter and propelled Miami on an epic 32-12 start to the deciding frame. The Heat got contributions from a bunch of players late, but Robinson got them going. Denver’s three-point defense  No way Miami’s Max Strus and Caleb Martin were going to combine to go 1-of-11 from three-point range like in Game 1, but the Nuggets continued to give up way too many open looks from deep in Game 2, and this time it cost them. Denver coach Michael Malone warned against letting the Heat get going, but the Nuggets couldn’t stop it from happening. Strus got hot early, Gabe Vincent made 4-of-6 and the Heat hit 17 three-pointers to Denver’s 11. Good recipe for stealing a game on the road. Hoops royalty There’s hoops royalty, and then there’s Jimmy Goldstein. The 83-year-old NBA superfan, draped in a red, sequined shirt, drew daps from player after player, broadcasters, agent Rich Paul and even Lil Wayne at halftime. If there’s a big game, Goldstein is probably there. Naturally, he’s been front and center for two games of action at Ball Arena. Nuggets coach Michael Malone: “Let’s talk about effort. This is the NBA Finals and we’re talking about effort. That’s a huge concern of mine. You guys thought I was just making up some storyline after Game 1 when I said we didn’t play well. … We had guys out there that were just feeling sorry for themselves for not making shots or thinking they can just turn it on and off.” Nuggets point guard Jamal Murray: “From the start of the game I just think we didn’t communicate well on screens and were giving them shots or pocket passes or backdoors. We just weren’t as disciplined as we need to be at this stage of the season.” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra on notion that Miami let Jokic be more of a scorer as a strategy: “It’s the untrained eye that says something like that. This guy is an incredible player. Twice in the past two seasons he’s been the best player on the planet. You can’t just say, ‘Oh, make him a scorer.’ That’s not how they play. They have so many different actions that get you compromised.” Murray on Denver’s first home playoff loss: “If we play like that, then we expect to lose. We can’t play like that. Can be at home, away, doesn’t matter. We’ve got to have a better showing.” Malone: “That’s two fourth quarters in this series, Games 1 and 2, where our fourth-quarter defense has been nonexistent.” Want more Nuggets news? Sign up for the Nuggets Insider to get all our NBA analysis. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group