 Our editors independently select the products we recommend. We may earn a commission on items bought through our links.  This impressive bike pump is 50% off today as long as the buyer enters the code S8A34HKE at checkout. That brings the price from $49.99 to $24.99, which is a lovely saving, and makes it even better value that it is at full price, where it’s more than worth the investment anyway. That’s because this bike pump can do a fair bit more than just pump up tires, which is great in a pinch. Today's Top Deals Walk While You Work: This SPY-Tested Walking Pad Treadmill is Over $200 Off Save $160 On This Amazon 4K Fire TV JBL Earbuds Are $50 Off Right Now The iDOO Bike Pump can actually be used to help inflate car and motorcycle tires along with bike tyres, and can manage things like balls as well, making it useful for those with kids who love ball games. It also has useful features like auto stop, and an LED light to make it easier to find the valve even if conditions are far from ideal. Not only that, but it can also serve as a portable power bank in a pinch too, meaning the user can charge their phone if they get stuck somewhere, and need to make a call. It makes this bike pump the kind of thing that anyone could make use of while biking across the country. In fact, just make sure that this and one of the best bike locks is around any bike, and there should be no worries on any bike adventure, whether big or small.  Price:  $49.99 $24.99    Buy Now  This bike pump is something of a wonder. Not only can it automatically inflate bike, car, and motorcycle tyres, but it can also does so automatically, and even carries a charge in it that means it can be used as a portable charger in a pinch too. It has an easy-to-read LED display with everything the user needs to understand about the energy it has left and how things are going, and has a built-in LED light to make finding the valve nice and easy, even if it’s dark at the time. It even has a memory function, so it’ll automatically choose the same mode it was last used for. More Top Deals from SPY iRobot Vacuums Are Up To 35% Off - Save Nearly $100 On The Roomba 694 Calphalon's Kitchen Knife Set is $40 Off Feeling Stressed? This Portable Back Massager Is 23% Off Best of SPY 35 Essential Gadgets Every Man Should Own Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.