Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     SAN ANTONIO — Week Seven of Texas high school football is in the books! Here’s my KENS 5 Top Five! Big district road win at New Braunfels last Thursday night! 27-14 the final. The Knights are (5-1) and home with San Marcos on Friday night!  7-0 is their number after holding off the very game Sotomayor Wildcats in double OT last week 44-38. They play Holmes this Saturday afternoon. The Mustangs are also (7-0) and enjoying one of their best regular seasons in recent memory. 53-25 their final over Holmes last week! The 'Stangs on their very well deserved bye week this week. Although it feels more like '1A'. They are doing whatever they want offensively right now. Quarterback Ty Hawkins! Just wow! No trouble with Clark Friday night 56-7! They are (6-0)! They posted a Saturday shutout over the Madison Mavericks 45-0 at Comalander Stadium! The Green machine is also (6-0)! And that sets up the EPIC showdown between the Jags and Rattlers on Friday night! First place on the line on the northeast side! Can’t wait! Those are my top five! Not everybody will agree. That’s half the fun! So comment away and make sure and follow our high school coverage at www.kens5.com/sports. Learn more about KENS 5: Since going on the air in 1950, KENS 5 has strived to be the best, most trusted news and entertainment source for generations of San Antonians. KENS 5 has brought numerous firsts to South Texas television, including being the first local station with a helicopter, the first with its own Doppler radar and the first to air a local morning news program. Over the years, KENS 5 has worked to transform local news. Our cameras have been the lens bringing history into local viewers' homes. We're proud of our legacy as we serve San Antonians today. Today, KENS 5 continues to set the standard in local broadcasting and is recognized by its peers for excellence and innovation. The KENS 5 News team focuses on stories that really matter to our community. You can find KENS 5 in more places than ever before, including KENS5.com, the KENS 5 app, the KENS 5 YouTube channel, KENS 5's Roku and Fire TV apps, and across social media on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and more! Want to get in touch with someone at KENS 5? You can send a message using our Contacts page or email one of our team members. Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.