Wrestling, NFL come together with epic Bears-themed championship belt originally appeared on NBC Sports Chicago You can practically hear the iconic glass-shattering already. As the NFL season approaches, the Chicago Bears and WWE have partnered up for an incredible new item that is sure to appeal to sports entertainment fans this fall. Available now via the WWE Shop, the Bears and the wrestling corporation have teamed up for a remarkable championship belt that will make fans of the Monsters of the Midway feel like champions in their own right. The belt will come with a hefty price tag, as the Fanatics-run WWE Shop page has the retail value at $549.99. That Chicago Bears WWE Title is so dope 🔥🔥🔥💯💯💯 I want to get it so bad pic.twitter.com/DsWwJOcGwz — Louis Ortiz Jr (@L_OrtizJr23_45) August 28, 2023 “Kickoff just became a whole lot more interesting,” the site says. “It will be easy to channel your inner ‘Stone Cold’ Steve Austin or John Cena while cheering on the Chicago Bears.” If you want to bring the belt to a friend’s house for the game, it comes with a cloth-carrying bag, and comes complete with snap fasteners to ensure that you can wear it around your waist or slung over your shoulder, according to the company. The belts will begin shipping by Thursday, according to Fanatics. Click here to follow the Under Center Podcast. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Vincent Goodwill is joined by Ros Gold-Onwude to talk about the success of Team USA in men’s basketball, what it means for LeBron’s legacy, what to watch for when the WNBA returns after the Olympic break and who will make the women’s team in 2028? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Jake Fischer is joined by J.E. Skeets to go through the NBA news of the day and preview the 6 teams that pose the biggest challenge to Team USA at the Paris Olympics. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL.