José Bautista feels the 2015 and 2016 Toronto Blue Jays seasons provided the most joy in his highlight-filled career. However, eight years later, the way the 2015 American League Championship Series ended against the Kansas City Royals still stings. In advance of Bautista being added to the Blue Jays' level of excellence this weekend, the retired slugger reflected on his 10-year path in Toronto during a media conference call on Tuesday. "When I look back, 2015 is the one that kind of slipped away," admitted Bautista, who is now 42 and resides in his Tampa Bay-area home, dedicating his time to being a devoted full-time father to his four daughters. "Because of all the additions we made at that deadline, we caught fire in the second half after hovering around .500. We won a ridiculous amount of games in the second half. Trailing in the ALCS 3 games to 2, Bautista hit a two-run homer in the eighth inning to tie Game 6 3-3 with his second round-tripper that day. But the Royals scored the go-ahead running in the bottom of the inning. In the ninth, the Blue Jays put runners on first and third with none out. But they failed to cash in the tying run, with the game ending on a Josh Donaldson groundout to third. In the previous series against the Texas Rangers, Bautista slammed his memorable three-run homer in the seventh inning of Game 5 to put Toronto in front 6-3 for good in the deciding game. WATCH | Bautista's famous bat-flip home run in 2015 ALCS against Rangers: Before he began his trot around the bases, Bautista flipped his bat, much to the dismay of the Rangers. A Bautista bobblehead figure, capturing this memorable moment in Blue Jays history, will be presented to fans entering Rogers Centre on Saturday." Bautista arrived in Toronto from Pittsburgh in a trade that sent Robinzon Diaz to the Pirates. The 15th anniversary of the deal is on Aug. 21, a trade the Blue Jays made due to a shoulder injury suffered by future Hall of Famer Scott Rolen. Bautista went on to represent the Blue Jays in six all-star games. He set the single-season franchise record with 54 home runs in 2010 to lead Major League Baseball and also slammed an MLB- leading 43 homers in 2011. Only Hall of Famer Carlos Delgado, with 336, has hit more homers in Blue Jays history than Bautista's 288. WATCH | Bautista bids farewell to Toronto fans in final game as a Blue Jay: In his 15-year career (2004-2018), Bautista belted 344 home runs, 975 runs batted in, and 1,496 hits, having also played for Tampa Bay, Kansas City, Baltimore, New York Mets, Atlanta and Philadelphia. Bautista concluded he is most proud of being part of a group that pushed the Blue Jays back into a contender. Until 2015, Toronto had not been in the post-season since its back-to-back World Series championship in 1993. "We were able as a group to revive the love for the franchise that exists not only in Toronto but all throughout Canada," Bautista said. "At the time of my exit, 10 years later, it had, in my view, grown significantly."  Tim has covered the hockey landscape and other sports in Canada for three decades for The Canadian Press, CBC Sports, the Globe and Mail and Toronto Sun. He has been to three Winter Olympics, 11 Stanley Cups, a world championship as well as 17 world junior championships, 13 Memorial Cups and 13 University Cups. The native of Waterloo, Ont., always has his eye out for an underdog story. Add some “good” to your morning and evening. Get up to speed on what's happening in sports. Delivered weekdays. The next issue of The Buzzer will soon be in your inbox.Discover all CBC newsletters in the Subscription Centre. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Google Terms of Service apply. Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON  Canada, M5W 1E6  Toll-free (Canada only):  1-866-306-4636 It is a priority for CBC to create products that are accessible to all in Canada including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. 