



Racing
                                    
 Adayar, Luxembourg and My Prospero set to battle it out in tactical renewal of the Prince of Wales's Stakes on day two at Royal Ascot (4.20pm); Reach For The Moon carries Royal colours in Hunt Cup (5.00);  watch every race live on Sky Sports Racing Monday 19 June 2023 19:54, UK Day two of Royal Ascot is headlined by a brilliant clash of superstars in the Prince of Wales’s Stakes on Wednesday, all live on Sky Sports Racing. A high-quality field of six go to post for the Group One Prince of Wales's Stakes (4.20), the feature on day two of the Royal meeting. Aidan O'Brien's Luxembourg outbattled Bay Bridge to claim the Tattersalls Gold Cup at the Curragh last month and bids to provide Aidan O'Brien with a fourth win in the race and jockey Ryan Moore a third. Watch every race from Royal Ascot all live on Sky Sports Racing from Tuesday June 20 to Saturday June 24 Sir Michael Stoute's Bay Bridge won the Champion stakes over course and distance in October with today's rivals Adayar and My Prospero in behind him that day and ran with credit when not having a clear passage behind Luxembourg last time. Charlie Appleby's 2021 Derby hero Adayar arrives having beaten subsequent Prix d'Ispahan winner Anmaat in the Gordon Richards Stakes. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  My Prospero represents William Haggas and steps up in trip having finished third behind Modern Games in the Lockinge at Newbury last month. John and Thady Gosden run last year's Hardwicke runner-up Mostahdaf and US raider Classic Causeway completes the field. 
              Full racing results
             
              Watch racing live on Sky Sports
             Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  Former Harry and Roger Charlton inmate Jumbly has had just the one start for Joseph O'Brien when battling on well to finish second in the Group Two Lanwades Stud Stakes and will head the betting for the Group Two Duke Of Cambridge Stakes (3.40) with Ryan Moore booked to ride. Frankie Dettori renews his partnership with Prosperous Voyage after their recent success in the Group Three Princess Elizabeth Stakes at Epsom. She famously beat Inspiral in the Falmouth Stakes last year and a repeat performance of that effort could see her hard to catch. Former Lingfield Oaks trial scorer Rogue Millennium goes for Tom Clover and Daniel Tudhope, and it would be no surprise to see her up with the pace now dropped to a mile. One of the most competitive and dramatic races of the week, the Royal Hunt Cup (5.00) sees a frantic field of 30 go to post. They include a leading chance representing His Majesty The King and Queen with the John and Thady Gosden-trained Reach For The Moon. Frankie Dettori is back on board and seeking some Royal Ascot redemption having been beaten as 2/5 favourite in the Hampton Court Stakes last year. Roger Varian's Perotto ran well to be seventh in the Victoria Cup here last month and has dropped to an eye-catching mark of 96. Recent course and distance winner Chasing Aphrodite benefited from his recent breathing operation when scoring cosily last time, while last year's fourth Astro King is another to note for Daniel and Claire Kubler. Wednesday racecards | Latest Sky Bet odds Watch every race from day two at Royal Ascot, plus all the action from Newcastle, Ripon and Worcester live on Sky Sports Racing. See the latest horse racing news, interviews and features from Sky Sports Racing 



                        © 2024 Sky UK
                    