By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. On TV this Thursday: ABC makes a date with The Golden Bachelor, Starstruck returns for Season 3 and Little Big Town hosts the inaugural People’s Choice Country Awards. Here are 12 programs to keep on your radar. (Also check out our weekly TVLine-Up of premieres and finales, plus our monthly streaming guide.) Season 1 finale (last two episodes): Fionna, Cake and friends join forces in a final effort to protect their world from the Scarab.  Series premiere (all eight episodes): Sorceress Annette (voiced by The Underground Railroad’s Thuso Mbedu) seeks out vampire hunter Richter Belmont (A Discovery of Witches’ Edward Bluemel) to lead the resistance against Vampire Messiah. (Watch trailer.) Season 4 premiere: Kourtney and Kim make things awkward by getting into an argument during a family trip to Cabo San Lucas. (Watch teaser.) Season 3 premiere (all six episodes): Jessie explores single life after breaking things off with film star Tom. (Watch trailer.) A trio of Betazoids wreaks havoc on the U.S.S. Cerritos. Season 1 finale: One contestant hopes to use food to turn enemies into friends as other alliances are strained. Series premiere: The Bachelor franchise highlights seniors as 22 women hope to find lasting love with 72-year-old Gerry Turner. (Meet the contestants.) Season 22 premiere: Following the theme “The American Dream,” 18 contestants aim to impress in the first Signature Dish challenge and earn a private dinner with Chef Ramsey. Little Big Town hosts the inaugural PCCAs at the Grand Ole Opry House; Blake Shelton, Carly Pearce, Dan + Shay, Kelsea Ballerini, Toby Keith and more perform. One of the previously evicted houseguests — Cameron or Jared — will have his game “resurrected,” as Scary Week comes to a close. Season 9 premiere: Bachelor and Bachelorette alumni get another shot at love in paradise. (Meet the cast.) Season 4 premiere: Twelve teams of two embark on a mission to construct a motorized party boat that showcases their personalities. (Read preview.) Comments are monitored, so don’t forkin' curse and don’t bore us with how much your coworker’s sister-in-law makes per hour. Talk smart about TV!    Comment *  Name *  Email * Your email address will not be published. We will notify you when someone replies. Website   

  Δ Gen V, young version of The Boys can be viewed at 3 pm in the US. I’m in the US and Prime shows 8 PM ET for this. Definitely gonna watch it! Big Brother
People’s Choice Country Awards
HELL KITCHEN People’s Choice Country Awards Hells Kitchen
Not too sure on Buddy Games , maybe one more week
No Demo Remo
House Hunters Nothing of interest so, Beat Bobby Flay. Gen V
‘The Killing’ Season 2 Binge The Golden Bach…eh, probably not!
Picard S3 CFB Live (ESPN2)
Impact Wrestling (AXS)
NJPW – All Star Jr Festival & ??? (AXS)
Impact in 60 – Time Machine (AXS); final episode(?) as AXS “Fall Season” starts next week
The Golden Bachelor (ABC). I’ll give 1st episode a chance; curious how Maturity & Dignity affect the show Only made it halfway. Not even “Aunt Chippy” could make me watch/finish Golden Bachelor. By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.