Joel and Ellie arrive in Jackson in the new trailer 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The Last of Us episode 6 trailer sees Joel (Pedro Pascal) and Ellie (Bella Ramsey) finally arrive in Jackson, Wyoming. In the first extended look at the new episode, the pair reunite with Tommy (Gabriel Luna) as Ellie receives a warning from a new character. The trailer begins with Joel and Ellie on their own again after the traumatic events of episode 5. Ellie is wrestling with not being able to prevent Sam's (Keivonn Woodard) death, as she admits she tried to cure him using her blood with little success. "I reckon it's a lot more complicated than that," Joel explains as the pair continue their journey to find Tommy.  The trailer then skips to their arrival at Joel's brother's commune in Jackson and the emotional reunion for the pair. However, their difficult past soon raises its head as Joel defends the things Tommy "judges him for". Those "things" turn out to be the people they murdered, something Tommy is having a hard time coming to terms with. Elsewhere, Rutina Wesley's Maria issues a strong warning to Ellie. "Be careful who you put your faith in," she says about Joel, "the only ones who can betray us are the ones we trust." The trailer ends with Joel and Ellie running away from some figures on horseback, stalking through a corridor, and heading towards a mysterious lodge with a rabbit. Fans of the original game will recognize many of these moments as the show enters the tail end of its first season. For more on the comparisons between the two, check out our breakdown of The Last of Us show and game changes. We've also broken down The Last of Us release schedule to make sure you don't miss a moment, as well as how many episodes there are in The Last of Us.  Bringing all the latest movie news, features, and reviews to your inbox I’m the Deputy Entertainment Editor here at GamesRadar+, covering TV and film for the Total Film and SFX sections online. I previously worked as a Senior Showbiz Reporter and SEO TV reporter at Express Online for three years. I've also written for The Resident magazines and Amateur Photographer, before specializing in entertainment. There's actually a Poltergeist reference hidden in Longlegs, but the director thinks he "f***ed it up" New horror movie debuts first full-length trailer featuring blood, sweat, and tears – and it's already got a near-perfect Rotten Tomatoes score Final Fantasy 7 Remake Part 3 director says the JRPG sequel will be "one of the most loved, most popular games in the whole history of video games" GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 