“Toya & Reginae” is continuing its debut season on Thursday, Sep. 21 at 9 p.m. The series will be available to watch on Philo (free trial). In the episode, entitled “Secrets & Games,” Red will shock Toya with the revelation that he wants another baby, while Reginae will visit her father in LA. Danielle and Red will keep a secret from Toya, and Toya’s game night for couples will take a surprising turn with some shocking revelations. In the previous episode, “Social Media Meltdown,” Reginae and Armon were briefly reunited while they went on a date, while Toya deceived Ms. Anita into a doctor’s visit. Toya also threw a party for Danielle which lead to her uncovering that Reginae has a secret, and Beedy and Toya moved in together. Finally, a home invasion badly frightened Reginae. Here’s the information you’ll need to watch a free live stream of “Toya & Reginae” online on demand. If you’re a cord-cutter or don’t have cable, you can live stream “Toya & Reginae” on any of the following streaming services: Philo The benefits: Philo is remarkably inexpensive for the amount of content it offers, with more than 70 live channels, the ability to stream from three devices simultaneously and a 365-day DVR with unlimited space. Subscribers will also have access to thousands of movies and TV series on-demand. The cost: $25 per month. There are several available packages that include premium channels, like Epix and Starz, for an additional cost. Free trials: The service offers a seven-day free trial that includes all the features of full subscription. Fubo TV The benefits: Fubo is considered the ultimate live TV streaming service for anyone seeking to cut the cord. With a subscription, you get access to over 100 channels (depending on your local area), 30 hours of DVR space and tons of on-demand content, mainly featuring episodes of shows that have aired in recent weeks. Fubo has ABC and the ESPN family, too, making it a top option for sports fans. The cost: $74.99 per month, with a range of add-on options. Free trials: Fubo’s standard package features a seven-day free trial. DIRECTV Stream The benefits: In addition to ABC, Freeform, ESPN, and the other Disney channels, DIRECTV Stream offers CBS, NBC, and FOX. This sets it apart from most live TV streaming services. On top of that, a subscription gets you access to more than 65 other channels in its base package, including Nickelodeon, MTV, CNN, vh1, and more. The biggest selling point for DIRECTV Stream, however, is that it is the best for live and regional sports coverage. Add that to over 65,000 on-demand titles and its Cloud DVR and you have a diverse, versatile service that can meet any of your streaming needs. The cost: The base package costs $64.99 per month, with a wide range of add-on options. Free trials: DIRECTV Stream offers a five-day free trial. “Toya & Reginae” airs the 5th episode of its debut season on Thursday, Sep. 21 at 9 p.m. The series will be followed by a repeat of the premiere at 10 p.m. You can use the channel finder on your provider’s website to locate it: Verizon Fios, AT&T U-verse, Comcast Xfinity, Spectrum/Charter, Optimum/Altice, DIRECTV, Dish. If you missed an episode of “Toya & Reginae” or want to binge watch other WE TV content, look for it on any one of the following streaming services: Fubo TV (free trial) Philo (free trial) DirecTV Stream (free trial) Each streaming service offers a free trial. According to the official description of the WE TV series premiere: Online sensations Toya Rushing and Reginae Carter reveal their truth and lives off social media. Here’s a look at Reginae processing her emotions after her home is invaded, which appears courtesy of WE TV’s official YouTube channel: Hulu raising prices: Is the streaming service still worth it? What is Philo? Price, TV channels, how to get a free trial How to watch ‘Yellowstone,’ the hottest show on TV right now The best streaming services for live TV in 2023: Prices, features, free trials Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to NJ.com. Joseph Rejent covers TV, writing about live television, streaming services and cord-cutting. He can be reached at jrejent@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices