“The Challenge: Battle for a New Champion” will air the second episode of its 39th season on Wednesday, Oct. 25 at 8 p.m. You can watch the premiere live as it airs on DirecTV Stream (free trial) or Philo (free trial) or Fubo TV (free trial). The series is hosted by T.J. Lavin and takes place in Pula, Croatia. Contestants will appear from a wide array of reality shows, and all have competed in previous seasons of “The Challenge” without actually winning. Here’s the information you’ll need to watch a free live stream of “The Challenge: Battle for a New Champion” online without cable. If you’re a cord-cutter or don’t have cable, you can live stream “The Challenge: Battle for a New Champion” on either of the following streaming services: Philo Philo is remarkably inexpensive for the amount of content it offers, with more than 70 live channels, the ability to stream from three devices simultaneously and a 365-day DVR with unlimited space. Subscribers will also have access to thousands of movies and TV series on-demand. The service costs $25 per month. There are several available packages that include premium channels, like Epix and Starz, for an additional cost. The service offers a seven-day free trial that includes all the features of full subscription. DIRECTV Stream In addition to ABC, Freeform, ESPN, and the other Disney channels, DIRECTV Stream offers CBS, NBC, and FOX. This sets it apart from most live TV streaming services. On top of that, a subscription gets you access to more than 65 other channels in its base package, including Nickelodeon, MTV, CNN, vh1, and more. The biggest selling point for DIRECTV Stream, however, is that it is the best for live and regional sports coverage. Add that to over 65,000 on-demand titles and its Cloud DVR and you have a diverse, versatile service that can meet any of your streaming needs. The base package costs $64.99 per month, with a wide range of add-on options. DIRECTV Stream offers a five-day free trial. Fubo TV Fubo is considered the ultimate live TV streaming service for anyone seeking to cut the cord. With a subscription, you get access to over 100 channels (depending on your local area), 30 hours of DVR space and tons of on-demand content, mainly featuring episodes of shows that have aired in recent weeks. Fubo has ABC and the ESPN family, too, making it a top option for sports fans. The service costs $74.99 per month, with a range of add-on options, and its standard package features a seven-day free trial. “The Challenge: Battle for a New Champion” will begin its 39th season on Wednesday, Oct. 25 at 8 p.m. on MTV. It will run until 9 p.m., at which point it will be followed by a slate of reruns of “Ridiculousness.” You can use the channel finder on your provider’s website to locate it: Verizon Fios, AT&T U-verse, Comcast Xfinity, Spectrum/Charter, Optimum/Altice, DIRECTV, Dish. If you missed an episode of “The Challenge: Battle for a New Champion” or want to binge watch the series online as it becomes available, look for it on DirecTV Stream (free trial) or Philo (free trial) or Fubo TV (free trial). According to the official MTV website: In the ruthless world of The Challenge, this newest group of non-champion, next-gen players must work together to win the grand prize -- but it’s still anyone’s game. Here’s a look at the pair of winners from CBS’s “The Challenge: USA,” courtesy of the show’s official YouTube channel: How to watch ‘The Challenge: USA’ 2023 Season Premiere: Time, channel, schedule, cast ‘Big Brother’ Live Feeds 2023: How to watch, get a free trial, and stream Season 25 How to watch ‘Big Brother’ 2023 Season Premiere: Live feeds, time, channel, schedule, cast How to get a free trial for Paramount Plus: Sign up to watch 1883, iCarly, Halo, and more Forget Netflix. Apple TV+ is the streaming service you need right now. How to watch ‘Yellowstone,’ the hottest show on TV right now Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to NJ.com. Joseph Rejent covers TV, writing about live television, streaming services and cord-cutting. He can be reached at jrejent@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices