
					By Max Goldbart  International TV Co-Editor 
	MGM’s international streaming service is to rebrand as MGM+ International outside the U.S. and has struck a content deal with Lionsgate for key European territories.  
	Following the lead of the U.S. version, the Amazon-owned Billy the Kid SVoD will become MGM+ International in Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain, and The Netherlands, remaining at €3.99 ($4.37) per month from this weekend. 
	These territories will benefit from the Lionsgate content deal, becoming the European home of Lionsgate and Starz shows such as the Power franchise, Black Sails, Black Mafia Family, Mad Men and Nashville. More exclusive Lionsgate titles launching on MGM+ will be announced soon.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					'Megalopolis' Lionsgate Theatrical Release To Get Boost From Utopia		
			















	Legal
	



	
		
					NY Judge Grants Fubo Request To Block Disney-Fox-WBD Venu Sports Bundle; Companies Vow Appeal In Antitrust Case		
			





 
	In the U.S., the streamer formerly known as Epix rebranded to MGM+ in January 2023 and is home to shows such as Michael Hirst’s Billy the Kid, John Griffin sci-fi horror FROM and acquisitions such as the BBC’s SAS: Rogue Heroes from Steven Knight.  
	Chris Brearton, VP Prime Video Studios Corporate Strategy, said MGM+ had seen “significant subscriber growth” since the U.S. rebrand.

 
	“We are making further content investments to capitalize on the strength of the iconic brand [internationally] and accelerate our growth as a premium international SVOD service,” he added. “Our strategic deal with Lionsgate marks a further commitment to the MGM+ brand by Amazon.” 
	The rebrand follows Lionsgate’s relaunch of Starzplay as Lionsgate+ outside the U.S.  
	Lionsgate is itself in the process of separating its studio operation from channels business Starz, which took a step forward last week. Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	