A swanky race in Scotland provides its runners with “luxury” sleep pods, around-the-clock meals from a Michelin Star chef, and private butlers, among other perks. An $11,000-per-person luxury ultramarathon set against the backdrop of the Scottish coast is causing quite a stir among traditionalist runners. The Highland Kings, a self-described luxury wilderness ultramarathon, charges runners anywhere between $6,800 to $11,000 to enter its race, but that experience includes everything from “luxury” sleep pods to personalized nutrition plans prepared by world-class chefs and private butlers. The 120-mile event is run over four days and is based out of the Victorian Dalness Estate set in Glen Etive, Scotland, with stunning views of the five Munros, Glencoe, and Rannoch Moor. While some purists shake their heads at this glitzy new type of marathon, others see it as a natural evolution. In an increasingly competitive market, race organizers are trying to offer unique experiences to keep participants returning and entice new runners. With the rise of wellness and fitness tourism, it’s clear that there is a market for these types of upscale races. For these athletes, Highland Kings provides everything from Garmin Epix watches, race clothing, and a WHOOP strap for monitoring sleep and other functions. They will also have access to some of the same performance, life, and physiotherapy coaches used by Olympians, including physiological and hydration composition testing at the Porsche Human Performance Centre. Some race participants will arrive upwards of six months in advance to prepare. Around 40 runners will take part in this year’s edition of the marathon, according to the Wall Street Journal, which chronicled the efforts of a few of its well-heeled participants like Ricky and Danielle Zhao. The Zhaos celebrated crossing the finish line in 2022 with a fancy dinner and couple’s massage. “I knew that after that I had a nice, nice coffee waiting for me,” Danielle Zhao said of the experience, which motivated her to finish. The Dalness Estate provides luxury accommodations for runners, though it may feel more like a country retreat. Each tent has a double bed with Egyptian cotton sheets, clothes rails, toiletries, and a table and chairs. The village offers hot showers, hot tubs, and saunas to ensure athletes are relaxed and comfortable. Not only that, but participants have 24/7 access to a butler, barista, and a Michelin-starred chef. Still, luxury does not equate to ease: runners will still have to deal with daily ascents of 6,250 feet, 5,627 feet, 1,962 feet, and 4,386 feet, along with an average course length of 30 miles per day—not to mention the rough terrain and unpredictable Scottish weather. The Highland Kings website describes the event as a “new age of ultramarathon” and the first of its kind—but at these prices, we’re not sure how many more could follow. Laura Ratliff is a New York City-based writer, editor, and runner. Laura's writing expertise spans numerous topics, ranging from travel and food and drink to reported pieces covering political and human rights issues. She has previously worked at Architectural Digest, Bloomberg News, and Condé Nast Traveler and was most recently the senior editorial director at TripSavvy. Like many of us, Laura was bitten by the running bug later in life, after years of claiming to "hate running." Her favorite marathon is Big Sur. Are Strava “Surrogates” The Next Big Thing? Noah Lyles Doesn’t Have Anything to Prove to You The MVP of the Olympics? ISO: Boy Who Inspired Dakotah Lindwurm at 35K  Fiona O’Keeffe: DNF at Olympic Marathon What’s the Deal With Kipchoge’s Headband? American Women Finish 8th, 9th, 11th in 10K Marathon Alternate Jess McClain Jets to Paris  Why the U.S. Distance Men Have Been Killing It 16-Year-Old Quincy Wilson Makes His Olympics Debut Can Athletes With COVID Compete at the Games?  Noah Lyles Races After Testing Positive for COVID A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.