TV Carpio as Dr. Grace Song and Nick Gehlfuss as Will Halstead in the "It's an Ill Wind The Blows Nobody Good" episode of "Chicago Med" on Feb. 15, 2023.Lori Allen/NBC Fans of the three One Chicago dramas will have to wait one more week for new episodes. Reruns of “Chicago Med,” “Chicago Fire” and “Chicago P.D.” will air on NBC in their usual time slots on Wednesday, Feb. 8, 2023. New episodes are slated for Wednesday, Feb. 15. “Chicago Med,” airs at 8 p.m.; followed by “Chicago Fire” at 9 p.m. and “Chicago P.D.” at 10 p.m. Episode titles for Feb. 15 are: Steven Weber as Dean Archer and Luigi Sottile as Sean Archer in the "It's an Ill Wind The Blows Nobody Good" episode of "Chicago Med" on Feb. 15, 2023.George Burns Jr/NBC Keenan Odenkirk as Dominic, Alberto Rosende as Blake Gallo, Miranda Rae Mayo as Stella Kidd, Jake Lockett as Carver and Christian Stolte as Randy “Mouch” McHolland in "The Man of the Moment" episode of "Chicago Fire" airing on Feb. 15, 2023.Adrian S Burrows Sr/NBC Jason Beghe as Hank Voight in "The Ghost in You" episode of "Chicago P.D." airing on Feb. 15, 2023.Lori Allen/NBC What is Peacock? Peacock plans start at $4.99 a month for Premium. The Premium Plus plan is $9.99 a month. Some content is available for free although you still need to log in. Peacock includes content from NBC, Bravo and Telemundo, movies, TV shows, originals, sports and news. What is fuboTV? FuboTV is a streaming service that offers more than 100 live and on-demand channels and includes cloud DVR. FuboTV has a seven-day free trial. Channels include AMC, E!, HGTV, ESPN, NBC Sports, NFL Network, FS1, MSNBC, Food Network, Great American Living, Magnolia Network, Animal Planet, Bravo, FX, CMT, Comedy Central and Hallmark. The Pro plan is $69.99 a month, Elite is $79.99 a month and Ultimate is $99.99 a month. Add-ons include EPIX, Showtime and Starz. What is SlingTV? Sling streaming service is $40 a month for the Orange (31 channels) or Blue (41 channels) Levels. Sling currently is offering the first month for half price - $20. Premium subscribers also can get a month of Showtime, STARZ and EPIX for free. Channels include CMT, Bravo, BET, Comedy Central, A&E, AMC, Animal Planet, Discovery+, Hallmark, History, National Geographic, Lifetime, TLC and USA. Benjamin Levy Aguilar as Dante Torres and Octavio Rodriguez as Lonzo in "The Ghost in You" episode of "Chicago P.D." airing on Feb. 15, 2023.Lori Allen/NBC If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices