Garmin has launched a new software update for Fenix 7, Marq (Gen 2), and Epix (Gen 2) watches that adds a huge collection of new features, including 30 activity profiles. The new software is available for both standard and Pro versions of the two watches, and finally adds a dedicated option for tracking kayaking, which is long overdue. As DC Rainmaker explains, software beta version 14.23 brings the standard watches into line with the newer Pro editions by adding tools like Hill Score and Endurance Score, which show how your ability to tackle inclines and long distances is progressing. The non-Pro watches are also getting all the new activity profiles included with their newer counterparts, including American football, field hockey, ice hockey, soccer/football, lacrosse, rugby, ultimate, cricket, softball, archery, overland, BMX, various racket sports, and kayak (to name just a few). Shaded relief maps are now available for the older watches as well, making it easier to see terrain gradients when using your watch for navigation. You can also choose to enable a weather overlay for your map, helping you prepare the proper gear before heading out (nobody wants to get caught without their running jacket when the wind picks up). The Fenix 7 Pro and Epix Pro (Gen 2) are also getting a couple of new features, including the workouts app and gaming profile that recently rolled out for the Forerunner 255 and Forerunner 955. To download the update, you'll need to join Garmin's public beta program, then open your watch's main menu, scroll down to 'system' and select 'check for updates'. For detailed instructions, check out the guidance on Garmin's forums. The best Garmin watches: all the latest models tested and rated New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.