e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Craig Ferguson — The Fancy Rascal Tour: Craig Ferguson is a multiple Grammy nominated, Peabody and Emmy Award-winning actor, writer, producer, director and comedian with a diverse career that encompasses film, television and the stage. He is a New York Times bestselling author and has recorded numerous standup specials for Netflix, Epix, Comedy Central and Amazon; 6:30 p.m. Friday, Boulder Theater, 2032 14th St., Boulder; $40-$50; z2ent.com. Ambush at Trident Café: Boulder locals Russ Grabski (guitar/vocals), Chris Alaimo (keys) and Jeff Lyons (drums, backup vocals) make up the band Ambush. The group performs rock, rap, blues, country, freestyle jams, jazz and more at local venues; 6:45 p.m. Friday, Trident Café, 940 Pearl St., Boulder; tridentcafe.com. Free hatha yoga: This 60-minute hatha yoga class is designed to open the heart and build strength in the body. Work consciously, focus the mind and allow the breath to blossom with each gesture; 6 p.m. Friday, Eldorado Mountain Yoga Ashram, 2875 County Road 67, Boulder; free; eldoradoyoga.org. Havana Nights at The Dairy: Enjoy salsa dancing in the lobby and outdoor patio of the Dairy. Bar and snacks will be available. DJ Byron will provide the music; 8 p.m. Friday, Dairy Arts Center, 2590 Walnut St., Boulder; $12; thedairy.org. Ravin’Wolf at BOCO Cider: Ravin’Wolf excels in swampy slide guitar, psychedelic acoustic rock-fusion and a new-grass groove. The duo covers everything from The Grateful Dead, the Allman Bros and other jam bands to John Prine, Neil Young and lots of acoustic country blues; 6 p.m. Friday, BOCO Cider, 1501 Lee Hill Drive, Unit 14, Boulder; free; bococider.com. 5K at Boulder Reservoir: TransPerfect Boulder will host the Victory Lap 5K, featuring a race through the park with a mountain backdrop, a silent auction and a post-race celebration with delicious brunch and entertainment. All proceeds will benefit the V Foundation for Cancer Research; 9 a.m. Saturday, Boulder Reservoir, 5565 N. 51st St., Boulder; $35; transperfectvictorylap.com. Chalk & Chug: Join Bryce Widom and Victoria Guidi to learn chalk tips, enjoy a beer or two and walk away with personal chalk art; 6 p.m. Saturday, Museum of Boulder at Tebo Center, 2205 Broadway, Boulder; $35; museumofboulder.org. Hot Hoedown dance party and fundraiser: Join New Breed Dance Company for a night of dancing featuring the legendary DJ A-L spinning the best dance jams, delicious BBQ snacks and treats, guest performances, corn hole, a bonfire and more; 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Loreland Barn, 3641 Duncan Lane, Boulder; $25; eventbrite.com. Swing night with The Crystal Swing Band: The Crystal Swing Band plays 1930s and 1940s big band swing, featuring the music of Glenn Miller, Benny Goodman, Count Basie, Harry James and more. Led by drummer Kristin Anderson-Bohan, this band has been pleasing audiences for over 30 years with its rousing melodies; 8 p.m. Saturday, The Avalon Ballroom, 6185 Arapahoe Road, Boulder; $10-$20; crystalswingband.com. Ukulele Hootenanny meeting: Ukulele Hootenanny meets every month. Teachers Sarah Goodroad and Sondra Blanchard lead the group in a jam and lesson. All levels are welcome; 5:30 p.m. Saturday, HB Woodsongs, 3101 28th St., Boulder; $20; boulderukulelegroup.com. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group