
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- ForPressRelease)  [Las Vegas, Nevada, USA] Epixel MLM Software was recognized by SoftwareSuggest with the“SoftwareSuggest Winter 2023” award for its exceptional customer support and patronage. This award is an honor for Epixel for its consistent efforts to maintain high-end customer satisfaction through its feature-enhanced products and services. 

Through its research and development, Epixel MLM Software has developed state-of-the-art features to stay on par with the rising market trends and demands. Delivering the best customer support requires a dedicated technical support team to attend to every minute concern that customers from across the globe have. Epixel has stringent strategies in place to deal with various time zones for customers from over 80 countries. 

To deliver an incredible experience for its customers, Epixel has launched unique and exclusive features such as security management, market research, e-store management, and enterprise management that are posing higher demands in the direct selling industry. The company recently improved its MLM software platform integrating loyalty management features to help brands enhance their customer experience through loyalty programs. 

“As much as we focus on integrating the best of innovations and features into our software platform, we make sure that each of our customers from across the globe receives the best of support and backing from our team no matter what time of the day it is. And, when we are being recognized for the same, we are extremely happy and grateful to our customers and SoftwareSuggest for voting us in '', said Dhanesh Haridas, Chief Technical Officer, Epixel MLM Software.“Moving forward, Epixel is aiming at launching new products and services to keep up with the momentum of the global market and to exceed the expectations of our customers'', he added. 

Epixel is accelerating its pace by driving to newer dimensions like IT solutions and the loyalty management industry to cater to a broader category of customers and demands. 

Epixel recently expanded its operations to the State of Qatar to cater to the technological requirements of the direct selling industry in the GCC and MENA regions.   Company :-Epixel MLM Software  User :- Sajin Rajan Email :  Url :-    MENAFN24032023003198003206ID1105856462  Company :-Epixel MLM Software  User :- Sajin Rajan Email :   MENAFN24032023003198003206ID1105856462 MENAFN24032023003198003206ID1105856462 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN