MENU Business News Daily provides resources, advice and product reviews to drive business growth. Our mission is to equip business owners with the knowledge and confidence to make informed decisions. As part of that, we recommend products and services for their success. We collaborate with business-to-business vendors, connecting them with potential buyers. In some cases, we earn commissions when sales are made through our referrals. These financial relationships support our content but do not dictate our recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates products based on thousands of hours of research. We are committed to providing trustworthy advice for businesses. Learn more about our full process and see who our partners are here. Find out exactly how your workers are spending their time online with legal employee monitoring from ActivTrak, Teramind and more. At Business News Daily, we’ve spent years researching and testing the HR software and services that entrepreneurs need to manage their teams effectively. Our team of small business HR specialists conducts independent evaluations of the best HR service providers to determine which best support internal operations. We also regularly consult with HR experts, including recruiters, hiring managers, compliance officers and HR consultants, to stay on top of the latest HR trends impacting small businesses. And every review we publish is evaluated by our editorial staff to ensure objectivity, accuracy and fairness are at the core of our decision-making. Learn more about our editorial guidelines. As part of our investigation into the best employee monitoring software, our small business HR experts tested different services to discover their features and ease of use. We looked for tools that could monitor web browsing, email communication and instant messaging, as well as functions like keystroke logging. We considered whether the product complied with legal... As part of our investigation into the best employee monitoring software, our small business HR experts tested different services to discover their features and ease of use. We looked for tools that could monitor web browsing, email communication and instant messaging, as well as functions like keystroke logging. We considered whether the product complied with legal regulations, if it was compatible with popular operating systems and how well it protected sensitive data. We also took into account the impact on employees and whether they would find the software monitoring intrusive. considered reviewed selected As part of our investigation into the best employee monitoring software, our small business HR experts tested different services to discover their features and ease of use. We looked for tools that could monitor web browsing, email communication and instant messaging, as well as functions like keystroke logging. We considered whether the product complied with legal regulations, if it was compatible with popular operating systems and how well it protected sensitive data. We also took into account the impact on employees and whether they would find the software monitoring intrusive. considered reviewed selected Whether you need to track employee performance, improve employee productivity, or increase company security, employee monitoring software gives small business owners and managers invaluable insights into how employees spend their time at work. The best employee monitoring software can track web browsing and application use, block content and applications, capture screenshots of user activity, and provide insightful reports. We’ve researched dozens of options to help you find the best solution for your business. We considered affordability, ease of use and features that help you monitor employee activity, productivity and cybersecurity.  Employee monitoring software can track and display employee activity in a way that allows you to make educated workforce management decisions. Source: ActivTrak Security threat protection Analytics Performance management Businesses on a budget Employee retention No Yes No No No 7-14 days 14 days 7 days Demo only 7 days 5 1 or 5 None 1 5 $11.25-$35 per seat per month; custom rates for Enterprise users $0-$19 per user per month; custom rates for Enterprise users $4.95-$8.25 per employee per month (custom rates available) $9.99-$69.95 per license per year $15-$25 per user per month; custom rates also available 4 4 (add-ons available) 2 (add-ons available) 6 4 Monthly and annual Annual Monthly Annual Monthly and annual Cloud and on-premises Cloud Cloud Cloud Cloud and on-premises Windows, Windows Server, Mac, Citrix, VDI, VMware Horizon, terminal servers Windows, Mac, Chrome Windows, Mac, Android, iOS Windows, Mac Windows, Mac, terminal servers (VMWare Citrix), Chromebook, iOS, Android Yes No No Yes Yes Both Both None Silent Both Phone, email, webchat Phone, email, webchat Phone, email, webchat Online ticket Online ticket, phone Teramind is extremely secure software that can be deployed in an office or remotely through the cloud. It can monitor Windows, Windows Server, Mac, Citrix, VDI, VMware Horizon and terminal servers, and it’s our choice for firms or industries where security is paramount. We like that Teramind can track employee behavior like website and application usage, email activity, online meetings, web browsers, file transfers, web chats, social media activity, keystrokes, clipboard functions, and print jobs. When we tested the software, we liked that you can create role-based access controls, block employees from engaging in certain activities and record device activity on video and audio. It’s also possible to record only when violations occur, giving employers the option to build in some semblance of user privacy, a unique feature of Teramind that we found particularly impressive.  We like that Teramind lets users create role- and rule-based policies. Source: Teramind Teramind users like the platform’s security features, such as insider threat detection, user activity monitoring, and alert functionality. However, some users noted that the software has a lot of features, causing it to be overwhelming to some new users. Teramind earned a 8.1/10 rating on TrustRadius. READ OUR FULL TERAMIND REVIEW HERE ActivTrak has all the features necessary to monitor your employees transparently. For example, you can use the software to track not only how many hours employees work, but also how engaged they are. We like that the software shows employee analytics like productivity, work efficiency, workload balance and tech usage. When we tested the software, we were pleased to see that you can break these stats down by teams or individual users to identify top performers. Comparisons help identify which employees or teams have low productivity or efficiency levels and may need help. Similarly, identifying key features like employee burnout addresses workload inefficiencies while improving employee engagement. Since ActivTrak also has calendar integrations for Outlook and Google Calendar, employees can get an accurate look at their digital and in-person activity. This data helps employees make informed decisions on how to break up their day best to increase productivity.  ActivTrak offers different dashboards for executives, managers and employees. Source: ActivTrak ActivTrak users like the platform’s productivity and activity tracking, and easy-to-use dashboards. However, some users have noted that they would like to see more integrations. ActivTrak earned a 8.8/10 rating on TrustRadius. READ OUR FULL ACTIVTRAK REVIEW HERE BambooHR is cloud-based HR software that can be used for employee performance management. It’s not traditional employee monitoring software, but rather a comprehensive HR solution with various features to help small businesses hire and onboard employees, manage employee performance, track employee hours, administer employee benefits, and run payroll. We like that BambooHR’s software is intuitive and easy to use across desktop and mobile devices. If you use this software for performance management, it has valuable features like custom review cycles, goal and sub-goal tracking, peer feedback, assessment templates and double-blind assessments. We also like that BambooHR offers pre-built reporting, automated reminders and the ability to segment workforce data by employee type. We found this combination of features to be great for managing employee performance.  Admin can navigate to the performance tab on an employee’s profile to view their performance details. Source: BambooHR BambooHR users like the platform’s implementation process, platform usability and customer support. However, some users noted that there are limitations when it comes to customization the platform features.. BambooHR earned a 8.3/10 rating on TrustRadius. READ OUR FULL BAMBOOHR REVIEW HERE We were impressed to find that SentryPC offers several affordable plans for its cloud-hosted monitoring software to fit even the tightest budgets. A Basic plan starts at just $69.95 per year for one license with the option to add on additional licenses for $29.95 each. It has an array of plan sizes, with the largest plan permitting 1,000 licenses for $9,995 per year – that’s less than $10 per license per year. We like that even its inexpensive plans include everything you need to monitor your team successfully. You can view an online demo of the software before purchasing, which lets you browse sample data and reports to get a feel for the software. After you install the SentryPC software on the devices you want to monitor, you can view the tracking data from any device with web access. You can track employees’ activity, such as mouse movements and clicks, and keyboard presses. You can also track when they log in and out each day, what they download or print, when they change or reset passwords, and when they install and uninstall applications. For each of these events, the software logs the activity details and the associated IP address, and it includes a time stamp.  Even though SentryPC has low-cost plans, it offers essential monitoring features. Source: SentryPC SentryPC users like the platform’s comprehensiveness. Although it is low cost, they found that it still includes essential monitoring features. However, some users were unimpressed with its customer support, as it only offers online ticketing. SentryPC earned a 3.6/5 rating on Trustpilot. READ OUR FULL SENTRYPC REVIEW HERE Veriato is comprehensive employee monitoring and insider threat detection software for Macs, PCs and Android devices. Its advanced capabilities are especially useful for companies that want to maintain employee morale and retention. For example, Veriato offers disengagement analysis to determine how engaged your employees are. This can support focused mentoring, retraining or engagement by managers, preemptively reducing the risk of resignation and the costs of recruitment. We like that Veriato also offers essential workforce management features like activity monitoring. You can track the activity and status of both in-office and remote workers, as well as document and network activities. You can monitor employee behavior through the applications they use, the websites they visit, the searches they run and the emails they send.  We like that Veriato can break down employee activity into user-friendly charts based on productivity. Source: Veriato Veriato users like the platform’s comprehensiveness, as the software has a wide range of monitoring features. However, some users noted that they had issues with platform compatibility when attempting to install it. Veriato earned a 2.6/5 rating on Trustpilot. READ OUR FULL VERIATO REVIEW HERE Employee monitoring software enables supervisors to keep tabs on employee activity, including web content they access, files they download and upload, and external devices they plug into company hardware. Employee monitoring software can be used for local or remote employees and many offer versions that can be used to track independent contractor activity when they’re working on company projects. More than just an employee productivity tracker, most platforms also serve as a security tool, helping to protect a business’s sensitive data and network integrity. The cost for employee monitoring solutions varies according to the features you need and how many employees you have. For example, a startup that needs basic features and has one or two employees may be able to use a free option, whereas businesses that need top-shelf features may pay up to $150 per user per year. On average, based on the employee monitoring software we reviewed, you can expect to pay between $60 to $80 per user per year. Pricing is usually calculated on a per-user basis and billed either monthly or annually. This includes the software, updates and tech support. Some vendors charge a one-time licensing fee and then bill separately for annual software updates and support plans. When you’re comparing pricing, here are four factors you need to look for to ensure the bill isn’t an unwelcome surprise: Employee monitoring software can be billed monthly or annually, ranging from free to $150 per user per year.  Employee monitoring software may incorporate many features, and the most important ones for your business will depend on how you want to monitor your employees. Consider your reasons for wanting to install this software. Do you want to make sure employees aren’t surfing the internet and scrolling through Facebook when they’re on the clock? Do you worry about confidential information or trade secrets being leaked? Are you looking for a way to monitor cybersecurity risks?  You also need to decide if you’ll be actively using this software or if you need notifications when it detects prohibited activity and other policy violations. It’s easy to give employees too much access to sensitive or confidential data, which can have damaging consequences.  Monitoring features like keylogging and screenshots can land you in hot water if you accidentally capture an employee’s private information (medical records or bank account numbers, for instance). To protect your business, establish a policy with your employees that there should be no expectation of privacy on company devices.  Employee monitoring software offers several potential benefits to your business. Software monitoring features like website tracking, content filtering and screen capturing can provide insights about the content your employees are engaging with, including which websites and applications they spend most of their time on. Are they staying engaged with work-related websites, or are they getting distracted watching YouTube videos? You might even notice an employee is spending their day filling out job applications. With employee monitoring software, you can see (and block) the websites your employees use and discover any performance or engagement issues. Software monitoring features like keystroke logging, mouse activity tracking and webcam recording can show you how active your employees are on their work computers. Is their device idle for long periods, or are they actively engaging in work activity throughout the day? Although employee activity monitoring features vary by platform, it can be useful to have some idea of which employees are working at any given moment.  One of the most significant advantages of employee monitoring software is managing employee productivity.  Source: Interguard Software monitoring can help with security and legal disputes as well. If you’ve recorded and archived employee behavior, it could help you back up a claim if an employee files a complaint against the company or a co-worker. Managing website permissions and monitoring USB usage and print jobs can help you prevent leaks of confidential data. Employees will be restricted from viewing malicious websites or behaving maliciously themselves. Network monitoring software can secure your entire network, instead of tracking individual devices only. This software allows you to track the functionality of all network components, such as firewalls and routers, to reduce or eliminate network downtime.  Your choice of employee monitoring software will depend on various factors. We outline some of the key areas to consider below. If your company uses PCs exclusively, you can choose any of the 10 packages we’ve reviewed. However, if your employees routinely work on mobile devices, it’s crucial to ensure your chosen platform offers both iOS and Android compatibility. Similarly, if employees often use USB sticks, check whether portable devices can be monitored and scanned. Some platforms are unable to monitor peripherals like printers and data keys. In an attempt to differentiate their packages, some software providers have incorporated extra services, such as onboarding and offboarding tools, payroll and performance management, and COVID-19 vaccination tracking. This might be superfluous, but if you don’t already have software providing these services, it may be worth considering a package like BambooHR, which brings different HR tools under one roof. [We recently reviewed the best time and attendance software of 2024.] While some of the best employee monitoring software providers offer a variety of ways to get in touch, others provide web support only. Some offer customer support 24/7, but others don’t. In fairness, this is rarely a sector where after-hours or overnight support is pivotal for maintaining productivity, but ensure you’re happy with the variety of support on offer – and when it’s accessible – before signing up. Given the wealth of metrics tracked by the best employee monitoring software packages, it’s important to ensure that you’re not overwhelmed by the scope and scale of a particular platform. If Insightful’s second-by-second raw data generation or Veriato’s disengagement analytics are too granular, you might feel more comfortable with Hubstaff’s basic monitoring or InterGuard’s choice of six types of report views on its dashboard. It would take a very detailed spreadsheet to outline all the plan options and costs associated with signing up for employee monitoring software. However, key areas to consider include how many employees are covered, whether you’re signing up for a month-to-month arrangement or an annual contract, if there is a free trial available, and whether you have to upgrade to a more expensive package to unlock certain features. The freemium model is commonly used, with the likes of ActivTrak offering free plans for a couple of users. Work Examiner offers decreasing fees per user, which will particularly appeal to businesses with 25 to 100 employees. If you are interested in learning about more top-rated employee monitoring software, these alternative solutions are worth considering. Controlio offers cloud-based and on-premises employee monitoring software that tracks and records employees’ PC activity in real time. If you want to review past activity, you can watch previously recorded video footage of an employee’s computer behavior as well. The software also offers keylogging in case you need further visibility into employee activity. It can track employee attendance, monitor web and application usage, store up to six months of data (unlimited storage for the on-premises and private cloud plans), record file usage, and generate productivity scores. You can set web filters so that employees don’t access unproductive or risky websites, and establish behavior rules and alerts for when an employee attempts an unacceptable action.  This example of Controlio’s dashboard gives you a look at some of the information it can reveal.  Source: Controlio Insightful is an ideal monitoring solution for employers that want to track their employees’ activity while retaining employee privacy and giving staff control over what’s recorded. It can support office employees, remote workers and enterprises. Every Insightful account includes two-factor authentication, an API and live support. It also has standard features like real-time activity monitoring, productivity tracking, and app and website monitoring. It streamlines this type of monitoring by offering organization-level productivity labeling – a tool that allows administrators to assign activities as productive or unproductive in bulk. Team managers can also handle productivity labeling on a smaller scale if needed. These features are great for ensuring your employees are on task and productive. Hubstaff is a great monitoring software for employee productivity management. It can be difficult to know how productive every employee is, especially remote workers. To alleviate this problem, Hubstaff has non-invasive features that allow you to accurately track employee time and user activity, improving your team’s overall productivity. It uses mouse and keyboard activity levels to gauge how active your employees are; instead of tracking the exact information they type (keylogging), Hubstaff assigns a true or false value to the activity to indicate productivity. It can take screenshots at regular intervals, but employees can delete screenshots containing sensitive information (e.g., banking information or medical details).  This example of Hubstaff’s dashboard gives you a look at some of the information it can reveal.  Source: Hubstaff InterGuard has many tracking and security features that are ideal for keeping a (virtual) eye on employees from afar, ensuring they’re productive and safe. It can monitor website and application usage, social media activity, email, programs, files, chats, print jobs, and keystrokes. You can block employees from unproductive or harmful websites and applications, and program the software to send you alerts when suspicious activity occurs. In addition to the standard monitoring features, you can access InterGuard’s data loss prevention software, which has endpoint lockdown and data retrieval features. That means you can instantly retrieve company data and lock down a device if an employee leaves the company. You can also block and report email and USB activity. Once you’ve chosen your employee monitoring software provider, you will need to install the software and explain the change to your employees. Here are a few best practices for effectively implementing employee monitoring software:      At Business News Daily, our team of small business human resource experts has been researching and testing employee monitoring software for years, comparing some of the leading solutions across nearly 100 key metrics. We considered 29 employee monitoring software platforms and closely reviewed and tested 14 of them before selecting our five best picks above. Below are the factors we considered when determining our best picks. Each is weighted according to how much the criteria typically influences business owners’ buying decisions. In addition to scoring each employee monitoring software we reviewed based on these criteria, we also determined the best use case scenarios for each. No two businesses are exactly alike, so we put ourselves in the shoes of different types of small business owners to identify the best employee monitoring software for a variety of needs. To learn more about how we review and test human resource products and services for small businesses, read about our editorial process here. This software shows business owners and managers how employees use their company computers or other work devices. For example, it can monitor the websites they visit and the applications they use, track their work hours and emails, block harmful or unproductive websites and apps, and even record events as they occur on the screen. Employee monitoring software is commonly used to improve productivity, engagement and company security. Yes, employee monitoring software is legal. According to the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 (ECPA), employers are allowed to use monitoring software on company-owned devices as long as they have a legitimate business reason. One common reason is cybersecurity.      Employee monitoring software can be a good idea if you are looking to increase employee productivity and company security. The HR data you gain with employee monitoring software can also help you accurately manage time and resources. However, with poor implementation or nefarious motives, employee monitoring software can lead to low employee morale and a toxic workplace. It is important to assess all the pros and cons before using employee monitoring software. This is often discretionary. Some states have limitations and requirements regarding this, but there are no current federal laws that require you to tell your employees if they’re being monitored. Either way, it’s usually a good idea to tell them, especially as getting employees on board with the software often achieves better results. For example, if the purpose of your monitoring software is to improve employee productivity, explain it that way. Your team is likely to work harder if they know their actions are being tracked and reviewed. This is also a good opportunity to discuss acceptable and unacceptable use of company devices, which can reduce the likelihood of harmful or unproductive activities taking place. Help your staff to remain focused with our guide to the biggest workplace distractions that reduce productivity.   Employee monitoring software can help supervisors stay on top of what their team members are doing on company time. It also enables the ability to filter web content, track location and prevent the download or upload of harmful software. It is simultaneously a productivity and cybersecurity tool that can ensure employee compliance with company policies. The drawbacks of employee monitoring software include potential impacts to employee morale and company culture, as well as the legal and ethical considerations that go along with monitoring employee activity. Additionally, employee monitoring software can be costly and resource intensive to maintain, generally requiring IT staff to get the most out of it. Yes, some employee monitoring can be deployed in a “visible” mode so that the employee can see the software on their device and is aware they are being monitored. However, other monitoring software can be deployed silently or in “stealth” mode so as to not alert the employee they are being monitored. Yes, you can use employee monitoring software on remote employees or freelancers, but there are several important considerations to keep in mind. For example, since different jurisdictions have varying laws regarding employee monitoring, you will need to ensure that you comply with local, state, or national regulations concerning privacy and employee rights. In many places, you need to inform workers that they are being monitored and may need to obtain their consent. Yes, employees with advanced technical skills can block employee monitoring software. One way to mitigate this is to have your security team conduct regular tech audits to ensure devices are being properly monitored. You can also implement company policies on what is and isn’t acceptable device usage. Insights on business strategy and culture, right to your inbox.Part of the business.com network.