Las Vegas, March 24, 2023 — Epixel MLM Software was recognized by SoftwareSuggest with the “SoftwareSuggest Winter 2023” award for its exceptional customer support and patronage. This award is an honor for Epixel for its consistent efforts to maintain high-end customer satisfaction through its feature-enhanced products and services.  Through its research and development, Epixel MLM Software has developed state-of-the-art features to stay on par with the rising market trends and demands. Delivering the best customer support requires a dedicated technical support team to attend to every minute concern that customers from across the globe have. Epixel has stringent strategies in place to deal with various time zones for customers from over 80 countries.  To deliver an incredible experience for its customers, Epixel has launched unique and exclusive features such as security management, market research, e-store management, and enterprise management that are posing higher demands in the direct selling industry. The company recently improved its MLM software platform integrating loyalty management features to help brands enhance their customer experience through loyalty programs.  “As much as we focus on integrating the best of innovations and features into our software platform, we make sure that each of our customers from across the globe receives the best of support and backing from our team no matter what time of the day it is,” said Dhanesh Haridas, Chief Technical Officer for Epixel MLM Software. “And, when we are being recognized for the same, we are extremely happy and grateful to our customers and SoftwareSuggest for voting us in. Moving forward, Epixel is aiming at launching new products and services to keep up with the momentum of the global market and to exceed the expectations of our customers”, he added.  Epixel is accelerating its pace by driving to newer dimensions like IT solutions and the loyalty management industry to cater to a broader category of customers and demands.  Epixel recently expanded its operations to the State of Qatar to cater to the technological requirements of the direct selling industry in the GCC and MENA regions.  Step Up Your Fraud Prevention Approach in 2024 Unleashing GenAI Magic: Transforming Visual Commerce for Unbeatable Customer Experiences Returns Challenges, Opportunities Covered in New Webinar Multichannel Merchant: Editorial Spotlight on Returns in 2023 Webinar: The Generative AI Genie is Out of the Bottle High-Touch Returns Become Point of Differentiation for 3PLs Goods-To-Person E-Fulfillment Technology: Flexing Along With Demand Foreign Trade Zones: A Hidden Gem for Retailers Automation and Robotics: Moving Past Limitations to Gains Shipping Capacity Management: The Outlook for 2022 Peak Season Content-Based Marketing: A Post-Cookie Evolution Generative AI in Customer Service: A Balanced Blueprint Why Digital Wallets are The Key to Modern Loyalty Marketing ESG and Your Supply Chain: 3 Steps to a Streamlined Strategy Retail Cyber Threats: 5 Ways to Protect Your Business