Striker Kelechi Iheanacho scored the first goal in Leicester City's 2-0 win at Norwich City - their sixth from seven Championship games Goalkeeper Mads Hermansen says Leicester City are "finding new solutions" to keep up their fine start to the Championship season.  Wednesday's 2-0 victory at Norwich City was a sixth league win in seven games. It leaves them one point behind leaders Preston North End in second, as they get used to working with new head coach Enzo Maresca. "We're improving every single day and every game we find new solutions," Hermansen told BBC Radio Leicester. "I love to be part of this team and the way we do things. It suits me very well." Mads Hermansen has started in six of the Foxes' seven Championship games so far this season The win at Carrow Road marked a first league clean sheet for the Foxes for five games and a further sign of improvement. Denmark Under-21 international Hermansen, 23, was brought in this summer from Brondby as part of Leicester's new-look squad following relegation from the Premier League. With Italian Maresca having been part of Pep Guardiola's backroom staff at Manchester City, Hermansen acknowledges his role as a ball-playing goalkeeper in the Leicester team. "He (Maresca) gives me a lot of responsibility and I really appreciate that," said Hermansen. "I like to try to dictate the game. As a lot of teams do, they leave me open and play man-to-man with the rest of the guys, so it's up to me to find these smaller passes, to try to move things around and create these spaces. "We work on it every day and we improve every game."  BBC Sport Championship Podcast: Leicester City Football Forum Leicester City official site 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.