Other ACT Services and Products WorkKeys is a system of assessments, curriculum, certification, and skills profiling that builds and measures essential workplace skills that can affect job performance and increase opportunities for career changes and advancement.
 Helps individuals build the essential career-relevant skills needed for learning, personal development, and effective job performance. Measure foundational skills required for success in the workplace, and help measure the workplace skills that can affect job performance.  Helps individuals earn, verify, certify, and share through Digital Badging, the essential foundational skills for workplace success. Links job tasks with WorkKeys Assessments to pinpoint benchmarks for hiring, recruiting, advancement, and training. Prepare Your Students for Workplace Success There’s never been a more challenging time to be an educator. Ensure your students are career ready and boost their employability with ACT WorkKeys solutions. With WorkKeys, your school can: Community colleges play a critical role in workforce development across the nation. Help ensure learner success by closing skills gaps and improve workforce quality with ACT WorkKeys solutions. With WorkKeys, your school can: Individuals are entering the workforce without the skills employers need. Take the first step toward closing skills gaps and improving workforce quality with ACT WorkKeys solutions. WorkKeys will empower you to: Pinpoint the Skills Needed to Grow Your Business Join more than 28,000 employers who request and accept ACT WorkKeys to tap into the most qualified labor pool in your area. Leverage WorkKeys to: Get Noticed by Employers A Gathering of Workforce Development Leaders The  ACT Workforce Summit is a one-of-a-kind annual event that attracts leaders in workforce and economic development, secondary and postsecondary education, government, and business to connect and learn about the latest trends and strategies in talent and workforce development. Join us in Atlanta from October 4-6 as we focus on creating credentialed career pathways that supply employers with a reliable talent pipeline. Deadline to register is September 10. We know that when communities work together, they can achieve truly great things. This is why we created ACT Work Ready Communities (WRC), a collaborative that empowers states, regions, and counties to connect and foster data-driven economic growth. We work with communities to identify and close skills gaps and develop processes and frameworks that help them take their workforce development efforts to the next level. Join ACT for a series of on-demand webinars that will give you a comprehensive understanding of the latest career and technical education (CTE) and workforce development policy innovations, best practices, and strategies to drive economic growth and job creation.   ACT WorkKeys Applied Math and Workplace Documents Assessments are approved by the National Reporting System (NRS) and eligible for use under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunuity Act (WIOA) for all adult basic eduation programs. We pride ourselves on staying ahead of trends in workforce development and pioneering the next game-changing solution to help businesses thrive. Complete the form to receive your bi-monthly Workforce newsletter, where you'll learn about topics related to: Talk to an ACT representative to get started. 
      © by ACT Education Corp. All rights
      reserved.
      Terms of Use
 This action will open a new window. Do you want to proceed? If you are accessing this site from outside the United States, Puerto Rico, or U.S. Territories, please proceed to the non-U.S. version of our website.