Major technological collaborations between the United States and India are set to shape the future of critical technology advancements. These collaborations, focused on areas such as Quantum, Advanced Computing, Artificial Intelligence (AI), and Advanced Telecommunications which aim to drive industrial and economic growth while addressing security challenges.  



 The Indo-U.S. Quantum Coordination Mechanism has been established to facilitate joint research in quantum technology between the public and private sectors of both countries.  An implementing arrangement has been signed by India and the United States to support collaborative research on quantum, AI, and advanced wireless technologies. This arrangement is based on a $2 million grant from the U.S.-India Science and Technology Endowment Fund, aimed at jointly developing and commercializing AI and quantum technologies. ALSO READ: Apple expands self-repair program to include iPhone 14 series and M2 MacBooks: All you need to know Google, through its AI Research Center in Bengaluru, is actively involved in building models to support more than 100 Indian languages. Collaborations with institutions like the Indian Institute of Science and IIT Madras focus on open-sourcing speech data for AI models and establishing a Center for Responsible AI, respectively. In the realm of advanced telecommunications, joint efforts have led to the establishment of public-private Joint Task Forces. These task forces focus on the development and deployment of Open RAN systems and advanced telecoms research and development.  Open RAN is a set of interface standards that helps to make wireless networks more affordable by creating standard connections between different parts of the network.    
Related Stories

"Very interested in helping create more jobs," Amazon CEO Andrew Jassy after meeting PM ModiPM Modi recites 'poem' during US-Congress address | VIDEO Significant updates from US tech giants after PM's 'Hi-Tech Handshake': Know everything ALSO READ: Amazon, Google, and Microsoft make major declarations after meeting PM Modi The Bharat 6G initiative in India and the U.S. Next G Alliance will collaborate to drive research in this area, to reduce costs, enhance network security, and improve resilience. Moreover, financing from the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation, in partnership with USAID (United States Agency for International Development), will support the launch of Open RAN deployments in both countries. This collaboration aims to enhance the scalability and competitiveness of this technology in international markets. Top News CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea Related Technology News Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns Latest News Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea  Kolkata rape-murder case: CBI appoints top officer ASP Seema Pahuja to probe matter, who is she?   Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same  Fadnavis takes swipe at Jarange: 'Will quit politics if CM says I am hindering Maratha quota process  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Coffee Par Kurukshetra: What is the terrifying truth of Kolkata incident?    Aaj Ki Baat: Accused to undergo polygraph test. Will truth surface?    Haqiqat Kya Hai: What happened that night... Has the CBI uncovered every detail?    Muqabla: What evidence did CBI find... Who is now feeling scared?    Snipers from India and Sri Lanka take centre stage at Joint Military Exercise 'Mitra Shakti'    CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why   ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash   'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry   NIA arrests key arms supplier from Punjab in VHP leader Vikas Bagga murder case   Centre issues order to increase security by 25% in all govt hospitals, Marshals to be deployed    Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same   PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country    Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage   New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations   Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...'   The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    IC 814 The Kandahar Hijack trailer: Netflix series to tell story of India's longest plane hijack   Rajinikanth's Vettaiyan locks release date, film to clash with Suriya's Kanguva | Deets inside   Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Highlights: North Delhi successfully chase down 176 to register maiden win   Naseem Shah returns as Pakistan announce playing XI for first Test against Bangladesh   England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain    GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns   Champai Soren likely to join BJP | How this may affect Jharkhand political landscape ahead of polls   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    DDA launches housing schemes: 40,000 discounted flats on offer, prices start at Rs 11.5 lakh    Domestic air traffic increases to 7.3 per cent to 1.29 crore on annual basis in July   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list  