In a report released on July 5, Ashish Sabadra from RBC Capital maintained a Hold rating on Equifax (EFX – Research Report), with a price target of $205.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $224.97. Sabadra covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Equifax, Moody’s, and Verisk Analytics. According to TipRanks, Sabadra has an average return of 2.8% and a 53.64% success rate on recommended stocks.  Currently, the analyst consensus on Equifax is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $227.55. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Based on Equifax’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending March 31, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $1.3 billion and a net profit of $113.5 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $1.25 billion and had a net profit of $123.1 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Equifax, Inc. engages in the provision of information solutions and human resources business process outsourcing services. It operates through the following business segments: U.S. Information Solutions, Workforce Solutions, International, and Global Consumer Solutions. The U.S. Information Solutions segment includes consumer and commercial information services, mortgage loan origination information, financial marketing services, and identity management. The Workforce Solutions segment covers employment, income, and social security number verification services as well as complementary payroll-based transaction and employment tax management services. The International segment offers information, technology, and services to support debt collections and recovery management in Canada, Europe, Latin America, and Asia Pacific. The Global Consumer Solutions segment provides consumer and credit information to resellers. The company was founded by Cator Woolford and Guy Woolford in 1899 and is headquartered in Atlanta, GA.  Read More on EFX: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks