businessReal Estate By  Mitchell PartonResidential Real Estate Reporter By  Mitchell PartonResidential Real Estate Reporter 12:50 PM on Sep 8, 2023 CDT Software company Yardi Systems Inc. and 18 property management companies were named in an antitrust class-action lawsuit Friday that accuses the companies of a nationwide apartment price-fixing operation. The complaint, filed by renter Mckenna Duffy in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington, says landlords together coordinated rent increases through the use of Yardi’s automated pricing software called the RENTmaximizer. It follows similar claims against Richardson-based software company RealPage. Through the RENTmaximizer, the rental companies outsourced their pricing decisions to Yardi and artificially eliminated any competition between them, the suit alleged. Get the latest real estate news you need to know. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Instead of courting renters based on market conditions, attorneys say property management companies used Yardi’s algorithmic tool to automate the pricing process and implement higher prices collectively across a group of landlords. “Our antitrust legal team has uncovered what we believe to be a clear gaming of the system through controlled, lockstep algorithmic increases to fix the cost of rent — one that has affected millions of renters,” said Steve Berman, managing partner and co-founder of Hagens Berman, in a statement. “Housing is a basic human need. What these companies have done is both legally and morally bankrupt.” Dallas-based apartment manager, owner and developer Tonti Properties is one of the 18 landlords named in the suit. The company uses the RENTmaximizer software, according to the complaint. Yardi representatives did not immediately respond to a request for comment. ProPublica published an investigation last October on landlords’ use of RealPage’s proprietary YieldStar algorithm to push the highest possible rent prices on tenants for apartments across the U.S. Hagens Berman filed a similar complaint against RealPage, one of many against the company nationwide. More than 20 lawsuits against RealPage were consolidated in Nashville federal court in April, Reuters reported. Mitchell Parton, Residential Real Estate Reporter. Mitchell covers residential real estate across North Texas for The Dallas Morning News. He previously covered commercial and residential real estate for the San Antonio Business Journal and is a graduate of the University of Cincinnati.