
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  Fort Collins, Colorado, Sept. 26, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- DataHorizzon Research Published a report titled, "Data Center Colocation market Size, Growth, Share, Statistics Report, By Type (Retail & Wholesale), By Deployment (IT & Telecom, Healthcare, Research, Manufacturing, Retail), By Enterprise Size (Large Enterprises, Small & Medium Enterprises), By End-use, By Region and Segment Forecasts, 2023-2032."    According to DataHorizzon Research, The data center colocation market size was valued at USD 48.9 Billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 159.1 Billion by 2032 and is expected to have a CAGR of 12.6%.  The global data center colocation market report comprehensively analyzes the latest trends and market conditions. It also covers the latest insights from the industry and discusses market opportunities in detail. One of the main factors influencing the growth of the data center colocation market is the rapid digitization of businesses combined with the expanding usage of cross-platform distributed computing and virtualization frameworks. Besides, other benefits such as scalability, cost-effectiveness, and availability of a reliable data center infrastructure are expected to play a pivotal role in the market development. These factors prove conducive for market entrants, and therefore, the IT industry may witness a weighted preference for colocation facilities over owned locations. Access to a hybrid cloud is another technological opportunity for industry players. As the demand for data storage has grown by leaps and bounds in the past few years, a hybrid cloud environment allows companies to combine their private infrastructure with cloud services, enabling seamless data integration and transfer for end-users. In addition, the trend of using renewable energy is influential for setting up a colocation facility because it optimizes electricity and water consumption. Also, this factor remains crucial to reduce environmental impact for organizations. Technological advancements such as IoT, cloud computing, autonomous vehicles, and advanced robotics have resulted in the need for higher bandwidth and faster data processing for storing and transferring information. The colocation centers prove beneficial as operators can locate their data near the users, optimizing and offering enhanced storage and networking services.   Request Sample Report:         Report Snapshot:       Report Title    Data Center Colocation Market     Market Size in 2022   USD 48.9 Billion     Market Size by 2032   USD 159.1 Billion     CAGR from 2023 to 2032   12.6%     Largest Market   Asia Pacific     Forecast Period   2023 to 2032     Historic Period   2021     Base Year   2022     Report Scope & Coverage   Market Size, Market Estimations, Competitor Analysis, Trends, and Growth Factors     By Type   Retail & Wholesale     By Deployment   IT & Telecom, Healthcare, Research, Manufacturing, Retail, Energy     By Enterprise Size   Large Enterprises, Small & Medium Enterprises     Region   North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, and Middle East & Africa.     Countries Covered   U.S., Canada, U.K., Germany, France, China, Japan, India, Brazil, Mexico, UAE, Saudi Arabia, and South Africa, among others     Major Market Players   Cyxtera Technologies, Inc.; Global Switch; Cyrus One, Inc.; Telehouse; NTT Communications Corporation; Digital Realty Trust, Inc.; NaviSite; and Equinix, Inc.      Segmentation Overview:   The global data center colocation market has been segmented based on type, deployment, enterprise size, end-use, and region. Retail colocation is leading in the small-business sector, and the growth factors are attributed to the benefits of data storage and overhead savings. The wholesale colocation is anticipated to grow fast in the following years, attributed to the expanding consumer base. North America is leading in the data center colocation market and is projected to dominate in the following years. Moreover, the availability of better infrastructure and high technology spending are some of the prominent factors to the market growth. Asia Pacific is a fast-growing market owing to the popularity of colocation to cater to data and bandwidth needs.   Buy This Research Report:         Data Center Colocation Market Report Highlights:     The global data center colocation market is projected to reach USD 159.1 billion at a CAGR of 12.6% by 2032.     The global market growth drivers comprise the high wave of digitization in business sectors and the availability of several opportunities in the data storage and distribution industry.     Retail is the leading segment for data center colocation owing to the convenience for small-scale organizations. Wholesale colocations are projected to expand fast in the global market.     IT & Telecom is leading in the deployment segment and is projected to remain dominant in the forthcoming years.     North America is a dominant market for data center colocation and is projected to continue dominating in the following years. Asia Pacific will likely exhibit significant growth in the upcoming years owing to the IT and Telecom advancements.     Prominent players in the global data center colocation market report include Cyxtera Technologies, Inc.; Global Switch; Cyrus One, Inc.; Telehouse; NTT Communications Corporation; Digital Realty Trust, Inc.; NaviSite; and Equinix, Inc.     Key Developments in the Industry:     In 2023, Princeton Digital Group launched its sixth facility in Indonesia scaled up to a 22MW data center facility in Greater Jakarta.     Artificial intelligence solutions can now resolve data center issues such as cooling, storage, and data distribution in one go. With this, data center efficiency and sustainability can be boosted with AI deployment.     Looking Exclusively For Region/Country Specific Report?         OR     Ask For Discount         Data Center Colocation Market Report Segmentation:     Data Center Colocation Market, By Type (2023-2032)     Retail   Wholesale     Data Center Colocation Market, By Deployment (2023-2032)     IT & Telecom & Healthcare   Healthcare   Research   Manufacturing   Retail   Energy     Data Center Colocation Market, By Enterprise Size (2023-2032)     Large Enterprises   Small & Medium Enterprises     Data Center Colocation Market, By Region (2023-2032)     North America       U.S.   Canada      Europe       The U.K.   Germany   France   Rest of Europe      Asia Pacific       China   India   Japan   South Korea   Rest of Asia Pacific      Latin America       Brazil   Mexico   Rest of Latin America      Middle East & Africa       UAE   Saudi Arabia   South Africa   Rest of the Middle East & Africa      About DataHorizzon Research:   DataHorizzon is a market research and advisory company that assists organizations across the globe in formulating growth strategies for changing business dynamics. Its offerings include consulting services across enterprises and business insights to make actionable decisions. DHR's comprehensive research methodology for predicting long-term and sustainable trends in the market facilitates complex decisions for organizations.   Contact:     Mail:     Ph:  +1-970-672-0390   Website:     Follow Us:  LinkedIn      Recent Publications   Speech Analytics Market 2023 to 2032 Accessibility Testing Market 2023 to 2032 Terminal Management System Market 2023 to 2032 Foreign Exchange Software Market 2023 to 2032 Video Analytics Market 2023 to 2032   Tags Data Center Colocation Market Colocation Market DCCM Size Related Links   Digital Payment Market   Edge Computing Market Size   5G Infrastructure Market Growth    Chatbot Market Forecast   Cold Chain Market Size   Retail Analytics Market   Vertical Farming Market   Temporary Labor Market   Cloud ERP Market   Facility Management System Market   Payment Processing Solutions Market   Brain-computer Interface Network Market   Metaverse in Gaming Market   Private 5G Network Market   Last Mile Delivery Insurance Market   Generative AI in Logistics Market  MENAFN26092023004107003653ID1107148014    According to DataHorizzon Research, The data center colocation market size was valued at USD 48.9 Billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 159.1 Billion by 2032 and is expected to have a CAGR of 12.6%.  The global data center colocation market report comprehensively analyzes the latest trends and market conditions. It also covers the latest insights from the industry and discusses market opportunities in detail. One of the main factors influencing the growth of the data center colocation market is the rapid digitization of businesses combined with the expanding usage of cross-platform distributed computing and virtualization frameworks. Besides, other benefits such as scalability, cost-effectiveness, and availability of a reliable data center infrastructure are expected to play a pivotal role in the market development. These factors prove conducive for market entrants, and therefore, the IT industry may witness a weighted preference for colocation facilities over owned locations. Access to a hybrid cloud is another technological opportunity for industry players. As the demand for data storage has grown by leaps and bounds in the past few years, a hybrid cloud environment allows companies to combine their private infrastructure with cloud services, enabling seamless data integration and transfer for end-users. In addition, the trend of using renewable energy is influential for setting up a colocation facility because it optimizes electricity and water consumption. Also, this factor remains crucial to reduce environmental impact for organizations. Technological advancements such as IoT, cloud computing, autonomous vehicles, and advanced robotics have resulted in the need for higher bandwidth and faster data processing for storing and transferring information. The colocation centers prove beneficial as operators can locate their data near the users, optimizing and offering enhanced storage and networking services.   Request Sample Report:         Report Snapshot:     Segmentation Overview:   The global data center colocation market has been segmented based on type, deployment, enterprise size, end-use, and region. Retail colocation is leading in the small-business sector, and the growth factors are attributed to the benefits of data storage and overhead savings. The wholesale colocation is anticipated to grow fast in the following years, attributed to the expanding consumer base. North America is leading in the data center colocation market and is projected to dominate in the following years. Moreover, the availability of better infrastructure and high technology spending are some of the prominent factors to the market growth. Asia Pacific is a fast-growing market owing to the popularity of colocation to cater to data and bandwidth needs.   Buy This Research Report:         Data Center Colocation Market Report Highlights:     Key Developments in the Industry:     Looking Exclusively For Region/Country Specific Report?         OR     Ask For Discount         Data Center Colocation Market Report Segmentation:     Data Center Colocation Market, By Type (2023-2032)     Data Center Colocation Market, By Deployment (2023-2032)     Data Center Colocation Market, By Enterprise Size (2023-2032)     Data Center Colocation Market, By Region (2023-2032)     About DataHorizzon Research:   DataHorizzon is a market research and advisory company that assists organizations across the globe in formulating growth strategies for changing business dynamics. Its offerings include consulting services across enterprises and business insights to make actionable decisions. DHR's comprehensive research methodology for predicting long-term and sustainable trends in the market facilitates complex decisions for organizations.   Contact:     Mail:     Ph:  +1-970-672-0390   Website:     Follow Us:  LinkedIn      Recent Publications   Speech Analytics Market 2023 to 2032 Accessibility Testing Market 2023 to 2032 Terminal Management System Market 2023 to 2032 Foreign Exchange Software Market 2023 to 2032 Video Analytics Market 2023 to 2032  MENAFN26092023004107003653ID1107148014 MENAFN26092023004107003653ID1107148014 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN