First Due is honored to land on Inc.'s 5000 2023 list as the fastest-growing fire and EMS software company for the second year. For the 2023 list, First Due has achieved the rank of #1 fire & EMS Software company, 92 in Software and 700 overall. NEW YORK, Aug. 16, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- First Due is honored to land on Inc.'s 5000 2023 list as the fastest-growing fire and EMS software company for the second year. The Inc. 5000 list includes many inspiring companies solving some of the nation's most complex issues. With a three-year growth of 838%, First Due proudly ranks as the 92nd fastest-growing software company and the 700th fastest-growing company on the list. Since its launch in 2016, First Due has become a leader in fire and EMS technology across North America. First Due's CEO and Co-Founder, Andreas Huber credits much of the company's success to its customers. Huber states, "Our customers remain at the core of everything we do. Their invaluable feedback drives our team to tenaciously fulfill our mission—to provide fire and EMS agencies with the most comprehensive software suite ever built, enabling them to operate at the highest and safest levels possible." First Due proudly serves North America's first responders. Huber explains, "Fire and EMS agencies face more complex challenges than ever, and with outdated and disconnected software, they struggle to keep up, let alone innovate. First Due's world-class team of software and public safety professionals deliver a product for fire departments and EMS agencies to streamline and consolidate current fragmented systems." By working closely with first responders, First Due continues to build the most robust end-to-end software solution for every aspect of emergency operations and prevention, no matter the size or location of an agency. Under a sole login, customers can consolidate NFIRS, ePCR, fire prevention, pre-incident planning, scheduling, personnel management, asset and inventory, hydrants, training, community risk reduction, mobile response, advanced data analytics, payment for services, and more. For the complete results of the Inc. 5000, including company profiles and an interactive database, visit www.inc.com/inc5000. The top 500 companies are featured in the September issue of Inc. magazine, available on newsstands beginning Tuesday, August 23. For more information about First Due, visit www.firstdue.com. Media Contact:Ron KanterHead of Marketing(516) 428-4323ron@firstdue.com About First Due: With First Due, fire and EMS agencies can consolidate NFIRS, ePCR, fire prevention, pre-incident planning, scheduling, personnel management, asset and inventory, hydrants, training, community risk reduction, mobile response, advanced data analytics, payment for services, and more within a single application - available anywhere on any device. First Due's suite provides data-driven and responder-focused solutions to create the last piece of software agencies need to buy. More about Inc. and the Inc. 5000: Methodology: Companies on the 2023 Inc. 5000 are ranked according to percentage revenue growth from 2019 to 2022. To qualify, companies must have been founded and generating revenue by March 31, 2019. They must be U.S.-based, privately held, for-profit, and independent—not subsidiaries or divisions of other companies—as of December 31, 2022. (Since then, some on the list may have gone public or been acquired.) The minimum revenue required for 2019 is $100,000; the minimum for 2022 is $2 million. As always, Inc. reserves the right to decline applicants for subjective reasons. Growth rates used to determine company rankings were calculated to four decimal places. About Inc.: Inc. Business Media is the leading multimedia brand for entrepreneurs. Through its journalism, Inc. aims to inform, educate, and elevate the profile of our community: the risk-takers, the innovators, and the ultra-driven go-getters who are creating our future. Inc.'s award-winning work reaches more than 50 million people across a variety of channels, including events, print, digital, video, podcasts, newsletters, and social media. Its proprietary Inc. 5000 list, produced every year since 1982, analyzes company data to rank the fastest-growing privately held businesses in the United States. The recognition that comes with inclusion on this and other prestigious Inc. lists, such as Female Founders and Power Partners, gives the founders of top businesses the opportunity to engage with an exclusive community of their peers, and credibility that helps them drive sales and recruit talent. For more information, visit www.inc.com. Media ContactRon Kanter, First Due, 1 5164284323, ron@firstdue.com, https://www.firstdue.com/  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prweb.com/releases/first-due-ranks-1-fire--ems-software-provider-and-among-the-top-100-software-companies-on-2023-inc-5000-list-301902690.html SOURCE  First Due © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.