Former President Donald Trump put on a rally at Erie Insurance Arena on Saturday. The Erie Times-News provided live coverage throughout the day event: Former President Donald J. Trump told supporters Saturday that the bellwether county is a "Trump stronghold," despite losing here in 2020, and that it will be key again in delivering him the GOP nomination for president in 2024 and to his efforts to unseat President Joe Biden. Erie rally:Trump addresses immigration, attacks Biden and calls criminal probes 'election interference' After almost two hours of speaking, Donald Trump leaves the stage to applause, waving and smiling at supporters. Trump invites Dan Meuser, Mike Kelly and Fred Keller to the stage, calling them "real warriors" and "incredible people." Kelly addressed the crowd, stating it is Trump country and Trump nation to large applause. Meuser called on the crowd to make America and the world great again by electing Trump as president. Trump tells the crowd that he is leading the GOP presidential field, in various polls, by huge margins. He expects it to stay that way. Trump told the audience — which drew big applause — "When this battle is over, I'll be back in the White House." Donald Trump began addressing the crowd just after 6 p.m. His opening remarks included that, if elected, he will save the economy and purge the deep state. Former Trump Ambassador to Denmark Carla Sands is pushing 2020 election theft conspiracies: "You might even say it was rigged," she said, questioning how Joe Biden could receive 15 million more votes that Barack Obama, ignoring increases in both turnout as a percentage of the voting-age population and a raw increase in the voting-age population between 2008 and 2020.  Sands adds, "We're going to beat them at their own game" in 2024.  A Trump campaign video plays from the jumbotron, with a reference to "Joe Biden's America" spurring a chorus of boos. Jason Aldean's "Try That in a Small Town" music video followed the video. The crowd is becoming more animated. Several members of the crowd made a conga line around the arena floor, dancing to Michael Jackson "Can't Stop Till You Get Enough" and singing "MAGA" to the beat.  What's the soundtrack for a Trump rally? The musical selection has so far included songs ranging from classic rock and pop to modern country hits. Elton John's "Rocket Man" could be heard over the airwaves, other selections included "We Are the Champions" by Queen, "Living on a Prayer" by Bon Jovi, and "That's My Kind of Night" by Luke Bryan. Other choices included "Rolling in the Deep" by Adele, "It's All Coming Back to Me Now" by Celine Dion and Whitney Huston's "Higher Love." An hour away from the first scheduled speaker and seats on the arena floor are virtually all full. Several empty seats remain in the stands. The scene outside Erie Insurance Arena was full of spectators ready to see Trump, with cheers erupting from those waiting to enter the facility. Attendees were upbeat and enthusiastic. There was virtually no Trump opposition to be seen anywhere in the immediate vicinity of the arena. Chants of "Joe's Gotta Go" along with "USA" were popular with the crowd. There were a bevy of vendors outside, selling Trump merchandise including hats, T-shirts, buttons and other items. At least a dozen vendors were working the area between East 7th and East 10th streets along French. Edward Young believes in Donald Trump’s political comeback. So much so that Young plans to watch it play out in person whenever he can. Young stood outside Erie Insurance Arena Saturday afternoon with hundreds of other red- and blue-clad Trump supporters, several hours before the former president’s scheduled political rally there. Former President Donald Trump will hold a campaign rally Saturday at Erie Insurance Arena. Trump heads to Erie after special council Jack Smith announced new charges against him that include an allegation Trump sought to delete surveillance video. A second Trump aide was also indicted for obstruction of justice. Erie County Republican Committee Chair Tom Eddy is well aware of his community's historic role as a crystal ball. "I look at Erie County as a microcosm of the entire state," he said, citing its diverse economy and demographics. "We mimic the entire state in a very small geographic area." For anyone unable to attend former President Donald Trump's rally Saturday at the Erie Insurance Arena, there are multiple websites which will stream the event for the public to watch online. Local news stations will also be broadcasting the event. There are various downtown Erie parking options available Saturday for those planning to attend former President Donald Trump’s campaign rally at Erie Insurance Arena and other nearby events. Donald Trump, the former president who's seeking a second term in 2024, is the main act for Saturday's rally at Erie Insurance Arena, but at least five other people will take the stage and address the crowd beforehand. Starting at 4 p.m. Saturday, two hours before Trump is set to speak, a group of current and former elected and appointed officials will address supporters. Here's who's opening for Trump. Those waiting in line to enter the arena might have to deal with some rain. The National Weather Service in Cleveland forecast calls for showers and thunderstorms before noon, then showers likely and possibly a thunderstorm between noon and 3 p.m., then a chance of showers and thunderstorms. Some of the storms could produce heavy rain. High near 79. The chance of rain? 100%, according to the weather service. Find the latest forecast update and radar images from AccuWeather at GoErie.com/weather. A number of items will not be allowed inside Erie Insurance Arena. These include firearms or weapons of any kind, including pocket knives; selfie sticks; coolers; or bags larger than a clutch, to include camera bags, backpacks, briefcases or computer bags. Erie Events Executive Director Gus Pine said the U.S. Secret Service will be the main security force at the rally. Arena security will augment them inside, outside and on the arena parking ramp. "The most important thing is no bags," Pine said. "People will be asked to either throw them away or take them back to their vehicles. So to save time: no bags." Here's the full list of prohibited items: Weapons, bags and selfie sticks prohibited at Trump rally in Erie Donald Trump last made a public stop in Erie in October 2020, on the eve of the election. Thousands of people turned out to hear him speak for an hour at Erie International Airport. When then-President Trump held a rally in Erie in 2018, the Times-News took a look at 10 other times presidents had visited the area. It's not a comprehensive list but it is impressive: Add Joe Biden. He visited in October 2020, weeks before winning Erie County, Pennsylvania and the presidency.