While Hurricane Idalia may be in the rearview mirror, the damage it caused will be felt for months, if not years, in the hardest hit communities. >>> STREAM ACTION NEWS JAX LIVE <<< The storm has regenerated conversations about the impacts of climate change and how those impacts will affect the property insurance market. [DOWNLOAD: Free Action News Jax app for alerts as news breaks] In response to a recent survey conducted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, at least five major insurers indicated climate change is impacting the way they do business. Allstate, American Family, Nationwide, Erie Insurance Group and Berkshire Hathaway reported extreme weather has resulted in the halting of coverage in some regions, increases in deductibles and even led to the exclusion of damage caused by natural disasters from their policies. READ: Tropical Depression 13 forms in central Atlantic, will become Lee “All insurance companies need to assess their risk appetite to determine what type of risk they’re willing to write and could they charge the appropriate rates for that risk,” Mark Friedlander with the Insurance Information Institute said. But as far as Florida is concerned, Friedlander noted of those five companies, only Allstate and Nationwide write policies in the state, and they make up tiny percentages of the state’s market. “Our quick takeaway is this will have no direct impacts on Florida,” Friedlander said. Friedlander argued even if Nationwide and Allstate wanted to stop writing hurricane coverage, for example, it’s unlikely state regulators would allow that to happen. “We’re not aware that they have asked for any changes of this nature to the polices in Florida,” Friedlander said. Florida is no stranger to insurance woes, with the market fumbling after major storms like Matthew, Irma, Michael and Ian. Over the past two years, 15 carriers have stopped writing new policies, seven have gone defunct and three have pulled out of the market. READ: Talking the Tropics With Mike: Tropical depression #13 forms over the E. Atlantic & will become Lee But Friedlander pointed out that with four new insurers being approved to do business in the state this year and recent interest from private insurers looking to absorb policies from Citizens, the state-backed insurer of last resort, there are positive signs in the market. “Once these companies start writing business, go to your insurance agent. Ask them to shop these new companies. You might be able to get better coverage for a better price with new companies entering the market. It’s very good news for consumers when we have more choices,” Friedlander said. And Friedlander cautioned while there have been some signs of improvement, Florida’s insurance market is still very volatile. [SIGN UP: Action News Jax Daily Headlines Newsletter] Idalia was a storm the market was positioned to withstand, but additional storms this season could change the dynamic. Click here to download the free Action News Jax news and weather apps, click here to download the Action News Jax Now app for your smart TV and click here to stream Action News Jax live. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.