After two preliminary votes by Erie City Council, the issue of how appointments would be made to a proposed new economic development authority’s board of directors remains unresolved. And those votes have created uncertainty about how the city’s plans to successfully secure a state-designated City Revitalization & Improvement Zone designation from Harrisburg might move forward. Previous coverage: Competing ordinances on City Council agenda as Erie pushes for statewide CRIZ designation City Council on Wednesday night approved two ordinances, on first reading, that seek to help launch a new CRIZ, which would focus on development within various areas of the city. Any ordinance needs to pass two readings before it goes into effect. Council could take a final vote on creating a CRIZ authority as soon as Aug. 2. Renee Lamis, Mayor Joe Schember’s chief of staff, said that gives local officials, including City Council members, roughly two weeks to “come to some kind of agreement on the ordinances” that will push the CRIZ plan forward. Both Mayor Joe Schember’s administration and a City Council majority support efforts to launch a CRIZ, which would allow certain state and local tax revenues generated by businesses to be used to fund development. Schember said Wednesday night, at the conclusion of City Council's meeting in the Bagnoni Council Chambers at City Hall, that "I look forward to continuing to work with you (and) to getting the best CRIZ ordinance we can." Each of the ordinances approved by City Council on Wednesday night suggest a nine-member CRIZ board of volunteer appointees, created under the guidelines of the state’s Municipal Authorities Act. The board would oversee a roughly 130-acre, non-contiguous CRIZ zone that would include various areas of the city designated for revitalization. More: Erie poised to take another shot at state’s CRIZ program to fuel economic development But one ordinance, crafted by Schember’s administration with input from State Sen. Dan Laughlin, of Millcreek, R-49th Dist., suggests a board where five members are appointed by Laughlin, with the remaining four appointed by Schember. That ordinance was approved 5-2 by City Council. Laughlin has publicly lobbied for an Erie-based CRIZ for nearly a decade. Schember and Laughlin are also suggesting a specific slate of board members who they call highly-qualified experts well suited to serve on a CRIZ authority. The list includes Emily Aloiz, a transportation planning administrator for Erie County government; Tony DaBreo, vice president and regional officer of sales for the northeast region of Erie Insurance; Daria Devlin, director of social impact at Hamot Health Foundation, executive director of the Erie Center for Arts and Technology and Erie School Board president; Matthew Good, CEO of Housing and Neighborhood Development Service; Local attorney and businessman Roger Richards; Katrina Vincent, assistant vice president and business banker at Marquette Savings Bank; and local tax attorney Matthew Wachter. Renee Lamis, Schember’s chief of staff, pointed out that two proposed appointees now on the list: Cathryn Easterling and Philip Thomas, were added Wednesday at the request of City Council members as a “compromise.” Both are local finance/business professionals. But a second CRIZ ordinance, also approved by a 5-2 vote on Wednesday night and authored by Council President Chuck Nelson, suggests that Schember appoint three members, with City Council and Laughlin getting two appointments each. Further, Nelson’s ordinance suggests that two state legislators representing the city of Erie — Rep. Pat Harkins, D-1st Dist., and Rep. Bob Merski, D-2nd Dist. — would each get an appointment to the CRIZ board. Nelson has said that Laughlin and Schember should not make all nine CRIZ authority board appointments, and that both City Council and the two state legislators should have a say regarding who sits on the CRIZ board. “At this point, the two competing ordinances have seven out of the nine names that are the same,” Nelson said. “This isn’t a big difference when we’re talking about a well-qualified board.” Nelson and council members Jasmine Flores, Susannah Faulkner, Maurice Troop and Michael Keys voted for the Nelson-authored ordinance. Council members Ed Brzezinski and Mel Witherspoon voted against it. Brzezinski, Witherspoon, Nelson, Keys and Troop voted for the CRIZ ordinance proposed by Schember, with Faulkner and Flores opposing it. Flores, who seconded Nelson’s ordinance, said “I will not be strong-armed into being a rubber stamp” for the ordinance favored by Schember and Laughlin. Councilman Ed Brzezinski, though, reminded his colleagues that Erie Insurance CEO Tim NeCastro, at a Wednesday morning press conference, said the Fortune 500 company would decline to participate in the CRIZ if the plan advanced by Schember/Laughlin does not win final approval. Erie Insurance alone could generate up to $10 million annually for the CRIZ. “We’re playing a game of poker. Our esteemed president is calling a bluff,” Brzezinski said. “I hope to hell he’s got the money to back it  up.” Schember said the 5-4 appointment split is modeled after the successful CRIZ authority in Lancaster, which has generated more than $47 million for economic development in that city since it began in 2014. Erie’s proposed CRIZ zone would include, but not be limited to, the 12th Street industrial corridor and the vacant EMI complex near West 12th and Cherry Streets; portions of Erie’s bayfront and downtown; sections of Parade Street, and areas along Erie’s east and west bayfront. Taxes that can help fund a CRIZ include Corporate net income tax and certain other business taxes; Sales, use and state hotel occupancy taxes; employer withholding of employee personal income taxes; taxes on alcoholic beverages; local services  taxes; and employee earned income taxes. Further, CRIZ authorities can borrow money and issue bonds to help spur development, and businesses located within a CRIZ can receive a portion of their CRIZ taxes back for a qualified development/improvement project. Former Gov. Tom Wolf, who left office in January, placed a moratorium on new CRIZ areas for several years. However, both Lamis and Laughlin have said they expect Gov. Josh Shapiro’s administration to reopen the CRIZ application window later this year, and Erie wants to be ready with a CRIZ authority when that happens. Lancaster has secured a CRIZ designation for community revitalization. Allentown has a similar state-designated program called a Neighborhood Improvement Zone. Contact Kevin Flowers at kflowers@timesnews.com. Follow him on Twitter at @ETNflowers. This article originally appeared on Erie Times-News: New CRIZ appointments structure uncertain after Erie City Council vote New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.