We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports 12 August 2024 — About The Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl) works within UK defence and security. 15 August 2024 — Guidance AI is one of the fastest-moving areas of technological advancement in government defence, bringing the capability to counter threats and create opportunities.  9 August 2024 — News story AUKUS nations test AI-enabled uncrewed aerial vehicles that allow a human operator to locate, disable and destroy targets on the ground.  7 August 2024 — Guidance A community of interest for academic institutions to partner with Dstl on deterrence and related topics such as assurance, coercion and conflict escalation. 22 July 2024 — Press release Dstl, DE&S and industry have worked together to enable the development of this critical new capability and help prepare the UK’s armed forces for the future. 22 July 2024 — Case study Dstl operational analysis is shaping the way the British Army will fight and win in future conflicts. 

          See all latest documents
        
 The Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl) works within UK defence and security. Dstl is an executive agency, sponsored by the Ministry of Defence. 

              Read more about what we do
            
 
      The following links open in a new tab
     Email 
centralenquiries@dstl.gov.uk
 Central enquiries 01980 950000 Email 
dstlfoi@dstl.gov.uk
 Freedom of Information and Environmental Regulations +44 (0) 1980 950000 option 1 Also to be used for Environmental Regulations requests 
 Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      