
21st March 2023
Cloud Software & Services, News
 Exertis has bolstered its cybersecurity services, adding eSentire, the authority in Managed Detection and Response (MDR), to its Enterprise portfolio of offerings. eSentire’s 24/7 multi-signal MDR, digital forensics and incident response (IR), and exposure management services will be available to Exertis’ channel partners and their end-user customers across the UK, Ireland, and Europe. Through this partnership, Exertis’ partners and end-user customers have access to eSentire’s multi-signal MDR Service, which provides 24/7 advanced threat detection, investigation, and complete response. With coverage across network, endpoint, log, cloud and identity data sources, eSentire MDR provides the world’s most complete threat response capability and a Mean Time to Contain active security threats of less than 15 minutes. Customers benefit from around-the-clock monitoring & exceptional support, delivered by eSentire’s Cyber Resilience team comprised of 24/7 SOC Cyber Analysts, Elite Threat Hunters, Threat Response Unit (TRU) experts and a dedicated Cyber Risk Advisor. eSentire also holds global alliances with best of breed technical partners including Microsoft, AWS, CrowdStrike, VMWare Carbon Black, SentinelOne, Lacework and Sumo Logic so customers can partner with Exertis and eSentire for a fully managed solution or choose to bring their own existing license for 24/7 protection under eSentire MDR. eSentire’s ability to protect global businesses from unknown threats by operationalizing threat intel and building novel detection models truly sets eSentire apart. On average, eSentire’s TRU performs 125K global threat sweeps, 175 proactive hypothesis driven threat hunts and builds more than 100 novel detections with investigative SOC processes each quarter to harden customer defences. Dominic Ryles, director of sales and commercial – security at Exertis Enterprise, said: “Security expertise continues to be incredibly challenging to recruit, train, and retain. In order to ensure our channel partners and their customers can continue to scale their business ambitions securely, complete attack surface visibility, 24/7 protection and rapid threat intelligence operationalisation are paramount.” Tags eSentire Exertis 6 days ago 3 weeks ago 6th June 2024 E92plus has partnered with Everfox, formerly Forcepoint Federal. The agreement will bring the Everfox portfolio, … 

