by Jenny Darmody
 
24 Jan 2023  Zalando’s Ferghal Smyth discusses the hardest part of his working day and shares some of his top tips for staying on track. Whether you’re a well-seasoned software engineer or just at the beginning of your engineering journey, it is always helpful to get some insight from others. The nature of working as a software engineer can mean the day-to-day tasks involve a lot of moving parts, which can hinder your productivity. To help with this challenge, we sought some insight from Ferghal Smyth, a senior software engineer at fashion-tech company Zalando. Smyth works alongside the product manager in the company’s self-service platform for partners. Speaking to SiliconRepublic.com, he said his day generally includes a lot of leadership responsibilities. “I help break out the tasks at an engineering level, working with my product manager to understand new features [and] what the partner wants from our self-service platform.”  Even as an experienced software engineer, Smyth admitted that the hardest part of his working day is around time management. “I get a lot of questions, internally and externally, in the team where I’m trying to support people. This can really break up your productivity because you become less effective and there’s a lot of context-switching so you have to put in place some things to actually manage those cases.” Smyth has had to come to grips with time management and productivity tips more recently while he is helping someone else transfer from a non-engineering role into eventually becoming an engineer. “One of the hardest things for them is actually to manage the expectation,” he said. “Being an engineer takes a long time, a lot of work and it’s important to keep that in mind.” Because of these expectations, Smyth’s top tip for staying productive on the road to becoming an engineer is to “have realistic goals and timelines” to help you stay motivated. “If you think  you’re going to get there really fast, you have to realise it’s a lot of work,” he added. “Looking back at what you’ve achieved over time will help you become much more successful.” 10 things you need to know direct to your inbox every weekday. Sign up for the Daily Brief, Silicon Republic’s digest of essential sci-tech news. In-Depth:
                            Life at Zalando  Related:
                    productivity,             engineering,             Zalando,             Employers  
                                        Jenny Darmody became the editor of Silicon Republic in 2023, having worked as the deputy editor since February 2020. When she’s not writing about the science and tech industry, she’s writing short stories and attempting novels. She continuously buys more books than she can read in a lifetime and pretty stationery is her kryptonite. She also believes seagulls to be the root of all evil and her baking is the stuff of legends.                                     
                Sign up for the Daily Brief, Silicon Republic's weekday digest of essential sci-tech news
             All content copyright 2002-2024 Silicon Republic Knowledge & Events Management Ltd. Reproduction without explicit permission is prohibited. All rights reserved.
            Website by Square1.io 