Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. The Estée Lauder Companies, Inc. engages in the manufacture of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products. It sells products under the following brand names: Estée Lauder, Clinique, Origins, MAC, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone London, Aveda and Too Faced. Its channels consist of department stores, multi-brand retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies, and prestige salons and spas. The company was founded by Estee Lauder and Joseph Lauder in 1946 and is headquartered in New York, NY. A focus on its best, most profitable markets makes sense. But does the stock price leave much room for investors to profit? You really can build a high-performing portfolio that advances sustainability initiatives. Estée Lauder has what it takes to turn things around. Estee Lauder makes cosmetics that are an affordable luxury item for most people. But there's a problem in its business. High fashion or plastic clogs? This matchup is as much about style as it is about dollars and cents. Tying its growth to China hasn't gone well in recent years. The cosmetics company has seemingly been unable to do anything right since early last year. A mixed quarter and uninspiring sales guidance led to an investor sell-off. The stock has struggled recently, but long-term investors won’t want to leave it out to dry just yet. The premium cosmetics company is trading at all-time highs -- here’s what long-term investors need to know know before putting this stock on their watch list. EL earnings call for the period ending June 30, 2022. EL earnings call for the period ending March 31, 2022. EL earnings call for the period ending December 31, 2021. EL earnings call for the period ending September 30, 2021. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.