This woman is securing the bag by “glamour diving.” A TikTok influencer named Ella has become a pro at scoring freebies by rummaging through garbage dumpsters to find luxury goods. Calling her practice “glamour diving,” she frequently posts her high-end hauls online — much to the shock of her followers amazed about the treasures in the trash. In a recent video, she went garbage diving at Macy’s department store and showed off her findings, which included unopened high-end cosmetics from brands like Estée Lauder, MAC and more. “I’m dumpster diving at Macy’s and I found this bag full of Dior boxes and Coach boxes,” she said in her viral clip. “It looks like there’s actually some good stuff in here,” she went on. “I am so excited to go through this bag.” She scored a rainbow palette of eyeshadow, perfume, skincare products, Tom Ford lip blush, lipgloss, eyeliner and YSL fragrance. Her followers were stunned by the discoveries and wanted to do the same at their own malls. “I literally wanna do this so bad but I’m so nervous,” one person wrote. “I love dumpster diving its so fun,” someone else scribed. A user added: “I need to start doing this.” Another chimed in: “I miss dumpster diving I used to do it a lot in middle school I got so much stuff.” “I literally work at Macy’s and get so upset having to throw away barely used products,” one commented.  “I would be too scared and embarrassed but slay queen,” one said. Ella goes dumpster hunting at many stores such as Ulta Beauty, Bath & Body Works, TJ Maxx and more, and always documents her findings. At TJ Maxx, Ella revealed she found a diamond necklace as well as a hair curler.  One video viewed over 11 million times featured a haul she did at the Apple store. The snap showed many boxes of Apple products including phones, phone cases, chargers, watches and iPad containers. While several of the larger technology boxes were empty and did not in fact contain the mobiles and minicomputers, Ella did find their subsequent charging ports, headphones and other accessories. Advertisement