 Investing in a beauty box is a good way to save money and try new products without having to buy them separately. Get glowing, radiant skin with makeup and skincare from top brands including Elemis, No7 and Estee Lauder. 15 products are included, and 11 are full-sized, plus the contents is worth £267. With the Love Island final just hours away, there's still time to shop the products that are being used in the villa. Whether you're a fan of the reality show or not, glowing, radiant and youthful skin has been spotted on many of the islanders, and the Boots box can help achieve it at home. Although the box contains a mixture of luxurious and affordable products, the contents definitely offers value for money, as it's worth £267 and only costs £50.  Buy: Boots x Love Island Beauty Box (£50)  There are 15 products in the box, and 11 are full-sized, with brands such as Estee Lauder, No7 and Urban Decay included. For those who already love one of the brands that are part of the collection, it's handy for topping up on favourites or trying new products.  Full contents includes: We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy Although the box saves a considerable amount on beauty, it is still expensive, however it does include some of the UK's bestselling products. While some similar boxes don't include the most popular products, most of the contents of the Love Island edition are either luxurious, sought-after or useful everyday items. The ELEMIS Pro-Collagen Cleansing Balm has a near-perfect rating on the Boots website and is worth £46, making up most of the cost of the box alone. Another highlight is the Estée Lauder Advanced Night Repair Supercharged Gel Eye Cream, which usually costs £52 and helps reduce dark circles, loss of radiance and signs of ageing. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?