It is clear that to affect global climate change, society as a whole must reduce its carbon dioxide emissions. The Panasonic Group bears some of this responsibility, as its products and services are used by more than 1 billion people around the world every day. Its CO2 emissions, including its value chain, are estimated to be as much as 110 megatons. To address this, Panasonic unveiled its "Panasonic GREEN IMPACT" initiative in January 2022. This aims for a reduction impact of "around 1% (approximately 300 million tons)" of current total global CO2 emissions by 2050.* Panasonic is targeting all aspects of its businesses to reduce CO2 emissions, with three distinct areas of impact: We spoke to Ryuji Shimono of the Quality and Environment Division, which is promoting Panasonic GREEN IMPACT, about the issues that must be tackled by society and about Panasonic's commitment. "Ensuring that we do not exceed planetary boundaries (the Earth's breaking point at which humans can survive) is our highest priority. Our group CEO, Yuki Kusumi, has made it clear that the single most critical social issue today is the issue of climate change. Achieving this requires a vision and goals. Panasonic has clearly defined them in Panasonic GREEN IMPACT," said Shimono. Based on this commitment, the company has unveiled its perovskite solar cells as a "Future Impact" initiative. With a thin and flexible structure, the cells can be installed in a variety of structural locations on buildings and even window, since no rare metals are required in the manufacturing process, they are generating attention as the next generation of solar powered energy. By installing perovskite solar cells on the glass surfaces that account for most of the outer walls of urban buildings, for example, the buildings and the areas themselves can be turned into power plants. Panasonic's perovskite solar cell technology has achieved the world's highest energy conversion efficiency.** This power generation technology can be said to be an innovation that could only be created in Japan — a country with a low proportion of flat land. Panasonic is striving to develop new material technologies that will help contribute to carbon neutrality. In addition, the company has set out specific targets for Contribution Impact (the emission reduction contribution impact on society of existing businesses) and is working to achieve them. This alone is not enough. Panasonic's presentation at CES 2023 emphasized the need for us all to act. Shimono said: "We want to establish the concept of 'Avoided Emissions.'*** To this end, we are participating in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), which recently announced guidelines for avoided emissions, and we are moving to establish standards in the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). We are working to make it an objective, transparent, and valid indicator so that it can function as a criterion for evaluation by financial institutions." Japan was not in a lead position in discussions on reducing CO2 emissions to achieve decarbonization. Today, however, Panasonic along with various companies, groups, and the Japanese government, is participating much more actively in discussions on the standardization of Avoided Emissions. The G7 Sapporo Ministers' Meeting on Climate, Energy and Environment will be held on April 15 and 16, preceding the G7 Summit to be held in Hiroshima, Japan in May 2023, and Panasonic will be keeping a close eye on any discussions regarding advancing the formulation of new indicators. For more information about Panasonic GREEN IMPACT, click here. For more information on Panasonic Newsroom Global, click here. This post was created by Panasonic with Insider Studios. *2019 energy-derived CO2 emissions 33.6 billion tons (Source: IEA.) 300 million tons was calculated using 2020 emission factors. **Photoelectric conversion efficiency of 17.9% in modules of 800 square centimeters or more (as of February 28, 2023.) ***Avoided Emissions refers to CO2 emissions cut using a company's products or technologies.   Jump to