Richland County continues to move forward on long-considered, multimillion dollar plans to move various county and state offices into the Columbia Place Mall on Two Notch Road. The latest considerations from Richland County Council include a proposal to issue more than $70 million in bonds that would help pay for, among other things, a new family services center at the mall that would house multiple agencies, as well as separate space at the mall for the county elections office and offices for the Department of Juvenile Justice. The family services center would be located in the former Dillard’s department store spot at Columbia Place, county documents show. It would house the Richland County hubs for several state agencies. “That family services center is projected to include the Department of Social Services, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Health and Environmental Control, as well as our partners who are housed in (parts of) the Hampton Street (county building) location,” Richland County Administrator Leonardo Brown told a County Council committee in a Sept. 12 meeting. Aside from the county funding that would go into the family services center, there also is about $17 million in federal American Rescue Plan money that can be used for the DSS portion, per county paperwork. Brown noted the county is required by law to provide office space for agencies such as social services, juvenile justice, health and human services and DHEC. Meanwhile, office and warehouse space for the Richland County elections and voter registration office, as well as office space for the Department of Juvenile Justice is being planned at the mall on the upper floor of the former Burlington Coat Factory and JC Penney building, Brown said that space that is now set to potentially house the Department of Juvenile Justice offices and the elections offices was once planned as a sheriff’s department forensics lab. However, he said the cost of that forensics lab was “well beyond what we could do.” Brown said Sheriff Leon Lott was informed, and that other locations for a forensics lab are being sought. In 2022, the county issued $40 million in bonds for a public safety complex at the mall, which will chiefly include a new E-911 call center. Construction is set to begin on the public safety complex portion, which is being located on the lower floor of the building that formerly housed Burlington Coat Factory and JC Penney, according to county documents. Richland County has been eyeing facility upgrades for years. Back in 2017, it revealed a massive, sweeping building and infrastructure plan called Richland Renaissance, one that would have spent hundreds of millions of dollars for various initiatives. However, that plan was eventually shelved, for the most part, though some ideas from it have stuck around, including the county moving various state and local offices into property the county bought at Columbia Place Mall. District 10 Councilwoman Cheryl English said during the Sept. 12 committee meeting that she is pleased to see momentum on bringing facilities to the mall. “I am ecstatic and extremely proud of this council, just for making the decision and the staff for carrying this out,” English said. “I am so excited.” The county’s plans for Columbia Place Mall are just part of what have been dynamic changes for aging mall facilities in the Columbia area. Over in Forest Acres, development company Southeastern purchased the struggling Richland Mall and plans to completely overhaul the property with a $100 million new development that will include retail, residences, a brewery or taproom, a public park and more. The longtime Belk store in Richland Mall recently closed its doors, and the Barnes & Noble bookstore there plans to move to Garners Ferry Road early next year. Meanwhile, Word of God Church and Ministries International recently announced it plans to purchase Dutch Square Center mall on Bush River Road. Church Bishop Eric Davis announced during an August sermon that the Dutch Square property was under contract and he hoped the sale would close by the end of the year. Details of the church’s exact plans for the mall have not been announced. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.