PCR Performance will enter the inaugural FIM E-Xplorer World championship this year under the PCR-e Sur-Ron Factory Racing banner. The motorcycle tuning company is run by OMG Racing Team Principal Paul Curran, and will enter the five-round series as the factory Sur-Ron and official GB team. The team’s modified Sur-Ron Ultra and Storm Bee bikes feature K Tech Suspension, as well as a number of parts engineered in-house by PCR-e & PCR Performance. The team is managed by seven-time British Enduro Champion Derrick Edmonson, and competes in a number of national championships across the UK, including the ACU British Sprint Enduro Championship. Enduro riders Sam Winterburn & Chloe Richardson will represent the team in the championship, which will visit Europe, Asia and the USA. During the 2022 championship launch, Winterburn posted the fastest time across the three-day event onboard a stock Sur-Ron Storm Bee.  Winterburn also entered the first time rounds of the British EX Championship, winning all 10 races at the Wheeldon Farm track in Devon, including two “Super Handicap” races, which saw the 27-year-old start 10 seconds behind the rest of the field. Richardson is no stranger to international competition either, having competed at a world championship level in motorcycle trials, before transitioning to enduro. “We are both really looking forward to this season, it’s an exciting and brand-new challenge for us both,” Winterburn and Richardson said.” The FIM E-Xplorer World Cup offers a variety of terrains, and a brand-new concept within racing, which we love. “The electric bikes present a new style of racing, too, which really is a fantastic experience. It’s a privilege to be involved at the inception of what will be the future of our sport, and we can’t wait to get stuck into the racing!” E-Xplorer an all-electric, all-terrain series which features 12 teams, each consisting of a male and female racer. Teams go head-to-head in heats, with a best of three format. One rider from each team starts the race, with two lanes featuring different obstacles for them to overcome.  Once the first rider from each team has completed the lap, their teammates will start their run from the other lane. Riders compete in both natural and urban settings around the globe. Obstacles include wallrides, water, logs, boulders, stairs, jumps and slaloms. “We’re really excited to be a part of the inaugural e-Xplorer series,” Edmondson said. “Valentin, Carina and all their enthusiastic team have put together a great package in some stunning places. The message of inclusion and sustainability, whilst having a huge amount of fun is something that’s hard to ignore”. “PCR-e have a lot of experience with the Sur-Ron products, both from a retail and racing perspective, and have been consistently impressed with the out-of-the-box performance. With the introduction of the Storm Bee last year, we’ve had chance to explore what does & doesn’t work, resulting in what we have proven is a super competitive bike. “With the introduction of the new “ULTRA BEE” model in March, and paired with an experienced couple of Sam & Chloe, we believe all the team here at PCR-e have a fantastic and competitive package.” E-Xplorer’s first round takes place in Catalunya on Saturday May 13. By Josh Close Sports Reporter and fan of all things motorsport. 
			© 1955-2024 Bauer Media Group
		 
			Bauer Media Group consists of : Bauer Consumer Media Ltd, Company number 01176085; Bauer Radio Limited, Company number: 1394141; 
			Registered office: Media House, Peterborough Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough PE2 6EA and H Bauer Publishing, Company number: LP003328; Registered office: The Lantern, 75 Hampstead Road, London NW1 2PL
			All registered in England and Wales.  VAT no 918 5617 01
            H Bauer Publishing are authorised and regulated for credit broking by the FCA (Ref No: 845898)
		