Ethereum and Ethereum Classic are two of the most well-known projects in the crypto space. But if you’re asking, “should I invest in Ethereum or Ethereum Classic?” then you might want to reconsider entirely. There’s a new project called Metacade that’s aiming to dominate one of the fastest-growing industries on the planet, and it’s looking very likely to be a much better crypto investment choice than ETH or ETC.  This article is going to look at  why you might want to hold off on Ethereum and Ethereum Classic and why you should start thinking about investing in Metacade while it’s still in presale. Despite Ethereum’s status as the second most valuable crypto token on the market, its latest price action has left investors disappointed after a recent downtrend. Following Ethereum’s run up to $2030 in mid-August, ETH has tumbled to settle around the $1300 mark.  This was partly due to a case of “buy the rumour, sell the news” after the Ethereum merge took place on September 15th, which saw ETH fall over -26% in the following week. Less savvy investors assumed that transaction speeds and fees would suddenly improve overnight, but this hasn’t been the case, as warned by Ethereum’s developers.  While the benefits of the Ethereum merge remaining to be seen by the average user and projects like Polygon and Solana already offering much lower fees and faster speeds, it’s looking increasingly likely that Ethereum will continue to bleed out to test the $1100 area. Ethereum Classic is the original version of Ethereum, created after a section of the community elected not to change the core Ethereum code. One of the key differences between the two is that Ethereum Classic still uses the proof-of-work consensus mechanism, whereas Ethereum now uses proof-of-stake following the merge.  Like Ethereum, Ethereum Classic can handle smart contracts, allowing it to run dApps. But while Ethereum boasts over 4,000 dApps, according to State of the dApps, Ethereum Classic is the foundation for just 45 dApps, as stated on the Ethereum Classic website. Some don’t look at Ethereum Classic as a smart contract platform, but as a store of value, given its fixed supply. But when Bitcoin serves precisely the same purpose, it’s hard to find what value Ethereum Classic actually offers investors. Metacade is a platform that’s aiming to be a one-stop solution for everything GameFi. It’s a place for gamers to connect, play the latest Play2Earn games, and boost their income doing what they love in a lively community setting. To understand why Metacade could soon be your next best crypto investment, it’s important to  understand why you should consider investing in GameFi in the first place.  GameFi gives players the chance to earn while they’re playing in a way that traditional gaming never could.  The traditional gaming industry has shown it’s far more interested in shareholder profit than the gamers that actually play its games, leading to many titles now featuring tedious elements of Pay2Win and microtransactions that seem to take value from players without giving a whole lot back.  For this reason, GameFi is expected to expand at 10x the rate of traditional gaming by 2025, according to Crypto.com. With Metacade positioning itself as the central hub for GameFi, its user base, and therefore the MCADE token, is likely to grow at an incredible rate as more players flock to join the gaming revolution.  Part of what makes Metacade so special is its community-centric vision. Metacade’s plan is to build a platform where you’ll find reviews, leaderboards, and writeups that enable anyone, regardless of background, to get started in Play2Earn gaming. Metacade will also be host to the hottest GameFi alpha that will break down exactly how you can maximise your income while playing Play2Earn games. Those posting these reviews and best practices will be  rewarded with the MCADE token for their role in helping others get ahead. In fact, Metacade offers multiple ways to earn on its platform. There are regular prize draws and tournaments, as well as beta-testing opportunities to earn while using Metacade’s native testing environment.  In 2024, Metacade will launch its job board, where you’ll be able to find work ranging from casual gigs to internships and salaried positions with companies leading the way in Web3 innovation. If you’re looking to start a lifelong career in GameFi, then Metacade could be your answer. One of the most exciting features Metacade is adding is Metagrants. Metagrants are a way for gamers to take back some of the power from billion-dollar game studios by allowing them to directly fund the next Play2Earn titles they want to play.  Game developers propose the games they would like to create to the Metacade community who vote on which games they would like to see built. These competitions will feature dozens of potential games – but with only one winner who will recieve the funding to support developing their game Down the line, Metacade plans to offer these community-backed titles in its virtual arcade for anyone to play. With Ethereum facing stiff competition and a lack of demand for ETH after the merge, it’s unlikely to be the best crypto investment right now. Regarding Ethereum Classic, it’s hard to see a real use case outside of a purely speculative asset. Both tokens have their own merits, but their futures seem uncertain at this point. Compare that to Metacade, a newly-launched project primed to be a leader in an industry that’ll grow rapidly over the next few years.  Its community-first approach to gaming and mulititude of earning opportunities  are likely to attract thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of users who are sick of the current state of the gaming industry. If Metacade can pull its vision off, it could soon become one of the best-performing tokens of 2023. And there isn’t a better time to buy than right now. As Metacade is still only presale phase 1, you can pick up 125 MCADE tokens for $1. In the final stage of the presale, phase 8, you’ll only be able to buy 50 MCADE tokens for $1. If you’re looking to get in on the growth of the GameFi industry and Metacade as a leader in this industry, then there’s no time like the present.   You can participate in the Metacade pre-sale here. Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
