Lisbon , Portugal - 4 November 2022; Sir Tim Berners-Lee, Co-founder & CTO, Inrupt, on Centre stage ... [+] during day three of Web Summit 2022 at the Altice Arena in Lisbon, Portugal. (Photo By Sam Barnes/Sportsfile for Web Summit via Getty Images) As Consensus 2023 unfolds in Austin, Texas this week, Web3 enthusiasts are out in force, claiming they’re returning ownership of data to users from the clutches of centralized corporations. But are they? Amid the hype, it's essential to recognize that the concept of digital ownership and control over personal information is not reliant on blockchains, cryptocurrencies or NFTs. Companies like Substack and Inrupt are showing that users can exert their digital rights today and that the ‘future of Web3’ may be just the here-and-now of the internet. Let’s get clear on the notion of ‘ownership.’ You can hold a copyright in a work of art or authorship, and that can give you some control over how your intellectual property is distributed and commercialized. These rights are enshrined in law with or without Web3. However, when it comes to personal information like your birthday or home address, you might control access to it, but you don’t really own it. And if that information makes it into the public domain, particularly if it winds up on decentralized networks like a blockchain or IPFS, your ability to control access is gone. Even though intellectual property and personal information are different, the ability to exert control is essential for both. And because of this, high-tech lawyer Ira Rothken cautions that users can lose control over their information and inadvertently waive their rights if they aren’t careful when agreeing to click-through licenses. Always read the fine print. When it comes to such agreements, the newsletter platform Substack is flipping the script. Their agreement explicitly stipulates that writers, which they call Publishers, own the copyright to their work. The company doubled-down on the notion of user ownership recently by opening up an investment round to writers, which I covered in a Forbes article last week. Granting full copyright to writers has positioned Substack as a champion for content creators. But it begs the question – what does it really mean for an author to own the copyright to the posts on a platform like Substack? What control do they have? Writers on Substack can exert control by taking down a post. They can use their posts in any other medium without asking permission. And they have portability, meaning they can export their Substack content and subscriber list to any platform they like. So at least at this high level, Substack not only gives writers legal ownership but also practical control. But for a creator to enjoy real freedom, existing links to the original work shouldn’t break after moving the content elsewhere. This isn’t as easy as just exporting data, but if a writer sets up a custom URL for their Substack site, it can be done. This gives the writer the ability to redirect links to the new location of an article. It also helps the writer avoid losing search engine authority in the move. However, where this comes up short is in the degree of trust required. The writer relies on Substack to honor its legal and operational commitments, such as continuing to grant access until the content has been moved and coordinating on the redirect process. Trusting Substack might not be a concern for many writers, but for a growing segment of society, trust in platforms is at an all-time low. If the new goal is to minimize the potential for others to wrest ownership and control from you, then is Web3 now the answer? Well, consider NFTs. They are often said to represent ownership in a unique asset, though in reality the asset could be copied all over the internet like digital rabbits – not unique, and not under control. An NFT can prove you paid for something, but it doesn’t grant you control over how the thing you bought is used or shared. It does not automatically confer copyright to the holder. And NFT exchanges unilaterally eliminating creator royalties have shown that platform trust is still an issue in the world of Web3. So in this case at minimum, Web3 provides neither digital rights nor practical control. Even if Web3 methods currently fail to deliver creators from counterparty risk, it’s a worthy goal. Fortunately, it can be achieved with existing internet protocols. Inrupt, a company co-founded by HTML inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee, offers a decentralized approach to user-controlled data storage and management. It’s implementing a specification called Solid Pods, which relies on well established internet standards – no blockchains required. Properly implemented, Pods would place even more control in the hands of Substack writers and eliminate the concern over having to trust the platform for access and portability. As artificial intelligence continues to advance, the need for better ways to manage control over personal information and digital creator rights is intensifying rapidly. Inrupt VP of Product Management Osmar Olivo emphasizes the importance of the Solid approach in this context, stating, "The future of privacy and AI is Solid Pods." The Pods framework can be used to help ensure that interactions with large language models and other AI systems remain under the user's control while requiring user consent to access those interactions. User empowerment, decentralized infrastructure, and democratized governance aren’t new Web3 goals. They are the foundational principles of the Web itself, articulated by its many original contributors like Tim Berners-Lee. And if people are ready to take control and assert their digital rights, the internet can deliver today what Web3 can only dream about.