Moonbeam Accelerator teams reveal new projects focused on cross-chain functionality SINGAPORE, July 13, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Moonbeam, a smart contract platform for building cross-chain connected applications that can access users, assets, and services on any chain, will host an Accelerator Demo Day on July 13th at 10am ET, showcasing the newest projects developed during the Moonbeam Accelerator program launched in April 2023. Supported by leading Web3 venture capital firms Arrington Capital, Borderless Capital, and Paka, the accelerator was designed to support early-stage and growth-stage startups building dapps focused on cross-chain innovation. The program delivered comprehensive support for the teams over the course of the 10-week accelerator. Many teams made enormous progress on their projects, and they are now ready to pitch and take their companies to the next level. Adam Liposky, head of ecosystem for the Moonbeam Foundation said, "It's abundantly clear at this phase of Web3's evolution that a multi-chain future is inevitable. Dapp project teams are recognizing that, which is why we are seeing such a spectrum of applications, from games to DeFi to self-custody solutions, choosing to build within Moonbeam's cross-chain ecosystem. These projects automatically benefit from Moonbeam's native interoperability, EVM-compatibility, and customizability for premiere user experience. The accelerator has been a resounding success so far, and we're thrilled to give these projects the opportunity to showcase their applications for potential partners and investors during demo day." The nine projects taking part in the demo day span across DeFi, gaming and NFTs: To join the demo day activities and see the project presentations, please sign up using Hopin: https://hopin.com/events/ma-demoday-13-07 For more information about the Moonbeam Accelerator program and to learn how to apply for future cohorts, please visit https://moonbeamaccelerator.com/ For media inquiries, please contact Jonathan Duran at (310) 260-7901 or Jonathan(at)Melrosepr(dot)com About Moonbeam Moonbeam is a smart contract platform for building cross-chain connected applications that can access users, assets, and services on any chain. By uniting functionality from Ethereum, Cosmos, Polkadot and more into a single platform, Moonbeam solves today's fragmented user experience — unlocking true interoperability and paving the way for the next generation of applications. The Moonbeam platform uses integrated cross-chain messaging to allow developers to create smart contracts that access services across many remote blockchains. This approach, plus Moonbeam's developer-friendly EVM platform, vast tool support, and modern Substrate architecture, creates the ideal development environment for building connected applications. Pull Quote The accelerator has been a resounding success so far, and we're thrilled to give these projects the opportunity to showcase their applications for potential partners and investors during demo day. Media Contact Jonathan Duran, Melrose PR, 3102607901, jonathan@melrosepr.com, https://www.melrosepr.com/         SOURCE  Moonbeam © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.