If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on May 3, 2023
 
By: Cole Tretheway
 KEY POINTS White elephants. Stocking stuffers. Mother's Day holiday cards. I've bought 'em all, and my No. 1 destination for unique, out-of-the-box gifts is Etsy, the go-to marketplace for buying and selling handmade goodies. But all that goodness comes with a cost. Personalization can be pricey, after all. But the online platform has hidden depths with unique gems to mine. Here are six affordable Mother's Day gifts you can discover on Etsy for $25 or less. Send Mom a custom necklace at a reasonable price. The stainless steel piece is super customizable: change the birthstone, number of flowers, and coloring. You can have it engraved with a personal message like "Love ya, Mom" or "Smell you soon" -- whatever floats your boat, really.


 Swap the greeting card for a personalized candle. You can customize the message and scent. It's an excellent gift for scent lovers (and a thoughtful way to freshen up the usual greeting card handover). The candle will burn about 45-50 hours in total. Pair cute with practical by gifting Mom a colorful block of handmade soap. Choose from over a dozen scents like Coconut Milk and Wild Lavender (yum) or, order double and let Mom pick one while you snag the other. It's gentle stuff, so moms with sensitive skin should be okay. Mix things up with a sarcastic Mother's Day card designed by Potty Mouth Press. These minimalist cards are actually funny and leave plenty of room for a personalized message. Consider covering your bases by scribbling "Love u Mom" in the margins (I know I will). Check out quirky Mother's Day cards for quirky moms. They're funny, off-beat, and terribly inappropriate (with exceptions). Perfect for fun-loving moms who don't appreciate your sass, mister. (See No. 4 for sarcasm-loving Moms). All cards are handmade, and shipping is free. The ultimate Mother's Day cheat: an immortal floral that requires zero care and acquires zero tears. These handmade paper flowers are repurposed from books, perfect for book lovers or moms with a bookish aesthetic. Not every mom has a green thumb; now, she doesn't have to. Give Mom a meaningful gift without breaking into your savings account, the grown-up's proverbial piggy bank. All the prices listed above are full price, but many are on sale for Mother's Day. Consider checking out with a cash back card to get back a 1%-5% bonus on your purchase. Etsy lists meaningful gifts for all the moms in your life. Check out these pre-packaged Mother's Day offerings sooner rather than later to snag discounts, free shipping, and timely delivery. 
Cole Tretheway is a full-time personal finance writer whose articles have been featured on The Ascent and The Motley Fool. He has a degree in English with a Certificate in Professional and Technical Communication from California Polytechnic University, SLO.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.