click this icon for latest updates 














  

















Published: January 5, 2023 10:33 AM IST  


 

              By India.com News Desk 





 | Edited by  Surabhi Shaurya 









  Layoff News: A wave of layoffs that hit dozens of employees last year appears to show no sign of slowing down into 2023. After Amazon, cloud-based software firm Salesforce became the latest firm to announce job cut in the new year. Salesforce has announced to lay off 10 per cent of its workforce, impacting more than 7,000 employees.  The company asserted that the job cuts would lead to about $1.4 billion to $2.1 billion in charges, while only about $800 million to $1 billion will be recorded in the fourth quarter. 

 “The environment remains challenging and our customers are taking a more measured approach to their purchasing decisions. As our revenue accelerated through the pandemic, we hired too many people leading into this economic downturn we’re now facing, and I take responsibility for that”, Salesforce co-Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff said in a letter to employees.  In the US, affected employees will receive a minimum of nearly five months of pay, health insurance, career resources, and other benefits to help with their transition. “Those outside the US will receive a similar level of support, and our local processes will align with employment laws in each country,” said Benioff. 

The company had 73,541 people on its payroll in early 2022. In November last year, the company laid off hundreds of employees. The company, however, told media publications that the job cuts affected “less than a thousand” employees.









Also Read:  


  


Top Smartwatches for Fitness Lovers in 2024


 
 


  


Top Curved TVs for an Immersive Viewing Experience


 
 


  


Top Antiperspirants for Heavy Sweating


 
  
For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Business News on India.com.
                


Topics
Layoff NewsAmazonLayoffSalesforce 




More Stories













   In the US, affected employees will receive a minimum of nearly five months of pay, health insurance, career resources, and other benefits to help with their transition. “Those outside the US will receive a similar level of support, and our local processes will align with employment laws in each country,” said Benioff. The company had 73,541 people on its payroll in early 2022. In November last year, the company laid off hundreds of employees. The company, however, told media publications that the job cuts affected “less than a thousand” employees.  For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Business News on India.com.
                 Bank Stocks: Bandhan Bank, ICICI Bank Stocks Rally, Check Share Price Target Over Here Apple iPhone Cheaper Than Earlier; Check New Prices Of 13,14,15, 15 Pro, 15 Max Model Share Market News: SEIL Shares Gain After Q1 Results | Check Details Here Share Market News: Hazoor Multi Projects Declares 1:10 stock Split | Check Details Here Share Market News: Eraaya Lifespaces Shares Gain As Company Remits Rs 117 Crore in Acquisition Bid Top Nude Lipsticks for Every Skin Tone Best Study Table for Children Smartwatches with the Best Health Monitoring Features in 2024 Discover Brilliance: The Best Televisions Under INR 50,000 for 2024 Top 5 Budget Smartphones Under 15000, Unbeatable Picks for 2024 By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts Cookies Policy. 