
                    These are the top software companies that are helping make Chicago a thriving hub for tech.
                 It’s no secret that our daily lives are powered by software. From the alarm apps that wake us each morning to the Netflix shows we fall asleep to at night, we live life on a platform. To keep up, tech companies and startups are building software services all over the world and Chicago is an important player. Check out our list of software companies in Chicago you should keep in mind.   Flywire’s payments platform enables secure transactions for organizations around the world. It supports payment collections in more than 140 currencies through partnerships with a broad network of banking institutions. Flywire also has a multilingual team providing customer support to ensure a positive experience for its international user base.   Medtelligent builds technology to support assisted living communities. Its ALIS software  product, which stands for Assisted Living Integrated Solution, comes with features for monitoring facility occupancy, logging notes from nurses, managing accounts receivable processes, sharing information with residents’ families and handling other important tasks.   SteelSeries specializes in hardware and software products for gaming. Its software offerings include Engine for customizing device features such as lighting, as well as Moments for recording, editing and sharing gameplay highlights. Moments also comes with artificial intelligence capabilities for automatically capturing video clips.    Companies use LogicGate’s software platform to help them improve organizational resilience and efficiency through solutions for managing risk and regulatory compliance. LogicGate’s technology has applications for industries ranging from banking and insurance to utilities and pharmaceuticals.   Supernova Technology builds securities-based lending solutions for banks, broker dealers, registered investment advisors and technology partners that work with financial advisors and wealth managers. Its products include a cloud-based software platform that enables collaboration for managing loans from origination to repayment.    Rocket Travel offers solutions and expertise that cover technology, travel supply, marketing, and analytics for businesses throughout the travel and hospitality industries. The company works with 300-plus brands, ranging from airlines to financial institutions. Rocket Travel has a global presence that includes team members based in the Chicago area.   Fulcrum GT makes software for running legal, accounting and consulting firms. RAPIDx is the company’s solution for managing vendors and payments, for example, and Fulcrum Snap is its platform for digitally overseeing business operations, from budgeting and revenue management to new business intake.    Grindr’s social networking app for the LGBTQ+ community is available to web and mobile users around the world. People looking to date or who want to connect with locals while traveling abroad can use the app to send and receive messages, photos and videos. Grindr announced the opening of a Chicago engineering hub in May 2024.    Envoy Global offers services and solutions for managing international workforces both in the United States and abroad. The company’s immigration management platform comes with an array of features that cover everything from screening job applicants to enabling communications for employees and stakeholders.   New Era ADR offers an accessible platform for fully virtual mediation and arbitration. It aims to help businesses and individuals save on time and expenses to resolve legal issues like intellectual property and copyright claims in less than 100 days. The company is headquartered in Chicago and has a remote workforce.   Healthjoy offers a platform to make access to health benefits simpler and more efficient. It also provides virtual services, including behavioral health appointments and urgent care consultations through partnership with Teladoc Health. Although the majority of its employees work remotely, the company is headquartered in Chicago, where employees are able to collaborate.   Strong Analytics specializes in developing custom machine learning and artificial intelligence software solutions tailored to various industries. Its expertise encompasses data science, machine learning model development, data engineering and AI application deployment, enabling businesses to leverage data for innovation and problem-solving. The fully remote company is headquartered in Chicago.   iManage provides cloud-based software that helps law firms and other paperwork-heavy businesses manage documents efficiently, collaboratively and in compliance with privacy laws. Its tools enhance productivity through security, AI, document and email management capabilities. It’s headquartered in Chicago with an office in San Francisco and support centers around the world.    Zoro is a subsidiary of the GRAINGER company that developed e-commerce software through which to retail GRAINGER products, which include tools, building and maintenance supplies, and equipment. Zoro sells over a million distinct products through a carefully branded digital marketplace that’s known for easy returns as well as competitive pricing and payment terms. Zoro recently opened a new headquarters in downtown Chicago that now serves as its company home base.     IMO Health develops software for the healthcare sector, specializing in clinical terminology management software products. These products organize and streamline the terms and language clinicians and billers use, such that coding and patient communication is consistent across team members and over time. IMO has an office in downtown Chicago that serves as home to its Midwest team.   Strata Decision Technology makes software for the healthcare industry, higher education and financial institutions. Its tools provide analytics on financials, business intelligence on markets and decision-making software that creates operational protocols for huge organizations. Its top products include StrataJazz, a program that handles financial analytics and performance for healthcare providers, and a hospital cost accounting product that uses a time-driven model of assessing costs and improving efficiency.    Risk management software firm Fusion Risk Management makes digital products for operational resilience, a branch of risk management that creates strategy and workflows for responding to threats, risk and crises. The Fusion Framework System relies on the power of generative AI to analyze risk in IT processes, with the goal of getting ahead of threats and incidents while preserving client business continuity.    Gogo Business Aviation was the first provider of in-flight connectivity for aerospace and continues to serve as the largest airline Wi-Fi provider for business aircraft. It offers software and connectivity through the Gogo AVANCE 5G platform, which can turn any plane into a “smart cabin,” with integrated connectivity, inflight entertainment and voice communication services.   Chicago-based meal kit delivery service Home Chef uses an e-commerce software platform to manage a rotating menu of portioned ingredient boxes, paired with recipes, that are sent to subscribers to prepare and cook at home. The software is built to handle everything from vendor orders and product descriptions to subscriber selections and payments, with automated deliveries and billing.    Crafty makes software that manages office food service. Through programs like catering, office kitchen and pantry restocking and snack boxes, employers can provide teams with customized food and beverage choices in the workplace or delivered to their work-from-home site. The Crafty platform handles everything from spend management and order automation to dietary restriction compliance.     Level Ex develops and markets medical video games to provide risk-free training and professional development for medical providers. The company counts doctors, medical training programs and other healthcare organizations among its users. With real-time simulations and visualizations, the software allows users to simulate surgical procedures through a mobile phone, desktop or headset.     SpotHero operates a digital marketplace for parking spots. Users can reserve and pay for spots in lots, garages and valet counters ahead of time, streamlining their arrival and ensuring they have a space for their car. The company works in collaboration with owners and operators of parking facilities, delivering a steady stream of clientele, and makes its money through a percentage of each digital transaction as well as the fees it collects from parking facilities.    Enfusion develops SaaS products for investment management. Its signature cloud-native platform features risk assessment and monitoring, workflow management and strategic guidance for financial managers, as well as specialty processes for contexts like new fund launches, hedge funds, family offices and institutional asset management. Headquartered in Chicago, the company maintains a second global hub in India.    Applied Systems specializes in digital solutions for the insurance industry. Its offerings include Applied Epic, a software platform for insurance agency management that includes features for things like accounting and automating workflows, and Applied Pay, a digital payments platform built specifically for insurance businesses.   TravelPerk offers a corporate travel management platform that includes features to cover everything from planning trips to defining a travel policy and automating approval workflows.  Companies that work with TravelPerk say its solutions have helped them save time on manual processes, develop sustainable travel policy and streamline booking for large group trips. Founded: 2015   Caxy is a consulting firm that specializes in custom software solutions and digital transformation services for businesses across industries such as manufacturing, construction, retail, gaming and healthcare. Its goal is to help clients overcome challenges, improve operational efficiency and pursue their strategic business goals. Founded: 1999   CPI OpenFox is a software company building solutions that serve law enforcement agencies across more than two dozen states. Its products include the Message Switch System, which enables communication and information access among different agencies, and SOR NextGen, a solution for maintaining accurate information on convicted sex offenders. Founded: 1989   Reverb is an e-commerce company that runs an online marketplace where musicians can buy and sell instruments like guitars and keyboards and gear such as amplifiers and microphones. Its seller hub provides a simple, free process for creating online listings along with various informational resources on pricing, shipping, promoting listings and other important elements of online selling. Founded: 2013   Ascent develops technology to streamline regulatory compliance. Its regulatory lifecycle management platform supports businesses across the financial services industry by providing them with solutions for monitoring relevant regulatory developments, automating regulatory mapping and maintaining a digital inventory of regulatory obligations.  Founded: 2015   McDonald’s is known as a food and beverage retail company, but behind the scenes it also functions significantly as a food-tech and ag-tech business, relying heavily on software for scaling and optimization of its processes. The company’s global headquarters, “MHQ,” is in Chicago, where it occupies an award-winning space in the West Loop.  Founded: 1955   Buildout provides a software platform designed to help commercial real estate brokers close more deals efficiently. Its comprehensive suite of tools works to streamline workflows at every step of the deal lifecycle, from managing leads and developing creative marketing materials to accessing real-time earnings data. The company is headquartered in Chicago, right above Union Station. Founded: 2010   Pangea Money Transfer is an international fintech company that operates a platform allowing users to quickly and securely send money from country to country. Funds are available to recipients in their local currency and can be received in cash or through a bank deposit. Pangea’s app lets users pay international bills and set up automatic recurring money transfers. Founded: 2012   Bectran is a B2B SaaS company offering a cloud-based platform that’s built to help finance departments enhance their operations by equipping them with digital risk management and process automation solutions. More than 2,000 businesses use Bectran’s technology to streamline management of credit, collections and accounts receivable processes. Founded: 2010   Adtech company Smartly works with hundreds of brands around the globe, bringing them a software platform for efficiently developing optimized ad campaigns for various channels. It comes with artificial intelligence and data capabilities that enable automations for creative production and campaign management in addition to providing visibility into real-time insights. Founded: 2013   UL Solutions offers products and services meant to help businesses across a vast array of industries solve complex safety, security and sustainability challenges. Its portfolio of solutions includes several software products, such as WERCSmart, which is designed to ensure regulatory and safety compliance for retail products, and LearnShare, a learning management system to support personalized employee training. Founded: 1894   A growing name in the realm of work management solutions, monday.com offers a cloud-based platform with tools to support business productivity. Its features range from Gantt charts for staying on top of project milestones to integrations with other popular business tools like Slack and DocuSign. Customers can access support in the form of videos, articles and courses that show them how to get the most out of monday.com’s tech solutions. Founded: 2012   IMC Trading is a team of technologists and traders bringing liquidity to markets around the world. The company says “cutting-edge technology is at the heart” of its business, with team members building software, hardware and other tech-driven solutions to support its strategic trading operations. Founded in 1989, IMC trading has been working to build a strong international reputation with offices in multiple countries, including a Chicago location as part of its presence in the United States. Founded: 1989   Adyen’s fintech platform serves as a one-stop shop for businesses to access payment, data and financial management tools designed to help optimize their revenue and operations. Its products and services reach companies around the world, including major brands like Uber, Microsoft and eBay. Founded: 2006   Prosodica offers an advanced voice and speech analytics engine for businesses, using artificial intelligence to automatically tag and score every customer conversation. Its enterprise-grade solution helps businesses gain insight into what customers say and how they say it. Prosodica also provides contact center representatives with personalized coaching after every completed conversation.   Founded: 2012   Toast’s point-of-sale platform for restaurants is equipped with capabilities for menu management, online ordering, payment processing, collecting customer feedback, accessing sales data and other important business functions. The company also offers compatible hardware solutions like self-service kiosks and handheld devices. Founded: 2011   Morningstar is an investment research company. Its technology and services are based on the idea that financial information should be accessible to everyone, not just financial professionals. It provides institutions, companies and individual investors with software products that give them insights into market conditions.  Founded: 1984   Headquartered in Chicago, Tegus partners with institutional consultancies, investors and corporations to help them make data-informed decisions. The investment research platform aims to streamline the way investors do their research by providing clients with peer-led expert call transcripts.   Founded: 2017   PatientPoint is a healthtech company that makes interactive products for health education, provider communication, doctor research and setting preventative appointments. More than 750 million annual medical visits involve engagement with PatientPoint’s technology, which runs the gamut from remote patient monitoring to wait-time management for hospital visits. Approximately 140,000 medical providers use PatientPoint’s solutions to boost health outcomes and enhance the overall patient experience. Founded: 1987   Bridge Legal offers a software platform called Bridgify that’s specifically designed to serve legal professionals. Its features include workflow automation, document management, tools for secure and streamlined client communication and predictive analytics to help enhance performance. The company says its software gives legal teams the capabilities to “maximize efficiency, streamline operations and unlock your firm's full potential.” It has solutions for mass tort law firms, single-event law firms and litigation funders along with tools to boost a firm’s marketing efforts. Founded: 2018   Qualtrics builds software products designed to give businesses the capabilities to provide quality customer service, effectively engage their employees and build their own products. Brands from industries such as education, travel and hospitality, healthcare, retail and media use Qualtrics’ solutions. The company says its team members aim “to help customers build the world’s best experience management programs.” Qualtrics has worked with more than 18,000 brands worldwide, including major names like BMW, Under Armour, Samsung, Sony, UPS and Mastercard. Founded: 2002   Headquartered in Chicago since its founding in 2014, Locusview is a construction management consulting firm that serves infrastructure companies like energy and telecom utilities providers. The Locusview digital construction management platform is designed to run and scale jobs that involve intricate contractor sequencing from start to finish while collecting construction data and tracking project status.  Founded: 2014   Leveraging some of the most advanced products in the industry, Belvedere Trading remains one step ahead of the market. A belief in incremental progress drives Belvedere Trading, which provides various market liquidity options with its proprietary technology. Belvedere Trading embraces an agile approach to technology, showcasing a flexible software system that enables the firm to adapt to sudden market shifts and excel in risk management and creative trading solutions.  Founded: 2002    Bento for Business offers a credit card-like payment solution for small to mid-sized business looking to efficiently scale. The prepaid card makes it easy for businesses to cap spending limits and keep track of purchases in real-time. Instead of relying on cash and after-the-fact expense reporting, Bento for Business gives users the ability to efficiently maintain correct finances using real-time data. Founded: 2013   BigTime Software develops integrated billing and time tools for organizations to track and manage their time. The BigTime Software platform tracks over $2 billion annually with features like time tracking, invoicing and a reporting analytics dashboard. The company’s time tracking and expense reporting software is used by global companies like Intuit and the Huffington Post. Founded: 2002   Bringg is an end-to-end software-based logistics platform serving the needs of the retail, grocery, retail, logistics and healthcare industries. Bringg’s software platform focuses on creating a seamless logistics experience. It includes tools that help manage multiple fleets and inventories, and it even alerts drivers to urgent next or same-day deliveries. Coca-Cola, Walmart, AutoZone and Panera all use Bringg’s platform to streamline their logistics processes. Founded: 2013   Carminati Consulting is an IT consulting firm that crafts custom software application tools. Carminati implements their IT solutions throughout the healthcare, government and private sectors. Their “Immuware” software helps healthcare organizations achieve compliance faster, while their “Insurance on Demand” tools tracks insurance contracts and provides employees with access to their current coverage details. Founded: 2010   Caterpillar is the digital and technology wing of Caterpillar, one of the largest construction and farming companies in the world. Caterpillar is tasked with implementing emerging technologies into equipment to help tackle the toughest challenges out there. Caterpillar is inserting emerging technologies, like AI, IoT and data science, into some of the most well-known pieces of manufacturing equipment in the world to help farmers gather more crops and construction teams build quicker and safer. Founded: 1925   CCC improves the claims management process for companies in the automotive industry. Auto manufacturers, insurance carriers, part suppliers and collision repairers use CCC’s solutions to make better decisions, improve industry collaboration and effectively engage with customers. From cloud and mobile to telematics and apps, CCC is constantly working on new, innovative solutions that get people back on the road quickly after an accident. Founded: 1980   Civis Analytics helps businesses implement big data software to form actionable strategies. Civis’ software platform offers a suite of tools to help businesses manage billions of data points. The company’s platform includes predictive modeling and media optimization that have helped global companies, like Airbnb and Verizon, harness the power of their data. Founded: 2013   Paylocity provides payroll services and human resource software to businesses across the country. Paylocity’s comprehensive software solutions make it easier for companies to manage their workforce. Their suite includes payroll, talent management and mobile software to manage holistically and effectively from anywhere. Founded: 1997   Club Automation produces software for health, fitness and wellness clubs that is designed to automate and make processes more efficient. The company has a variety of different products, like text messaging platforms, billing systems and performance analytics dashboards, that help to give clubs a greater control over their time and resources. Club Automation’s software tools are being used by hundreds of health and wellness clubs all over the world. Founded: 2008   To ensure clients get the most out of their equipment, CMMS Data Group provides top-notch products and professionals. Technology and training go hand in hand as companies gain greater insights into their inventories. CMMS Data Group has crafted the ideal solution in the form of MVP Plant for companies looking to better care for their resources. The software monitors equipment and helps companies take preventative measures to maintain the health of their components. In addition, engineering experts offer training on the software and contribute to a seamless transition for clients. Founded: 2000   With nearly 350,000 employees worldwide, Cognizant is a global IT consulting and services firm. It works with companies in a variety of industries to update their technology and transform their processes to “stay ahead in a fast-changing world.” Headquartered in New Jersey, Cognizant has an office in downtown Chicago, as well as in two suburban Chicagoland locations. Founded: 1994   Dscout provides video research software that helps businesses gather, manage and share in-context moments sourced by people all over the world. “Scouts” are ready to record short videos on why they watched a certain show or which streaming service they like better in order for businesses to improve their outreach to customers. Dscout’s interactive software allows for businesses to receive customer feedback about a certain product in real-time. Nike, Lyft and REI all use dscout to crowdsource customer opinions in order to improve their products.   Founded: 2011   Duck Creek Technologies supports the insurance industry with fintech and cloud-computing technologies that help improve customer outcomes and better optimize their day-to-day business operations. Duck Creek Technologies empowers insurance companies to deliver impactful, legible data to their customers with a low-code platform that can be integrated into any pre-existing system, speeding up the pace of claims processing and adjusting rates. Founded: 2000   Evive’s employee benefit platform houses all benefits in one, easy-to-understand platform. Evive uses predictive analytics software to anticipate when an employee is going to use their benefits or if an employee needs a little nudge to take some time off. Each benefits portal is customized based on the employee’s needs. Founded: 2007   Fastmodel is a sports technology company providing playbook and diagramming software. The platform enables coaches to access new plays, draw their own and share across multiple devices and channels. Their FastDraw basketball tool is changing the way coaches communicate with players and is used by all major professional teams and 85 percent of D1 college teams. Founded: 2004   FourKites provides logistics solutions for end-to-end freight tracking. The platform includes tracking for roads and rails with overseas capabilities in development. Its solutions serve the entire supply chain including, shippers, brokers, carriers and third-party logistic providers. Many industries rely on FourKites for transparent, real-time tracking of their goods from food and beverage companies to oil and gas enterprises. Founded: 2014   Advyzon develops and implements technology designed for financial advisors. The company’s platform unifies data from portfolios, billing, documents, and more into a single location, enabling advisory firms to instantly access crucial data and better serve the needs of their clients. Advyzon's portfolio management system integrates well with numerous other platforms and tools, so companies can safely migrate historical data and access new data across systems and devices. Founded: 2012       Front connects team members with a communications hub designed for collaboration. Employees can now leave comments and draft responses together, allowing companies to provide enjoyable interactions for each customer. The technology of Front allows multiple members to work on the same messages and allocate workloads to the ideal personnel. By equipping teams with the tools to stay organized, businesses can resolve issues faster and keep customers happy. Founded: 2013    Hireology is an industry-focused recruiting and talent management platform for automotive, fitness, healthcare and professional services. The platform performs a variety of management needs from applicant sourcing to payroll and HR. Hireology helps lots of companies like Anytime Fitness, Title Boxing, Sylvan Learning and KIA build their teams, onboard new hires and provide data insights throughout the whole process. Founded: 2010   Hologram is a platform for building IoT products on a cellular network. Hologram’s hardware-agnostic SIM cards automatically switch networks and, and scale with your product, so IoT deployments are seamless and efficient. Hologram’s software and IoT products have been used by thousands of companies in the healthcare, manufacturing, micromobility and logistics industries.  Founded: 2013   When a business is just going through the motions, Inspire11 steps in to help. The company blends cutting-edge thinking with intelligent technology to help teams streamline their operations. As a result, businesses can provide higher-quality experiences for customers with Inspire11's comprehensive solutions. Data analytics, cloud architectures, and machine learning tools come together as part of Inspire11’s strategy. By embracing a multi-faceted approach, Inspire11 is enabling companies to operate at a breakneck pace with the latest tools.  Founded: 2016     Jellyvision creates solutions for enhancing employee communication and program participation. The company's leading product, ALEX, guides employees through important but complex decisions like benefits, 401(K), financial wellness and leave of absence.  Jellyvision saves time and money for HR teams while providing them with the tools to help their employees make the best choices. Companies like Adobe, Comcast and American Eagle Outfitters have used Jellyvision products for increased program enrollment, communication and cost savings.   Founded: 2001   Lever operates an end-to-end talent acquisition platform that unites the full talent lifecycle seamlessly, providing users with an experience that combines CRM and ATS capabilities. The company’s platform features innovative tools for the sourcing, interviewing, hiring, rediscovery and results analyzing processing, with custom dashboards available for visualizing data, running diversity surveys, gathering referrals, connecting to the LinkedIn Recruiter RSC and more. Founded: 2012   Litera Microsystems provides document organization solutions for life sciences and the legal industry.Litera’s platform improves production efficiency, formatting and content quality for documents, enabling clients to instill best practices and reduce document error and risk. Founded: 1995   Logiwa is helping organizations adapt to the digitization of commerce with a suite of cloud solutions. Since companies have established various warehouses to meet local demands, Logiwa provides the tools for teams to track inventory across these locations and provide high-quality customer experiences. To ensure companies can meet high-volume and next-day orders, Logiwa has crafted a cloud platform that centralizes inventory information. Businesses can manage their inventory, make quick sales transactions, and determine effective shipping methods for each order.  Founded: 2017   Machinio is an online marketplace for the construction industry, allowing organizations and contractors to buy, sell and bid-on various types of heavy equipment and machinery. The company works directly with dealers, retailers, auctioneers and equipment owners to offer fast access to available machinery as soon as it becomes available, with listings updated on a daily basis. Founded: 2013   Milyli (Make it like you like it) builds e-discovery solutions on the legal tech platform, Relativity. Milyli’s products customize Relativity's software for companies to seamlessly integrate applications, optimize workflows, lower costs and increase overall efficiency. The Milyli team has more than 100,000 hours of customization experience on the Relativity platform, building features like change reporting, project management tools and text-searchable PDFs.   Founded: 2008   Origami Risk offers cloud-based solutions catered to the risk and insurance industry. Their platform includes claims, safety, underwriting, analytics and data tools for integrating workflows and collecting data. Origami automates practically any process when it comes to assessing risk, underwriting policies, handling claims or collecting exposure values. Founded: 2009   Paro matches businesses with fully-vetted freelance finance professionals. Paro pairs financial companies with engineers, accountants financial analysts and contract CFO’s who are familiar with a variety of financial software platforms, and can perform tasks from budget forecasting to pitch deck design. Founded: 2015   PriceFX produces cloud-based price management software that allows B2B and B2B companies to increase their margins and win deals quickly. The company’s CPQ software is fast to implement and optimized to pull insights from across the business, with powerful AI technology built in to streamline price settings and maximize value. Founded: 2011   Project44 provides logistics solutions, digitizing shipment lifecycles and making an overall smarter process for manufacturers, carriers and retailers. Named for Highway 44, the first bypass of Route 66 and a solution to an obsolete highway system, Project44 offers its own transportation solutions in the form of web-service APIs and predictive analytics. Project44 provides real-time information, enabling complete visibility during the entire supply chain. Founded: 2014   Relativity makes legal software solutions to manage data and pinpoint issues during compliance projects, litigations, and internal investigations. Their platform can be used in both the office and the cloud, and enables users to build and integrate their own applications, manipulating its functionality to their specific needs. Relativity is widely used, currently serving over 13,000 law firms, corporations and government agencies like EA, Tesla, Allstate and LinkedIn. Founded: 2001   Screencastify is a Chrome browser extension that allows for screen and webcam video recording. Screencastify offers the user the ability to share their webcam, desktop or browser tab with others. The software even allows for users who are presenting their screens with tools to draw on the screen or annotate important points. Founded: 2013   ServiceNow makes applications that predict, automate and digitize tasks across customer service, cybersecurity, human resources and IT platforms. The company automates routine tasks and makes sure complex projects run smoothly with their suite of solutions. Adidas and Experian are just a few of the top companies using ServiceNow’s technology to better their businesses. Founded: 2004   Showpad is a marketing and sales platform delivering a better buyer experience through content management, analytics and sales engagement. Showpad is used by over one thousand brands like Audi, Johnson and Johnson, Bridgestone and Royal Caribbean to save money, increase efficiency and produce the best buyer experiences. Founded: 2011   SilkRoad is a leading HR solution for recruiting, onboarding and retaining talent. Their cloud-based product extends beyond paper forms and makes the experience more personal, acclimating new hires to a company’s culture and sticking with them well beyond their first 30 days. SilkRoad is tackling the retention problem many companies face. Their platform ensures involvement doesn’t stop at the onboarding process; their product engages employees continuously throughout their time with a company. Founded: 2003   Spark Hire makes the interviewing process simpler with their video interviewing platform. Job candidates record themselves answering predetermined questions and Spark Hire’s software allows for recruiters to view their answers to find the highest quality candidates. International companies like Ikea and Volkswagen use Spark Hire to interview higher quality job candidates with ease. Founded: 2010   Sprout Social provides businesses with a powerful social media management platform that allows enterprises, agencies and small businesses alike to utilize intuitive social tools to create lasting value across their entire organization. The multi-channel Sprout Social platform goes beyond simply publishing capabilities by including listening, engagement and analytics tools so organizations can get a clearer understanding of how their audiences interact with them, providing new opportunities for turning leads into customers. Founded: 2010   Thoughtworks helps companies solve complex problems through software solutions that combine strategy and execution in order to strengthen their core technologies. The company collaborates with clients to add flexibility and scalability to existing software, enabling companies to take adaptive mindsets when reaching business goals. Founded: 1993   Tock is a management platform for restaurants, wineries and pop-ups. The Tock platform manages everything from booking reservations and maintaining waitlists to tools like two-way texting with customers and note-taking on guests. The company’s platform is being used to book reservations, tours and excursions in more than 23 countries worldwide. Founded: 2014   Upwork is the world’s largest freelancing website. Businesses looking to add freelance computer engineer, developer, designer and administrative roles look to Upwork for fulfilling short-term positions. Upwork connects companies looking for software engineers and developers with fully-vetted freelancers looking to take on short-term projects and contract work. Over five million businesses have hired an Upwork freelancer, including Dropbox, Accenture and Airbnb.   Founded: 1999   Vail Systems is a communication solution aimed at making a better calling experience between service providers and customers. Their services provide secure voice, messaging and conferencing with proprietary audio-analysis technology. Their call-enhancing features include in-app calling, automated verification, enhanced call treatment and voice clarity. We all know the frustration of bad calling systems, Vail’s services are eliminating the dread of calling support centers and improving billions of customer calls. Founded: 1991   Vivid Seats is the largest independent online ticket marketplace, connecting fans to thousands of concerts, sporting events and theater shows. The platform features tickets to every major MLB, NFL, NBA, WNBA and NHL game, and it features a 100% buyer guarantee, assuring buyers that tickets are always authentic and correct. The Vivid Seats platform helps fans to easily find their favorite live event, peruse seats, see a picture of their view and then purchase- all through the same platform.  Founded: 2001   Wellspring came out of Carnegie Mellon University as a tech transfer solution predominately for universities and research institutes. Today, Wellspring provides software that scans thousands of data sources, finding emerging technologies to identify new trends and opportunities. A variety of leading companies and organizations use Wellspring’s solutions, including BP, Nike, University of Minnesota and Johnson & Johnson.   Bswift’s cloud-based software provides benefits administration for employers nationwide. Bswift provides an administrative software platform that allows employers to manage their benefits packages, while providing employees with the flexibility to pick and choose their benefits based on their specific needs. Founded: 1996   To help organizations manage increasing amounts of data, Cribl has developed tools for arranging information in a more efficient manner. Companies can now gain a more detailed picture of why their systems deliver certain outputs. While many companies notice the results of a system, this practice merely scratches the surface. Cribl’s solutions allow businesses to go further, analyzing data and determining safer and more effective ways to organize that data. As a result, companies can develop a deeper understanding of their information and know how to store and protect it.  Founded: 2017   Nexgen Packaging leverages software and analytics in their design and manufacturing processes for the retail, footwear and apparel industries. Nexgen’s software platform is designed to meet the needs of both the vendor and supplier for supply chain efficiency. The Westmont-based company’s platform features a global user base, an analytics dashboard and actionable insights throughout a company’s supply chain process. Founded: 2006   Kenna Security is a risk intelligence platform that enables IT and security team to proactively manage risk. Kenna Security’s risk SaaS combines enterprise and asset data with real-time threat intelligence to give IT teams a holistic insight into their current protocols. With Kenna’s platform, security teams are able to assess risk and identify vulnerabilities from a single dashboard. Founded: 2010   Slalom is a business and technology consulting firm that develops personalized strategies and systems for clients. Slalom consulting helps companies optimize their technology, better target their audiences and design their digital experiences. The company, with offices all over the US, had over $1 billion in revenue in 2017. Founded: 2001   Ansarada is a platform that manages the flow of information in financial transactions. The company’s software streamlines and secures data shared between companies in mergers, fundraising and IPOs. Based in Sydney, Australia, but with an office in Chicago, Ansarada uses software to help investors get a holistic view of their deal. Founded: 2005   SurePayroll offers a web-based platform with which small business owners can manage their compensation and payroll operations. Small business owners operate with a smaller budget than larger companies, but SurePayroll helps them manage their payrolls without having to cut costs. They offer an affordable option for small businesses to organize 401(k), health insurance, tax and workers comp payments, giving companies the ability to automate those processes so that they can focus on business expansion and development. Founded: 2000   Cloud5 Communications improves offers a myriad of communication tools to help hotels better connect with guests. The cloud-based platform helps hotels upgrade their high-speed internet connections and communication methods. Hilton, Best Western and Wyndham Hotels are just a few of the hotel chains improving their communication platforms with Cloud5. Founded: 2004   Dealer Inspire is a website platform dedicated to offering customized solutions for auto dealerships. The company offers a website building platform for car dealerships to create customizable, streamlined websites. The software allows car companies to integrate inventory, geofencing and payment calculators to help for a better user experience. Founded: 2012   PrintWithMe enables users to pay for and print whatever they need through email attachments. The printing stations are located in convenient spots like coffee shops, co-working spaces, residential buildings or wherever a kiosk can be set up. PrintWithMe’s solutions work with laptops and mobile, making printing more accessible for anybody on the go or those without a home printer. Founded: 2014   Cleo offers a myriad of enterprise integration software solutions. The company’s solutions manage file transfer, enable interactive messaging and upgrade data pipeline security. Cleo’s team does everything from integrating their software into current technologies to training enterprise employees on how to best use their product. Founded: 1976   Connamara builds marketplaces, exchanges and trading applications for  financial institutions. Connamara specializes in developing large-scale financial systems. The company’s software helps to run over one hundred different financial marketplaces and exchanges, that are personalized and available on all platforms. Founded: 1998   The Foursquare platform allows for users to check-in and share their locations with friends. The company’s mobile apps are used by over 50 million people a month and have registered over 9 billion check-ins. The company's apps allow for a social media platform, where users interact and share recommendations on everything from restaurants to shopping centers. Foursquare then uses their location-based data to help businesses, like Uber and Apple, with targeted advertising. Founded: 2009   Adeptia creates B2B integration solutions, automating an array of data and business processes. Their platform is industry specific, serving companies in insurance, healthcare, manufacturing, retail and more. Adeptia shrinks the onboarding process for new customer data from weeks to just minutes. Some of the biggest names in finance and insurance are using Adeptia’s solutions, including U.S. Bank, MassMutual, Nasdaq and United Health Group. Founded: 2000   Lightstream creates the software that enables streamers to share their talents with the world. Lightstream’s software allows streamers to personalize their streams with guests, original images and logos. The platform supports Facebook live, Youtube, Twitch and Mixer. Founded: 2014 This article was originally published in 2018. 

Margo Steines, Rose Velazquez, Ana Gore and Sara B.T. Thiel contributed reporting to this story.