You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Aug 29, 2023, 10:58pm Whether it’s shopping, paying bills,operating manufacturing facilities or lighting up our cities, we depend on computer networks and systems every day. This creates a demand for knowledgeable professionals who develop, monitor and maintain computer technologies. If you’re interested in working in the computer science field, earning an associate in computer science is one way to get your foot in the door. This degree prepares you to enter the workforce in an entry-level computer science job or earn a bachelor’s in computer science. In this article, we explore what it takes to earn an associate in computer science and give you the information you need to choose the best program for your goals. Keep reading to learn about admission requirements, coursework and potential jobs for graduates with an associate degree in computer science. Forbes Advisor’s education editors are committed to producing unbiased rankings and informative articles covering online colleges, tech bootcamps and career paths. Our ranking methodologies use data from the National Center for Education Statistics, education providers, and reputable educational and professional organizations. An advisory board of educators and other subject matter experts reviews and verifies our content to bring you trustworthy, up-to-date information. Advertisers do not influence our rankings or editorial content. An associate degree in computer science introduces key concepts needed to work in various computer science careers. It teaches basic programming languages and how to solve complex computer problems, qualifying students to work in the computer science field without committing to a four-year degree. An associate in computer science typically requires at least 60 credits and takes about two years to complete, though you may need longer if you study part-time. Admission to a computer science associate program may require: Course offerings vary by program, but below we list a few popular courses among computer science associate programs: This course introduces the basic principles of programming, including problem-solving, software development, data types, file processing and software development using common programming languages. Lab assignments provide hands-on experience. Students in this course learn the basic concepts of computer science, such as object-oriented program development, language paradigms, structured program verification, language systems and semantics, documentation techniques, and Windows-based and text-oriented user interfaces. A calculus I course covers the foundational concepts used in calculus, including limits and derivatives of functions, definite and indefinite integrals, and rates of change. This is an essential course for anyone studying computer science. This course teaches the effective communication skills needed to succeed in any professional position. The curriculum covers public speaking, team building, interviewing, integrating technology for presentations, understanding nonverbal cues and developing communication strategies. This course covers functions, relations, logic, algorithms, mathematical induction, proof techniques and methods for applying math concepts within the context of computer science. The disciplines of computer science and computer engineering share many similarities; they both involve programming languages, computer technology and problem-solving skills. But there are key differences to note as well. Computer science tends to be more theoretical, focusing on math and computing theory. Computer engineering leans more into the practical aspects related to the actual design and development of software systems. If you are interested in data analysis, algorithms and computing theory, consider pursuing an education in computer science. If you prefer designing and developing interfaces and computer systems, computer engineering may be a better option. An associate in computer science opens doors to various tech jobs, including those listed below. We sourced salary data for these positions from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Median Annual Salary: $57,890
Minimum Required Education: Associate degree; high school diploma and relevant certifications sometimes sufficient
Job Overview: Computer support specialists provide technical support to computer system users, businesses and organizations. They test and maintain networks, handle troubleshooting of networks and systems, diagnose computer problems, recommend solutions, repair equipment and train users. Some computer support specialists work as help-desk technicians, assisting computer users in person or via phone, chat or email. Median Annual Salary: $78,580
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree; associate degree or high school diploma with relevant experience and programming language knowledge sometimes sufficient
Job Overview: Web developers design, create and maintain websites. They use programming languages to write code and develop and test interfaces and navigation menus. They also monitor performance, traffic, capacity and other technical issues related to websites. Web developers may handle back-end or front-end construction; some are responsible for both. Median Annual Salary: $90,520
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree, associate degree or professional certificate sometimes sufficient
Job Overview: Network and computer systems administrators handle the daily operational activities needed for computer networks and systems in organizations and businesses. They install, support and maintain computer systems and networks, software and applications, and other systems for data communication. Some administrators manage mobile equipment, data storage networks and employee workstations. Median Annual Salary: $98,800
Minimum Required Education: Computer programming bachelor’s degree, other degrees or relevant experience sometimes sufficient
Job Overview: Computer programmers write and modify code and scripts for computer software programs and applications. They also test and improve code to address problems that may prevent software from functioning. Computer programmers create and use code libraries to make their work more efficient. They may also write software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications. If you want to qualify for an entry-level computer science job or continue your education by earning a bachelor’s degree, then yes, an associate degree can help you accomplish your goals. This degree teaches valuable, relevant information without requiring the four-year commitment of a bachelor’s degree. An associate degree in computer science teaches the fundamentals of computer science in a short period, preparing students to begin working directly after graduation or pursue further education in the field. An associate may be a good choice for those who want to enter the workforce as soon as possible and those who plan to move forward with a bachelor’s degree. This depends on your desired career path. Earning an associate degree in computer science is a great option if you’re just starting your computer science career, as this degree lets you get your feet wet before spending more time and money on a bachelor’s degree. A bachelor’s degree may better suit you if you already know you want to work in computer science or advance your current career in the field. 

 Sheryl Grey is a freelance writer who specializes in creating content related to education, aging and senior living, and real estate. She is also a copywriter who helps businesses grow through expert website copywriting, branding and content creation. Sheryl holds a Bachelor of Arts in Mass Communications from Indiana University South Bend, and she received her teacher certification training through Bethel University’s Transition to Teaching program.