Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Watch Daily: Monday - Friday, 3 PM ET Institutional investors lost interest in crypto after 2022 and even with this year's uptrend, their appetite for it hasn't come back yet, according to Northern Trust's head of digital assets and financial markets. Justin Chapman told CNBC's "Crypto World" at the Digital Assets Week conference in San Francisco that institutions have shifted their focus to cryptocurrencies' underlying blockchain technology, but that his firm "has capabilities" in place should client interest in crypto assets rebound. "Just after March the crypto market went off a cliff… the client interest has definitely gone off the same cliff in terms of institutional interest in in cryptocurrencies," he said. "It's definitely quiet now, since 2022, from the institutional side," he continued. "Before that, we were seeing traditional fund managers looking to launch crypto funds, ETPs in Europe, which is the equivalent of ETFs in the U.S. — that's really gone quiet. Even the hedge funds, who are pretty active in the markets, have certainly reduced their exposure within that particular space." Meanwhile, leaders from the biggest financial institutions gathered at the San Francisco conference were energized when it came to the blockchain technology – specifically its potential to help tokenize real-world assets like gold for clients. The "evolution of the technology" is moving into a "better place" in terms of support from market participants, Chapman said. "As a firm, we have capabilities that sit there to administer [crypto trading] functions, but it's a pretty quiet market at the moment and [after] most of the issues we had last year, we haven't seen a rebound at all on the institutional side yet," he said. Specifically, Northern Trust partnered with Standard Chartered in 2020 to launch Zodia, a crypto custodian for institutional investors. Bitcoin has gained almost 75% this year after losing 64% in 2022. Trading was still to begin the year, with volatility falling to historic lows. The regulatory crackdown in the U.S. been a dark cloud over the industry while the banking crisis has helped push bitcoin's price higher. Both have brought volatility back to the market. Even as bitcoin currently struggles to break above the $30,000 level, investors agree it remains in a long-term uptrend. "We're not focused that much on the asset class because the client isn't at the moment," Chapman said. "So we're not seeing that appetite to have that within their portfolios. If that changes, as a firm, we can account for those capabilities. But it's certainly lost its shine from the institutional perspective." Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by