Vital news, expert insight & insider tips from Music Ally – all in your inbox. (Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *fun may vary wildly Get notified when we publish Music Ally’s industry-leading analysis : join the Music Ally WhatsApp Channel, where we'll send you the lead story, and links to all the other important news, every weekday. 
					Music industry consultancy covering digital music marketing and strategy				 Live events platform Eventbrite has announced some new AI-powered features that it hopes will help promoters. It’s about AI-generated copy for event listings, but also the mailouts and social posts promoting them. The promise is that promoters can enter their event title, location and dates, and then sit back as Eventbrite’s AI produces a summary, description and AI-generated image (if required), before getting to work on copy for email promotions and social media ads on Facebook and Instagram. Eventbrite also claims that social ad campaigns using the new feature “saw a 17% decrease in Cost Per Click compared to social ad campaigns not using AI-powered copy”. In truth, like most uses for generative AI, this isn’t just about people sitting back and watching the AI do its work: the copy will need to be checked, and in many cases we suspect that the human touch will still be hugely important. Still, for any artists and their teams using Eventbrite, the tools are worth trying out to see how they perform. Get a mix of the vital news, analysis, and insider tips from across Music Ally's services.(Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *actual levels of fun may vary wildly Short form video has a huge influence on music listening, and it’s no surprise that… Read all Tools >> 
							Music Ally's Head of Insight															
								More by Stuart Dredge								
 Get a mix of the vital news, analysis, and insider tips from across Music Ally's services.(Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *actual levels of fun may vary wildly SoundCloud launched its official ‘SoundCloud Store’ last week, showing off its new… Spotify has opened a new facility for musicians and podcasters… Universal Music Group execs recently made it clear that Spotify and YouTube… Music Ally’s music business news podcast covers the vital issues in detail, as they emerge. Listen now »  Jobs The latest and best jobs in the global music industry See all jobs >> Sandbox: your essential digital marketing guide – expert insight, case studies, fresh ideas, and overlooked opportunities. BandLab has 100 million users, and now offers much more than… British rock band Bring Me The Horizon released Post Human:… Country Profiles Essential international guides, packed with data, interviews, strategies, and local insight. Read country profiles >> Slovakia’s recorded music industry is performing strongly, with predictions for sharp growth in the… Streaming continues to drive growth in the German music industry – with German-language music… South African music is making ever bigger waves abroad – and the country’s music… Music Ally Ltd., Holborn Studios,49-50 Eagle Wharf Rd, London, N1 7ED,United Kingdom +44 (0) 207 682 3996mail@musically.com   This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.Music Ally is a Registered Learning Provider 10029483