Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter From an exclusive Grammy Museum exhibit featuring items from Taylor Swift's music videos to a themed Soul Cycle ride, find out how L.A. is prepping for the superstar singer. 
							By 

	Chris Gardner
 
	The summer of Taylor Swift is sweeping through Southern California. The superstar singer will begin a record-setting run of sold-out shows at SoFi Stadium when her Eras Tour hits Inglewood on Aug. 3, with additional dates of Aug. 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9. As Swift arrives in Los Angeles — after apparently causing seismic activity dubbed a “Swift Quake” in Seattle — her fans will be greeted by an array of offerings, from “Lover”-themed cupcakes to special Soul Cycle rides. Below is a roundup of how Swift mania is hitting the city. 

	








 
	“I Can See You (Taylor’s Version)” ExhibitThe Grammy Museum — located at 800 W. Olympic Blvd. in Downtown Los Angeles — has opened a special Swift-themed exhibit on the fourth floor theater gallery. It pulls from the singer’s “I Can See You (Taylor’s Version) (From The Vault)” music video by featuring a display of 11 costumes and two instruments. The costumes were all worn during Swift’s original Speak Now era. The music video stars Joey King and Taylor Lautner and was written and directed by Swift. Said Jasen Emmons, chief curator and vp of curatorial affairs at the Grammy Museum, “We’re thrilled to honor this achievement by creating an immersive space for her fans and our community to continue celebrating her all month long.” Included are designers such as Valentino, Reem Acra, Jenny Packham, Monsoon, Temperley and Zara along with Swift’s instruments including a Gibson Les Paul red sparkle top guitar and a Deering banjo. The exhibit is open through Sept. 18.





	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	












	
	News
			



	
		
					John Legend Says His Daughter Looks Up to Kamala Harris: "She Is Excited to See Someone Who's Black and Asian Like She Is"		
			














	
	Lifestyle
			



	
		
					NFL's Chargers Stun Fans With Kiss-Cam Fake Proposal Stunt		
			






 
Taylor Swift Merchandise SaleThe Eras Tour offers a pre-event merchandise stand located at Lake Park next to SoFi Stadium that will be open to the public on Aug. 2 and Aug. 6 from 10 a.m. through 7 p.m. Parking for early merch shoppers will be open at 8 a.m. and can be accessed by Century Boulevard and Yukon Avenue.  
Soul Cycle’s Taylor Takeover SeriesThe spin masters are offering a day of Swift-themed rides on Aug. 4 “that bring the energy of Eras to the saddle,” per the popular exercise chain. The takeover series has become a staple of Soul Cycle’s offerings at whatever city Eras happens to be during this current tour, which wraps up a U.S. run with the SoFi dates before heading to Mexico, Argentina and Brazil. Book a class here. 

	








 
Sweet Lady Jane’s “Taylor’s Version” Cupcake PacksThe popular bakery is rolling out two limited edition “Taylor’s Version” cupcake packs from July 28-Aug. 11. The cupcake packs will feature either funfetti topped with a pastel frosting (in the vein of “Lover”) or a revenge-tinged creation with gluten-free red velvet. Both packs are available in-store at all Sweet Lady Jane locations, with a half-dozen going for $33 while a dozen will set you back $66. But wait, there’s more: To celebrate the conclusion of the U.S. leg of Eras, Sweet Lady Jane is giving away two tickets to the last date on Aug. 9. Rules and details can be found on Sweet Lady Jane’s Instagram. A winner will be selected at random and be announced on Saturday. 
Cruel Summer Beach BashOn Aug. 8 from 1-5 p.m. near the Barnard Way tower, Swifties will take over the beach in Santa Monica with an afternoon Eventbrite party that will feature dancing, singing, Tarot card readings, games, contests, a jewelry pop-up, bracelet-making, giveaways and more. Information here.  
Taylor Swift’s Eras Tour Pre-PartyShade Hotel Manhattan Beach is hosting a pre-game Eventbrite event from 3-5 p.m. on Aug. 3. Per the official invite, “come dressed in your favorite era, sip on a Lavender Haze cocktail, dance to your favorite blondie’s songs” with special carpool and rideshare options to SoFi Stadium.  
Taylor Swift Bracelet Making & Listening PartyTruly L.A. — 216 South Alameda Street in Los Angeles — will host a special Eventbrite event on Aug. 3 from 6-9 p.m. that will feature bracelet-making and swapping, food and drink specials, a surprise giveaway, a listening party featuring Swift’s beloved tracks and presumably, lots of Truly Hard Seltzer. Information here. 

	








 
Tiger Heat: Taylor Swift NightThe LGBTQ-focused party on Aug. 3 will take place at Stache West Hollywood (8941 Santa Monica Boulevard) and feature Swift tracks with DJ Christian Wheel on the turntables. Event is 18+.  
Alto Special Offers 
	Luxury rideshare service Alto is getting in on the Eras action by offering the first month of Alto membership free with code ERASLA (valid through 8/10). Fans can preschedule Alto for a ride to and from SoFi Stadium and avoid the ever hectic L.A. traffic by leaning back with Alto and the ride’s free chargers, water and newly added in-app Eras playlist. 
Hyatt Place/Hyatt House LAX 
	The hotel is celebrating Eras with a series of special activities and offerings all week, including themed photo opportunities, Eras-themed drink menu (cocktails and mocktails like Bad Blood Margarita and Lavender Haze), dining options, parking solutions and more. Hyatt is also extending hours for a late-night menu serving bites until 12:30 a.m. nightly.  
Bejeweled: A Taylor Swift Tribute Show 
	Sorry Not Sorry will be hosting a burlesque tribute show at 9 p.m. on Aug. 4 at the venue, located at 11520 West Pico Blvd. in Los Angeles. Tickets are available on Eventbrite.  
Swifties Skate Night 
	The all ages event will take place from 8-11 p.m. on Aug. 5 at Moonlight Rollerway in Glendale. Tickets are available on Eventbrite.  
Eras Experience — A Pop Up Photo Studio Inspired by Taylor Swift 
	Located at Boxie Studio (1500 South Los Angeles St.), the $25 event will feature an immersive journey through the eras of Swift’s music at this selfie photography space. “With 10 meticulously designed themed spaces, one for each era, you’ll have the opportunity to step into the Self Titled, Fearless, Speak Now, Red, 1989, Reputation, Lover, Folklore, Evermore and Midnights eras,” per the Eventbrite intel. 

	








 
Updating. (For submissions, email Chris.Gardner@THR.com) Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Send us a tip using our anonymous form.