 Lee Health announces the newly elected officers of its Board of Directors for 2023.  Officers Donna Clarke (chair), Therese Everly, (vice chair), and David F. Collins (treasurer) will all retain their positions. Dane Allen was elected as the new board secretary. They will join newly elected members David Klein, Daniel Adler and Allen, who were recently sworn in. Clarke has been re-elected as board chair for 2023. She has previously served as board vice chair and board treasurer. She is a former Florida State Representative and has served as an adjunct math professor with the State College of Florida. She is also a former Marketing Manager, Fortune 500 Technology Companies, Atlanta. Clarke earned a master’s degree in Industrial Management from the Georgia Institute of Technology, and she has previously owned and operated an environmental consulting firm. Clarke is the past president of the Fort Myers Kiwanis Club and has served as vice-chair of the STARS Advisory Board. She has also volunteered as a math tutor at the Pace Center for Girls of Lee County.  Everly has been re-elected as vice chair. She is the Regional Executive Director for Community Assisted & Supportive Living. She previously was the executive director of the Lee County Homeless Coalition. Everly has over 35 years of experience in the health care and real estate industries. She is a registered respiratory therapist with a degree in Health Care Administration with both clinical and management experience. Everly is also a licensed realtor with experience in sales and property management. She is a member of the Florida 20th Judicial Circuit Elderly Abuse Fatality Review Team. Collins has been re-elected as treasurer. He has been a resident of Lee County since 1984, a mortgage banker for more than 30 years and has served as a board member for the PACE Center for Girls of Lee County, and as treasurer for the PACE Capital Campaign. In 2018, Collins served on the Junior Achievement Hall of Fame Committee and he is also a past member of the De LaSalle Academy Finance Committee. Collins is a graduate of the Leadership Lee County Class of 2012. He is currently a member of Lee County Recovery Task Force committee – Resilient Lee. Allen has been elected as secretary. He is currently Assistant General Counsel for The Hertz Corporation and currently serves on the Executive Committee of the Lee County 50+ Men’s Tennis League. He has 30 years of experience as a business lawyer and was a certified public accountant before attending law school. Allen received his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Wisconsin along with his Bachelor of Business Administration degree with majors in accounting and finance. He will serve District 4. Klein is a nationally-recognized health care executive. His career includes 41 years of service with BlueCross BlueShield with 10 years as the chief executive officer (CEO) of Excellus BlueCross BlueShield. Klein is also a director of United Way. He currently serves as chair of Boston based Commonwealth Care Alliance health plan and as a professor of public health sciences at the University of Rochester. He is also a director or advisor for healthcare venture capital and private equity funds or their portfolio companies. He has served as an advisor to FGCU Marieb College of Health and Human Services. He will serve District 3. Adler proudly grew up in Lee County, Florida. He is the current Director of Legal Compliance for Millennium Physician Group and had previously served as a Special Assistant General Counsel for the White House. He earned his Bachelor of Arts from Rollins College, his Juris Doctor from the Appalachian School of Law and his LLM in Business & Finance from The George Washington University Law School. In his spare time, he tutors underprivileged kids and enjoys being with his young family. He will serve District 5. “We appreciate the Board of Directors’ commitment to serving our community, and we are thankful to have such an accomplished group of members working to further our dedication to provide the highest quality care,” said Larry Antonucci, M.D., Lee Health’s president and chief executive officer.  The Board of Directors’ primary goal is to set the mission and vision of Lee Health. The Board of Directors consists of 10 officials from five districts who are elected by the residents of Lee County. The Board holds regularly scheduled public meetings to set goals and objectives and to hear recommendations from the health system’s administrative and medical staffs. In addition to the officers and newly-elected members, other board members include: Kathy Bridge-Liles, Dr. Stephen R. Brown, Diane Champion and Nancy McGovern. About Lee Health Since the opening of the first hospital in 1916, Lee Health has been a health care leader in Southwest Florida, constantly evolving to meet the needs of the community. A non-profit, integrated health care services organization, Lee Health is committed to the well-being of every individual served, focused on healthy living and maintaining good health. Staffed by caring people, inspiring health, services are conveniently located throughout the community in four acute care hospitals, two specialty hospitals, outpatient centers, walk-in medical centers, primary care and specialty physician practices and other services across the continuum of care. Learn more at LeeHealth.org. Source: Lee Health Copyright © Lehigh Acres Citizen | https://www.lehighacrescitizen.com | 2510 Del Prado Blvd. S., Cape Coral, FL 33904 | 239-574-1110 