By Katherine Stinson For Dailymail.Com   Published:  17:58 EDT, 23 August 2023   |  Updated:  18:30 EDT, 23 August 2023      12 View  comments  Jenna Dewan embodied a girl next door look while stepping out in Los Angeles on Wednesday.  The 42-year-old toned beauty paired a simple, sleeveless white T-shirt that showed off a hint of her toned abs with a classic pair of blue jeans. Keeping her breezy All American girl look as effortless as possible, the Step It Up star accessorized solely with a pair of small brown sunglasses and a large black purse.  Rounding out her look were a pair of yellow Adidas tennis shoes.  She was joined on her afternoon Los Angeles outing by her 10-year-old daughter, Everly – who was hilariously 'uninterested' watching Step Up for the first time.  All American girl: Jenna Dewan rocked a casual white T-shirt and blue jeans while out and about in Los Angeles; seen Wednesday  Spitting image: The dancer's 10-year-old daughter Everly looked like her spitting image as they held hands in Los Angeles Wednesday  Although the Witches Of East End star has been divorced from her ex-husband Channing Tatum for four years, the two A-listers have remained on good terms, particularly when it comes to co-parenting Everly.  The petite brunette beauty recounted to People how she showed Everly the movie Riverdance once day and her daughter told her, 'I want to do this, Mom, find me a place.' The Rookie actress added how proud she was that Everly stuck to it after wanting her mom to sign her up for classes.  Meanwhile, Jenna's hunky Magic Mike star ex-husband even wrote a children's book in honor of his daughter titled The One And Only Sparkarella.  He told People that he was inspired to write the book about a confident girl that does whatever she wants after Everly was afraid to wear a cape to school, for fear of being made fun of.  'I wanted to make this little story about this girl who is very unique and really likes to shine,' the proud girl dad admitted.  Both Jenna and Channing agreed on one major thing when it came to co-parenting their only daughter — no acting until she's older.  'Jenna and I, we've always met eye to eye on this one,' The Lost City Star told the outlet in 2022.  Parenting goals: Little Everly has already shown an aptitude for dance, just like her mother; seen Wednesday  Cute as can be: The Supergirl star snapped a silly selfie with her daughter during a recent vacation in August  Back in the day: Channing and Jenna were married from 2009 and 2019 and share custody of Everly; seen in 2015 Blended family: The Supergirl star has since moved on with actor Steve Kazee, with whom she shares son Callum with; the pair have been engaged since 2020  After Channing and Jenna split in 2019 and their divorce was finalized, the 10 Years star moved on with Shameless Steve Kazee.  They welcomed their first child together, a son named Callum, in March 2020.  The Once star had popped the question to Jenna a month prior to Callum's birth.  Although the pair have been going strong ever since, the couple have yet to set a wedding date.  However, she did reveal to US Weekly back in June that they'd made progress with wedding planning, even solidifying a wedding date — 'We're getting there,' the mother of two revealed.   Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group