Officials say lines going through branches can sometimes be hard to spot Officials say lines going through branches can sometimes be hard to spot The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Officials say lines going through branches can sometimes be hard to spot Electric utilities in New Hampshire are urging homeowners not to attempt to trim trees with wires nearby.  Officials with Eversource, Unitil and New Hampshire's Department of Energy said a growing number of smaller contractors and do-it-yourselfers are hurting themselves trying to trim trees near electrical wires.  "It's actually more so the people themselves coming into contact with the electric system, and that can cause serious harm, injury and possibly even death," William Hinkle of Eversource said. Officials said it can sometimes be hard to tell at first glance whether live wires are running through the branches of a tree. They said that can create a dangerous or even deadly situation for someone looking to trim.  "A lot of times, their tree trimmer climbs the trees to trim it, and that's where the real danger is, because then they sometimes don't see the live wire embedded in the tree, and they lean against it," Paul Kasper, director of enforcement for the Department of Energy, said. Many homeowners are familiar with DigSafe, the 811 phone number that connects New Hampshire residents with a free screening of buried utilities. But Eversource said it's just as important to check what's above the home to avoid a dangerous or deadly accident.  "There isn't an 811 equivalent for overhead work, which is why whenever you start to think about addressing something like this or taking on work like this, give your local utility a call first," Hinkle said. In some cases, companies such as Eversource and Unitil can send out their own crews to cut back branches that might be threatening power lines.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.