
          
            December 31, 2022 at 4:00 a.m.
          

          
         by 



By Brandon Butler For the Fulton Sun The National Audubon Society has conducted an annual Christmas Bird Count (CBC) since 1899. The data collected over the years has benefited science and conservation. Counting birds is an enjoyable way to spend time outdoors in the winter. If you cannot venture outside, you can still participate by counting out your window or the passenger seat of a vehicle. The CBC is rooted in the early years of conservation. A movement to protect rapidly diminishing wildlife populations was just beginning when the CBC was created as an alternative to a tradition of competing to see who could shoot the most animals. Theodore Roosevelt, Gifford Pinchot, John Muir, and others were issuing in the idea of conserving wildlife and wild lands for future generations. The CBC allowed many to participate in the movement. Still today, individuals who share a passion for wildlife work collectively through the Audubon network to collect data. Scientists use the data to determine areas of concern for birds and habitats. This leads to policy changes for wildlife. It starts with bird. "The Audubon Christmas Bird Count is a great tradition and opportunity for everyone to be a part of more than 12 decades of ongoing community science,"Geoff LeBaron, Audubon CBC director, said. "Adding your observations helps scientists and conservationists discover trends that make our work more impactful. Participating in the Audubon CBC is a fun and meaningful way to spend a winter for anyone and everyone." An interactive map on the Audubon website allows participants to join a count. Open the map, and you'll see circles representing count areas. Click the icon inside a small circle, and a box pops up. Inside the box is an email for the person gathering the data for the count. Contact them before your count to be enrolled. There are local, and national bird counts scheduled throughout the year. You don't have to be registered for an event to go outside and count birds, but it does help science to add your findings to the overall data pool. The following are a few of the bigger counts held each year. Climate Watch – Climate Watch bird counts aim to gather data on how climate change impacts bird populations. The counts happen twice per year. The winter count is Jan. 15 - Feb. 15. The summer count is May 15 - June 15. The data collected helps determine if the range of any species is shifting. Great Backyard Bird Count –The GBBC takes place each year Friday through Monday over President's Day Weekend, which is Feb. 17 – 23 this year. A GBBC can be conducted anywhere you want. As the name implies, your backyard would be an excellent location to observe. You can participate without ever leaving your house by watching through a window. You decide the time and place. You must watch for at least 15 minutes or more at least once over four days, then report your data through the Audubon website. Counting birds is something everyone can participate in. Suppose you're fortunate to have the physical ability to go hiking. In that case, this is an excellent opportunity to lace up your boots, grab your binoculars and bird identification book, or have an app for that, and bring along a notebook and a thermos of coffee and hit the woods in search of birds. See you down the trail... Copyright © 2024, Central Missouri Newspapers Inc. All rights reserved. This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Central Missouri Newspapers Inc. Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2024, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.