MILTON – A Northumberland County man charged in state court with 1,000 counts of child pornography is now facing four federal child pornography production counts. A U.S. Middle District Court grand jury Thursday indicted Robert A. Kohl, 48, of Milton, one day before he was scheduled to plead guilty in Northumberland County court. The federal charges accuse him of producing child pornography on Aug. 20 and Nov. 12, 2021, and last Sept. 28. The state charges stem from a Jan. 5 search at his Arch Street home in which state police said they found thousands of files of infants, toddlers and prepubescent females in various stages of nudity. Some of the minors were being subjected to sexual abuse by adults, they said. The investigation that led to the state charges followed five cyber tip line reports between Oct. 20 and Nov. 16, the arrest affidavit states. The first one, received from Google by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children had flagged 15 images and seven videos, the document states. Administrate subpoenas issued to Google and Verizon resulted in investigators obtaining customer information for the account associated with the images, police said. The federal indictment seeks forfeiture of all materials containing visual depictions of child pornography, any items that could be used to produce it and any proceeds traced to the offenses. Kohl currently is jailed in lieu of $250,000 on the state charges. He is facing a 15-year-mandatory minimum sentence on the federal counts. More: Attempted homicide among charges against Pa. man accused of wounding state trooper Pa. man loses novel argument that marriage was invalid because license had expired If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices