Child care providers across the state are gearing up for a drop in funding — and the effect that might have on families.  The Wisconsin Department of Children and Families announced Tuesday that the funding for the Child Care Counts Stabilization Payment Program is expected to be cut in half soon, citing the availability of federal funding.  With the decrease, the total monthly payment amount will drop to about $10 million and will affect providers' payments starting in May, the beginning of the program’s third round, DCF said.  Individual child care providers don't yet know the exact extent to which their Child Care Counts payments will be cut, but given the program is credited with keeping 3,000 child care businesses running, the reduction is sparking great concern.  Here’s what you need to know:  More:Wisconsin Child Care Counts has helped 3,000 providers stay open as advocates seek future state funding Related:The new Wisconsin family? 1.7 kids, no picket fence and child care costs more than college For many of the state’s regulated child care providers, the monthly payments represent a second stable revenue source. With its introduction in November 2021, providers no longer had to rely solely on parents to pay for care to cover expenses.  Child Care Counts enabled many providers to increase staff wages (although child care is still recognized as an underpaid profession), introduce or increase bonuses, hire additional staff, complete long-awaited updates and prevent large tuition increases.  A Wisconsin Early Childhood Action Needed survey distributed to child care providers found that, for nearly half its respondents, Child Care Counts comprises between 20% and 30% of their revenue.  “For us, Child Care Counts has been able to make us stable in the sense that I don’t worry about how I’m going to make ends meet because I know we’re going to be supported … but I am still conscious of every penny that is spent,” said Renae Henning, administrator at Community Care Preschool and Child Care in Beaver Dam.  Being funded by pandemic relief dollars, the monthly Child Care Counts program is set to run out at the beginning of 2024.  Advocates are pushing for the program be continued in the state’s 2023-2025 biennial budget, warning that the disintegration of Child Care Counts could lead to large tuition increases, worsening staff shortages and the closure of programs.  More:If Wisconsin does not invest in child care, a startling fiscal cliff looms with big consequences. Many, like Diane Reynolds who operates Diane’s Daycare out of her Shell Lake home, knew Child Care Counts funding might not last forever, but she didn't foresee it petering out so quickly.  “The announcement that just came out is quite a shock,” Reynolds said.  How the total monthly funding cut will affect individual providers depends on a variety of factors. “Some providers may see a bigger decrease than others; however, every provider will see a decrease,” DCF Communications Director Gina Paige said.  Child Care Counts has meant that WECAN co-founder Corrine Hendrickson, who runs Corrine’s Little Explorers out of her New Glarus home, hasn't had to raise her tuition rates in three years. That might soon change, though, because Child Care Counts makes up a quarter of her revenue. Others, including Reynolds, Henning and Nicole Grube, director and co-owner of Inspire Dreams Learning Center in Chilton, might have to charge parents more in response to the decreased funding — something providers typically avoid if possible as most Wisconsinites are already struggling to afford child care.  For Melissa Beil, a Beaver Dam mom whose 2-year-old attends Community Care year-round and whose two older children attend in the summer, a rate increase will be “a dramatic event” for her family’s budget.  If care becomes too expensive, she might have to juggle caring for her children while working from home. “The grim honesty of it is I probably would not be able to handle that and maintain the level of workmanship that I usually have,” Beil said, explaining she then may need to leave her career — or ask her husband to.  Many providers also fear having to cut or reduce wage increases, bonuses and/or benefits that were made possible by Child Care Counts, which could lead to more staffing issues than the industry is facing.  Grube said Inspire Dreams' entry-level pay has increased, as well as staff bonuses, with the help of Child Care Counts. American Rescue Plan Act Funds from Calumet County that the center used to help foot the cost of child care for employees' children, and sign-on bonuses recently ended. She and co-owner Heidi Brill were planning to use Child Care Counts to help with these costs, but now they don't know how far its reduced funding will stretch. "If I start taking that money away, we're going to have people walking," Grube said. Because of the state’s required child-to-staff ratios, the number of staff members a child care has is directly tied to how many children it can serve. If more staff members leave, Wisconsin families may experience an even harder time securing and maintaining quality care.  Paige explained the specific pandemic relief funds that will be used in Round 3 of the Child Care Counts program come with different restrictions on how they can be used than in previous rounds.  The Round 3 funds can only be used to reduce tuition and fees for families using the Wisconsin Shares subsidy, which helps eligible families afford quality care. For example, Paige explained, some child care providers have been providing vouchers to families to offset the cost of one day of care. Under Round 3, they'll no longer be able to do that unless the family is using Wisconsin Shares. Also, Round 3 funds may not be used by child care providers to cover costs for things such as mortgages on their business property. Ruth Schmidt, executive director of the Wisconsin Early Childhood Association, said the possible consequences of the upcoming reduction in funding are a “precursor” of what could come if Child Care Counts isn't included in the state budget.  Schmidt said this week’s announcement poses a new question: "Will this time, when programs are being notified there is going to be a steep reduction of Child Care Counts payments, motivate people into action to let our legislature know how critical Child Care Counts is?" Paige suggested child care providers keep checking DCF’s website and listserv for more information on Round 3 funding in the coming weeks.  Madison Lammert covers child care and early education across Wisconsin as a Report for America corps member based at The Appleton Post-Crescent. To contact her, email mlammert@gannett.com or call 920-993-7108. Please consider supporting journalism that informs our democracy with a tax-deductible gift to Report for America.