Zooey Deschanel/Instagram  Zooey Deschanel and Jonathan Scott Jonathan Scott is opening up about his love of being a "bonus dad" to Zooey Deschanel's kids. The Property Brothers star, 44, recently spoke with Today about his relationship with his girlfriend's two kids, son Charlie Wolf, 5, and daughter Elsie Otter, 7, and how he helps to co-parent the little ones with the actress and the kids' father, Deschanel's ex-husband Jacob Pechenik. Scott said he "enjoys every minute" of co-parenting the kids with Deschanel and Pechenik. "I always knew I would be a great dad — former clown, magician, I can build stuff — and it's been incredible," he told the outlet. "You see your life transform, your priorities become your kids, and when they have a performance that they're doing at school, or working on some of their homework, or whatever it might be, it's a joy." The HGTV star, who first met Deschanel on Carpool Karaoke in 2019, also recalled the sweet moment when he first realized his bond with Elsie and Charlie. Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Zooey Deschanel (@zooeydeschanel) RELATED: Zooey Deschanel Calls Boyfriend Jonathan Scott an 'Amazing Stepdad' "Our youngest came back from school with a picture that he had drawn, and in the picture, he has Mommy and Daddy and Jonathan and his sister and our puppies," he shared. "He had drawn this whole picture. This is his happy family." "I think that was when I was like, that's pretty sweet, because the way we think of it is, he has the benefit of a 'bonus dad,' " Scott added. "How cool is that? You have more people that love you." During an interview with reporters at the 2022 Baby2Baby Gala in November, the New Girl alum raved over her partner after being asked about her co-parenting experience, calling him "an amazing stepdad." Michael Buckner/Variety via Getty  "He's really very highly qualified for the job," Deschanel, 42, told reporters at the event to which Scott also added, "pretty good, yeah." During the chat on the red carpet, Deschanel also shared the latest milestone of her daughter Elsie, telling reporters she recently participated "in a little play." Asked if Deschanel thinks her daughter is following in her footsteps to becoming an actress, she replied, "I don't know. But she liked it. She enjoyed it." "She's only 7, so she was great," Deschanel said before Scott added that Elsie "killed" her performance during the play. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.