PORTAGE, MI – It took about two minutes to discredit a report of a shooting at Portage Northern High School on Tuesday morning. A call came in around 9:35 a.m., Feb. 7, to the Portage Department of Public Safety, saying shots were fired at Portage Northern High School, 1000 Idaho Ave., Deputy Director Jeff VanderWiere said at 11 a.m. Tuesday. The call was transferred to Kalamazoo County Consolidated Dispatch Authority. The caller claimed multiple shots were fired, a joint news release from the city of Portage and Portage Public Schools said. Police were at the high school within 90 seconds, VanderWiere said. They knew the shots fired report was false about 30 seconds after that by talking with school officials. Related: Several Michigan districts hit with fake active shooter threats “I have to give the school a lot of credit as well, working alongside law enforcement, in terms of that response time and being able to check the site quickly and work alongside these guys to discredit the claim,” Portage Public Schools Assistant Superintendent Michael Pascoe said. The call in Portage was one of multiple made to schools across the state of Michigan. Similar threats in Ann Arbor, Battle Creek, Okemos, Muskegon, Saginaw, Detroit and Jackson. The FBI and Michigan State Police are involved in the investigation at Portage, VanderWiere said. Every one is on edge when there are reports of a possible school shooting, he said. “I have as much confidence in both Portage Department of Public Safety as well as our community law enforcement partners and in the school district to respond had this been an actual event,” he said. The investigation is and police are working to figure out where the call came from, VanderWiere said. There is no indication that a student made the call, he said. It’s too early to say where the criminal investigation stands, but it is a crime to make a false report of an active shooter at a school, so criminal charges are possible, once police find the suspect who made the call, he said. The school district worked to send out communication to parents and families to let them know what happened and that the threat was quickly proven to be false, Pascoe said. They will also release a joint statement with the city of Portage. Portage Northern High School enrolled 1,289 students the 2021-22 school year, according to most recent state data. That type of false report causes fear, but Portage did not send students home early, Pascoe said. They are going to continue the school day. “It’s disruptive, without a doubt and it causes fear, both in staff and students as well as families,” Pascoe said. “We’re lucky to have the partnership that we do with the Portage Public Safety Department. We’re also lucky to have a lot of initiatives in place in terms of our school safety measures that we have a lot of confidence in, so we continue to practice. “We always continue to try to get better to help reduce that anxiety and that fear every time we come across an incident such as this.” More from MLive: Jury fails to reach verdict in fatal Kalamazoo shooting 9 Republican lawmakers lead anti-vaccine rally at Pfizer headquarters Liquor tasting room in downtown Kalamazoo gets approval If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices