Rain early. Decreasing clouds overnight. Low 58F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 60%..
                                 Rain early. Decreasing clouds overnight. Low 58F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 60%.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 5:46 pm    Reporter The Carter County Car Club held its last cruise-in of the season on Saturday. With Halloween just days away, many of the cars had a spooky theme and many car owners passed out trick-or-treats to the children who walked by in Halloween costumes.     ELIZABETHTON — The weekly cruise-ins of the Carter County Car Club are over for another season. The final cruise-in was held Saturday with a large crowd enjoying nearly perfect weather. Because the last cruise-in of the year is always held on the last Saturday in October, the finale always includes a lot of Halloween scenes, with skeletons and other spook hitching rides in the classic cars and many people decked out in costumes. Many of the car owners passed out candy to the children as they walked by in their costumes. Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. Reporter   
                    Sign up to receive news and updates from this site directly to your desktop.
                 
                    Click on the bell icon to manage your notifications at any time.
                 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.