Local news: This content is reviewed by the 7NEWS Editorial team. 7NEWS may receive a commission when you buy from links on our site. Prices correct at time of publication. This content is reviewed by the 7NEWS Editorial team. 7NEWS may receive a commission when you buy from links on our site. Prices correct at time of publication. Charlotte Tilbury has launched a “water” version of her celebrity-loved “Magic Cream” that sells every two minutes around the world. The British makeup artist to the star’s new Magic Water Cream instantly sinks into the skin for a glowing, plump and and hydrating complexion. The gel-cream formula contains hero ingredients - from niacinamide that helps balance complexion and reduce the look of pores to a biopeptide complex to improve the appearance of skin tone and texture. Know the news with the 7NEWS app: Download today  “Darlings, it drenches like a water cream and visibly revives like a magic cream for a dewy, glass-like, fresh water glow,” Tilbury said. “I call it the magic water fountain of youth and luminosity in a jar.” The lightweight moisturiser has been praised by a number of beauty fans around the world - with many giving five-star reviews online. “The Water Cream could be described as the original cream’s sister, not twin, but both part of the Magic family. The new cream is lighter, but substantial in hydration. It goes into the skin like a sophisticated cream. It absorbs almost instantaneously, leaving no film behind. Your skin just looks and feels healthy and hydrated,” one said. Another shared: “My skin can be very dry, and reactive to products at times. But this one is making its way into my skincare routine. It goes on so smooth and a little goes a long way. My skin is hydrated, but not greasy. I’m a big fan of this Magic Water Cream. It’s so thin on your face but so moisturising.” One revealed: “I started using this for about a week, and I have to say my skin drinks this up. I usually have dry patches around the sides of my nose, but this has been hydrating my skin.” Another suggested: “It feels soft on the skin when it’s applied and spreads like a miracle. Love it! Water Cream have amazing texture.” While one added: “I love this product so much. It makes my face feel so hydrated and I’ve noticed a much more even skin tone. I’ve received many compliments on how clear my face looks.” So what makes Magic Water Cream different from the original? Both creams can be used on any skin type, but the water version is fragrance-free, while the award-winning OG has a floral scent. The iconic Magic Cream, which launched 10 years ago, has a traditional, rich moisturiser consistency while the new formula is a lightweight, immediate skin revival moisturiser, with a bouncy, cloud-like texture. Charlotte’s Magic Water Cream is available via Charlotte Tilbury’s online store in two sizes - $45 for 15mL or $125 for 50mL. For more engaging lifestyle content, visit 7Life on Facebook. 2 min read 3 min read 9 min read 2 min read 2 min read 3 min read 1 min read 2 min read 2 min read 3 min read 9 min read 2 min read 2 min read 3 min read 1 min read 2 min read 2 min read 3 min read Stay informed with the free 7NEWS app. Available on iOS & Android.