
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- PR Newswire)  NEW YORK, Aug. 18, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The  biopreservation market  size is to increaseby  USD 2,406.21 million  from 2022to 2027, at a  CAGR of 15.88%  , according to the recent market study by Technavio. The growth of the market will be driven by the growing demand for personalized medicine, the increasing number of biobanks, and the rise in the prevalence of chronic diseases worldwide.  Charts & data tables about market and segment sizes for a historic period of five (2017-2021) years have been covered in this report. download the sample report   continue reading
  
Technavio has announced its latest market research report titled Global Biopreservation Market 2023-2027
 
Technavio has extensively analyzed 15 major vendors, includingAMS Biotechnology Europe Ltd., ARCTIKO AS, Avantor Inc., Bio-Techne Corp., BioLife Solutions Inc., Chart Industries Inc., Exact Sciences Corp., IC Biomedical LLC, Merck KGaA, NIPPON Genetics EUROPE GmbH, OPS Diagnostics LLC, PHC Holdings Corp., QIAGEN NV, Shanghai Genext Medical Technology Co. Ltd., So Low Environmental Equipment Co. Inc., STEMCELL Technologies Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., ThermoGenesis Holdings Inc., Thomas Scientific LLC, and Trane Technologies Plc.

  Key Benefits for Industry Players & Stakeholders –     The report offers information on the criticality of vendor inputs, including  R&D, CAPEX, and technology.   It also provides detailed analyses of the  market's competitive landscape and vendors' product offerings.   The report also provides a qualitative and quantitative analysis of vendors to help clients understand the wider business environment as well as the strengths and weaknesses of key market players. Data is qualitatively analyzed to categorize vendors as pure play, category-focused, industry-focused, and diversified; it is quantitatively analyzed to categorize vendors as dominant, leading, strong, tentative, and weak.     Expand operations in the future - To get requisite details, ask for a custom report.    Customer Landscape - Analysis of Price Sensitivity, Adoption Lifecycle, Customer Purchase Basket, Adoption Rates, and Purchase Criteria by Technavio     One of the core components of the customer landscape is price sensitivity, an analysis of which will help companies refine marketing strategies to gain a competitive advantage.  Another key aspect is price sensitivity drivers (purchases are undifferentiated, the purchase is a key cost to buyers, and quality is not important), which range between LOW and HIGH.   Furthermore, market adoption rates for all regions have been covered.     Get a holistic overview of the biopreservationmarket by industry experts to evaluate and develop growth strategies.download the sample    BiopreservationMarket - Segmentation Assessment  The market is segmented by end-user (Life sciences and healthcare facilities, Research laboratories, and Others), application (Biobanks, Regenerative medicine, and Drug discovery), and geography (North America, Asia, Europe, and Rest of World (ROW))   The  life science and healthcare facilities segment  is estimated to witness significant growth during the forecast period.The increasing global prevalence of obesity and chronic illnesses is a key driver for the growth of the life sciences and healthcare facilities sector. The escalating count of patients grappling with chronic conditions such as heart diseases, diabetes, and degenerative nerve, bone, and joint disorders is propelling the need for biopreservation in this sector. Furthermore, the significant shortage of organ donors for transplantation is spurring the global demand for regenerative medicine, subsequently fueling the requirement for biopreservation. This trend is expected to directly propel the expansion of the life sciences and healthcare facilities segment within the global biopreservation market during the forecast period.    To get detailed insights about inclusions and exclusions, buy the report     Market Dynamics    Driver    The growing demand for personalized medicine is driving market growth.  The substantial, unmet medical necessity to create effective therapies for various illnesses and conditions has stimulated the request for personalized medicine, consequently spurring the necessity for biopreservation. Market participants could potentially find themselves in a transformative position within this context. Personalized medicine refers to treatments tailored to individual needs and preferences. More and more individuals are preserving their tissues and stem cells for potential future treatments. The availability of personal samples, along with annotated clinical and pathological data, is a crucial prerequisite for personalized medicine. Research institutions are currently investigating the potential of utilizing biosamples to develop customized treatments. Biobanking, a form of biopreservation, assumes a significant role in personalized medicine and genomic research. As a result, the increasing requirement for personalized medicine will stoke the global demand for biopreservation, consequently propelling market expansion.  Trend -  The emergence of stem cell storage in biobanks is a primary trend in the biopreservation market.  Challenge -  Ethical issues are a major challenge hindering market growth.  What are the key data covered in this Biopreservation Market report?     CAGR of the market during the forecast period   Detailed information on factors that will drive the growth of the biopreservation market between 2023 and 2027   Precise estimation of the biopreservation market size and its contribution to the market in focus on the parent market   Accurate predictions about upcoming trends and changes in consumer behaviour   Growth of the biopreservation market across North America, Asia, Europe, and the Rest of the World (ROW)   A thorough analysis of the market's competitive landscape and detailed information about vendors   Comprehensive analysis of factors that will challenge the growth of the biopreservation market vendors     Register for a trial today and gain instant access to 17,000+ market research reports.     technavio's subscription platform     Related Reports  The   cell and gene therapy market   share is expected to increase by USD9.97 billion from 2021 to 2026,and the market's growth momentum will accelerate at a CAGR of 20.15%. This report extensively coverscell and gene therapy marketsegmentation by type (cell therapy andgene therapy) andgeography (North America, Europe, Asia, and Rest of World (ROW)).The increasing prevalence of chronic diseases is one of the factors driving thecell and gene therapy market growth.The  global industrial automation market in life sciences industry market  is estimated to growat aCAGR of 10.31%between 2022 and 2027. The size of the market is forecast to increase byUSD 4,127.65 million.This report extensively coversmarketsegmentationby product (DCSA, SCADA, PLCA, and MES), deployment (onsite and decentralized), and geography (North America, Europe, APAC, South America, and Middle East and Africa).Growing global demand for healthcare services is notably driving the industrial automation market growth.      Biopreservation Market Scope       Report Coverage   Details     Base year   2022     Historic period   2017-2021     Forecast period   2023-2027     Growth momentum & CAGR   Accelerate at a CAGR of 15.88%     Market growth 2023-2027   USD 2,406.21 million     Market structure   Fragmented     YoY growth 2022-2023(%)   15.34     Regional analysis   North America, Asia, Europe, and Rest of World (ROW)     Performing market contribution   North America at 40%     Key countries   US, Germany, France, China, and Japan     Competitive landscape   Leading Vendors, Market Positioning of Vendors, Competitive Strategies, and Industry Risks     Key companies profiled   AMS Biotechnology Europe Ltd., ARCTIKO AS, Avantor Inc., Bio Techne Corp., BioLife Solutions Inc., Chart Industries Inc., Exact Sciences Corp., IC Biomedical LLC, Merck KGaA, NIPPON Genetics EUROPE GmbH, OPS Diagnostics LLC, PHC Holdings Corp., QIAGEN NV, Shanghai Genext Medical Technology Co. Ltd., So Low Environmental Equipment Co. Inc., STEMCELL Technologies Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., ThermoGenesis Holdings Inc., Thomas Scientific LLC, and Trane Technologies Plc     Market dynamics   Parent market analysis, Market growth inducers and obstacles, Fast-growing and slow-growing segment analysis, COVID 19 impact and recovery analysis and future consumer dynamics, Market condition analysis for forecast period     Customization purview   If our report has not included the data that you are looking for, you can reach out to our analysts and get segments customized.      Table of contents  Executive SummaryMarket LandscapeMarket SizingHistoric Market SizeFive Forces AnalysisMarket Segmentation by End-userMarket Segmentation by ApplicationMarket Segmentation by GeographyCustomer LandscapeGeographic LandscapeDrivers, Challenges, and TrendsVendor LandscapeVendor AnalysisAppendix  About Us  Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. Their research and analysis focuses on emerging market trends and provides actionable insights to help businesses identify market opportunities and develop effective strategies to optimize their market positions. With over 500 specialized analysts, Technavio's report library consists of more than 17,000 reports and counting, covering 800 technologies, spanning across 50 countries. Their client base consists of enterprises of all sizes, including more than 100 Fortune 500 companies. This growing client base relies on Technavio's comprehensive coverage, extensive research, and actionable market insights to identify opportunities in existing and potential markets and assess their competitive positions within changing market scenarios.  Contact  Technavio ResearchJesse MaidaMedia & Marketing ExecutiveUS: +1 844 364 1100UK: +44 203 893 3200Email: [email protected] Website:  SOURCE TechnavioMENAFN18082023003732001241ID1106890985  
Technavio has extensively analyzed 15 major vendors, includingAMS Biotechnology Europe Ltd., ARCTIKO AS, Avantor Inc., Bio-Techne Corp., BioLife Solutions Inc., Chart Industries Inc., Exact Sciences Corp., IC Biomedical LLC, Merck KGaA, NIPPON Genetics EUROPE GmbH, OPS Diagnostics LLC, PHC Holdings Corp., QIAGEN NV, Shanghai Genext Medical Technology Co. Ltd., So Low Environmental Equipment Co. Inc., STEMCELL Technologies Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., ThermoGenesis Holdings Inc., Thomas Scientific LLC, and Trane Technologies Plc.
 Technavio has extensively analyzed 15 major vendors, includingAMS Biotechnology Europe Ltd., ARCTIKO AS, Avantor Inc., Bio-Techne Corp., BioLife Solutions Inc., Chart Industries Inc., Exact Sciences Corp., IC Biomedical LLC, Merck KGaA, NIPPON Genetics EUROPE GmbH, OPS Diagnostics LLC, PHC Holdings Corp., QIAGEN NV, Shanghai Genext Medical Technology Co. Ltd., So Low Environmental Equipment Co. Inc., STEMCELL Technologies Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., ThermoGenesis Holdings Inc., Thomas Scientific LLC, and Trane Technologies Plc.   Key Benefits for Industry Players & Stakeholders –     Expand operations in the future - To get requisite details, ask for a custom report.     Customer Landscape - Analysis of Price Sensitivity, Adoption Lifecycle, Customer Purchase Basket, Adoption Rates, and Purchase Criteria by Technavio     Get a holistic overview of the biopreservationmarket by industry experts to evaluate and develop growth strategies.download the sample     BiopreservationMarket - Segmentation Assessment   The market is segmented by end-user (Life sciences and healthcare facilities, Research laboratories, and Others), application (Biobanks, Regenerative medicine, and Drug discovery), and geography (North America, Asia, Europe, and Rest of World (ROW))   To get detailed insights about inclusions and exclusions, buy the report      Market Dynamics     Driver     The growing demand for personalized medicine is driving market growth.  The substantial, unmet medical necessity to create effective therapies for various illnesses and conditions has stimulated the request for personalized medicine, consequently spurring the necessity for biopreservation. Market participants could potentially find themselves in a transformative position within this context. Personalized medicine refers to treatments tailored to individual needs and preferences. More and more individuals are preserving their tissues and stem cells for potential future treatments. The availability of personal samples, along with annotated clinical and pathological data, is a crucial prerequisite for personalized medicine. Research institutions are currently investigating the potential of utilizing biosamples to develop customized treatments. Biobanking, a form of biopreservation, assumes a significant role in personalized medicine and genomic research. As a result, the increasing requirement for personalized medicine will stoke the global demand for biopreservation, consequently propelling market expansion.   Trend -  The emergence of stem cell storage in biobanks is a primary trend in the biopreservation market.   Challenge -  Ethical issues are a major challenge hindering market growth.   What are the key data covered in this Biopreservation Market report?     Register for a trial today and gain instant access to 17,000+ market research reports.     technavio's subscription platform      Related Reports   The   cell and gene therapy market   share is expected to increase by USD9.97 billion from 2021 to 2026,and the market's growth momentum will accelerate at a CAGR of 20.15%. This report extensively coverscell and gene therapy marketsegmentation by type (cell therapy andgene therapy) andgeography (North America, Europe, Asia, and Rest of World (ROW)).The increasing prevalence of chronic diseases is one of the factors driving thecell and gene therapy market growth. The  global industrial automation market in life sciences industry market  is estimated to growat aCAGR of 10.31%between 2022 and 2027. The size of the market is forecast to increase byUSD 4,127.65 million.This report extensively coversmarketsegmentationby product (DCSA, SCADA, PLCA, and MES), deployment (onsite and decentralized), and geography (North America, Europe, APAC, South America, and Middle East and Africa).Growing global demand for healthcare services is notably driving the industrial automation market growth.   Biopreservation Market Scope   Report Coverage Details Base year 2022 Historic period 2017-2021 Forecast period 2023-2027 Growth momentum & CAGR Accelerate at a CAGR of 15.88% Market growth 2023-2027 USD 2,406.21 million Market structure Fragmented YoY growth 2022-2023(%) 15.34 Regional analysis North America, Asia, Europe, and Rest of World (ROW) Performing market contribution North America at 40% Key countries US, Germany, France, China, and Japan Competitive landscape Leading Vendors, Market Positioning of Vendors, Competitive Strategies, and Industry Risks Key companies profiled AMS Biotechnology Europe Ltd., ARCTIKO AS, Avantor Inc., Bio Techne Corp., BioLife Solutions Inc., Chart Industries Inc., Exact Sciences Corp., IC Biomedical LLC, Merck KGaA, NIPPON Genetics EUROPE GmbH, OPS Diagnostics LLC, PHC Holdings Corp., QIAGEN NV, Shanghai Genext Medical Technology Co. Ltd., So Low Environmental Equipment Co. Inc., STEMCELL Technologies Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., ThermoGenesis Holdings Inc., Thomas Scientific LLC, and Trane Technologies Plc Market dynamics Parent market analysis, Market growth inducers and obstacles, Fast-growing and slow-growing segment analysis, COVID 19 impact and recovery analysis and future consumer dynamics, Market condition analysis for forecast period Customization purview If our report has not included the data that you are looking for, you can reach out to our analysts and get segments customized.   Table of contents   Executive Summary Market Landscape Market Sizing Historic Market Size Five Forces Analysis Market Segmentation by End-user Market Segmentation by Application Market Segmentation by Geography Customer Landscape Geographic Landscape Drivers, Challenges, and Trends Vendor Landscape Vendor Analysis Appendix   About Us  Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. Their research and analysis focuses on emerging market trends and provides actionable insights to help businesses identify market opportunities and develop effective strategies to optimize their market positions. With over 500 specialized analysts, Technavio's report library consists of more than 17,000 reports and counting, covering 800 technologies, spanning across 50 countries. Their client base consists of enterprises of all sizes, including more than 100 Fortune 500 companies. This growing client base relies on Technavio's comprehensive coverage, extensive research, and actionable market insights to identify opportunities in existing and potential markets and assess their competitive positions within changing market scenarios.   Contact  Technavio ResearchJesse MaidaMedia & Marketing ExecutiveUS: +1 844 364 1100UK: +44 203 893 3200Email: [email protected] Website:   SOURCE Technavio MENAFN18082023003732001241ID1106890985 MENAFN18082023003732001241ID1106890985 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN