Commenting on the organization of the National Information Technology Day and its successive events, the head of the Libyan Organization for Communication and Information Technology, Amin Saleh, said, “The preparation for the organization of the National Information Technology Day on June 1 was through a long process of preparation. It started from first March this year by designing and preparing the plan and effective communication with all locations, coordination, problem solving, public relations, lobbying to support the event, sacrificing a lot of personal work and appointments in order for the National Information Technology Day to be an icon in Libya. 100 technical events at the same moment in 22 cities
Saleh added, “With the effective support of private sector companies, the National Oil Corporation and its companies, civil society institutions, the General Union of Libyan Students, municipalities, teams and clubs, we were all able to reach 100 technical events at the same moment in 22 cities, including forums, workshops, lectures, competitions, activities, innovations and initiatives.” He explained, “The accumulation of simple achievements, continuous awareness, insistence on not postponing, effective media coverage, strong skills from the work team, and creative initiatives made the National Information Technology Day one of the most important events at the national level. This is especially since it is an initiative of a civil society organization, student unions, and clubs.” That is, the financial and profitable return is almost zero. Rather, we measure the value of the National Information Technology Day, and we will find that it exceeds 5 million Libyan dinars in all parts of Libya, and what has been actually spent is less than 10 percent of this value. What made the performance effective is the aspiration of technical youth, students, engineers, specialists and officials’’. The launch of the CubeSat mini-satellite project
In terms of the achievements, the launching of the CubeSat mini-satellite project from the Libyan Authority for Scientific Research tops the list. These are followed by the Developers Summit, the E-Sports Championship, the National Robotics Championship, honouring the ambassadors of the National Day, the Wiki Libya initiative, and the Technical Employment Forum in Zliten. There were also 8 awareness lectures from the National Authority for Information Security and Safety. Creation of technical awareness among decision-makers
Saleh referred to the creation of technical awareness among decision-makers, institutions and government bodies, which resulted in the adoption of several technical projects, including the electronic identity card project and the electronic passport, which are supervised and implemented by the Ministry of the Interior. In addition to other technical projects implemented by several Libyan banks to adopt electronic transactions as a basis for all banking operations. Among these is the digital bank project, which one of the private banks started to activate in order to make all its branches digital. He said several technical initiatives that will contribute to making Libya take its steps towards adopting the use of technology as a way of life. One of the most important projects to achieve this goal is the e-government project under the supervision and implementation of the General Authority for Communications and Informatics. The Libya Herald first appeared on 17 February 2012 – the first anniversary of the Libyan Revolution. Since then, it has become a favourite go-to source on news about Libya, for many in Libya and around the world, regularly attracting millions of hits.  Be the first to know latest important news & events directly to your inbox.
 
 
 
 By signing up, I agree to our TOS and Privacy Policy.
  © 2022 LibyaHerald - Powered by Sparx Solutions.  Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Fill the forms bellow to register 

 

 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 



 © 2022 LibyaHerald - Powered by Sparx Solutions.