Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail at toiblogs@timesinternet.in with a brief bio and we will get in touch with you. Chandan Singh Gughtyal has been teaching Maths in boarding schools in India for about 28 years. He has experience of working as an assistant housemaster, housemaster, resident dorm parent, and dorm coordinator. He has worked as head of the department too. LESS
...  MORE  A curriculum is a combination of experiential learning and instructional practices. Experiential learning enhances the skills of the learners and equips them for 21st century challenges. “Community” or “culture” or “care” is the core of modern education. It is everything that is written or unwritten, planned or unplanned, abstract or concrete, inside the classroom or outside, etc. The word “curriculum” is derived from a Latin word “Currere” that means “course of race”. This may or may not be an assessment. The plural of curriculum is curricula or curriculum, which is broadly defined as the totality of student experiences that occur in the educational process. Curricula include the implicit (including the hidden), the excluded, and the extracurricular. Educationist Morroe says, “Curriculum includes all those activities which are utilized by the school to attain the aims of education.” A curriculum includes all activities that help a learner grow physically, emotionally, socially, spiritually, and morally. John Dewey believed that the curriculum should be intended to help children become more socially competent. Dewey calls school as a miniature of society and supports the thought of developing the child’s abilities in accordance with society and making himself socially efficient in life. Modern education is the combination of two dynamic processes. The one is the process of personal growth, while the other is the process of socialization, also known as social environment adjustment. NEP 2020, “Curriculum is the core of school education. All the activities in school revolve around its curriculum. It encompasses syllabus, textbooks, teaching-learning processes, sports, games, physical education, dance, music, assessment, and examination activities, etc. which lead to learning outcomes of children in school.” The Doon School is recognized for its innovative curriculum, which caters to a wide range of activities and allows students to pursue new interests. After six years of Doon’s curriculum, the DOSCOs develop into all-rounders. Art, pottery, sculpture, design and technology, coding, IT, science and technology, math Olympiad, paper recycling, motor vehicle mechanics, HAM radio, quizzing, bird watching, dance, drama, debating, poetry recitation, gardening, organic farming, all indoor and outdoor sports, and so on are the main attractions of this curriculum. Every DOSCO is expected to have a social service expertise. Students work on their initiatives throughout the year, such as Padhega India, Badhega India, adult and child education, women empowerment, environmental education, health, and hygiene initiatives, and so on.  Helping others gives a great joy, it’s next to the divinity and it gives immense pleasure to say that it’s in our school’s DNA, as evident by numerous projects and campaigns undertaken by DOSCOs. The first Headmaster of our school, Mr. Arthur Foot, in his speech to the students also emphasized upon the service, “The boys should leave Doon School as members of an aristocracy, but it must be an aristocracy of service inspired by ideas of unselfishness, not one of privilege, wealth, or position.” Social service, like games, athletics, and academic engagement, is an integral part of the curriculum that enhances a student’s overall development. To keep up with the curriculum, we along-with our students visit various social service sites viz. Thakurpur village, Bindal etc. to interact with the residents of these areas and we spend qualitative time with them. We celebrate national festivals with them and make them aware of national development campaigns.    Views expressed above are the author's own. Bestsellers by machine In Dhaka, they rose, so she fell Kolkata rape: Rage is justified, revenge is not Meditation is all about dedication and diligence ‘Hasina had to go…Yunus govt formed unconstitutionally…Can’t have secularism and state religion…Hindus can’t all come to India’ Model for medals She’s still gold Wisdom shines through inner silence of the mind Cop out in Kolkata A Bangla lesson Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail at toiblogs@timesinternet.in with a brief bio and we will get in touch with you. TOI Edit Page,Voices Erratica,TOI Edit Page,Tracking Indian Communities Juggle-Bandhi,TOI Edit Page TOI Edit Page Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service