Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  Being a victim of identity theft — whether it's a stolen Social Security number or credit card information — can become a big headache to resolve, especially if you don't discover the theft until weeks or months later. That's where identity theft protection can come in handy. With these services, you can spot potential fraud early and get help to restore your identity if something goes wrong. Most identity theft protection services also include insurance to help you recoup expenses associated with resolving identity theft. Below, CNBC Select reviews the top identity theft protection services that can alert you of potential breaches of your personal information. (See our methodology for more information on how we chose the best identity theft protection services.) Individual plan: $10/month billed annually or $13/month billed monthly; Couple plan: $18/month billed annually or $24/month billed monthly; Family plan: $29/month billed annually or $39/month billed monthly Protects against financial fraud, identity theft, spam calls, online theft, phishing and scam websites, viruses and malware, as well as offering security tailored to kids and financial alerts like credit score monitoring Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) Terms apply. Who's this for? Aura has plans specific to couples and families, which not all services do. Family-oriented features include family alert sharing, parental controls, video gaming with cyberbullying alerts and child identity protection with Social Security number alerts. Standout benefits: Aura stands out for its white-glove fraud resolution team that walks you through resolving any identity theft or fraud incident, its email alias generation to hide your email address, its automated child sex offender geo-alerts, all in addition to three-bureau credit monitoring alerts and monthly VantageScore access. [ Jump to more details ] UltraSecure Individual: $19.90 per month or $199.90 per year; UltraSecure+Credit Individual: $34.90 per month or $349.90 per year; UltraSecure Family: $24.90 per month or $249.90 per year; UltraSecure+Credit Family: $39.90 per month or $399.90 per year 3-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports: Experian, Equifax and TransUnion®, with UltraSecure+Credit Individual and UltraSecure+Credit Family plans only VantageScore® 3.0, with UltraSecure+Credit Individual and UltraSecure+Credit Family plans only Yes, with all plans Yes, at least $1 million with all plans Terms apply. Who's this for? With IdentityForce, all plans get dark web scanning and at least $1 million in identity theft insurance coverage. Standout benefits: IdentityForce offers 3-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports, as well as access to users' VantageScore® 3.0 with the +Credit plans. [ Jump to more details ] $9.99 to $24.99 per month Up to $1 million for Identity Protection and Total Protection plans; none for Credit Protection plan Total Protection and Credit Protection plans both monitor your Experian, Equifax and TransUnion credit reports; Identity Protection doesn't offer credit monitoring. Yes No Terms apply. Who's this for? PrivacyGuard is ideal for those looking for bundled credit and identity protection. It offers separate plans for just identity or credit protection, as well as a plan for both combined with an extensive list of features: free VantageScore, 3-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports, dark web scanning, public records and bank account monitoring, $1 million identity theft insurance and more. Standout benefits: PrivacyGuard offers unique features like a dedicated identity fraud resolution agent, a financial calculator suite, neighborhood reports, emergency travel assistance and medical records reimbursement. [ Jump to more details ] Basic: Free; Premium: 7-day trial, after $24.99 per month; Family: 7-day trial, after $34.99 per month 1-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports: Experian, with Basic plan only and 3-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports: Experian, Equifax and TransUnion®, with Premium and Family plans only FICO® Score 8, with all plans Yes, with all plans Yes, up to $1 million with all plans Terms apply. *Identity Theft Insurance underwritten by insurance company subsidiaries or affiliates of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). The description herein is a summary and intended for informational purposes only and does not include all terms, conditions and exclusions of the policies described. Please refer to the actual policies for terms, conditions, and exclusions of coverage. Coverage may not be available in all jurisdictions. Who's this for? Experian IdentityWorks is best for those who are planning to apply for a loan of some sort soon. The service offers all users access to their FICO® Score 8, which is the credit score used by most lenders. Standout benefits: Experian IdentityWorks has a free version and offers a free trial for paid plans. There's 3-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports with both paid plans, and all plans get dark web scanning and up to $1 million identity theft insurance coverage. [ Jump to more details ] $6.67 to $29.99 per month Up to $1 million The Total and Ultra plans monitor your Experian, Equifax and TransUnion credit reports; the Value plan doesn't offer credit monitoring. Yes Yes Terms apply. Who's this for? Identity Guard is great for those seeking identity theft insurance as all plans include $1 million in identity theft insurance. Certain plans also get 3-bureau credit monitoring and monthly credit scores. Standout benefits: Identity Guard excels in identity theft protection by offering features like data breach notifications and monitoring on the dark web, high-risk transactions, bank accounts, social media and more. [ Jump to more details ] $8.29 to $34.99 per month Up to $1 million for lawyers and experts; up to $25,000 to $1 million each for stolen funds reimbursement and personal expense compensation The Ultimate Plus plan monitors your Experian, Equifax and TransUnion credit reports; The Standard and Advantage plans monitor Equifax or TransUnion. Yes Yes Terms apply. Who's this for? LifeLock offers the largest insurance protection, up to $3 million coverage per adult. It can protect you across various devices, including PCs, Macs, tablets and phones. Standout benefits: LifeLock offers phone takeover monitoring, buy now pay later alerts, 401(k) and investment account activity alerts, social media monitoring and more. [ Jump to more details ] Aura offers identity theft and credit protection for you and your whole family. Cost From $12 per month to $50 per month Dark web scan Yes, with all plans Identity theft insurance Yes, at least $1 million with all plans [ Return to summary ] IdentityForce is part of TransUnion and offers identity and credit protection, along with identity protection advice. Cost From $19.90 per month to $39.90 per month Dark web scan Yes, with all plans Identity theft insurance Yes, at least $1 million with all plans [ Return to summary ] PrivacyGuard is a monitoring service that protects individuals against identity theft. Only two of its three plans include identity theft insurance and dark web scan as its third plan focuses more on credit protection. Cost From $9.99 per month to $24.99 per month Dark web scan Yes, with two plans Identity theft insurance Yes, $1 million with two plans [ Return to summary ] Experian IdentityWorks is part of Experian and is the only identity theft protection service that we found offering users access to their FICO Score. Cost From free to $34.99 per month Dark web scan Yes, with all plans Identity theft insurance Yes, up to $1 million with all plans [ Return to summary ] Identity Guard uses artificial intelligence to monitor users' personal information and spot potential fraud. It includes identity theft insurance with all plans. Cost From $6.67 per month to $39.99 per month Dark web scan Yes, with all plans Identity theft insurance Yes, $1 million with all plans [ Return to summary ] LifeLock is an identity theft protection service by the company Norton, which is best known for its antivirus and anti-malware software. Cost From $8.29 per month to $34.99 per month Dark web scan Yes, with all plans Identity theft insurance Yes, at least $1 million with all plans [ Return to summary ] Identity theft protection services monitor various websites and databases for signs of your personal information, such as your social security, driver's license, medical ID and bank account numbers. If your information appears on the dark web or someplace else it shouldn't, these services will send you an alert. Where these identity theft protection services check for your sensitive information differs between plans but generally include: The higher-cost identity theft insurance plans typically have more coverage than lower-cost options. For instance, the Standard LifeLock plan lacks some alerts, like bank account and credit card activity, that are offered with the more expensive Advantage and Ultimate Plus plans. If your identity is compromised, these services will help you restore it through a team of lawyers and experts. Plus all of the services mentioned above provide identity theft insurance on at least one of their plans, which can help you offset the cost of legal fees and sometimes stolen funds and lost wages. This insurance is one of the best perks of an identity theft protection service. If you want to sign up for one of these services for identity theft insurance, consider Identity Guard, which offers insurance on all of its plans. Identity theft protection services alert you when your personal information is being used in a wide range of fraudulent activities — whether that's someone using your medical ID number to file a claim or your driver's license appearing on the web. Credit monitoring services usually don't look for these kinds of actions, primarily because they don't appear on your credit report. Credit monitoring services do just what the name says — monitor your credit. They track the credit history shown on your credit report(s), then alert you of changes via email, text or phone. Granted, you can do this on your own, but these services provide an automated and faster way to track changes to your credit file in real time. The exact activity a credit monitoring service reviews varies, but it typically includes the following: Many services incorporate both features — identity theft protection and credit monitoring — to give you holistic coverage. An identity theft protection service won't prevent fraud, but it can help you spot it early. While someone stealing your identity is never ideal, it's even worse if you don't realize it right away. Thankfully, these services can help you notice it quickly and take action before the damage gets worse. Here are several things identity theft protection services don't do: Since identity theft protection services don't prevent identity theft from happening, you'll need to be proactive to protect your personal information from fraudsters. There are ways to minimize your exposure to identity theft, but remember that some things, like data breaches, are out of your control. Here are some tips to safeguard your information: While identity theft services can alert you if your personal information appears on the dark web or is misused, it's important to understand that these services can't prevent fraud from happening. You'll need to be proactive and safeguard your personal information to reduce your exposure to identity theft. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every identity theft protection review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of credit monitoring products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best identity theft protection services. To determine which identity theft protection services offer the most benefits to consumers, CNBC Select analyzed and compared over a dozen services that offer a variety of plans. When ranking the best identity theft protection services, we focused on the following features: Keep in mind that identity theft protection services can only alert you of breaches to your personal information, not prevent any fraud. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. To learn more about IdentityForce®, visit their website. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.