Abundant sunshine. High 96F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 A clear sky. Low 63F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 11:15 am   Reporter Yucaipa's Citizens on Patrol are honored.  On June 2, the Yucaipa Past Pleasures Car Club’s family cruise night honored the community’s first responders. Larry Anderson said, “We had a record turn out of over 200 classic cars and a lot of families with kids to enjoy the night.” The color guard was provided by the Naval Cadets from Hemet and while the colors were being posted, a group of ROTC Air Force members saluted the flags. The Yucaipa Citizens On Patrol were seen enjoying the cars also. The car shows are on the first Friday of the month from 6 to 9 p.m. and located at 33600 Yucaipa Blvd., (next to U.S. Bank). Car entry is free and the public is invited to bring the entire family and enjoy the evening looking at classic cars that are pre-1980s vehicles. Upcoming shows include Aug. 4, “Bring the Kids.” Sept. 1, “Veterans Appreciation. Oct. 6, “Special Judging by the Club Ladies,” and Nov. 3, “Toy Drive.” For more information visit pastpleasurescarclub.com.  Reporter       
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 With the temperature approaching triple digits, how are you surviving the heat? Sorry, there are no recent results for popular images. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Would you like to receive our weekly news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our Sports updates? Signup today! Each day's obituaries, delivered to your inbox. Signup today! Photos will appear on our website and possibly in our newspaper. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: