Mysore/Mysuru: Maintaining that the era of Start-ups has begun across the country, Excelsoft Technologies CEO D. Sudhanva said Start-ups are mainly driven by fast growing technology and newer innovations. He was speaking after inaugurating National Technology Day celebration at CSIR-CFTRI in city on May 11. Observing that Start-ups and Entrepreneurship are a result of rapidly… Mysore/Mysuru: Excelsoft Technologies Pvt. Ltd., was awarded the “Best Performer IT, ITES: Mysuru Region”  at the recently concluded ‘STPI IT Exports Awards – 2022, Karnataka’ event held as part of Bengaluru Tech Summit-2022. Excelsoft has won this award for two consecutive years. D. Sudhanva, CEO and Founder of Excelsoft Technologies, who was invited to share… Mysore/Mysuru: City-based Excel Public School has set up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) in collaboration with FactoryMind, an industrial plant operating system, from Oslo, Norway, as the industry partner, with the aim of establishing a benchmark of best practices in the areas of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT) and Robotics. The CoE is… Mysore/Mysuru: A one-day industry and culture conference “HR Dasara – An insight to Mysuru Industrial Prosperity” was held recently at Shri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Institute for Management Development (SDM-IMD), Mysuru. The conference, organised by Edin Bridge Foundation, Mysuru and SDM- IMD in association with Excelsoft Technologies, Mysuru, was inaugurated by Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha in the… Mysore/Mysuru: Mysuru-based Excelsoft Technologies, a thought leader in the education technology industry, has won the prestigious Annual International eAssessment Awards in the category of Best International Implementation.   The 800 people company based out of Mysuru has won this award for the implementation of Saras, its home-grown eAssessment technology platform for one of its customers in… Not everybody is fortunate to get opportunities to work in different fields that are related. There are a few, however, who do manage to straddle many areas and successfully at that. Star of Mysore Features Editor N. Niranjan Nikam met one such person Colin Hughes, Managing Director, HarperCollins, who has been a journalist, publisher and… Mysuru: In a bid to boost the entrepreneurial spirit, The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE), Mysuru Chapter, had organised ‘The Fire-Side Chat’ with renowned business technocrats Prashanth Prakash, partner of Accel Partners and Sudhanva Dhananjaya, CEO of ExcelSoft Technologies, at Silicon Road Ideation Labs in city recently. The conversation revolved around how Flipkart and other companies gained… Very few industries have flourished in Mysuru as the city is considered not that conducive to economic growth. In such a scenario, to set up a software unit at a time when hardly anyone had heard about the word ‘Software’ takes some guts to do. This is exactly what the low-key, publicity shy and Mysuru-homegrown… D. Sudhanva, Managing Director of Excelsoft Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Mysuru, seen lighting the lamp to inaugurate Athena Educational Services at a function held at a private hotel in city yesterday as (from left) Athena Co-Founder and Director B.S. Prashanth, Star of Mysore Managing Editor Vikram Muthanna, MLA S.A. Ramdas and Athena Co-Founder and CEO Girish… August 19, 2024 August 19, 2024 August 19, 2024 August 19, 2024 August 19, 2024 August 19, 2024 August 19, 2024 August 19, 2024 August 19, 2024 Mysuru’s favorite and largest circulated English evening daily has kept the citizens of Mysuru informed and entertained since 1978. Over the past 45 years, Star of Mysore has been the newspaper that Mysureans reach for every evening to know about the happenings in Mysuru city. The newspaper has feature rich articles and dedicated pages targeted at readers across the demographic spectrum of Mysuru city. With a readership of over 2,50,000 Star of Mysore has been the best connection between it’s readers and their leaders; between advertisers and customers; between Mysuru and Mysureans. Academy News Papers Private Limited, Publishers, Star of Mysore & Mysuru Mithra, 15-C, Industrial ‘A’ Layout, Bannimantap, Mysuru-570015. Phone no. – 0821 249 6520 To advertise on Star of Mysore, email us at