Jul 29, 2023 Adam Papin/MDN 
Tribal warriors compete in front of a packed crowd during the MHA Indian Horse Relays earlier this week at the North Dakota State Fair.   
 Crowds packed the grandstand at the North Dakota State Fair this week, but it wasn’t to see one of the headline music acts. Instead, the audience was there to see the MHA Indian Horse Relays, and they certainly got their money worth.   Twenty male teams, composed of a rider, three horses, and three support members, competed for the right to call themselves champions. The teams competed across four heats before the winners of each heat advanced to the finals.   In the end, Dancing Warrior, a team of Oglala Lakota from the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, won first place at the feature. The team was made up of Davis Yellow Bull, Kaden Brings Plenty, Holden Holiday and Harley Brewer.  After the win, Brings Plenty said “it’s a really awesome feeling. I mean, even before this race, we put in a lot of hard work, so it just feels good to know that our work we put in really pays off.” Brings Plenty served as rider for the team.   For the first time this year, five women’s teams also competed in the relays.   The evening started off with the Budweiser Clydesdales parading before the audience. Between the races, the crowd was entertained by tribal dancers.   Roy Champ emceed the relays. Champ, a member of the Crow tribe in Montana, got his start doing Indian rodeos before expanding to also calling Indian relays. Known across the western United States, Champ was thoroughly impressed with the event at the fairgrounds.  “Man, tonight was absolutely spectacular,” said Champ. “It’s everything you could ask for in a race. We had the thrills. We had a couple spills. We had a sleeper come in in the final round, and I thought they were out, but it’s always the exchanges that get you.”  Champ also praised the women’s teams competing.   “It’s amazing seeing these girls that are incredibly talented riding these horses, and they rode a switch tonight, riding two horses. They pull it off; they’re warriors. This is an absolutely amazing event.”  Event organizers were overwhelmed by the size of the crowd in attendance, according to Darian Morsette, MHA Tourism Director.  “There was great attendance at our cultural dance performances,” said Morsette. “You know, all four days were good, and then we moved into the grandstand for the grand finale. I’m very satisfied with my team. We all work hard together, and I appreciate all their hard work.” Today's breaking news and more in your inbox MANKATO, Minn. - In the final game of the first season of play by the Minot Honeybees in the Northwoods League, ... Coming off a historic season that saw the Minot State wrestling team host the first NCAA Championship event in ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Minot Daily News | https://www.minotdailynews.com | 301 4th St SE, Minot, ND 58701 | 701-857-1900 