Our website is temporarily unavailable in your location. We are working hard to get it back online. Max Verstappen claimed yet another victory over the weekend during the Dutch Grand Prix but has been sent a warning by long-time rival Lewis Hamilton in the immediate aftermath of the race By  Lewis Hamilton believes his Mercedes can now match Max Verstappen for pace after a topsy-turvy weekend at Zandvoort.   The Dutchman secured another success on his home patch over the weekend – his ninth in succession and 11th of the season overall. With nine races of the season to go, it appears only a matter of time before his third Championship in a row is confirmed.   It wasn’t totally comfortable for Verstappen though. In a race that was hampered hugely by the chaotic weather conditions, he let the lead slip early on. A controversial Red Bull decision then saw him undercut team-mate Sergio Perez mid-race - a decision that left the Mexican baffled. Heavy rain also disrupted the closing stages of the race.  Read more Max Verstappen wins dramatic Dutch Grand Prix after Sergio Perez and Red Bull controversy Read more Toto Wolff points out "odd" Red Bull situation between Max Verstappen and Sergio Perez  Verstappen’s previous rival for the Formula 1 title, Hamilton, finished sixth and over 13 seconds behind the Dutchman. It is his lowest finish of the season since placing eighth in the Austrian Grand Prix.  Despite that, Hamilton was still impressed with his overall drive throughout the race and claimed he could have rivalled Verstappen had he started higher up. Speaking afterwards, the British driver said: “It didn't start off that well, but I'm pretty happy with the drive that I did to get back into the points and get sixth. “It could have been higher for sure, if we made the right decision at the end of the day. We should have pitted [straight away] but we didn’t. We paid the price for that, and we did our best to come back. "I feel like today was redemption, in the sense of it was terrible yesterday. I managed to dial the car in a bit better today and overtook a bunch of people.    What did you make to Lewis Hamilton's performance? Share your thoughts in the comments below. "To start 13th, I was dead last at one point, to get back up to sixth, I'm happy with that. I think today I had the pace [for the podium]. I was on pace with Max in the race, but we were just out of position." Verstappen now has a comfortable lead at the top of the Formula 1 standings, with Hamilton sitting in fourth overall. That would represent an improvement on last year’s finish. After a tricky campaign, the Mercedes star finished the season in sixth having gone toe-to-toe with Verstappen for the title the year prior. Hamilton will be aiming to prove his claim next weekend as the season continues. His next port of call is at the Italian Grand Prix at Monza, where he finished fifth last season – Verstappen claiming victory. 

Watch F1 live

 Watch Formula One on Sky Sports




Catch all the action from Formula One on Sky Sports and get exclusive access to races, qualifying and much more for every Grand Prix. From Max Verstappen to Lewis Hamilton, you won't miss a lap on Sky Sports.


£22 a month
Sky

Watch it here









 Catch all the action from Formula One on Sky Sports and get exclusive access to races, qualifying and much more for every Grand Prix. From Max Verstappen to Lewis Hamilton, you won't miss a lap on Sky Sports. £22 a month Get email updates with the day's biggest stories