Bullets are just the beginning. If you’re looking for a way to excite your partner and increase your pleasure, it’s high time to try a vibrator during sex. Whether you want extra clit stimulation during penetration, have been curious about anal play, or are looking for a sensual date idea that lets your partner take control, there are a ton of different ways to incorporate these buzzing toys into partnered sex. Like preferences and positions, there are different types of vibrators, so finding the vibe that fits your vibe may take a few tries. But enough foreplay: Keep reading to find what each type does, how to incorporate it in your sex life, and product recommendations from Spencer’s, an expert in the sex and wellness industry for over 60 years. Or, visit Spencer’s stores to see the wide variety of wellness and intimate products for yourself and get same-day satisfaction. This category includes rabbit vibrators, wand vibrators, G-spot vibrators, and more. In general, wands are good for external stimulation, G-spot vibrators are good for internal stimulation, and rabbit vibes are good for both. If you’re using any of them during penetrative sex, choose a position like doggy style or cowgirl that gives you plenty of room between your bodies to maneuver the toy.  If you’re not sure what gets you or your partner off, surely one of Oona’s 20 functions will do it. Plus, once you figure it out, the device remembers your preferred settings. Rated highly for its extreme power and quiet sound, this vibe can come in handy from the bed to the bathtub. The classic rabbit is designed to deliver powerful clitoral stimulation and penetration all at once. This one is the largest on the list, with an insertable length of 8.75 inches. Designed with a curve to hit your G-spot, this multi-functional vibe can run for 90 minutes of uninterrupted play. A tongue vibe—as you might guess from the name—simulates oral sex. It’s usually rechargeable rather than battery-operated, and may be single-speed or offer multiple vibration functions. You and your partner can use this on one another when your jaw needs a break (hey, it happens) but you want to keep things going. Also, just saying, you don’t have to stay downstairs with this one. You can tease your partner by using it on their nipples, inner thighs, or any other sensitive areas of the body. Made of silicone and ABS plastic, this one from Oona has seven functions. Try assigning each one to a different area of your partner’s body. Opt for this floral-inspired vibe, which is rechargeable, made of silicone, phthalate- and latex-free, and safe to use with water-based lube. These are basically made for couples. As the name suggests, a panty vibrator is one that’s held in place by your underwear. Some come with their own pair of flirty, lacy undies. The vibration patterns and intensities are usually controlled with a remote, meaning one partner can wear the device while the other controls the vibrations. If you’re feeling particularly daring, you can do this while you’re out. You’ll be tearing off each other’s clothes by the time you get home. If that isn’t your style, panty vibrators can also make things more exciting in the comfort of your own home. This vibrator, which features a massager and a remote control, has a magnetic panty clasp, that keeps it in place through all 10 of its functions. Not only is this panty vibe hypoallergenic and phthalate- and latex- free, but it can run for 120 minutes on a single charge. In addition to the toy itself, this set comes with a satin blindfold and lace panties for added kink. Ah, a classic. This compact, versatile, and beginner-friendly sex toy can be used solo or with a partner. Try holding it against your clit for some external stimulation while you’re being penetrated for a blended orgasm. Or you can incorporate it into foreplay by teasing your partner’s most sensitive regions or asking them to tease yours. Varieties include waterproof bullet vibes (great for shower sex), and rechargeable or battery-operated bullets. Of course, if you choose the latter, be sure to stock up on AAs or AAAs—nothing kills an orgasm faster than your vibe dying right as things are getting good.  Even more impressive than its price point, this under-$20 vibrator features 10 different functions and an insertable length of 2.5 inches. Just a bit larger, this bullet vibrator has an insertable length of 3.25 inches for optimal arousal.  In addition to its 10 functions and rechargeable battery, one of this vibrator’s biggest draws is its wireless remote. In a recent study at the University of Indiana, 37 percent of American women required clitoral stimulation to experience orgasm. Penetration alone doesn’t do it for some people, and that’s normal. You can have the best of both worlds with a vibrating cock ring. It loops around the shaft and provides clit or anal stimulation during penetrative sex. For penis owners, the light pressure of the ring can also make it easy to stay erect longer. If there’s no penis involved in your sexual activity, you can use a vibrating cock ring on a dildo or strap-on.  This super-affordable option provides pleasure simultaneously to both partners. The device vibrates for up to five hours, keeping him hard and you wet. These toys are inserted into the anus to stimulate the nerve endings inside. There’s quite an array of them on the market, ranging from petite, beginner-friendly butt plugs to bigger and girthier ones. If you’re new to anal play, start with a smaller toy. Turn things up a notch with a butt plug that vibrates. As for how to use them, many people wear butt plugs during sex for more intense sensations. Remember, though: Lube is a must-have when you’re putting anything in the anus.   Cute as it is kinky, this metal toy is just one inch at its thickest point, and features a flared base and tapered tip. Consider this option once you’ve gotten comfortable with butt plugs while its 4.5-inch insertable length can be intimidating for first-timers users, those with more experience will enjoy its vibrating sensations.  If you have questions about finding the right vibrator for you and your partner, Spencer’s Ask Jackie and its intimate support team can provide answers fast via email or phone, from how to choose the proper girth to instructions on using a given product. Jamie Ballard (she/her) is a freelance writer and editor who covers news, lifestyle, and entertainment topics, including sex and relationships, TV, movies, books, health, pets, food and drinks, pop culture, shopping, and personal finance. She regularly contributes to Cosmopolitan, Woman’s Day, Good Housekeeping, and YouGov, among other publications. When she’s not working, you can find her running, traveling, or scrolling TikTok. Follow her on Twitter. The 17 Hottest Kama Sutra Sex Positions To Try Now How To Talk To Your Partner About Toe Sucking How To Deep Throat Someone During Oral Sex 9 Best Flavored Lubes That Don’t Taste Gross How To Finger Someone With A Vulva 13 Sex Toys For Long-Distance Relationships 11 Bullet Vibrators That Deliver Major Pleasure 10 Best Rabbit Vibrators Of 2024, Per Sex Experts A Sex Party Changed My Relationship With Pleasure 58 Sex Positions Everyone Should Try At Least Once ‘Breast Cancer Forced Me To Redefine Intimacy’ The Best Non-Penetrative Sex Ideas A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazins, Inc. All Rights Reserved.