Love Island's Kady McDermott responded to Molly Marsh's apparent digs at her, questioning her antics following her exit from the villa Love Island star Kady McDermott has responded to an apparent dig that co-star Molly Marsh aimed her way, following her being dumped from the villa.   Kady was one of four Islanders who left in a brutal quadruple dumping that aired on Tuesday night. Wednesday's episode saw the Islanders back in the villa find out who had left.  Scenes on Wednesday night saw Molly reacting to Kady's exit after weeks of on and off drama involving her partner Zach Noble. Viewers claimed that Molly and co-star Abi were smiling as they realised Kady had been sent home. But it was something Molly said to co-star Whitney that left viewers stunned - that and the fact she appeared to repeatedly smile when discussing Kady's departure, with fans convinced she was "happy" to see her go. Molly pretty much thanked Whitney for sending Kady home, saying it had "done her a favour" after drama with Zach, making it clear she was happy she no longer had to see her around the villa.  Kady witnessed the episode it seems, and took to Twitter after it aired to react to Molly's "smirks". Fans called for Kady to reenter yet again just to see drama between the two Islanders.  Kady appeared to call her out, as she claimed the Islander was wearing something that belonged to her during the latest episode, while seemingly sharing her joy at Kady having left. A viewer had said on Twitter: "Oii @LoveIsland after seeing mollys smirks and that, run @kadymcdermottx back ONE MORE TIME!!" Kady retweeted this comment, before writing: "Whilst she was wearing my bikini, make it make sense." Viewers had also tweeted about Molly appearing to smile when she learned Kady was in one of the bottom three couples on Tuesday.  It comes after the brutal dumping twist on Tuesday night just weeks before the live final. Four stars were axed from the villa, as announced by Host Maya Jama.   The Islanders were partying with singer Rita Ora at the villa beach party, taking place in the second villa - also used for Casa Amor. But Kady, Ouzy See, Amber Wise and Josh Brocklebank were soon sent packing.  The public were asked to vote for their favourite couple, with the three couples with the least votes left at risk of being dumped from the island. Maya headed into the party to tell the Islanders the result of this vote. Maya told the cast: "Well Islanders, the public have been voting for their favourite couple. We’re going to do things a little bit differently this time - you know we love a plot twist." The host revealed who the public voted as their favourite couple, confirming it to be Whitney and Lochan before adding: "I have some more news that might not be that great. The three couples with the least amount of votes will be vulnerable and at risk of being dumped from the island tonight." It soon emerged that one couple would be sent home then and there as the lowest voted couple, and this was Amber and Josh.  Whitney and Lochan then had to decide who to send packing out of the remaining couples, and they sent home Kady and Ouzy. Mitchel Taylor and Ella B were also in the bottom three.  Love Island airs every night at 9pm on ITV2 and ITVX. Stay up-to-date with all the news from the Love Island villa this summer with our regular newsletter