Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  The U.S. Federal Reserve cannot disrupt its cycle of interest rate increases until the nation enters a recession, according to TS Lombard Chief U.S. Economist Steven Blitz. "There is no exit from this until he [Fed Chair Jerome Powell] does create a recession, 'til unemployment goes up, and that is when the Fed rates will stop being hiked," Blitz told CNBC's "Squawk Box Europe" on Wednesday. He stressed that the Fed lacks clarity on the ceiling of interest rate increases in the absence of such an economic slowdown. "They have no idea where the top rate is, because they have no idea where inflation settles down without a recession." Powell told lawmakers on Tuesday that stronger-than-expected economic data in recent weeks suggests the "ultimate level of interest rates is likely to be higher than previously anticipated," as the central bank looks to drag inflation back down to Earth. The Federal Open Market Committee's next monetary policy meeting on March 21 and 22 will be critical for global stock markets, with investors closely watching whether policymakers opt for an interest rate hike of 25 or 50 basis points. Market expectations for the terminal Fed funds rate were around 5.1% in December, but have risen steadily. Goldman Sachs lifted its terminal rate target range forecast to 5.5-5.75% on Tuesday in light of Powell's testimony, in line with current market pricing according to CME Group data. Bond yields spiked, and U.S. stock markets sold off sharply on the back of Powell's comments, with the Dow closing nearly 575 points lower and turning negative for 2023. The S&P 500 slid 1.53% to close below the key 4,000 threshold, and the Nasdaq Composite lost 1.25% "There's going to be a recession, and the Fed is going to push the point and they're gonna get the unemployment rate to at least 4.5%, in my guess it probably ends up getting up to as high as 5.5%," Blitz said. He noted that there are "rumblings" of an economic slowdown in the form of layoffs in the finance and tech sectors and a stalling housing market. Along with weakness in U.S. stock market, Blitz suggested an "asset crunch and the beginnings of the potential for a credit crunch," in the form of banks pulling back on lending, could be underway. "Either you get a recession mid-year and the top rate is 5.5% or there is enough momentum, the January numbers are right, and the Fed keeps going and if they do keep going, my guess is that the Fed's going to get up to 6.5% on the funds rate before things really start to slow down and reverse," he said. "So in terms of risk assets, it's not a question of whether, it's really a question of when, and the longer this thing goes, the higher the rate has to get to." The January consumer price index rose 0.5% month-on-month as rising shelter, gas and fuel prices took their toll on consumers, indicating a potential reversal of the inflation slowdown seen in late 2022. The labor market remained red hot to start the year, with 517,000 jobs added in January and the unemployment rate hitting a 53-year low. The February jobs report is due from the Labor Department on Friday and the February CPI reading is slated for Tuesday. In the research note announcing its increase to the terminal rate forecast, Goldman Sachs said that it expects the median dot in the March Summary of Economic Projections to rise by 50 basis points to 5.5-5.75% regardless of whether the FOMC opts for 25 or 50 basis points. The Wall Street giant also expects the data ahead of the March meeting to be "mixed but firm on net," with JOLTS job openings falling by 800,000 to provide reassurance that rate hikes are working, alongside an above-consensus forecast for a 250,000 payroll gain but a soft 0.3% rise in average hourly earnings. Goldman also forecasts a firm 0.45% monthly increase in core CPI in February, and said that the combination of likely data creates "some risk that the FOMC could hike by 50bp in March instead of 25bp." "In recent months we have argued that the drag on GDP growth from last year's fiscal and monetary policy tightening is fading, not growing, and that this means that the key risk for the economy is a premature reacceleration, not an imminent recession," Goldman economists said. "Last weekend we noted that consumer spending in particular poses upside risk to growth that, if realized, might lead the FOMC to hike by more than currently expected in order to tighten financial conditions and keep demand growth below potential so that labor market rebalancing stays on track." Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by