The young founder of a Milwaukee fuel-sales startup who fleeced his investors out of millions of dollars is going to prison for just over four years. U.S. District Court Judge Brett H. Ludwig on Friday sentenced Blessing Egbon to a 51-month prison and ordered him to pay $3 million in restitution. Egbon, 36, was the CEO and board chair of Exit 7c, Inc., a Milwaukee-based company in the business of selling bulk fuel and onsite fuel, and maintenance services to transportation companies. In court papers, prosecutors said Egbon gave false statements about the company's cash flow and operations in his application to gener8tor, a local startup accelerator that helps new businesses expand, grow and find funding. Prosecutors said Egbon also lied to investors about his background and experience, and used millions of their money to appear wealthy. "In all respects, it appears that Egbon is consistently and strongly motivated by greed and a desire to maintain a lifestyle that is beyond his reach," Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregory Haastand wrote in a July 24 sentencing memorandum. Prosecutors wanted him to serve five years behind bars, while Egbon's lawyer pushed for two. The Securities and Exchange Commission charged Egbon in 2022 with fraud and misappropriation and sought to bar him from future work in securities. This was not a criminal prosecution. Prosecutors said in court papers Egbon lied about Exit 7C's cash flow and operations in his application to gener8tor, a local startup accelerator that helps new businesses expand, grow and find funding. They say he raised more than $6 million from investors, including $50,000 from Brightstar Wisconsin, a nonprofit that supports minority entrepreneurs. Prosecutors contended Egbon intended his falsely padded resume to deceive investors and potential investors into buying into Exit 7c. He also faked his success, they say, in an attempt to look rich — including $530,000 at "luxury nightclubs," almost $270,000 on chartered jets and $62,500 on private villa rentals. He kept up the ruse by making false monthly business reports to investors; during a 16-month period, he promoted to them that Exit 7c had total sales revenue of more than $91 million, court records show. Total sales revenue for that period, in fact, was between $343,249 and $348,562. Defense attorney Michelle L. Jacobs, of Mequon, said Egbon went into Exit 7C intending to operate a legitimate business, but "got in way over his head" after getting substantial start-up funds from investors. In arguing for a lower sentence, Jacobs noted Egbon had never committed a criminal act, has been in therapy since 2020 and quickly admitted his behavior was “deceiving, irresponsible, and a violation of trust;" he pleaded guilty to three counts of fraud in February 2022. "(He) tried to make amends for his poor decisions by immediately taking responsibility for his actions," Jacobs said. An apologetic Egbon maintained in his allocution he knows right from wrong, having been reared by parents who were in the military. He said he never meant to deceive anyone, and took responsibility for his actions. The fraud started small, "with a meal here and there." Then it grew. Egbon said he set out to raise investors money to build an auto services company after he had landed the private capital he needed to build flex fuel pumps at gas stations around the Midwest. He said he built the used oil recycling business to repay investors, but he lost focus at times, leading to lavish spending at nightclubs in Chicago and Scottsdale, Arizona. "What I did was deceiving, irresponsible, and a violation of trust," he wrote in an allocution letter to the judge. "I am truly sorry not because I face prison time, but because my action could potentially hurt other minority entrepreneurs who already struggle to raise investment capital for their ideas." This article originally appeared on Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: CEO of Milwaukee-based Exit 7c is going to prison after fraud plea New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.