Premier League • England 
                                    Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is being linked once again with the Germany job                                 Liverpool are preparing for a new fight to retain the services of Jurgen Klopp amid strong reports the 56-year-old is the top candidate to take the recently-vacated Germany national job. The Reds have enjoyed one of the most successful eras in their history under Klopp’s guidance, steering them to four European finals, with victory coming in the 2019 Champions League. He has also steered them to FA Cup, Carabao Cup and, most importantly of all, the Premier League title, with their triumph in 2020 ending a 30-year wait for the Merseysiders. Appointed in October 2015, almost eight years ago, Klopp currently has a hugely-impressive 60.2 win per cent record at the Anfield helm. And his name stands up alongside the all-time legends of the club like Bob Paisley, Bill Shankly and Kenny Dalglish. When the day does arrive that Liverpool do part ways with Klopp will one of huge emotion at Anfield. Thankfully, there are few jobs in the world that could lure him away. Thankfully, Liverpool have withstood links to the likes of Real Madrid, Barcelona and the Germany job over the years. However, back in 2019, Klopp did admit he would seriously have to consider his options if his country ever came calling. Now Die Mannschaft are on the lookout for a new coach again after parting ways with Hansi Flick on Sunday. The former Bayern boss was unceremoniously dumped following an embarrassing 4-1 loss to Japan in Wolfsburg. Now the German FA have a four-man shortlist for the job, which is topped by their ‘dream’ appointment of Klopp. They want him to take the helms immediately and help get the country back on track ahead of the 2024 European Championships. READ MORE: Graeme Souness pinpoints Liverpool problem area and urges Klopp to replace ‘unreliable’ man in January Also in contention for the role are Oliver Glasner, most recently in charge of Eintracht Frankfurt, former Man Utd boss Ralf Rangnick, while recently-appointed Bayern Munich boss Thomas Tuchel looks a difficult option too. However, the German FA have Klopp right at the top of their list and are said to be preparing a huge offer to lure him away from Merseyside. Former Premier League striker and now pundit Jan Aage Fjortoft confirms they are “dreaming” of appointing Klopp as Flick’s successor – and will even offer him the chance to co-manage both Liverpool and Germany if they can’t get him outright. However, while a co-operation of roles cannot be ruled out entirely, Liverpool fans should rest easy that Klopp will at least not break the contract he recently signed an extension to, which extends his stay until summer 2026. “The job of national coach is and would be a great honour – there’s no question about that,” Klopp told Sky Deutschland over the summer. “The problem that stands in the way of the whole thing is my loyalty. “I can’t just leave Liverpool now and say I’ll take over Germany for a short time. That doesn’t work and the request isn’t even there. If I’m supposed to do that at some point, then I have to be available and I’m not currently. I have a responsibility towards the club.” Klopp concluded: “Basically, it’s an interesting job. But I don’t know yet whether I’ll do something completely different after I leave Liverpool. I want to keep my options open.” As such, and when 2026 comes along, there is a serious danger Klopp could quit to take charge of Die Mannschaft. He has already admitted that he will likely to return to his homeland when the time comes. Right now though, their prospects of tempting him to take the job appear bleak at best. As a result, they will likely have to look elsewhere with Klopp’s answer for them a ‘thanks, but no thanks’ right now. In two years time, it might be a different answer, however.  In the meantime, Klopp continues his preparations for Liverpool’s next game against Wolves on Saturday. He will go into the match buoyed by not only their recently 3-0 win over Aston Villa, but also by the starring role summer signing Waturu Endo had for Japan in their triumph against Germany. Germany, meanwhile, have placed Rudi Voller in temporary charge and he will lead them out during Tuesday’s friendly against World Cup finalists France in Dortmund. READ MORE: Liverpool tipped to invite January bid for defender cast aside by Klopp as new theory emerges 
                        Jurgen Klopp will return to management next month, while Liverpool have already announced the 'signing of the summer' according to one pundit                     
                        The Reds are open to letting the midfielder leave with talks over his sale continuing and with Leeds among a host of Championship sides to miss out                     
                        A pundit has revealed the '90 seconds' which could decide whether Mo Salah stays at Liverpool, while Curtis Jones has had to explain a 'dig' at Klopp                     
                        Klopp has dropped a bombshell on his future plans three weeks after agreeing a new role with the Reds                     
                © Planet Sport Limited 2024 • All Rights Reserved
            