Coronation Street fans have taken to social media have been left fearing for Peter Barlow after her made a serious confession on Friday night's episode Coronation Street fans think they have "rumbled" Peter Barlow's "exit" plot after he made an "obvious" error on Friday night.  It was claimed last month that actor Chris Gascoyne was bowing out of the ITV soap once more, leaving his role as Peter for other ventures. However, the ITV soap did not confirm a departure for the character, while sources suggested he won't be back anytime soon - but he could return in the future.  With reports of a potential exit for Peter, fans have been left fearing for the character, especially after Friday's episode. During the latest instalment, Stephen Reid struggled at Rufus' memorial as he spoke to the late businessman's son Jools and estranged wife Lou. Fans will recall that serial killer Stephen murdered Rufus earlier this year by drugging and drowning him. However, things went from bad to worse for Stephen when Lou accidentally showed him a clear bag full of Rufus' things that were found by the side of the pool with Stephen's tie pin visible. The bag was also seen by Sean Tully, who later in the episode pointed out that Rufus had a tie pin just like Stephen. Yet this wasn't the only discovery as Lou mentioned to Carla Connor that Rufus' watch is missing. Lou was left suspicious as Rufus adored his watch and had planned to gift it to their son with the grieving character worried that her estranged husband could have been robbed and killed for the item. Rufus is believed to have drowned in his swimming pool after a drink and drug binge despite Stephen murdering him.  It wasn't long until a sheepish Peter Barlow admitted to Carla that he had found Rufus' watch in the back of his cab and pawned it for her rehab stint, leaving Carla furious. Carla demanded that Peter make things right, even suggesting he come clean and buy the watch back from the pawn shop. The episode ended with Stephen ringing Lou, pretending to check in, where she told him that she was heading to the police station in the morning to discuss the tie pin, with the character getting more suspicious about her husband's death. Fans are now worried that Peter could get the blame for Rufus' death thanks to the watch and it would tie in with a reported exit.  Taking to Twitter, one person said: "If Peter goes down or is framed for this murder I swear to god #Corrie," a different account put: "Oh no don’t say this is Peter’s exit!…he goes down for Rufus’s murder!!!! #Corrie", another viewer wrote: "Peter’s gonna be blamed for Rufus’s death, I can feel it #corrie" with a different fan adding: "Talk about Peter putting himself in the frame with that response… and looks like Carla thinks so too #Corrie."  * Coronation Street airs Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 8pm on ITV1 and ITV X. * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads. Don't miss out on the biggest soaps gossip! Get a daily email direct to your inbox with our newsletter