Next time you book a trip with Expedia, you can tap a new travel advisor adviser for help: ChatGPT. The travel booking platform has launched "conversational trip planning" powered by the artificial intelligence computer program from OpenAI, Expedia Group said Tuesday. "As the leader in travel tech, Expedia continues to build out the core operating system for the industry, constantly enhancing capabilities and making trip planning faster, simpler and even more informative," Peter Kern, Expedia Group's vice chairman and CEO, said in a news release. "By integrating ChatGPT into the Expedia app and combining it with our other AI-based shopping capabilities, like hotel comparison, price tracking for flights and trip collaboration tools, we can now offer travelers an even more intuitive way to build their perfect trip." OpenAI also recently announced plug-ins for ChatGPT, including from Expedia and Kayak. What is ChatGPT?:Everything to know about OpenAI's free AI essay writer and how it works Can you use ChatGPT as a travel agent?:Here's what I learned about AI vacation planning The feature, which is in the beta testing phase, allows users to have conversations with the program in the app and get recommendations on where to go, where to stay, what to do and more. As part of the process, hotels mentioned during the conversation are automatically saved in the app, "helping members stay organized and making it easier for them to start choosing dates, checking availability, and adding on flights, cars or activities," the company said in the release. In a video demonstration that Expedia shared, a user asks for suggestions for an upcoming honeymoon in Hawaii, including "romantic resorts on Maui." After the program lists a few options, the feature allows them to click through to their saved items. Travelers can use the feature in the company's iOS app. They will need an Expedia account so the hotel recommendations can be saved to a "trip" in the app, according to a spokesperson. The feature is not available for Android users and is only available in English.  "This is a new technology, so we intend to test and learn how travelers interact with it but ultimately, we envision this experience being rolled more broadly," the Expedia spokesperson said in an email. Should I book my summer travel now?:Travel experts share how to find the best deals Costco Travel:What travelers should know about booking a trip with the service "It's also important to remember that while many measures have been taken to limit inaccurate results and inappropriate responses, at times the experience may not work exactly as expected," Expedia said in the release. "Feedback from both our employees and all those using the experience will be continually looked at to make sure responses meet our standards." While OpenAI's ChatGPT can offer tips and recommendations, the free version of the program does not offer the same range of services as a human travel agent, USA TODAY found during an experiment earlier this month. For instance, while the program was able to share flight information – including which airlines offer flights between given destinations – it was not able to help the user book them. Nathan Diller is a consumer travel reporter for USA TODAY based in Nashville. You can reach him at ndiller@usatoday.com.