EPL Liverpool have agreed a four-year extension to their shirt sleeve sponsorship deal with Expedia. The Athletic reported that the agreement was set to be finalised earlier this week. The previous agreement with the online travel firm, which had been due to expire this summer, was understood to be worth around £9million ($10.6m) per year. Advertisement Liverpool’s commercial director Ben Latty said: “We’re thrilled to announce the extension of our partnership with Expedia for another four years. “Travel is an incredibly important part of our fans’ matchday experience, so we are proud to have a world leader in travel as part of the LFC family. We look forward to continuing to work with Expedia, creating more moving content and enhancing our fans’ overall matchday experience.” Discussions over an extension on improved terms gathered pace in recent months with both parties keen to maintain a partnership which has proved mutually beneficial. Expedia took over as Liverpool’s shirt sleeve sponsors for both the men’s and women’s teams in October 2020. The club’s previous deal with Western Union had expired at the end of the 2019-20 season. Impressive commercial growth has been key to the self-sustaining business model of owners Fenway Sports Group. The latest set of accounts for the year up to the end of May 2022 showed that commercial revenue rose by £29m to £247m. That put Liverpool third in the Premier League behind Manchester United (£262m) and Manchester City (£316m). As well as bringing in new sponsors, Liverpool’s commercial team prides itself on the high rate of retention among their existing partners. A new four-year shirt sponsorship deal with Standard Chartered Bank will start this summer. That continues a long-standing relationship which began in 2010. The extension was signed during the club’s pre-season tour of Asia last July and is believed to be worth around £50m per year — an increase of around £10m per year on the current agreement. GO DEEPER Inside Gakpo's first 10 weeks at Liverpool: Video sessions, moving house and 'being Bobby' (Photo: Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. James Pearce  joins the Athletic after 14 years working for the Liverpool Echo. The dad-of-two has spent the past decade covering the fortunes of Liverpool FC across the globe to give fans the inside track on the Reds from the dressing room to the boardroom. Follow James on Twitter @JamesPearceLFC