LEXINGTON, S.C. (March 20, 2023) – Southeastern Freight Lines, the leading provider of regional less-than-truckload (LTL) transportation services, today announced Rick Montgomery has been promoted to service center manager in Waco, Texas. 

Montgomery started his career at the Fort Worth service center in Texas as a front-line leader. He has served in various leadership positions during his time with the company, including pickup and delivery operations manager and, most recently, assistant service center manager in Garland, Texas.  

“Rick is a natural leader with a great track record of serving both our internal and external customers. He demonstrates his commitment to modeling our culture, facilitating operational growth and creating financial strength for our company in the manner he leads a team,” said Jim Jones, regional vice president of operations for Southeastern Freight Lines. “I look forward to the leadership he will provide our dynamic team at the Waco service center.”  

Montgomery and his wife, Chauntelle, are excited to relocate to Waco, Texas and continue serving the Southeastern team in this new capacity. 

About Southeastern Freight Lines  
Southeastern Freight Lines, a privately-owned regional less-than-truckload transportation services provider founded in 1950, specializes in next-day service in the Southeast and Southwest and operates 89 service centers in 13 states, Canada and Puerto Rico. Southeastern has a network of service partners to ensure transportation services in the remaining 36 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Mexico. Southeastern Freight Lines provides more than 99.4% on-time service in next day lanes. Dedication to service quality and a formalized quality improvement process, adopted in 1985, has resulted in more than 525 quality awards received from customers and associations. For more information, please visit www.sefl.com and www.facebook.com/SoutheasternFreight.   Copyright ©2024. All Rights ReservedDesign, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing