
																			How to streamline internal operations with automated loan payments																		 
																			Getting B2B (Back2Branding)																		 
																			How to streamline internal operations with automated loan payments																		 
																			How to create a health care directive and a durable power of attorney																		 
																			Credit union leadership training: Leading different generations																		 COSTA MESA, CA (July 24, 2023) — In an effort to help lenders quickly and easily verify income and employment information, Experian® announced consumers can now choose to share information directly from their employers’ payroll service through Experian Verify™ when applying for credit, including mortgages, auto loans and personal loans. The enhancement introduces Experian’s automated income and employment verification waterfall and helps lenders easily leverage both instant and permissioned technology with consumer consent to verify income and employment for over 85% of the U.S. workforce. Why it matters “With Experian Verify, we offer lenders multiple options to easily complete their income and employment verification while helping to provide consumers with the best possible experience,” said John Tsefrikas, Senior Vice President and General Manager Experian Verification Solutions. “Consumers must always consent to sharing their income and employment information with lenders through Experian Verify and, with this new enhancement, we’re helping remove the burden consumers face in providing paper documentation if a lender is unable to obtain this information in a digital and automated fashion.” How Experian’s automated waterfall works Experian’s consumer-permissioned enhancement also helps lenders obtain income and employment information for a broad range of consumers, including gig workers, contractors, government employees and more.Many of today’s leading financial institutions, including mortgage and auto lenders, card issuers, fintechs, and more trust Experian Verify for their income and employment verification needs. To learn more, visit www.experian.com/verify. Experian is a global data and technology company, powering opportunities for people and businesses around the world. We help to redefine lending practices, uncover and prevent fraud, simplify healthcare, deliver digital marketing solutions, and gain deeper insights into the automotive market, all using our unique combination of data, analytics and software. We also assist millions of people to realize their financial goals and help them to save time and money.
We operate across a range of markets, from financial services to healthcare, automotive, agrifinance, insurance, and many more industry segments.
We invest in talented people and new advanced technologies to unlock the power of data and innovate. As a FTSE 100 Index company listed on the London Stock Exchange (EXPN), we have a team of 22,500 people across 32 countries. Our corporate headquarters are in Dublin, Ireland. Learn more at experianplc.com. Experian is a global data and technology company, powering opportunities for people and businesses around the world. We help to redefine lending practices, uncover and prevent fraud, simplify healthcare, deliver digital marketing solutions, and gain deeper insights into the automotive market, all using our unique combination of data, analytics and software. We also assist millions of people to realize their financial goals and help them to save time and money. We operate across a range of markets, from financial services to healthcare, automotive, agrifinance, insurance, and many more industry segments. We invest in talented people and new advanced technologies to unlock the power of data and innovate. As a FTSE 100 Index company listed on the London Stock Exchange (EXPN), we have a team of 22,500 people across 32 countries. Our corporate headquarters are in Dublin, Ireland. Learn more at experianplc.com. Fiorella Dinielli
Account Supervisor
O: 714.663.8188
M: 909.450.7522 Delivered to the inboxes of thousands of credit union leaders daily.