Webcast Time Moved to 1PM EST FAIRFAX, VA / ACCESSWIRE / January 6, 2023 / Visium Technologies, Inc, ("Visium" or the "Company") (OTC PINK:VISM) a provider of world-class real-time cybersecurity, context-focused analysis, and predictive visualization technologies deployed for cyber security, announced today that due to unforeseen circumstances the time for the upcoming webcast scheduled for January 10, 2023 has been changed to 1PM EST. You can register in advance for the webinar scheduled for January 10th at the following link:https://us02web.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_bkNFTz98RpuEJaNbxadeVQ After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the webinar. A replay of this webcast will be available on the Visium YouTube channel at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYblxXwY-K2Z0NcUmyGVUjg The webcast will feature an overview of the IREX Ethical artificial intelligence platform and how this technology works together with Visium's TruContextTM graph technology. Interested investors can sign up for upcoming news and industry updates by going to https://www.visiumtechnologies.com/contact/.  About IREX AI IREX is the #1 Ethical AI for Public Safety and Smart Government. IREX allows cities to adapt to ever-changing threats, using Ethical AI technology to combat 21st-century problems such as pandemics, overcrowding, missing children, mass shootings, rising crime rates, and much more. IREX's mission is to mold cities of the future: safe, comfortable, and sustainable. To fulfill its mission, IREX empowers city governments, public safety organizations, transportation authorities, and service providers with an Ethical AI and Big Data platform. IREX connects cameras and sensors to a secure private cloud, analyzing data in real-time and providing vital, proactive opportunities to prevent security and safety incidents. Contact: Calvin Yadav, Chief Executive Officerwww.irex.ai Corporate Office:29970 Technology DriveMurrieta, California 92563Phone: 3301-392-7621  About Visium Technologies, Inc. Visium Technologies, Inc. (OTC PINK:VISM) is a Florida corporation based in Fairfax, Virginia, focused on providing context enabling global cybersecurity clarity, using machine learning and advanced algorithms to support enterprises in protecting their most valuable assets - their data, business applications, and IoT on their networks and in the cloud. For more information please visit www.visiumtechnologies.com and YouTube https://www.youtube.com/results'search_query=visium+analytics Safe Harbor Statement: Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views with respect to future events and performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and information currently available. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters identify forward-looking statements. Investors should be cautious in relying on forward-looking statements because they are subject to a variety of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, whether the reverse stock split will be beneficial to the Company and its shareholders, any inability to meet the NYSE American continued listing standards in the future for any reason, and those other factors described in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Any responsibility to update forward-looking statements is expressly disclaimed. CONTACT: Visium Technologies, Inc.Corporate: Mark Lucky, Chief Executive Officermlucky@visiumtechnologies.com Follow us on Twitter and Instagram Twitter | Instagram Corporate Office:4094 Majestic Lane Suite 360Fairfax, VA 22033Phone: 703-273-0383 SOURCE: Visium Technologies, Inc.