January 4, 2023, 02:36 PM  
									
									0								 Share Upcoming Webinar on “Challenges & Opportunities with Intellectual Property & Technology Innovation in Muslim-Majority Countries” Live event hosted virtually via Zoom Webinar Thursday, January 12, 2023, 11 AM – 1 PM EST (convert time zones here)  Registration will close at 5:00 PM EST on Tuesday, January 10, 2023. Join experts and leaders involved with intellectual property (IP) and technology innovation in Muslim-majority countries for a virtual discussion about challenges and opportunities in countries with varying degrees of religious laws and developing interests in economic development. This gathering will include perspectives from an international law firm, a legal department of the government of the Emirate of Dubai, a technology investment fund, and a chemicals manufacturer. The webinar panelists will talk about their IP-related experiences and technology innovation perspectives from different vantage points in various Muslim-majority countries. The webinar will also allow for moderated Q&A between attendees and panelists. Hosted by George Mason University Antonin Scalia Law School’s Center for Intellectual Property x Innovation Policy (C-IP2) and moderated by Tabrez Y. Ebrahim (Associate Professor, Lewis & Clark Law School), the panel will include the following speakers: Saad Hasan: Principal, Sturgeon Capital Dr. Bashar Malkawi: Legal Counsel and Head of Research and Publications, The Government of Dubai Legal Affairs Department Kevin Tamm: Senior Intellectual Property Counsel, SI Group Jeffrey Whittle: Global Head of Womble Bond Dickinson’s Energy and Natural Resources Industry Sector Please CLICK HERE to visit the event website and register. Media Contact: Mary Clare Durel, [email protected] 
        At IPWatchdog, we are dedicated to providing in-depth analysis, news, and educational content on intellectual property law and policy. As an independent media company, we rely on the support of our sponsors and our community to maintain the quality and accessibility of our resources. Your donation enables us to continue our mission, ensuring that innovators, attorneys, and enthusiasts have access to the latest insights and developments in the field. By donating, you are not only helping us sustain our operations but also contributing to the growth and advancement of the intellectual property community. 
         Every contribution, no matter the size, is greatly appreciated and makes a difference. Δ Share Warning & Disclaimer: The pages, articles and comments on IPWatchdog.com do not constitute legal advice, nor do they create any attorney-client relationship. The articles published express the personal opinion and views of the author as of the time of publication and should not be attributed to the author’s employer, clients or the sponsors of IPWatchdog.com. No comments yet.
 At IPWatchdog.com our focus is on the business, policy and substance of patents and other forms of intellectual property. Today IPWatchdog is recognized as the leading sources for news and information in the patent and innovation industries. © 1999 – 2024 IPWatchdog, Inc. Images on IPWatchdog Primarily Provided by Our website uses cookies to provide you with a better experience. Read our privacy policy for more information.Accept and Close 
