Oregon’s Multnomah County on Thursday sued 17 oil companies and related institutions, alleging pollution from fossil fuels contributed to a 2021 heat wave that killed dozens of Oregonians. The county saw three of its hottest recorded days during the heat wave in 2021, with temperatures hitting 108, 112 and 116 degrees Fahrenheit. At least 69 residents died after a “heat dome” of hot ocean air trapped in the atmosphere contributed to intense heat. Portland, which is in Multnomah County, saw a majority of the 69 overall deaths in the state attributed to the heat dome. County officials cite a study by the group World Weather Attribution, which determined the extreme heat would have been “virtually impossible” without human-caused climate change. The lawsuit names ExxonMobil, Shell, Chevron, BP, ConocoPhillips, Motiva, Occidental Petroleum, Space Age Fuel, Valero Energy, Total Specialties USA, Marathon Petroleum, Peabody Energy and Koch Industries, as well as two trade groups — the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the Western States Petroleum Association — along with consulting firm McKinsey & Company. It also names Anadarko Petroleum, which was acquired by Occidental in 2019. “This lawsuit is about accountability and fairness, and I believe the people of Multnomah County deserve both. These businesses knew their products were unsafe and harmful, and they lied about it,” said Jessica Vega Pederson, chair of Multnomah County. “They have profited massively from their lies and left the rest of us to suffer the consequences and pay for the damages. We say enough is enough.” County officials are seeking more than $50 billion in damages, including funds to prepare for future climate impacts, from the plaintiffs. Thirty-five municipalities, seven states and the District of Columbia have previously sued the oil industry for the impacts of climate change, according to the Center for Climate Integrity. The lawsuits have incorporated a number of different legal theories and approaches, including consumer protection, product liability and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The Multnomah County suit specifically accuses the defendants of negligence and fraud and of creating a public nuisance. “There are no new laws or novel theories being asserted here,” Jeffrey Simon, a partner at the firm of Simon Greenstone Panatier, PC, which the county has retained, said in a statement. “We contend that the Defendants broke long-standing ones, and we will prove it to a jury.” Those named in the lawsuit have panned the effort. “This ongoing, coordinated campaign to wage meritless lawsuits against our industry is nothing more than a distraction from important issues and an enormous waste of taxpayer resources,” Ryan Meyers, API senior vice president and general counsel, said in a statement to The Hill. “Climate policy is for Congress to debate and decide, not the court system.” “Addressing climate change requires a collaborative, society-wide approach,” a Shell spokesperson told The Hill. “We do not believe the courtroom is the right venue to address climate change, but that smart policy from government and action from all sectors is the appropriate way to reach solutions and drive progress.” “Addressing the challenge of global climate change requires a coordinated policy response. These lawsuits are counterproductive distractions from advancing international policy solutions,” Theodore Boutrous of Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher, counsel for Chevron, said in a statement. “The federal Constitution bars these novel, baseless claims that target one industry and group of companies engaged in lawful activity that provides tremendous benefits to society. ” A ConocoPhillips spokesperson said the company does not comment on ongoing litigation. The Hill has reached out to other defendants for comment. — Updated at 12:22 p.m.  For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to The Hill.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.