ExxonMobil is a leading American oil and gas company with a 150-year legacy of developing and applying next-generation technologies to meet the world’s growing energy needs with high-quality chemical products in a safe and sustainable manner. It is one of the world’s largest publicly traded energy providers and lubricant manufacturers. The company has been at the forefront of lubrication technology innovation and offers a range of expertly formulated industrial lubricants to cater to diverse market needs. Industrial lubricants from Mobil™, one of the oldest brands for lubricants in the world, have a long and successful record of servicing the plastics industry. These formulations have been credited with reducing downtime, which, in turn, translates into increased operational efficiency. Speaking on the sidelines of PlastIndia, Ankush Khanna, South Asia Pacific Commercial Marketing Director, shared his views about the plastics industry in India and how ExxonMobil is engaging with customers in this space to help improve productivity and meet sustainability goals with initiatives like the recent launch of 50% Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR) plastic pails for packaging. Q. What are the key trends and macro-outlook for the plastics industry in India? A. We are in a very exciting space. The plastics industry is booming in India. The total revenue is expected to grow at a rate of 6.6% CAGR, reaching almost USD 56.42 Bn in 2027. India’s multibillion-dollar plastic industry, which employs 4 million people, has been instrumental in strengthening the country’s manufacturing ecosystem. Today, with projected growth in sight, there is an increasing trend among plastics manufacturers to adopt methods that will make operations clean and efficient. Here, cutting-edge lubrication solutions and services are crucial in preserving the industry’s performance, fostering expansion, and minimizing environmental impacts. Beyond just the product, customers are actually looking at suppliers to offer them sustainable solutions – and this is where Mobil plays a driving role. Q. How is Mobil enabling plastic customers meet their sustainability goals? A. Mobil strives to enable human progress. We are envisaging practices to ensure that businesses, communities as well as end-users make smart and sustainable choices. Towards this end, Mobil is adding value by advancing the mobility, productivity, and sustainability ambitions of our customers. All Mobil products manufactured in the company’s global network of lubricant facilities carry the Underwriters Laboratories Zero Waste to Landfill Silver Validation, first earned in 2018. Mobil continues to be the first and only finished lubricants marketer to carry the credential, and each year diverts more than 90% (over 50,000 tons) of lubricant operations waste from landfills into new productive uses. This enables a circular economy and ensures that we are doing more with less. We are also leveraging our scale and integration to increase the production of certified circular plastics and meet growing demand. In December 2022, ExxonMobil announced the successful startup of one of the largest advanced recycling facilities in North America. The facility at the company’s integrated manufacturing complex in Baytown, Texas, uses proprietary technology to break down hard-to-recycle plastics and transform them into raw materials for new products and is capable of processing more than 80 million pounds of plastic waste per year, supporting a circular economy for post-use plastics and helping divert plastic waste currently sent to landfills. Q. How will the new launch of Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR) plastic pails support customers to advance sustainability? A. Mobil is taking steps to incorporate recycled plastics in finished lubricant product packaging, helping convert waste to value. For this, Mobil is driving an initiative to transition to 50% Post Consumer Recycled (PCR) plastic pails – helping customers reduce waste, convert waste to value and advance sustainability ambitions. The PCR drives the use of recycled plastic, helping reduce plastic waste, and enabling sustainable progress. Mobil is the first marketer in India to have pails with 50% PCR. It is an industry-first for us and we want to ensure that others in the market follow suit since we all have a collective responsibility towards society and the environment. Q. What are the other offers from Mobil that help customers achieve efficiency and improve productivity? A. Mobil has a heritage of 150 years, with more than 120 years in India. For generations, Mobil has been known in the market for performance, innovation, and expertise. Our customers trust our branded offer to help extend oil and equipment life, improve energy efficiency, fuel economy and deliver performance, helping our customers reduce their emissions and make the most of valuable resources – we call this achieving more with less. Mobil’s range of products and services are enabling energy efficiency and increased oil drain interval by assisting plastic manufacturers in strengthening their operations towards better productivity and profitability. Some examples include: • Mobil DTE 10 Excel™ Series high-performance anti-wear hydraulic oils that help reduce power consumption and increase machine output. These oils help keep modern hydraulic systems cleaner for longer and have been proven to boost hydraulic efficiency by up to 6 per cent*. • Similarly, the Mobil DTE™ 20 Ultra Series oils are high performance anti-wear hydraulic oils with extended oil life capabilities and have demonstrated up to 2-times longer oil drain intervals versus similar competitive oils**. • As a testimony, one of the leading plastic manufacturers in India achieved 2% energy efficiency by using Mobil DTE 10 Excel™ 46 in their Injection Molding Machine. The use of Mobil DTE 10 Excel 46 helped increase energy efficiency by 2% and achieve an annual saving of USD 19,950. (*The energy efficiency of Mobil DTE 10 Excel relates solely to the fluid performance when compared to conventional Mobil-branded hydraulic fluids. The technology used allows up to 6% increase in hydraulic pump efficiency when tested in standard hydraulic applications under controlled conditions. The energy efficiency claim for this product is based on test results on the use of the fluid conducted in accordance with all applicable industry standards and protocol. Results may vary based on operating conditions and equipment. **Mobil DTE™ 20 Ultra Series high-performance anti-wear hydraulic oils that provide extended oil life capabilities and have demonstrated up to 2-times longer oil drain intervals versus similar competitive oils) For more information, visit www.mobil.in/business (Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, many with names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso and Mobil. For convenience and simplicity, those terms and references to “corporation”, “company”, “ExxonMobil”, “EM”, and other similar terms are used for convenience and may refer to one or more specific affiliates or affiliate groups.) Disclaimer: This article has been produced on behalf of the brand by HT Brand Studio Catch all the Business News, Market News, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.