The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Lindsay Modglin or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Lindsay Modglin,
                                                    Jennifer Lyerly, O.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Conjunctivitis, commonly referred to as pink eye, is an umbrella term for a variety of eye infections caused by bacteria, viruses, allergens and irritants. The condition causes redness, swelling, itching and discharge of the affected eye(s). It affects people of all ages, from infants to older adults. Each type of conjunctivitis requires different treatment—some may need antibiotics or other prescription medications, while others are safely treated with over-the-counter (OTC) eye drops and home care. Read on to discover the best eye drops for pink eye, depending on the type of conjunctivitis you have. Pink eye is an inflammation of the conjunctiva, the thin tissue that lines the inside of the eyelid and covers the white part of the eyeball (the sclera). Pink eye can be uncomfortable and cause redness and tearing in the eye, but it’s usually not serious and clears up on its own in a few days. There are three main types of pink eye: viral, bacterial and allergic conjunctivitis: Pink eye treatment varies depending on the type of conjunctivitis. Eye drops, ointments or oral medications can all be used depending on the cause. Allergens like pollen, dust, pet dander and other environmental triggers can cause allergic conjunctivitis—a non-contagious form of pink eye that causes watery eyes, itching and burning. Your medical provider may prescribe one or a combination of medications to combat your symptoms. The most common medications for allergic conjunctivitis include: Home remedies for relief from allergic conjunctivitis include: Infectious conjunctivitis refers to pink eye caused by a virus or bacteria—both can pass easily from person to person. However, treatment of infectious conjunctivitis doesn’t always require medication. For bacterial conjunctivitis, your doctor may prescribe antibiotic eye drops or ointment to kill the infection-causing bacteria. Antibiotic eye drops that may be prescribed include: Antibiotic ointments that may be prescribed for bacterial conjunctivitis include: Antibiotics, though, won’t help viral pink eye because the infection is caused by a virus. “Pink eye often occurs in tandem with an upper respiratory infection and often will get better without any treatment once the respiratory condition improves,” says Robert Gold, M.D., president of the American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus and senior partner of Eye Physicians of Central Florida in Orlando. The infection has to run its course, but your doctor may suggest lubricating eye drops or ointment to soothe irritation and make you more comfortable. “Over-the-counter artificial tears can make the eyes feel more comfortable,” explains Dr. Gold. Antibiotic eye drops do not work to cure viral conjunctivitis. But “if there is evidence of a bacterial infection often associated with yellow or green discharge (drainage),” explains Dr. Gold, “antibiotic eye drops may be prescribed by your primary care doctor, ophthalmologist or optometrist.” The following home remedies may help relieve symptoms of viral or bacterial pink eye: Chemical conjunctivitis is an eye inflammation due to exposure to a chemical irritant such as chlorine or smoke. Treatment for chemical conjunctivitis typically involves flushing the eyes and using lubricating eye drops to soothe the discomfort. “Chemical injury to the ocular surface requires immediate attention by an eye doctor,” says Saleha Munir, O.D., an optometrist at the University of Maryland Medical Center and clinical assistant professor of ophthalmology and visual sciences at the University of Maryland School of Medicine. According to Dr. Munir, those who present with chemical conjunctivitis should: Antibiotic drops may be prescribed for chemical conjunctivitis when there’s a risk for “super-infection,” explains Dr. Munir, which is a secondary infection caused by bacteria. Pink eye treatment varies depending on the cause, so it’s important to visit your doctor if you develop pink eye to receive a proper diagnosis and treatment plan. If you have viral conjunctivitis, antibiotics won’t help—but they are necessary for bacterial conjunctivitis, which requires antibiotic eye drops or ointment. “You should see an eye doctor if [you] experience any decrease or loss of vision in one or both eyes, pain and light sensitivity—which can mimic pink eye and be a more serious eye condition called iritis,” says Dr. Gold. Dr. Munir adds that green/yellow mucus discharge also warrants a visit to the doctor, as this usually indicates bacterial conjunctivitis. Both doctors note that since the overwhelming majority of conjunctivitis is caused by viral infection, pink eye symptoms usually resolve on its own, but it’s critical to consult your doctor if your pink eye symptoms don’t improve after a few days of home care. A Long Term Approach To Dry Eyes Eyetamins unique formula contains Sea Buckthorn, which rivals the strength of typical vitamin C, for an added antioxidant power in your day.  Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Lindsay Modglin is a nurse and professional writer who regularly writes about complex medical topics, as well as travel and the great outdoors. She holds a professional certificate in scientific writing from Stanford University School of Medicine and has contributed to many major publications including Insider and Verywell. As a passionate advocate for science-based content, she loves writing captivating material that supports scientific research and education. In her spare time, you can often find her exploring nature with her husband and three children.
			 
				Dr. Jennifer Lyerly is an optometrist who specializes in contact lenses and myopia management and practices in Raleigh, North Carolina. She’s the founder and author of Eyedolatry, an educational blog that focuses on patient communication, practice guides for new optometrists and women’s leadership in optometry. She has also written articles for Review of Optometry, Invision Magazine, Review of Optometric Business, Women in Optometry, and Optometry Times, as well as served as a contributor for O: The Oprah Magazine. Dr. Lyerly is a co-founder of Defocus Media, optometry’s leading livestream and podcast platform.
			