ENGLAND'S history-making Lionesses have left Sydney following their Women's World Cup final heartbreak. Sarina Wiegman's side suffered a narrow 1-0 defeat to Spain on Sunday. Olga Carmona scored the decisive goal to clinch the trophy for Jorge Vilda and La Roja. Despite the result, the Lionesses have been praised by fans up and down the country for their heroic efforts throughout the tournament and for making history by reaching their first-ever Women's World Cup final.  The entire squad even received a standing ovation from onlookers as they walked through Sydney Airport on Monday before flying home. All 23 players, as well as Wiegman and her coaching staff, were seen together ahead of the long flight back to England. And, understandably, they all appeared disappointed in the wake of their World Cup final loss. Defensive duo Rachel Daly and Jess Carter looked down as they left England's team hotel for the airport, while Wiegman was accompanied by a staff member. Best friends Ella Toone and Alessia Russo were also seen with their England bags on the journey home. And Alex Greenwood was spotted with a gruesome cut on her eye as a result of a clash with Spain striker Salma Paralluelo. BETTING SPECIAL - BEST NO DEPOSIT CASINO OFFERS The Manchester City and England defender took a brutal knee to the head in the 80th minute of the final, but insisted on continuing until full-time. Captain Millie Bright - who was celebrating her 30th birthday - was also in attendance as the Lionesses made their way through the airport. After Sunday's Sydney showdown, the England defender admitted everyone in the team was heartbroken but vowed to bounce back. She said: "The mentality has always been there. The character has been there, too. We show that, day in, day out, and in every game. "We’ve just played in a World Cup final, it’s hard to see it like that at the moment. I’m proud of the girls. "We’ve played on the highest stage. We’ve had a shot at competing for the trophy we have always wanted but this isn’t the end of the journey and we will definitely bounce back. "For now, though, we’ll let it settle." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/