
Published: Mar 14, 2023 11:42 pm 
 In Head Fly Race, your goal is to earn Wins by using your hammer to hit the giant button and boost yourself up to as many studs as you can. Collect power around the world to reach higher heights. Your Wins are also used to purchase pets, heads, and new hammers that help you have more power and fly further up the board.  You can also earn free rewards like power, heads, and Wins by using in-game codes. Developers give out codes for players to redeem free items that help them get a headstart in their experience. You can claim other free rewards for games like this, such as Sword Race Codes or Anime Racing Clicker Codes. Here is a look at all the working Head Fly Race codes.  These Head Fly Race codes are no longer working.  Related: Fart Race Codes Redeeming codes in Head Fly Race is a quick and easy process.  Developers for Roblox experiences like Head Fly Race usually give out codes during an update, event, or as a goal is met, such as a specific number of likes reached. Some developers will place them directly in the game's image or description to notify players when they are available. However, some developers may require you to follow them on their social media pages, such as Twitter or Discord, to stay updated. You can follow this experience on their Alan Studio Discord Server. For your convenience, you can also bookmark this page and check back whenever to see when new codes are added.  There are various reasons why your codes may not be working correctly for Head Fly Race. The most common reason is that the codes may have already expired. Since codes are regularly cycled in and out of the game, they can expire with little to no notice. We try to keep our lists updated, but if you notice a change before us, feel free to leave a comment below, and we will try to fix it as soon as possible.  It is also important that you double-check your spelling when entering codes. They are almost always case-sensitive, meaning the slightest typo could make them appear invalid. Ensure you are entering them exactly as shown in the list above, or if the game allows, copy and paste to avoid any issues.  You can get more free rewards in Head Fly Race from the Gold Gift icon on the right side of the screen. These rewards become available the longer you stay in the game and can get progressively more valuable the longer your playtime is. These rewards can be free Wins, Boosts, and other goodies to help boost your progress in the experience.  Head Fly Race is a casual simulation where you unlock various hammers used to smash a button and see far up the board you can fly. Gain power by collecting the orbs around the lobby or equipping pets and heads that help you reach further heights. Hammers and pets can be purchased with Wins, which are earned for reaching new distances on the board or knocking people out of your way.  If you're looking for codes for other games, we have a ton of them in our Roblox Game Codes post! You can also get a bunch of free stuff via our Roblox Promo Codes page. And in the meantime, take a look at the latest news to stay up-to-date on all things entertainment. Comments are on moderation and will be approved in a timely manner. Please read the following rules before commenting: Comment Nickname*  Email*   Save my nickname and email in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.