Rob Evans (left) and Sam Davies were Wales squad members in 2017 Dragons have confirmed Wales fly-half Sam Davies and prop Rob Evans will be among those leaving Rodney Parade at the end of 2022-23. Lock Huw Taylor, back-row pair Ben Fry and Lennon Greggains and utility back Ioan Davies will also depart. Wales back row Ross Moriarty has already joined Brive while lock Will Rowlands will also be in France next season. Dragons - and Welsh rugby as a whole - are wrestling with finances. It means, like rivals Scarlets, Ospreys and Cardiff, they are in the process of cutting their squad size. In a social media post, former Ospreys stand-off Davies, 29, said: "I would like to thank everyone at Dragons RFC for a great past four years, with a proud club that has a great rugby community and such amazing support!  "Hearing the Rodney Parade crowd behind you in all weathers is something else, and I won't forget it.  "Through highs and lows, the team always feel supported by our brilliant fans and I am grateful to everyone who welcomed me with open arms, when I moved from Ospreys, and for backing us through thick and thin in recent seasons." The east Wales region also announced senior academy back row Ben Moa will leave with their "best wishes". Dragons head coach Dai Flanagan said: "It's never an easy time of the year when we say goodbye to a number of players, and we thank them all for their commitment and dedication during their time with Dragons. "Sam leaves his mark as the third-highest point scorer in our history while players like Huw and Ross have proudly represented the club on over 50 occasions. "However, it's important to recognise that every single player has had a role to play and been a part of our story. "We wish all our departing players every success for the future and look forward to welcoming them back to Rodney Parade soon." BBC South East Wales News & Sport BBC Sport Welsh Rugby BBC Wales Scrum V Dragons official site Pro14 Welsh Rugby Union Premier League: Porro heads dominant Spurs into deserved lead at Leicester Chelsea agree Felix fee, Gallagher to join Atletico The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.