The replica of the airport gives on-line pilots the chance to see what Teesside has to offer Get the latest news from Darlington direct to your inbox with our free email newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Darlington direct to your inbox with our free email newsletter We have more newsletters If you've ever fancied being a pilot you can now fly from Teesside Airport from the comfort of your own home. Thanks to a new flight simulator project the airport has been recreated in detail adding a lifelike version of the whole airport and grounds to the internet. The scenery package has been created by Fly X Simulations as an add on for Microsoft Flight Simulator. Teesside is a destination for carriers including Ryanair, TUI and KLM, as well as cargo traffic such as TNT and FedEx, these are all included in the scenery. It is a highly detailed replica of the actual airport with authentic buildings and a terminal with interior modelling. READ MORE: Emergency diversion as pilot dies after falling ill in plane toilet It features accurate ground markings and taxiway signs, as well as service vehicles on the apron. The landside area is also recreated with car parks populated with vehicles. Fly X Simulations was set up in early 2017 with the intention of creating flight simulation scenery. A spokesperson for the company said: "The ultimate goal of Fly X Simulations is innovating the flight simulation industry, be it through scenery, aircraft or utilities." They said with every product they like to try something new. Teesside Airport is available on iniBuilds’ store for £11.99. The actual airport revealed last week it has seen its busiest month for more than a decade. New figures showed a total of 25,666 passengers passed through the terminal in June, which is the highest figure since September 2010. This was followed by a similarly busy July, which hosted 24,781 holidaymakers, even hosting its busiest day since returning to public ownership towards the end of the month. 