The filing extension following last Friday’s 5 p.m. deadline netted a late surge of candidates for November’s Emeryville City Council and School Board elections. Honor Kitchen & Cocktails is finally ready to pull the curtain off of their renovation efforts that have been ongoing for over a year. The mysterious grocery store at Bay Street has finally been officially announced by CenterCal Properties after years of speculation. “We are excited to finally The regular filing deadline to run for an Emeryville City Council & School Board seat passed Friday at 5 p.m. Because an incumbent in The Emeryville Police Department is asking for help locating a suspect in a domestic dispute case that escalated into a disturbing animal cruelty incident. A handful of updates covering Emeryville’s retail scene since our last update in May. During this period, the city experienced two closures, a reopening, The Emeryville Planning Commission met on Thursday, June 27th with three public hearings on the agenda. Planning Commission meetings and agendas have been rather Last week was a bit of a rough one for embattled Alameda County District Attorney Pamela Price. On Tuesday, it was revealed that the The filing period for filling one of the three expiring Emeryville city council seats officially kicked off on July 15. Three candidates have already Amelia Rose Bucci, known by locals simply as “Bucci,” passed away on May 29th at the age of 82. Bucci was the proprietor of An Emeryville Man has been arrested on accusations of sexual assault of a minor according to a Press Release by the Berkeley Police Department. The Oakland Police Department is asking for help identifying two female victims of a robbery and assault that occurred last Friday, July 5 at A confused driver somehow ended up on the South Bayfront Pedestrian bridge over the weekend. Photos sent to us on Saturday afternoon show several A man identified as an Emeryville resident was arrested for possession of child pornography, and other related charges according to an EPD Press Release. Some food & drink updates in and around Emeryville since our last May update. Among the updates in June include the sad closure of one Roads were temporarily blocked throughout Emeryville on Wednesday to accommodate The Emeryville Police Department’s participation in the annual Special Olympics Law Enforcement Torch Run A new Farmers’ Market kicked off at The Emery Apartment complex on Saturday. The event included over a dozen local vendors selling the typical Our Emeryville newswire is a roundup of local news stories and high-performing social media posts relevant to Emeryville residents. In this post covering May The “Ghost Bike” honoring the life of Matthew Sperry has been reinstalled along Powell Street just across the Oakland border. The new installation coincided Receive a free item from our E'ville Threads Shop with your support (min. $5/mo. one year commitment). 









Please leave this field emptyNever Miss a Story!
Subscribe to Emeryville’s only dedicated news source.
Submit your email address to receive new posts in your inbox. *


Check your inbox or bulk folder now to confirm your subscription.
        
 



 Subscribe to Emeryville’s only dedicated news source. Check your inbox or bulk folder now to confirm your subscription.
           The Emeryville Police Department is asking for help locating a suspect in a domestic dispute case that escalated into a disturbing animal cruelty incident. On Saturday, July 27, Emeryville Police Officers met with a citizen asking to report a domestic violence incident. Officers met Last week was a bit of a rough one for embattled Alameda County District Attorney Pamela Price. On Tuesday, it was revealed that the man captured on video assaulting and robbing two women was released from prison just Some food & drink updates in and around Emeryville since our last April update. Among the updates in May include a new Chipotle location, two grand openings, the likely elimination of a beloved café space and a new food hall coming to West Oakland. Some quick updates on some local restaurants we’ve been following since our last update in March. We’re closely following the status of Mumu Hotpot at Bay Street but they seem unlikely to open this month. Emeryville Five Guys The Emeryville Planning Commission met on Thursday, June 27th with three public hearings on the agenda. Planning Commission meetings and agendas have been rather thin in 2024, with development in the city stalled. Both the May and the July meetings have been canceled. New The Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) has begun work on the former Marchant/Whitney property at 5679 Horton Street. Work at the 1.75-acre site will be done in four phases over the next several years. Their work will The farewell celebration to honor Emeryville’s “charming” Chevys was marred by a weekend break-in. The Chevys was burglarized Sunday evening with their stock of alcohol seemingly the primary target of the theft. The Emeryville PD noted that they were still determining the total loss Some local retail business openings and other activity in Emeryville to begin 2024 including openings at Bay Street, The Powell Street Plaza and the new storefronts at The Emery development. OPEN: BMO Bank Branch at Powell Street Plaza It’s a story we’ve all heard before: Artists find cheap, funky space in a neglected industrial area and beautify it making the neighborhood more livable. Word gets out drawing more residents and development opportunities. Rents spike and these same artists eventually get pushed out. The East Bay Yesterday podcast has made tiny Emeryville the subject of their latest podcast. EBY host Liam O’Donoghue interviews former Emeryville City Manager Joe Tanner and The E’ville Eye founder/Emeryville Historical Society volunteer Rob Arias for the ©2022 The E'ville Eye LLC
Disclaimer  |  Corrections  |  Comment Policy Become a recurring E’ville Eye supporter for as little as $5 per month and get a FREE custom tee or cap (minimum one year commitment). Subscribe to Emeryville’s only dedicated news source. Check your inbox or bulk folder now to confirm your subscription.
          