KARACHI: A preliminary probe into the stampede at the KPT Ground on Monday during the distribution of cash stipend under the Benazir Income Support Programme (BISP) has blamed a technical issue in the computer network of a private bank that led to a delay in cash disbursement due to which a huge crowd gathered at the location, officials said on Tuesday. A woman was killed and 20 others suffered injuries and fainted during the stampede in a Keamari district area on Monday. Informed sources told Dawn that Deputy Commissioner-Keamari Ghulam Qadir Khan Talpur had submitted an initial inquiry report to Sindh Chief Secretary Dr Mohammed Sohail Rajput. The report stated that the link of the bank was down for several hours and as a result, hundreds of women had gathered there as funds were not being dispensed to them. However, the report was silent about poor arrangements taken outside the KPT Ground where a large number of women had to wait for hours before entering the BISP centre to collect their cash stipend. Family of woman killed in stampede doesn’t want legal action When contacted, the chief secretary confirmed to Dawn that he received a report that blamed the bank’s link down issue for the incident. He said it was an initial report and the provincial government was looking into the matter. He said it was tragic that a woman had lost her life in such an incident. Jackson SHO Babar Hameed also said there was an issue of lack of internet for a considerable period. However, he opined that the huge rush at KPT Ground was only because the other centre for funds distribution at the SITE area was closed on Monday for some unknown reasons. He said resumption of the BISP funds after a gap of two days and a ramp at the main gate of the ground coupled with hot and humid weather contributed to the stampede. The victim woman, Shakeela, 40, lived in a Jackson locality, he said. He met her husband Mairaj and her father but both told the police that they did not want any legal proceedings. The SHO said that among the injured persons, 13 women were discharged after first medical aid on Monday night while three women were admitted for further treatment. Published in Dawn, June 28th, 2023 Dear visitor, the comments section is undergoing an overhaul and will return soon.  Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed for Dawn. Copyright © 2024, Dawn NewsKit Publishing Platform