icetray - Fotolia Cisco has warned enterprise users of its routing and switching hardware to be on the alert for exploitation of a six-year-old vulnerability by nation-state threat actors linked to states such as Russia and China, after UK and US cyber agencies made a similar appeal. Earlier this week, the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) and its American counterpart highlighted a campaign of malicious activity exploiting CVE-2017-6742, a Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) remote code execution (RCE) vulnerability in Cisco IOS and IOS XE software, affecting multiple devices. This activity, attributed to APT28, a Russian intelligence-backed advanced persistent threat (APT) actor, has seen organisations in Europe and the US, and over 250 Ukrainian victims, attacked with Jaguar Tooth malware, a non-persistent malware targeting Cisco routers, which collects and steals device information and enables unauthenticated backdoor access. “This malicious activity by APT28 presents a serious threat to organisations, and the UK and our US partners are committed to raising awareness of the tactics and techniques being deployed,” said NCSC operations director Paul Chichester. “We strongly encourage network defenders to ensure the latest security updates are applied to their routers and to follow the other mitigation steps outlined in the advisory to prevent compromise.” The networking kingpin said it was “deeply concerned” by the increase in these attacks, which its Talos threat intelligence team has been closely tracking. Matt Olney, director of Talos threat intelligence and interdiction at Cisco, said that while network infrastructure of all types is bombarded with cyber attacks all the time, because of Cisco’s market dominance its hardware was particularly likely to be targeted, and that in this instance, APT-28 has been particularly successful in compromising infrastructure with out-of-date software, as have other state-backed threat actors. “It is reasonable to conclude that any sufficiently capable national intelligence operation would develop and use the capability to compromise the communications infrastructure of their preferred targets,” wrote Olney. “We have observed traffic manipulation, traffic copying, hidden configurations, router malware, infrastructure reconnaissance and active weakening of defences by adversaries operating on networking equipment. Given the variety of activities we have seen adversaries engage in, they have shown a very high level of comfort and expertise working within the confines of compromised networking equipment. “Our assessment is clear – that national intelligence agencies and state-sponsored actors across the globe have attacked network infrastructure as a target of primary preference. Route/switch devices are stable, infrequently examined from a security perspective, often poorly patched and provide deep network visibility. They are the perfect target for an adversary looking to be both quiet and have access to important intelligence capability as well as a foothold in a preferred network,” he said. Olney went on to share details of multiple highly sophisticated actor behaviours Cisco Talos has observed across different platforms, many of them at critical infrastructure facilities. “We are concerned that insufficient awareness and patching, the reliance on end-of-life equipment and the necessity for always-on connectivity make too many infrastructure devices easy prey. The results of these issues range from being an unwitting participant in criminal activity to events of true national security impact,” he wrote. Olney acknowledged that there were many operational realities that make it hard to maintain a truly secure network, however, given the risks to compromised networking hardware, he said it was important that these obstacles are removed. “Regardless of the context, ageing infrastructure is a risk. Relying on out-of-date gear or utilising out-of-date protocols and technologies will eventually cost your organisation,” he said.  The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
