MENU Business.com aims to help business owners make informed decisions to support and grow their companies. We research and recommend products and services suitable for various business types, investing thousands of hours each year in this process. As a business, we need to generate revenue to sustain our content. We have financial relationships with some companies we cover, earning commissions when readers purchase from our partners or share information about their needs. These relationships do not dictate our advice and recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates and recommends products and services based on their research and expertise. Learn more about our process and partners here. Businesses that aren't using social media to connect with customers are missing out on huge growth potential. Business owners’ marketing plans are filled with a wide range of tools and options. However, nearly every business can benefit from social media marketing. With so many consumers using social media, you can reach your target audience and boost sales via social media marketing strategies. Social media experiences differ by industry, business type and organizational scope — plus, social media marketing is constantly changing. However, every business stands to gain significant advantages from using social media as a growth tool. We’ll explore the benefits of social media for business and highlight some mistakes to avoid. According to GWI, 62.3 percent of the world’s population uses social media, with an average daily usage of 2 hours and 23 minutes. With this high usage level, it makes sense to find your customers where they are and connect with your audience on social media. Here are four benefits every business can realize from an effective social media presence. The first and most obvious benefit is identifying your target audience and learning about their needs, thoughts, desires and experiences. People online are often more receptive to brands and products and willing to discuss their experiences. To learn more about your customers and prospects, check out competitors’ social media profiles. Also, visit groups where people discuss your niche. For example, to create content for your gardening website, find Facebook gardening groups and see what people are discussing. Do you notice that most members have similar pain points or questions about growing climate-specific flowers? Then use that information to help build customer personas and a content marketing strategy. Research and collect survey data to learn where your audience hangs out online. Your target audience may spend time on YouTube, so influencer marketing will help you reach those consumers. If many potential customers like X (formerly Twitter), create an active X presence where you interact and respond to consumers. The more you know about your target audience, the more you can personalize the marketing experience. Digital advertising is big business. According to Statista, social network advertising will grow to more than $82.23 billion by 2025. As you learn more about potential customers, you can create personalized ad campaigns on platforms like Facebook, X and Instagram. Many consumers want to see products and offers relevant to their lives and experiences. There are several ways to create personalized ads on social media, including the following: Create a landing page on your website where social media followers will arrive when they click your advertisement. Consider your ads’ scale and frequency before creating your landing page to make the best design decisions. Boosting your SEO ranking and improving engagement are closely connected. Contrary to popular belief, the number of likes and comments doesn’t directly correlate to your SEO ranking. If that were the case, it would be easy for anyone to game the system and get an undeserved ranking. Instead, improving your social media presence can indirectly lead to higher SEO rankings. For example, creating engaging social media posts will encourage consumers to visit your website — positively impacting your SEO ranking. Google wants to know your site is relevant and that users interact with its pages. One SEO strategy for encouraging website traffic via social media is promoting a giveaway on your social media channels. This tactic will improve audience engagement on the social platform while encouraging consumers to head to your homepage and browse your content. Social proof is a psychological phenomenon where people are more likely to buy a product if they see other people using and enjoying it. Many businesses add testimonial pages and positive customer reviews to their websites to build social proof. While this tactic is excellent for enticing curious consumers on your site, you can create social proof online through your social media profiles. For example, if a customer writes a glowing review of your business and tags you, share it on your profile; you should also thank them for their feedback. When people find your profile, they’ll see what others are saying about your business. If your content marketing strategy involves writing guest posts for other publications, share these posts for additional social proof. If someone sees your guest post on a site they already follow and trust, they’ll automatically have confidence in your brand. Like all forms of marketing, social media marketing is only as good as its strategy — and the people implementing it. Faulty social strategy or execution can create negative consequences for a brand. Here are some examples. Social media users want entertainment, connection and education; they don’t venture onto their social platforms seeking a hard sell. While they understand businesses must make sales and social media is a sales channel, they expect a more friendly, casual and low-key approach. Limit your promotional posts and share helpful and interesting content. As a rule of thumb, use the 5:3:2 rule for social media, which says that for every 10 posts: Authenticity is prized on social media, particularly if you want to build a brand that speaks to younger generations. Followers expect companies to be real with them — admitting when they make a mistake and presenting their human side. If your social media account looks too polished — for example, overusing stock photography and models — your followers will likely abandon or attack you online. Show real people in your posts and ads, not models. Include photos and videos of actual employees doing their jobs. The internet is not kind to businesses caught in a lie or deception. When you make a claim, it must be true and backed up by action. For example, let’s say you claim your business prioritizes customer service. In that case, you must display consistent, high-quality customer service via social media as well as phone, web and email channels. If you say your company has a sustainable business model, be ready to back it up with proof and action. Social media will punish greenwashers, and your claim will cause significant damage. People on social media like to follow brands that express values consistent with their own. Don’t promote values that are out of sync with your target market just to make a point. You will end up alienating them and losing followers. If your values differ fundamentally from those of your target market, focus on relatable values. For example, your political views may diverge, but everyone can get behind your commitment to product quality.  People use social media to find value — educational, interesting, surprising, funny, entertaining and helpful information. If your content doesn’t meet these criteria or your graphics and photos are poor quality, followers won’t stick around. Before posting anything, ask yourself if it’s something your audience will want to share or comment on — in a positive way. There’s no question that every small business should embrace social media as a marketing tactic. Countless people use social media to check out new products, research brands and eventually make purchases. It’s your job to pinpoint your target audience and learn about its pain points and goals. Once you understand whom you’re targeting, start creating personalized ad campaigns for potential customers. Nurture your consumer relationships by sharing comments, replying and interacting with other businesses. Finally, gather and act on detailed analytics and find new ways to grow your audience and improve sales. B. newsletter is your digest of bite-sized news, thought & brand leadership, and entertainment. All in one email. Our mission is to help you take your team, your business and your career to the next level. Whether you're here for product recommendations, research or career advice, we're happy you're here!