Fish and shrimp have increased their holdings over the last week, while whales are holding their assets. ARB’s price action has continued to remain bearish.  Arbitrum [ARB] has been seeing quite some traction from the whales as they increased their holding. Generally, an accumulation from whales reflects the big players’ confidence in an asset.  Realistic or not, here’s ARB market cap in BTC’s terms   Therefore, considering the recent whale movement, ARB’s chances of registering a price uptick seemed likely to happen in the coming days.  Lookonchain’s recent tweet highlighted a whale’s activity, which suggested that it was increasing its accumulation. As per the tweet, a whale received 1.19 million ARB, worth over $1 million, from FalconX.  A whale received 1.19M $ARB($1M) from #FalconX again 4 hours ago. This whale has accumulated 2.28M $ARB ($1.93M) from #Binance via #FalconX since Sept 13, with an average buying cost of ~$0.81.https://t.co/HxXA7MUBHc pic.twitter.com/r7nJDkiVgJ — Lookonchain (@lookonchain) September 23, 2023  This whale has accumulated 2.28 million ARB, which were worth $1.93 million from Binance [BNB] via FalconX since 13 September, with an average buying cost of around $0.81. Though this indicated that whales were stockpiling, the reality was a bit different. A look at Santiment’s chart revealed that it was not the whales who were buying, but the fish and shrimp who increased their holding.  This fact was evident from the rise in the number of addresses with a balance of ARB. On the other hand, ARB addresses with balances greater than 10 ARB remained relatively flat.  In fact, whale activity around the token was low, as evident from the number of whale transactions over the last week. Source: Santiment Apart from whale activity, several other metrics were also not in the token’s favor. For instance, its MVRV ratio plummeted sharply last week. Its daily trading volume dropped, signaling less interest from investors in trading the token.  Moreover, Arbitrium’s 1-week price volatility also dropped, which decreased the chances of a sudden northbound price movement. Source: Santiment LunarCrush’s data revealed that the market’s confidence in ARB was also low, as bullish sentiment around the token dropped by 30% last week. According to CoinMarketCap, ARB was down by nearly 1% in the last 24 hours.  At press time, it was trading at $0.8337 with a market capitalization of over $1 billion, making it the 40th largest crypto. How much are 1,10,100 ARBs worth today? Several market indicators also supported the bears. For example, ARB’s Money Flow Index (MFI) and Relative Strength Index (RSI) remained under the neutral mark. Arbitrum’s Chaikin Money Flow (CMF) registered a downtick.  Regardless, the MACD remained in buyers’ favor as it displayed a bullish crossover on 18 September.  Source: TradingView    Disclaimer: AMBCrypto's content is meant to be informational in nature and should not be interpreted as investment advice. Trading, buying or selling cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk investment and every reader is advised to do their own research before making any decisions. © 2024 AMBCrypto