Curated By:  Ritayan Basu News18.com Last Updated: October 02, 2023, 19:30 IST Dhaka, Bangladesh Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC Live Football Streaming For AFC Cup Game: How to Watch Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC Coverage on TV And Online Indian Super League (ISL) side Odisha FC will be up against Bangladesh’s Bashundhara Kings in the second group stage game of the AFC Cup 2023-24 at the Kings Arena in Dhaka on Monday. Sergio Lobera’s side suffered a heavy defeat in the opening match against Mohun Bagan Super Giant. They will be keen to bounce back from their opening loss and remain confident in their abilities to make it past the group stage. For Odisha FC, who are making their debut in the continental competition this season, the match against Bashundhara Kings presents an opportunity for redemption and a chance to showcase their potential in the AFC Cup. The team from Bangladesh is also coming off a defeat in their opening group-stage match against Maziya and playing at their home ground. The supporters’ backing will also provide a massive boost for them as they aim to open their account in the AFC Cup on Monday. India at Asian Games: FULL COVERAGE | MEDAL TALLY | RESULTS | SCHEDULE  Since their defeat to the Mariners, the Juggernauts have recovered well and currently sit third in the ISL group standings with four points from two games. “Hopefully, we will enjoy the match, and hopefully, we will win it. We lost the first game in the AFC Cup. The second game is important to get three points to keep our chances alive to progress in this competition,” Lobera said ahead of the clash. What date AFC Cup match between Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC will be played? The AFC Cup match between Bashundhara Kings and Odisha FC will be played on October 2, Monday. Where will the AFC Cup match Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC be played? The AFC Cup match between Bashundhara Kings and Odisha FC will be played at the Bashundhara Kings Arena in Dhaka, Bangladesh. What time will the AFC Cup match between Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC begin? The AFC Cup match between Bashundhara Kings and Odisha FC will start at 5:30 PM IST on October 2, Monday. Which TV channels will broadcast Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC AFC Cup match? The Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC match will not be televised in India. How do I watch Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC AFC Cup match live streaming? Bashundhara Kings vs Odisha FC match will be streamed live on the Fancode app and website.