A Patriots fan brought a class-action lawsuit against Tom Brady, Gisele Bundchen and others over their endorsement of FTX. Between his divorce from Gisele Bunchen and the Buccaneers’ struggles this season, it must have been a stressful fall for Tom Brady. Now we can add another thing to his plate this winter: Fighting off a class-action lawsuit. Brady, Bunchen and a host of other celebrities are in the crosshairs of the lawsuit brought by Michael Livieratos, who happens to be a Patriots fan. When Michael Livieratos saw quarterback Tom Brady in a commercial for the cryptocurrency trading platform FTX, he knew exactly where he wanted to put his $30,000 crypto investment.He soon moved nearly all his money from another crypto exchange to FTX. https://t.co/LzlsNRpdCR “As a New England Patriots fan my entire life, you can imagine the influence that Tom Brady would have,” Livieratos told the Washington Post. Trusting Brady is at the crux of the argument for the lawsuit: Celebrity endorsements legitimized FTX despite serious issues with the company behind the scenes. Livieratos ended up putting $30,000 into FTX, an investment that came back to bite him when the company failed earlier this year. We’ll have to see if anything comes of this one, though it’ll probably take some time for the dust to clear. The worst-case scenario is something like this pushing Brady closer to retirement or convincing him not to go back to New England if he does decide to continue his career outside of Tampa Bay, as has been rumored. This isn’t the first lawsuit Brady and the others have had to deal with over their standing as FTX ambassadors. And it’s not even the most serious element surrounding the FTX fiasco for people like Brady with investigations at the state level also underway. Next. Pats DE blasts NFLPA over 'random' drug tests. dark © 2024 Minute Media - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All betting content is intended for an audience ages 21+. All advice, including picks and predictions, is based on individual commentators’ opinions and not that of Minute Media or its related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only. No one should expect to make money from the picks and predictions discussed on this website. For more information, please read our Legal Disclaimer. Gambling content intended for 21+. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.