Live content, sports statistics and e-commerce marketplace FanCode has announced that it will stream the FIH Odisha Hockey Men’s World Cup 2023 Bhubaneswar-Rourkela live on its platform. All 44 matches will be streamed on the company's FanCode app and its website. India is hosting this edition of the World Cup, with the flagship tournament set to be played in Bhubaneswar and Rourkela, Odisha. Sixteen nations will vie for glory in the World Cup, with the final on January 29. The platform had earlier streamed the FIH Hockey Nations Cup (Men’s and Women’s) live, which was held in South Africa and Spain in November-December 2022. The Indian Women’s Hockey Team won the tournament, thus qualifying directly for the FIH Hockey Women’s Pro League for the 2023-24 season. The Indian men’s team goes into the World Cup as host, on the back of its inspiring performance in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. The team bagged Bronze, ending a four-decade-long wait for an Olympic medal. India is placed in Pool D in this World Cup, along with England, Wales, and Spain. India last won the World Cup over four decades ago, in 1975, and fans will be pumped to watch them in action on home soil. The sports firm is also streaming marquee events in other sports, with the HSBC Rugby Sevens, and the Kooyong Classic exhibition tennis tournament in Melbourne, Australia. It is also currently streaming Bangladesh’s marquee T20 contest Bangladesh Premier League, the Kerala Premier League, and the Goa Professional League (both football). India’s sports media and sponsorship industry reached about  ₹95 billion in FY20 but will be growing at a slower pace to reach  ₹150 billion by 2024, a report said. According to the report by sports-related employment agency Sporjo and FICCI, the industry grew at a CAGR of 14% till 2020. Catch all the Business News ,  Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News  Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App  to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.