Raid Hour (also referred to as Legendary Raid Hour) started as an experiment in March 2019. Initially called Legendary Lunch Hour, Niantic set aside an hour on Wednesdays for Pokémon GO Trainers to find 5-Star (Legendary) Raids easier by increasing the appearance rates. After further testing, Raid Hour was renamed…
 Raid Hour (also referred to as Legendary Raid Hour) started as an experiment in March 2019. Initially called Legendary Lunch Hour, Niantic set aside an hour on Wednesdays for Pokémon GO Trainers to find 5-Star (Legendary) Raids easier by increasing the appearance rates. After further testing, Raid Hour was renamed… Read More 
 August 19th, 2024
 Funko Fusion, the latest game to attempt blending pop culture, toys, and gaming, has revealed that Mega Man will be a playable character when the game launches on September 13th.   Funko Fusion is packed with beloved film, TV, and gaming franchises, including Five Nights at Freddy’s, Jurassic Park, He-Man,…
 Funko Fusion, the latest game to attempt blending pop culture, toys, and gaming, has revealed that Mega Man will be a playable character when the game launches on September 13th.   Funko Fusion is packed with beloved film, TV, and gaming franchises, including Five Nights at Freddy’s, Jurassic Park, He-Man,… Read More 
 August 19th, 2024
 Few things are more exciting than the announcement of a Nintendo Direct, even when it’s focused on something other than games or hardware. Today, Nintendo revealed that a special 10-minute Direct will air at 3:00 PM PT / 6:00 PM ET, entirely dedicated to the upcoming Nintendo Museum in Kyoto,…
 Few things are more exciting than the announcement of a Nintendo Direct, even when it’s focused on something other than games or hardware. Today, Nintendo revealed that a special 10-minute Direct will air at 3:00 PM PT / 6:00 PM ET, entirely dedicated to the upcoming Nintendo Museum in Kyoto,… Read More 
 August 19th, 2024
 Any day is a good day for more plushies — I have about three dozen on my bed as I type. This is something the folks at Fangamer understand perfectly and intrinsically well, as they’ve made a new plushie set of Ryu and Nina from Breath of Fire, designed by Temmie Chang (yes, that Temmie) and Saber Murphy. This is one of only a handful of new products for Fangamer’s Capcom line.      The plushies ($36) are joined by two Breath of Fire keychains — one of Ryu and Nina again, and another of Katt from BoF II ($10 each). From Mega Man, we have a new Rush Coil pin ($12), a Mega Fighting Robot shirt ($28), an E-Tank long sleeved shirt ($39), a Servbot Squad pullover hoodie ($49), and a Mega Man Legends vinyl soundtrack ($39). Finally, there’s a Viewtiful Joe vinyl soundtrack as well ($39).      You can order any and all of these from Fangamer right now, along with a ton of other quality products.   A writer and Nintendo fan based in Seattle, Washington. When not working for NinWire, she can be found eating pasta, writing stories, and wondering about when Mother 3 is finally going to get an official localization.  


