Raid Hour (also referred to as Legendary Raid Hour) started as an experiment in March 2019. Initially called Legendary Lunch Hour, Niantic set aside an hour on Wednesdays for Pokémon GO Trainers to find 5-Star (Legendary) Raids easier by increasing the appearance rates. After further testing, Raid Hour was renamed…
 Raid Hour (also referred to as Legendary Raid Hour) started as an experiment in March 2019. Initially called Legendary Lunch Hour, Niantic set aside an hour on Wednesdays for Pokémon GO Trainers to find 5-Star (Legendary) Raids easier by increasing the appearance rates. After further testing, Raid Hour was renamed… Read More 
 August 19th, 2024
 Funko Fusion, the latest game to attempt blending pop culture, toys, and gaming, has revealed that Mega Man will be a playable character when the game launches on September 13th.   Funko Fusion is packed with beloved film, TV, and gaming franchises, including Five Nights at Freddy’s, Jurassic Park, He-Man,…
 Funko Fusion, the latest game to attempt blending pop culture, toys, and gaming, has revealed that Mega Man will be a playable character when the game launches on September 13th.   Funko Fusion is packed with beloved film, TV, and gaming franchises, including Five Nights at Freddy’s, Jurassic Park, He-Man,… Read More 
 August 19th, 2024
 Few things are more exciting than the announcement of a Nintendo Direct, even when it’s focused on something other than games or hardware. Today, Nintendo revealed that a special 10-minute Direct will air at 3:00 PM PT / 6:00 PM ET, entirely dedicated to the upcoming Nintendo Museum in Kyoto,…
 Few things are more exciting than the announcement of a Nintendo Direct, even when it’s focused on something other than games or hardware. Today, Nintendo revealed that a special 10-minute Direct will air at 3:00 PM PT / 6:00 PM ET, entirely dedicated to the upcoming Nintendo Museum in Kyoto,… Read More 
 August 19th, 2024
 Yesterday’s Nintendo Direct saw the long-awaited return of Metal Gear Solid to Nintendo platforms with the confirmation of Master Collection Vol. 1 for the Switch. With almost perfect timing, Fangamer has announced new merchandise for the series. First up we have a couple of pins – one based on Metal Gear Solid 4’s Mk. II, featuring a foldable screen with its own lenticular sticker that shows Otacon and Sunny, while the other is a more simple design with Naked Snake wearing the very silly Croc Cap. 










  But what if you’re a busy spy who needs to take notes? Well look no further than the Metal Gear Solid Stationary Set, featuring note pads for the first three games, two pencils, and a selection of stickers.  Finally we have a cute Foxhound Cap, featuring the group’s original logo from the MSX games, and an even cuter plush of Metal Gear Solid V’s D Dog. Yes, he can hold a knife. 










  All of these are available to order now!
  Whether it’s an exciting new entry in a series long established or a weird experiment meant only for the dedicated, Tom is eager to report on it. Rest assured, if Nintendo ever announces Elite Beat Agents 2, he’ll be there.  



