Initially announced on January 31st, 2020, Niantic announced it would begin testing new types of events during February 2020 – Pokémon Spotlight Hour and Mystery Bonus Hour. After testing and user feedback, Niantic combined both events into one and announced what Pokémon and bonuses would be featured in advance. Now,…
 Initially announced on January 31st, 2020, Niantic announced it would begin testing new types of events during February 2020 – Pokémon Spotlight Hour and Mystery Bonus Hour. After testing and user feedback, Niantic combined both events into one and announced what Pokémon and bonuses would be featured in advance. Now,… Read More 
 August 18th, 2024
 When The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom was first announced, the official Japanese website strongly hinted that amiibo would play a role in the game with an amiibo logo found on the games Japanese eShop listing.. Now, with just over a month until the game’s September 26th release, we…
 When The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom was first announced, the official Japanese website strongly hinted that amiibo would play a role in the game with an amiibo logo found on the games Japanese eShop listing.. Now, with just over a month until the game’s September 26th release, we… Read More 
 August 17th, 2024
 Nintendo of America has just announced that the demo for the upcoming game Emio – The Smiling Man: Famicom Detective Club will be available on Nintendo Switch starting August 19 at 6 PM PT. Play the opening chapters of Emio – The Smiling Man: Famicom Detective Club with a free…
 Nintendo of America has just announced that the demo for the upcoming game Emio – The Smiling Man: Famicom Detective Club will be available on Nintendo Switch starting August 19 at 6 PM PT. Play the opening chapters of Emio – The Smiling Man: Famicom Detective Club with a free… Read More 
 August 16th, 2024
 Well, there he is. Conker the king. Rare’s decidedly not family-friendly squirrel is back in merchandise form thanks to Fangamer. They’d already handled Banjo-Kazooie with gusto, and now our other favorite ex-Diddy Kong racer is getting his turn.   This isn't just a Conker plush. This is a @Fangamer Conker plush with brand new voice lines recorded by @conkerhimself. Will also probably drink any beer you have in the house. 👑 https://t.co/yV8TYFSxQW pic.twitter.com/vk4M0WTauI — Rare Ltd. (@RareLtd) September 22, 2020    The main attraction is a plush of Conker himself, complete with removable crown accessory. This is no garden variety plush though, as this raunchy rodent actually talks! Conker’s original voice actor (and game designer) Chris Seavor has recorded new voice clips for this extra special merch.      Along with the plush comes a new pin of Conker, capturing his glare (and regrets) from the game’s intro video. If that’s a little too brooding for you, you can go the other way and pick up a Cock and Plucker pint and shot glass set, evoking the bar where Conker drowns his sorrows. Last but not least is a Conker shirt, perfectly modeled after old Spuds McKenzie ads to bring us the Original Party Squirrel.     Collect yourself a handful of (preferably googly-eyed) cash because all four of these new pieces of official Conker merch are available now.   When he isn’t writing for Nintendo Wire, Ricky’s anticipating the next Kirby, Fire Emblem, or if the stars ever align, Mother 3 to be released. Till then he’ll have the warm comfort of Super Smash Bros. to keep him going.  



