
We don’t support this browser anymore.
              This means our website may not look and work as you would expect.
              Read more about browsers and how to update them here.
             We're making changes to our website. Find out more 
							Federal National Mortgage Association is engaged in providing a source of financing for residential mortgages in the United States. The Company is a government-sponsored, stockholder-owned corporation, chartered by Congress to provide liquidity and stability to the United States housing market. Its segments include Single-Family and Multifamily. The Single-Family business operates in the secondary mortgage market relating to loans secured by properties containing four or fewer residential dwelling units. The Multifamily business operates in the secondary mortgage market relating to loans secured by properties containing five or more residential units. It engages in three categories of mortgage securitization transactions: lender swap transactions, portfolio securitization transactions, and structured securitization transactions. It funds its business through the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities in the domestic and international capital markets.
						 Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. The London Stock Exchange does not disclose whether a trade is a buy or a sell so this data is estimated based on the trade price received and the LSE-quoted mid-price at the point the trade is placed. It should only be considered an indication and not a recommendation. Trades priced above the mid-price at the time the trade is placed are labelled as a buy; those priced below the mid-price are sells; and those priced close to the mid-price or declared late are labelled 'N/A'. Our website offers information about investing and saving, but not personal advice. If you're not sure which investments are right for you, please request advice, for example from our financial advisers. If you decide to invest, read our important investment notes first and remember that investments can go up and down in value, so you could get back less than you put in. Important information Useful information Popular services Online access Other websites We're here to help - call our helpdesk or send us a message. Contact us © Copyright 2024 Hargreaves Lansdown. All rights reserved.Hargreaves Lansdown is a trading name of Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited, a company registered in England and Wales with company number 01896481 and authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Information about us can be found on the Financial Services Register (register number 115248).Registered Office: 1 College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL.