
	If you purchase something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission.
		 A new mortgage fee structure lowers fees for borrowers with weaker credit scores and raises them for some people with higher scores. A new mortgage fee structure lowers fees for borrowers with weaker credit scores and raises them for some people with higher scores. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. A new mortgage fee structure lowers fees for borrowers with weaker credit scores and raises them for some people with higher scores. Jean Folger is writer specializing in real estate and personal finance. She has written for Investopedia, The Motley Fool, Business Insider, and more. She is also the co-founder of PowerZone Trading, a company that has provided software, consulting, and strategy development services to active traders and investors since 2004. Her goal is to help people make better financial decisions, so they have more money and time to spend on the things that matter most. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. This may influence which products we write about and where those products appear on the site, but it does not affect our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in research.  Mobile app users, click here for the best viewing experience. If you're in the market for a new home, be aware that the upfront mortgage fees for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae-backed loans have changed. Starting May 1, the fees dropped for borrowers with lower credit scores and rose slightly for those with stronger scores — a move designed to make homeownership more widely affordable. Here's what you need to know about the new mortgage fee structure and how it could affect you.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) oversees Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) that provide "liquidity, stability, and affordability" to the mortgage market. The agency recently revamped its loan-level price adjustment fee structure to improve housing affordability in the U.S. by reducing upfront homeownership costs and eliminating barriers related to insufficient credit. According to a Fannie Mae press release, the changes are part of a plan to facilitate "equitable and sustainable access to homeownership" nationwide.  Loan-level price adjustments (LLPAs) are risk-based fees that Freddie and Fannie charge. LLPAs aren't new: They were introduced in 2008 (around the time of the financial crisis) to help offset Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae's risk. LLPAs vary depending on various factors, including mortgage type, loan purpose, property type, loan-to-value (LTV), and the borrower's credit score.  TIP: Most lenders convert LLPAs into the interest rate on the mortgage, which the borrower pays over time.  For borrowers with lower credit scores, the fee changes shrink the penalty for having a low score to make homeownership more accessible. At the same time, homebuyers with higher credit scores might see increased fees but will still pay less than lower credit borrowers based on their lower risk to lenders.   For example, the fee for homebuyers with a credit score of 640 and a 20% down payment decreased by 0.75%, from 3% to 2.25%. Meanwhile, the fee for someone with a credit score of 740 jumped 0.375%, from 0.5% to 0.875% — still substantially lower than the fee for low credit borrowers. On a $300,000 loan, the new LLPA structure results in a $2,250 savings for borrowers with a credit score of 640 and a $1,125 increase for those with a 740 credit score. With a $400,000 loan, buyers with a 640 credit score would save $2,000, while those with a 740 credit score would see fees increase by $1,500.   While the new LLPA fee structure doesn't affect every credit score range and LTV, many levels have increased or decreased. The following table from the Urban Institute shows how the fees have changed between the old and new FHFA pricing structures: TIP: Visit Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to view new tables outlining the fees based on credit score and LTV (the loan-to-value ratio).  Not all types of mortgages are affected by the new rules. Conventional and refinance loans guaranteed by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae (regardless of lender) have changed under the new LLPA structure. However, FHA, VA, USDA, and HUD Section 184 mortgages are excluded.  Critics say the new price structure penalizes buyers with strong credit scores who are struggling to enter the housing market due to high prices and mortgage rates. For example, while the National Association of Realtors (NAR) supports adjustments that reduce costs for some borrowers, they have concerns about increases for other consumers. "In the wake of a three-percentage point increase in mortgage rates, now is not the time to raise fees on homebuyers," said NAR president Kenny Parcell in a January statement.  Other critics have suggested that Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are overcharging people with good credit to undercharge those with bad credit — making homeownership harder for one group and easier for another. However, Jim Parrott, a nonresident fellow at the Urban Institute and owner of Parrott Ryan Advisors, says that criticism is misplaced and conflates "two separate, largely unrelated moves on pricing for the government-sponsored enterprises."  Last year the FHFA increased the fees on loans that have less justification for government support — including loans for vacation homes, investment properties, luxury homes, and cash-out refinancing. According to Parrott, the "FHFA has used the increased revenues from those changes to decrease costs for people who genuinely need the help — borrowers with limited wealth or income." Parrott also notes that the suggestion that the FHFA is making homeownership unnecessarily pricey for some to make it cheaper for others leaves out a critical piece of the story. "Borrowers who put down less than 20 percent will still pay more in total fees for their mortgage because they will pay a private mortgage insurance premium in addition to their GSE fees."  TIP: The FHFA also plans a new upfront fee for borrowers with a debt-to-income (DTI) ratio above 40%. The fee was slated to take effect May 1, but the FHFA has delayed the effective date by three months to ensure lenders have time to deploy the new DTI ratio-based fee.  Ultimately, people with lower credit scores and smaller down payments will still pay more than borrowers with higher credit scores and larger down payments under the new LLPA price structure. To find the best mortgage rates and terms, compare at least three lenders before making a decision. That way, you can find the best option for your credit score, LTV, and budget.  Editorial Disclosure: All articles are prepared by editorial staff and contributors. Opinions expressed therein are solely those of the editorial team and have not been reviewed or approved by any advertiser. The information, including rates and fees, presented in this article is accurate as of the date of the publish. Check the lender’s website for the most current information. This article was originally published on SFGate.com and reviewed by Lauren Williamson, who serves as Financial and Home Services Editor for the Hearst E-Commerce team. Email her at lauren.williamson@hearst.com. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.