
                
                    
                        Let Construction Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Permits for apartments of more than five units have plummeted 32% since last year, and starts have stayed flat, according to a new report. First published on Despite July’s starts numbers staying flat, apartment executives have seen a dropoff in appetite for new, large projects, which showed up in July’s starts numbers. The culprit is higher interest rates, which have increased borrowing costs for developers. “We continue to expect the rate of multifamily starts to slow throughout the year as national rent growth is sluggish and banks tighten lending conditions,” said Mark Palim, deputy chief economist at Fannie Mae, in a press statement.  Even well-funded REITs are cutting back. Arlington, Virginia-based AvalonBay Communities’ Chief Investment Officer Matt Birenbaum said the firm was reducing guidance for the number of projects it is starting in 2023.  “We have raised our required returns on new development starts given our increased cost to capital and focus on maintaining 100 to 150 basis points of spread between underlying market cap rates and our projected development,” Birenbaum said on the company’s most recent earnings call. Even with those declines, developers aren’t seeing tangible price savings yet. “There’s not a lot of motivated land sellers, and a 30% decline in land costs with a construction cost that has stayed flat but not gone up still is very, very hard to pencil,” said Houston-based Camden Property Trust CEO Ric Campo on the company’s second-quarter earnings call. A lot of contractors are still building out projects. Once those jobs are finished, those firms may be looking for jobs and willing to negotiate on price. “When contractors start looking out into the future and they don’t see a pipeline, they’re going to have to be more competitive and start tightening their margins and thinking about how they have to compete to get the next job in 2025 or 2026,” Campo said. “So we could see some cost reductions next year toward the end of the year. But the pipeline is full right now, and contractors are still printing money.” Click here to sign up to receive multifamily and apartment news like this article in your inbox every weekday. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Todd Friis, senior vice president of risk management for the Chicago builder, says his firm uses an array of tech safety tools to keep tabs on jobsites and for documentation after the fact. The integrated company, to be chaired by Turner Construction CEO Peter Davoren, will boast a backlog of $17.2 billion and operations in 24 states and eight Canadian provinces. Subscribe to Construction Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Todd Friis, senior vice president of risk management for the Chicago builder, says his firm uses an array of tech safety tools to keep tabs on jobsites and for documentation after the fact. The integrated company, to be chaired by Turner Construction CEO Peter Davoren, will boast a backlog of $17.2 billion and operations in 24 states and eight Canadian provinces. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines