  Reverse Mortgage Daily (RMD) has a new home with HousingWire. Edited by Chris Clow and the HousingWire Newsroom, RMD provides dedicated reverse mortgage news, insights and commentary. HousingWire is investing in more reverse mortgage news coverage and analysis to provide you with the full picture. Welcome to the new Reverse Mortgage Daily!   A daily newsletter featuring our latest reverse mortgage news and analysis. Enter your email below to get on the list! Montana’s state-run reverse mortgage program has cash on hand to assist seniors. A Board of Housing leader is making the case to the public. The mortgage industry is undergoing a rapid transformation and becoming 100% data-driven. Join us as JR Huber, EVP of Sales & Production at Mortgage Investors Group, Richard Grieser, VP of Marketing at Truv, and Taylor Stork, COO of Developer’s Mortgage Company, discuss staying in front of the digital innovations shaping the future of lending. Discover […] Reverse purchase financing: The financing option no one is talking about With reverse purchase financing, older homebuyers can increase their purchasing power with fewer financial limitations as they move towards retirement. How Reverse for Purchase can help baby boomer borrowers Older Americans are sitting on more than $12 trillion in home equity, according to the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association (NRMLA)/Riskspan Reverse Mortgage Market Index. These homeowners are seeking different retirement solutions to help allocate their home equity and make it more durable over the next 20 to 30 years. How one company is empowering homeowners and brokers with home equity products HW Media Managing Editor of Content Solutions Maleesa Smith sits down with Adrian Prieto, SVP of Wholesale at Longbridge Financial, to discuss the home equity conversion mortgage and its advantages for homeowners aged 62 and up. HECM vs. HELOC: What are the advantages? Today’s housing market has many looking for ways to cash in their equity, especially older homeowners. However, the standard HELOC isn’t the right choice for everyone. HousingWire recently spoke with Adrian Prieto, SVP of wholesale and third-party relationships at Longbridge Financial, about the advantages of HECMs and how they better serve homeowners aged 62 and older.  Chris Mayer: Housing policy, securitization and building the nation’s largest wholesale reverse mortgage lender On this episode, HW Media CEO Clayton Collins sits down with Chris Mayer, CEO of the fastest-growing major reverse mortgage lender, Longbridge Financial. Chris is also a professor of finance at Columbia Business School, has held positions at the Federal Reserve and has spent his career publishing his writing on housing and mortgages in top academic journals. On today’s episode, Editor in Chief Sarah Wheeler talks with Editor Chris Clow about the newly formed Real Estate Caucus in Congress and what they might accomplish, as well as the latest in reverse news. Related to this episode: The HousingWire Daily podcast examines the most compelling articles reported across HW Media. Each morning, we […]  


Remember me

 Don't have an account? Please Sign Up