Notifications can be managed in browser preferences. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in London markets grapple with takeover as FTSE 100 down 0.7 per cent today  Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile Our mission is to deliver unbiased, fact-based reporting that holds power to account and exposes the truth.Whether $5 or $50, every contribution counts.Support us to deliver journalism without an agenda. Louise Thomas Editor UBS shares have fallen by as much as 16 per cent in early trade, their biggest one-day fall since 2008.  It follows concerns among investors about the long-term benefits of the rescue deal for Credit Suisse and the outlook for banks in Switzerland. In a package engineered by Swiss regulators on Sunday, UBS Group AG will pay 3 billion Swiss francs (£2.65bn) for Credit Suisse Group AG and assume up to 5 billion francs (£4.4bn) in losses. Credit Suisse shares slumped 62 per cent, reflecting the huge loss its shareholders will see in their investment in the bank. Meanwhile, the FTSE 100 was down 0.7 per cent as markets opened in London, after UBS agreed a rescue deal to buy its banking rival Credit Suisse in a $3.2bn takeover. Asia markets were also mostly down on Monday morning, with Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index leading losses in the region – falling more than 2 per cent and dragged down by healthcare stocks, CNBC reported. Six central banks have moved to boost the flow of US dollars to alleviate unease in global financial markets. In a joint statement, the Bank of England, Bank of Japan, Bank of Canada, the European Central Bank, the US Federal Reserve and the Swiss National Bank said they had launched the co-ordinated action to “enhance the provision of liquidity”, reported the BBC. The statement added that the move was an “important backstop to ease strains in global funding markets” and to lessen the impact on the supply of credit to households and businesses. The arrangement, first adopted during the 2008 financial crisis and again during the Covid pandemic, will start on Monday and continue “at least through the end of April”, the Bank of England said. The Bank of England (BoE) has insisted Britain’s financial system is “safe and sound” in an effort to calm nerves as markets prepare to reopen in the wake of the emergency sale of Credit Suisse to UBS. Read more: Threadneedle Street has days before next interest rates call, as central banks signal more turmoil could follow  Banking giant UBS will buy its ailing rival Credit Suisse in a snap deal brokered by Swiss authorities to avoid further chaos in markets after a series of high-profile financial failures. Read more: Central banks around the world hail £2.7bn merger which saw Swiss government bend the rules for swift action  Asia markets were mostly down on Monday morning with Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index leading losses in the region, falling more than 2 per cent and dragged down by healthcare stocks, reported CNBC. The Shanghai Composite was up 0.27 per cent, while the Shenzhen Component was 0.39 per cent higher. Japan’s Nikkei 225 was 0.83 per cent down and the Topix was 0.9 per cent lower. Meanwhile in South Korea, Kospi is 0.27 per cent lower while the Kosdaq was trading at 0.69 per cent higher. Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies AP Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Log in New to The Independent? Or if you would prefer: 