Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 After being hit in the face by a 92 mph fastball, Kyle Farmer wasn’t eager to look in a mirror. But, dazed on painkillers and still in his uniform, the Twins infielder decided he wanted to see what he looked like before undergoing emergency surgery.“I took a selfie,” he said.While the snap was in fact taken by Farmer himself, calling it a selfie is a little deceiving. The photo, still on his mobile phone, is not a celebration. He is not smiling, and at any rate there are few teeth involved.“It was not pretty,” he said.If the selfie were shown in public, it would be preceded by a warning.“I’m trying not to think about it anymore,” Farmer said Wednesday at CHS Field. “It’s part of the game.”On a rehab assignment with the Saints, Farmer took three at-bats in Tuesday’s 11-5 loss to the Nashville Sounds, and if you didn’t know about the Lucas Giolito fastball that sent him to the hospital on April 12, you’d never have known they were his first at-bats since he was face down in the Target Field batter’s box choking on four of his bottom teeth.Twins president of baseball operations Derek Falvey was at CHS Field on Tuesday to watch Farmer’s first at-bats. He came out swinging, as usual.

In his first plate appearance, he popped out to right. In his last, he grounded sharply to the shortstop. On Wednesday, he was St. Paul’s designated hitter in the second of a six-game series against the Milwaukee Brewers’ Triple-A affiliate.“A lot of people asked if I was nervous; I really wasn’t,” Farmer said. “I was just trying not to think about it and just kinda went out there and did my business and followed the same routine I normally do.”Farmer, 32, is not unaccustomed to being hit by pitches. Before he was traded to the Twins last November — for minor league right-hander Casey Legumina — he was hit a total of 34 times in his two full seasons. But not like this. Giolito’s fastball, clocked at 91.6 mph, rode up and in, and before Farmer could turn away, it hit him flush in the mouth.Minnesota Twins’ Kyle Farmer exits the game with trainers after being hit in the head by a pitch during the fourth inning of a baseball game against the Chicago White Sox, Wednesday, April 12, 2023, in Minneapolis. (AP Photo/Abbie Parr)When he was finally able to get up, Farmer stumbled off the field with help and was immediately put into an ambulance. Once inside, he was given fentanyl through an IV. The ensuing surgery included 35 stitches to his face and securing four bottom teeth with metal braces.“I woke up and I felt like someone had just killed me,” he said.He couldn’t sleep on his side or eat for two days. Three weeks later, he still has a fat lower lip, and that metal keeping his lower teeth in place is scheduled to come out on Monday.“It’s always in the back of your mind, the possibility of getting hit, but you try not to think about it,” he said. “This one affected me a lot more than the others because, I mean, surgery and stuff like that — pictures and watching the video of it.”Maybe the most unexpected part of the whole experience for Farmer was that Giolito, who grabbed his face with both hands when Farmer went down, never reached out.“Strange,” Farmer said. “I don’t know why he didn’t reach out. I’ve never had any beef with him. It is what it is.”Friend Justin Turner was hit in the face by a pitch during a spring training game in March. A teammate with the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2016 and 2017, he did reach out to Farmer with advice.What did he say?“ ‘Just get back in there. It’s your job and you have to deal with it. Just be a ballplayer,’ ” Farmer said.That’s what he’s doing. He was 0 for 3 with a walk and a pair of strikeouts in Wednesday’s 5-3 victory over the Sounds. The plan is to give him a week with the Saints before he’s activated from the 10-day injured list.“I hope I face someone throwing a hundred (mph) down here,” Farmer said. “I’d like to see that. I don’t know. You just have to block it out and keep going, keep grinding.”Related Articles
Minnesota Twins |  

			St. Paul Saints’ losing streak grows to nine games with walk-off loss to Indianapolis		


Minnesota Twins |  

			Indianapolis’ Thomas Harrington, two relievers shut out Saints and send them to eighth straight loss		


Minnesota Twins |  

			Caleb Boushley delivers strong start but St. Paul Saints lose seventh straight		


Minnesota Twins |  

			Powered by 11 singles, Indianapolis edges Saints 6-4		


Minnesota Twins |  

			Impressive Triple-A debut for Andrew Morris, but Saints lose to Indians		

 “I took a selfie,” he said. While the snap was in fact taken by Farmer himself, calling it a selfie is a little deceiving. The photo, still on his mobile phone, is not a celebration. He is not smiling, and at any rate there are few teeth involved. “It was not pretty,” he said. If the selfie were shown in public, it would be preceded by a warning. “I’m trying not to think about it anymore,” Farmer said Wednesday at CHS Field. “It’s part of the game.” On a rehab assignment with the Saints, Farmer took three at-bats in Tuesday’s 11-5 loss to the Nashville Sounds, and if you didn’t know about the Lucas Giolito fastball that sent him to the hospital on April 12, you’d never have known they were his first at-bats since he was face down in the Target Field batter’s box choking on four of his bottom teeth. Twins president of baseball operations Derek Falvey was at CHS Field on Tuesday to watch Farmer’s first at-bats. He came out swinging, as usual. In his first plate appearance, he popped out to right. In his last, he grounded sharply to the shortstop. On Wednesday, he was St. Paul’s designated hitter in the second of a six-game series against the Milwaukee Brewers’ Triple-A affiliate. “A lot of people asked if I was nervous; I really wasn’t,” Farmer said. “I was just trying not to think about it and just kinda went out there and did my business and followed the same routine I normally do.” Farmer, 32, is not unaccustomed to being hit by pitches. Before he was traded to the Twins last November — for minor league right-hander Casey Legumina — he was hit a total of 34 times in his two full seasons. But not like this. Giolito’s fastball, clocked at 91.6 mph, rode up and in, and before Farmer could turn away, it hit him flush in the mouth. When he was finally able to get up, Farmer stumbled off the field with help and was immediately put into an ambulance. Once inside, he was given fentanyl through an IV. The ensuing surgery included 35 stitches to his face and securing four bottom teeth with metal braces. “I woke up and I felt like someone had just killed me,” he said. He couldn’t sleep on his side or eat for two days. Three weeks later, he still has a fat lower lip, and that metal keeping his lower teeth in place is scheduled to come out on Monday. “It’s always in the back of your mind, the possibility of getting hit, but you try not to think about it,” he said. “This one affected me a lot more than the others because, I mean, surgery and stuff like that — pictures and watching the video of it.” Maybe the most unexpected part of the whole experience for Farmer was that Giolito, who grabbed his face with both hands when Farmer went down, never reached out. “Strange,” Farmer said. “I don’t know why he didn’t reach out. I’ve never had any beef with him. It is what it is.” Friend Justin Turner was hit in the face by a pitch during a spring training game in March. A teammate with the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2016 and 2017, he did reach out to Farmer with advice. What did he say? “ ‘Just get back in there. It’s your job and you have to deal with it. Just be a ballplayer,’ ” Farmer said. That’s what he’s doing. He was 0 for 3 with a walk and a pair of strikeouts in Wednesday’s 5-3 victory over the Sounds. The plan is to give him a week with the Saints before he’s activated from the 10-day injured list. “I hope I face someone throwing a hundred (mph) down here,” Farmer said. “I’d like to see that. I don’t know. You just have to block it out and keep going, keep grinding.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group