MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More Discover if you are overpaying for car insurance below. With our comparison partner,  Daniel Robinson is a writer based in Greenville, N.C. with expertise in auto insurance, loans, warranty options and more. Away from the keyboard, Daniel spends time with his wife and son, plays guitar and obsesses over the Beatles and Baltimore Orioles. RaShawn Mitchner is a MarketWatch Guides team senior editor covering personal finance topics and insurance. She’s spent over a decade writing and editing articles about how to save money on travel, entertainment, household services and more. RaShawn Mitchner is a MarketWatch Guides team senior editor covering personal finance topics and insurance. She’s spent over a decade writing and editing articles about how to save money on travel, entertainment, household services and more. Here’s a breakdown of how we reviewed and rated the top auto insurance providers It’s important to look at multiple auto insurance providers to get the best price on your car insurance premium. This is why we at the MarketWatch Guides Team reviewed the best car insurance companies on the market. In this article, we’ll compare Farmers and Geico and see which provider is best based on cost, coverage and customer experience. Compare Car Insurance Rates With our comparison partner,     With our comparison partner,  Learn more about our methodology and editorial guidelines. Both Farmers and Geico are strong providers for car insurance, but which is a better option overall? Our team ranks Geico sixth in our insurance provider rankings while Farmers is 19th. Out of 10.0 points, Geico tops Farmers in our methodology with an overall score of 9.1 to 8.6. However, even though Geico has a sizable victory overall, Farmers has the edge in coverage and ties with Geico in availability and customer experience. In the table below, you can see how Farmers and Geico stack up against one another in each category. Geico has one of the best reputations of any insurance provider, with an A++ financial strength rating from AM Best, which shows its reliability to paying out auto claims. Geico also has an A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau (BBB). In the J.D. Power 2023 U.S. Insurance Shopping Study℠, Geico scored just below the industry average in overall customer satisfaction for large insurers. Meanwhile, Farmers has an A rating from AM Best and an A rating from BBB. The company also ranks second for large insurance providers in the same J.D. Power study, which puts it well above Geico’s seventh place. This means that J.D. Power found that Farmers offers fairer settlement values, quicker claims service and better communication compared to Geico. The table below shows the breakdown of the reputation category for both Farmers and Geico. Here’s a look at what makes Farmers special: Find out more about Farmers insurance services and products in our Farmers Insurance review. Here’s a look at what makes Geico special: Find out more about Geico insurance services and products in our Geico insurance review. Both Farmers and Geico offer the six typical insurance coverage plans, as well as add-on options that can fit to your specific insurance needs. Farmers auto insurance scores higher in our coverage category than Geico mainly because it offers more options than Geico does. However, both providers are great for many different types of drivers. In the table below, you can see an overview of the types of car insurance that each provider offers. Geico and Farmers both offer their own usage-based insurance programs that help drivers save money on car insurance rates by driving safely. Geico DriveEasy and Farmers Signal® use telematics in your mobile device to track your driving behaviors and assign you a safe driving score, which determines your discount later. With Farmers Signal, you can get a discount just for signing up and you can win rewards with high scores. See how the two programs compare in the table below: *Ratings out of 5.0 stars each. Geico is much cheaper compared to Farmers and is one of the most affordable auto insurance options for many drivers overall. The national average cost for full-coverage car insurance is $1,730 per year. Geico falls below that number by about $400 annually, while Farmers comes in above the national average by about the same margin. In our scoring, Geico’s low rates are the main reason for its cost score of 9.2 out of 10, while Farmers scores a 7.5. However, remember that your insurance rates depend on many different factors, such as: In the table below, you can see a breakdown of how Geico and Farmers cost averages stack up against one another. Although Farmers may be more expensive than Geico for most drivers on average, both companies offer many car insurance discounts. These discounts are based on your driving profile, your job, your vehicle’s added safety features and more. Below are the discounts that both Farmers and Geico offer for drivers to save money on their car insurance premiums. *Not offered in all states for Farmers policyholders. **Farmers policyholders must be over the age of 55. On top of their many discounts, Geico and Farmers also offer bundling options to save drivers more money on all their insurance policies. When you bundle with Geico, you can bundle your car insurance policy with your renters, condo, mobile home, motorcycle and homeowners insurance. With Farmers, you can bundle your auto insurance with home, life, umbrella, small business or specialty insurance. Farmers and Geico score similarly in our customer experience section, with Geico having a higher overall BBB score. Farmers beats Geico in customer review ratings on the BBB and in scores from the J.D. Power 2023 U.S. Auto Claims Satisfaction Study℠. Both Geico and Farmers’ mobile apps have strong ratings on the App Store and Google Play. Geico has had over 2,100 complaints in the last three years on the BBB site, while Farmers has had over 1,200 complaints over that same time period. When you look at the complaints per dollar of insurance premiums written, the two companies have very similar amounts. Overall, both Geico and Farmers score well in the customer experience category. Our team reached out to Geico for comment on its subpar scores in J.D. Power studies and low customer review ratings on the BBB but did not receive a response. We have also reached out to Farmers Insurance for comment on its low customer review ratings on the BBB and have not received a response. In addition to looking at customer reviews and available statistics from insurance industry leaders, our team conducted our own surveys to see how consumers view their car insurance providers. In our surveys, Geico scored marginally higher in every category. When survey takers were asked how likely they’d be to recommend their insurance provider, respondents gave an average score of 7.7 out of 10.0 for Geico and 6.9 for Farmers. In the table below, each score is out of 5.0. Between the two providers, our methodology has Geico coming out on top of Farmers overall as a car insurance option. Its lower rates, discount opportunities and similar coverage options to Farmers make it a better choice for most drivers. However, Geico may not be the best option for you depending on your car insurance needs. For some drivers, Farmers may be better because of its coverage plans and customer service. Even though Geico and Farmers are both good providers for car insurance, they aren’t the only options worth taking a look at when searching for your right policy. After reviewing the top car insurance companies on the market, our team found that State Farm and Progressive are two other strong options for most drivers. To know the best option for you, it’s important to compare car insurance quotes from multiple providers. Travelers is our first recommendation for car insurance because it offers a wide variety of discounts and affordable rates. The company has an A BBB rating and is known for its superb customer service. Those looking for affordable rates and a variety of coverage options from an established car insurance provider should check out coverage from Travelers. Keep reading: Travelers insurance review State Farm is our second highest-rated car insurance provider. Its highlights include a ton of discount opportunities, especially for young drivers. State Farm has local agents all over the country, making it very accessible to most drivers. State Farm also offers a usage-based program called Steer Clear®, which helps policyholders under 25 years old save money on car insurance by practicing safe driving. Read more: State Farm insurance review  With our comparison partner,  Geico’s biggest competitor is State Farm. State Farm often outranks Geico in J.D. Power consumer studies, and it outscored Geico in our review of the top car insurance companies. State Farm takes up the highest percentage of the market at 15.93% while Geico takes up 14.93%, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Farmers scores very well in the J.D. Power 2023 Auto Claims Satisfaction Study, with a score of 878 out of 1,000. This score ranks it 12th among large insurance providers, which is three spots above Geico’s score of 871. Farmers Insurance has a generally good reputation by consumers and industry experts. This provider has an A rating from the BBB and fair scores across several J.D. Power studies. In the J.D. Power 2023 Insurance Shopping Study, Farmers holds eighth place in overall customer satisfaction for large insurers. Geico has some of the most affordable rates for most drivers, largely because it sells directly to consumers. Geico also offers many discount opportunities such as DriveEasy, which saves drivers money for practicing safe driving habits. With its affordable rates, Geico is accessible to many drivers. It also offers great customer service and coverage options that can fit many drivers’ needs. After a thorough review, our Guides Auto team has ranked Geico as the third-best car insurance provider, just behind USAA and State Farm. Farmers Insurance’s average auto insurance rate for full coverage is $3,169 per year, which puts it above the national annual average of $2,008. Farmers is more expensive than most companies because its insurance agents get commission, and insurance costs are rising as well. Because consumers rely on us to provide objective and accurate information, we created a comprehensive rating system to formulate our rankings of the best car insurance companies. We collected data on dozens of auto insurance providers to grade the companies on a wide range of ranking factors. The end result was an overall rating for each provider, with the insurers that scored the most points topping the list. Here are the factors our ratings take into account: Our credentials: *Data accurate at time of publication. If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Daniel Robinson is a writer based in Greenville, N.C. with expertise in auto insurance, loans, warranty options and more. Away from the keyboard, Daniel spends time with his wife and son, plays guitar and obsesses over the Beatles and Baltimore Orioles. RaShawn Mitchner is a MarketWatch Guides team senior editor covering personal finance topics and insurance. She’s spent over a decade writing and editing articles about how to save money on travel, entertainment, household services and more. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.