MyNewsLA.com 
					Breaking news for Los Angeles, Orange and Riverside counties				 A professional photographer and Farmers Insurance Exchange have settled his lawsuit that alleged the company breached its obligations to compensate him under a policy for 2,000 images stolen along with his equipment in 2020. An attorney for plaintiff Edward Michaels filed court papers on Friday with Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Michael P. Linfield stating that an accord was reached two days earlier. No terms were divulged. In their court papers, Farmers Insurance attorneys stated that the insurer paid for the stolen equipment, but deemed the digital images had no commercial value and therefore provided no compensation for their loss. Michaels has been a professional photographer for more than four decades, although he has been retired for the most part in recent years, according to his suit filed in June 2021. He does not actively sell prints of his photography, but some prints of his work can be bought for hundreds of dollars from the art website Saatchi.com, according to the suit. In January 2020, thieves stole Michaels’ camera, lenses, computer and his external drive with more than 2,000 digital image files representing much of his life’s work, none of which were recovered, the suit stated. Sign up here for our free newsletters. We’ll send you the latest headlines every morning and every weekday afternoon. 

 
				MyNewsLA.com won’t sell your information and you can unsubscribe at any time.			 Michaels bought a policy from Farmers in February 2018 with $75,000 in coverage and was assured by an agent that his digital images were covered, according to the suit. Concerned that the $75,000 coverage was insufficient, Michaels contacted the same agent and later agreed to a premium hike that would increase the coverage for his electronic equipment and data coverage to $125,000, the suit stated. Michaels made a claim after the theft of his equipment and images, the suit stated. “However, in an astounding exercise of bad faith, Farmers informed (Michaels) that although the loss of his digital image files was covered by the $125,000 electronic media coverage that Farmers had specifically sold him for the purpose of covering his digital images, Farmers had determined that the value of (his) 2,000 digital image files was zero,” the suit stated. Michaels was “shocked” and wrote Farmers Group Inc. CEO Jeffrey J. Dailey, who responded by thanking Michaels for being a “long-term customer” and promising to have high-ranking personnel look into the matter “and see where we went off the track,” the suit stated. Farmers then contacted Michaels on Feb. 18, 2021, and informed him that although the insurer compensated him for the loss of his equipment, “We regret to inform you, since there is no associated value to the digital photos and archival transparencies, we will not be making any additional payments on your loss and are closing our file,” the suit stated. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ 
    Sign up here for our free newsletters. We’ll send you the latest headlines every morning and every weekday afternoon.
   


 
    Check for a confirmation email, and then you're all set with MyNewsLA.com!
  