
			Plus: Mark Spencer, the agriculture minister, on the importance of working with the natural environment to sustainably boost food production
		 The Government is to double payments to farmers to create hedgerows as it increases cash offers for its post-Brexit green schemes amid a slow take-up. Farmers will also be given up to £1,000 for joining the most basic of the green farming schemes that are replacing the European Union’s £2.4 billion subsidy regime. But green groups warn that the Government is watering down the ambitions of the post-EU plans, which were intended to pay farmers for actions that provide public benefits to the environment. Farming groups also criticise a lack of clarity on the future of the schemes, which they say is prompting farmers to intensify damaging food production while prices for milk and wheat are high. The NFU warned that the changes “risks being too little too late”, and criticised a continued lack of certainty over the future of the schemes, which have undergone several reviews during recent political turmoil. “Farmers are reacting to the market they can see and intensifying their production, which has negative impacts for the environment,” said Martin Lines, the chairman of the Nature Friendly Farming Network. “They are looking at how they can maximise some crop production and increase livestock numbers.” The Government wants the most basic element of the post-EU scheme, known as the sustainable farming incentive (SFI), to attract 70 per cent of the roughly 200,000 farms in England by 2028. But only around 1,980 farmers have applied to the scheme, with around 1,570 active agreements. The Government hopes the new “management payment” of £20 per hectare, up to £1,000, will attract more farmers into the scheme. But there are fears the payment will simply reward farmers for holding land without any additional benefit for the environment. “Uniform, flat rate payments such as this give no incentive to those farmers who want to do the best for the environment when those doing the bare minimum get exactly the same payment,” said Professor Ian Bateman from the University of Exeter, who helped devise the post-Brexit payments, known as the Environmental LAnd Management Scheme (ELMS). Dustin Benton, the policy director at think tank Green Alliance said: “ELMS isn’t just about getting farmers to sign up, it’s about delivering on public goods.” The Government has yet to say exactly how ELMS will contribute to its statutory targets to halt the decline in species by 2030, as well as reduce water and air pollution, and cut carbon emissions 78 per cent by 2035. A new range of actions that farmers can be paid for is expected to be announced later this month. But green farming groups fear the Government is in the process of watering down the ambition of the ELMS scheme, and will allow farmers to take minimum actions that they say will not help the UK reach its targets to improve nature. In plans announced on Thursday, the Government said it would also increase payment rates for specific green actions by farmers, amid rising input costs for farmers in the wake of the war in Ukraine. Payments for the creation of hedgerows, which attract birds on farmland, improve soil erosion and and increase carbon capture, will be doubled. Payment for actions such as sowing strips of land with bird seed mix and creating scrubland will be increased by 10 per cent on average. “Today’s payment hike recognises the poor uptake so far of the Sustainable Farming Incentive scheme, but farmers still await the bold vision and clarity they need to invest with confidence in a transition to nature-friendly farming systems, like organic,” Soil Association head of farming policy Gareth Morgan said. “We are running out of time – Government needs more game-changing action.” The announcements were made by agriculture minister Mark Spencer at the Oxford Farming Conference on Thursday. By Mark Spencer The start of a new year is a chance to look ahead at what we hope to achieve in the coming months, as well as reflect on what has led us to this point. Last year was tough for farmers, with rising fertiliser costs as a result of the war in Ukraine, drought conditions in summer, and the Avian Flu outbreak all posing significant challenges.  In response, the Government put measures in place to provide much-needed support, including bringing in the Energy Bill Relief Scheme to reduce outgoings this winter and paying bird flu compensation from the start of planned culling rather than at the end. However, as both a farmer and the farming minister, I’m incredibly excited about what’s on the horizon for our agriculture in England and the bright future ahead. For so long, farmers have been held back by EU red tape and regulations that weren’t fit for purpose - and did nothing to support sustainable, nature-friendly food production. Now, we’re delivering a generational change as we transition away from EU-style area-based subsidies and pressing ahead with our new Environmental Land Management schemes, which are already helping thousands of farmers make space for nature alongside food production. We are seizing this unique opportunity and shaping our policies for both the needs of the country and the farmers in charge of making it a reality. This means adequately rewarding farmers, as custodians of our countryside, for the individual actions they are taking for the benefit of all of us. Our goal of halting the decline of nature by 2030 can go hand in hand with maintaining profitable, resilient businesses, which is why we’re making more money available to farmers through our schemes this year. We’re boosting payment rates for our Countryside Stewardship scheme from January 1, which will benefit not only new joiners, but also most of the 30,000 farmers already signed up to the scheme.  For ongoing work such as boosting habitats for pollinators and providing winter food for birds through actively managing hedgerows, payments will increase by around 10 per cent on average, while one-off payments for individual projects will increase by an average of almost 50 per cent. The price for creating new hedgerows will be almost doubled, and the many benefits – including reduced soil erosion, better drainage, increased carbon capture, and new habitats for birds and insects (thereby reducing the need for expensive pesticides) – will be felt by not only the environment, but the farmer as well. We’re also introducing a new management payment of up to £1,000 a year for the thousands of farmers already signed up to our new Sustainable Farming Incentive – but which will help smaller businesses, many of whom are tenant farmers, cover their administrative costs. And we won’t be paying for this with borrowing or extra taxes. We stand by our manifesto commitment to maintain the farming budget at its current level for the rest of this Parliament.  Instead, funding for our nature-friendly schemes will come from phasing out Direct Payments, a legacy of our time in the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy which paid half of this cash to the top 10 per cent. It’s all a far cry from my father’s and grandfather’s day, when governments paid them to remove hedgerows to squeeze production out of every inch of farmland. A lot has changed since then – and we now know that it’s only by working with and protecting the natural environment that we can boost food production in a sustainable way. But what hasn’t changed is our farmers’ appetite for hard work and innovation. Indeed, some farmers are already doing these things, and have been blazing a trail for others to follow. As a former chair of the Young Farmers Club at the turn of this century, I encourage every farmer to do their bit and make sure our stunning landscapes are still there and still being farmed by future generations at the turn of the next one. Mark Spencer is Minister of State for Food, Farming and Fisheries