
Solidaridad

Published 1 year ago.
About a 7 minute read.
Image: Solidaridad
Brand Provided
 For all the time and money spent examining challenges in global agriculture, little is spent understanding farmers’ perspectives. The Small Farmer Atlas is a starting point for companies and policymakers to center the perspectives of
small-scale farmers in the design of sustainability and procurement policies. The story of global agriculture is largely one of small farms. Small-scale
operations account for 90 percent of the 570 million farms around the world;
they are responsible for a notable share of the world’s food, feed, fiber and
other products. Yet in spite of their prominence, the majority of smallholder
farmers are sidelined in sustainability
discussions.
Solidaridad’s Small Farmer
Atlas represents a first effort to elevate
the voice of small-scale farmers to the global stage. Debates and discussions on sustainability often become mired in details and data
— income gaps and productivity rates, service models and land size. For all the
time and money spent examining the challenges, relatively little time is spent
understanding the perspectives of farmers themselves. The Small Farmer Atlas is an opportunity for companies, governments and NGOs to
hear farmers’ perspectives, needs and priorities when it comes to
sustainability. The Atlas is based on a wide-ranging survey of 10,000
small-scale farmers in 18 countries on 3 continents with input on issues ranging
from prosperity and income to bargaining power and land use. The result is a
data-rich resource focused on eight commodities: coffee, tea, cocoa,
bananas, cotton, oil palm, soy and sugarcane. Over half of the farmers interviewed expressed confidence in their ability to
meet basic needs. This indicates that sustainability interventions and work with
farmers have had a positive impact — even through the pandemic and the related
economic
downturn,
when the survey was conducted. Download SB's new guidebook — "Regenerative Agriculture for a Resilient Future" — to dig into the core principles, comprehensive strategies and collaborative approaches that make regenerative agriculture a win-win solution for future-proofing our food system for the long term. Yet, most are ill-equipped to handle price volatility or climate shocks. Women,
in particular, are concerned with their ability to achieve a fair income, to
find market support and produce in harmony with the natural environment. 
Image credit: Small Farmer Atlas Across all regions, farmers indicate they are concerned about issues related to
sustainability. Over 50 percent of those surveyed indicate that they could not cover basic
expenses if prices they receive dropped by 25 percent — a regular occurrence
in commodity markets. More than half lack access to markets,
financing
and information that would allow them to realize their full potential. And women experience a heavier burden and more inequality than men. Overall,
female farmers were more negative than male respondents in their answers. And yet, the impacts of a changing climate loom as their biggest concern. Nearly
two thirds of farmers struggle with a lack of resources needed to adapt to the
impacts of climate change. Furthermore, across all 18 countries covered, farmers
express grave concerns about deteriorating soil
quality
and water
scarcity. While the results vary by product and country, gender and farm size, the Small
Farmer Atlas allows us to better understand the specific priorities and
perspectives of the farmers we work with. Overall, the Atlas illustrates the
need for systemic change that prioritizes the perceptions of small-scale farmers
and grounds interventions in their needs. This means working more closely with small-scale farmers to co-create approaches
that recognize their perspectives and practical know-how, and work alongside
them to build greater access to market or sustainability platforms. Here are
four concrete examples of listening and inclusion that elevate the voices of
farmers: The Small Farmer Atlas revealed that women experience a heavier burden and more
inequality than men. Overall, women farmers’ responses to survey questions were
more negative than male respondents. Women farmers share similar challenges
around the world. Facilitating in-person exchanges among women farmers builds solidarity and
provides an opportunity to learn about new ways of working.
GIZ, the Honduran Coffee
Institute and Solidaridad brought a
group of women farmers from Honduras to Cauca, Colombia — where they had the
chance to learn about the local context, technological developments,
organizational models and innovations in the Colombian coffee sector. The
Honduran delegation shared their experiences in marketing, differentiated
products and sustainable business models. Oil palm is a tremendous opportunity for small-scale farmers. It grows in the
tropics, it’s productive; and when sustainably
managed,
oil palm can provide a reliable income with a smaller environmental footprint.
Similar to other commodities, proactive government policy can set the stage for
better value distribution that supports better practices. In Ghana, Solidaridad — under the RECLAIM Sustainability
program
— worked with the Government of Ghana to develop a pricing mechanism that
yielded a minimum price for fresh fruit bunches. Stable, predictable prices help
farmers better plan production and build trust among producers and buyers. “In the past, my minimum income was tied to the benevolence of the aggregators
or mills and was often
erratic.
This made it difficult for me to plan,” said Martin Ola, a farmer in western
Ghana. “Under this current arrangement, I can predict my minimum income and
effectively plan with it.” 
Image credit: Solidaridad The European Union’s Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence
Directive
stands to have a massive impact on global trade. The directive will require
companies to conduct human rights and environmental due
diligence
across their value chains. Though the directive has potential to improve the
livelihoods of millions of farmers, workers and their families, there is also a
risk that small-scale farmers — who lack resources to improve practices and are
subject to unfair trade and human rights violations — will lose access to
markets and be further marginalized. Supporting farmers to engage in dialogue on policies and directives that impact
them is critical to ensuring better outcomes for all. In February, Solidaridad
teamed up with Fairtrade International, the Fair Trade Advocacy Office
and Rainforest Alliance to bring small-scale farmers to the European
Parliament
to share their experiences and contribute to policy development. “We welcome new legislation; but please ensure that the extra costs are not
borne by farmers. Shared responsibility, investment and cooperation are
crucial,” said Pison Kukundakwe of Uganda’s Ankole Coffee Farmers’
Cooperative. Supporting farmers so they can contribute to policy dialogue or attend
conferences and trade shows is one way we can ensure that farmers’ perspectives
are better represented. The majority of Latin American economies depend on agricultural production;
yet in many rural areas, access to rural extension and technical support
services is limited. This has a clear negative impact on farm productivity and
livelihoods; but it also leads to increased pressure on the local environment.
An increase in quality extension support can contribute to best practices and a
reduction in deforestation. A rural extension and technical assistance model in the Brazilian
Amazon
resulted in a 40 percent increase in cocoa productivity and a 22.2 percent
increase in breeding livestock. This model mixed free assistance and offered
additional training for a fee as farmers grew in their expertise. The average
farmer saw a gross boost in income by 31.4 percent and a 74 percent reduction in
deforestation among participating farms. “The lack of good information is what impoverishes farmers the most,” said
Clóvis Rios, a 37-year-old cocoa farmer in Brazil. “When we have
information, we are able to dream big — to look further ahead.” The Small Farmer Atlas is a starting point and an invitation to companies and
policymakers to center the perspectives of small-scale farmers in the design of
sustainability and procurement policies. It represents an opportunity to move
beyond the quantitative to a qualitative perspective that includes the ideas of
small-scale farmers as they grow their way forward. Read more at https://www.smallfarmeratlas.info. Published Jul 10, 2023 8am EDT / 5am PDT / 1pm BST / 2pm CEST