When Window Snyder started security infrastructure startup Thistle Technologies in 2020, she already had a decades-long career in cybersecurity under her belt. Snyder first made waves as a senior security strategist at Microsoft, where she is credited with pushing the tech giant to take cybersecurity seriously and building it directly into the Windows software systems. In addition, she managed the security and privacy team at Apple and was instrumental in the lobby to get Apple to encrypt all of its devices — which it did. She's also served as the chief security officer for Fastly and Square and was the chief software security officer at Intel. Meet Window Snyder, the trailblazer who helped secure the internet and billions of devices After more than 20 years working for other companies, Snyder decided to strike out on her own and launch her first startup, Thistle, which looks to build the security infrastructure needed to keep internet-connected smart devices safe. We can't wait to hear more, which is why we are pleased to announce that Snyder will be joining the Found podcast for a special live episode on the Disrupt Security Stage on September 21. For those who don’t know, our weekly podcast Found covers the stories behind the startups and the founders who build them. We are thrilled to welcome Snyder on the show, and we hope to see you there to learn more about a founder who has been called "relentless," "brilliant" and "driven" by her industry peers. TechCrunch Disrupt 2023 takes place on September 19-21 in San Francisco. Buy your pass now and save $400 before prices increase at the door. The Security Stage debuts at Disrupt 2023 Is your company interested in sponsoring or exhibiting at TechCrunch Disrupt 2023? Contact our sponsorship sales team by filling out this form. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.