Fastly is releasing a TLS Certficiation Authority service. The public availability of the service comes simultaneously with the completion of the acquisition of Domainr. Certainly is a Transport Layer Security (TLS) Certification Authority service. That is supposed to better secure internet users by sending internet traffic over the HTTPS protocol. That protocol is very popular, according to recent figures from Google Chrome. More than 99 percent of web pages use the more secure protocol. Fastly started developing the tool after some of its customers were involved in Certification Authority incidents, it says. TLS solves this problem by requiring domains to be approved by an authorized Certification Authority that issues certificates and guarantees the trustworthiness of a web server.  Certainly makes it possible to create and manage such certificates. Eventually, every website and API linked to Fastly will be secure. To give hackers no chance to tamper with the certificates afterwards, all certificates are only valid for 30 days.  In addition, the company announced the acquisition of Domainr. That company specializes in finding and creating apps and company names. Users are alerted in Domainr’s Domain API service to appropriate domain names that are still available. At the same time, users are alerted about high-risk domains.  So in both cases, Fastly improves its capabilities to assist Internet users with a safe browsing experience. “With the availability of Certainly and the acquisition of Domainr, we continue to empower our customers to own and control what they create and how they create it – all backed by the most trusted and reliable domain availability and TLS experience possible,” said Todd Nightingale, Chief Executive Officer at Fastly.   Certificates / Domainr / Fastly / HTTPS / TLS  "*" indicates required fields 
The tech sector has been underperforming in the stock market lately. ... 
Intel and subsidiary Altera have unveiled new chips and FPGAs optimiz... 
The Apple Vision Pro is Apple's first major product launch in 2024. T... 
When you think of Manhattan Associates, you might think of an expensi... 
Stores are deploying AI-powered cameras in multifaceted ways. Everyth... 
Hackers are actively exploiting a critical vulnerability in SolarWinds' Web Help Desk software. This allows t... 
Starting October 15, Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) will be mandatory for administrators of Azure portal, ... 
Pixel smartphones contain a vulnerability that allows hackers to install malware or spyware unobtrusively. Th... 
The U.S. government body NIST this week unveiled three quantum-safe encryption tools. Unlike the encryptions ... 
Discover the essential strategies and imperatives to create a data an... 
Some companies thrive in times of external uncertainty. They know how... 
The IT department is currently under great pressure, partly because o... 
As the software development life cycle becomes ever more complex and ... Techzine focusses on IT professionals and business decision makers by publishing the latest IT news and background stories. The goal is to help IT professionals get acquainted with new innovative products and services, but also to offer in-depth information to help them understand products and services better. © 2024 Dolphin Publications B.V.All rights reserved.