The hospital issued a statement to anyone hoping to recreate the viral video Royal Liverpool Hospital has issued a warning to urban explorers hoping to get a look inside the decommissioned building. The new Royal Liverpool Hospital site finally began to welcome patients last year after many frustrating delays, and the former building has been decommissioned. In December, pranksters shared a video on TikTok from inside what they called the 'abandoned' building, and the video recently went viral on the app, BristolLive reports. In the video, some lights were still switched on at the building and a bell could be heard ringing, and the explorers found one room filled with chemicals, along with others that had empty filing cabinets, monitors and chairs strewn across halls. The hospital trust have issued a statement warning off others hoping to recreate their video. READ MORE: 'Genius' travel hack that could save space in your suitcase In the video, posted under the name britishpranks, two men can be seen exploring the hospital. Talking to the camera, one said: "This is scary. This isn't like a small hospital, this place is huge." We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info There was a nasty surprise for viewers at the end of the video, as these men aren't just urban explorers they are also pranksters. Just as one of the men said this 'scary' a demon head appeared in a jumpscare. Responding to the video, a spokesperson for Liverpool University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust said: “When this video was filmed at the end of last year, the building remained operational while we completed the move from the old Royal. We have taken additional steps since then to further secure the site while the building is decommissioned. "For the safety of everyone on site, we will take action against anyone found trespassing, as we did with these individuals.” This means anyone hoping to recreate the video could face prosecution from the hospital trust. Currently, being found guilty of trespassing can result in three months' prison time and/or a fine of £2,500, as a maximum. Sharing the video on social media is likely to have encouraged others to do the same. In the comments section, one person said: "Like how much money has been left in there. Those monitors alone are easy money." Discover, learn, grow. We are Curiously. Follow us on TikTok, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. READ NEXT: