SPAR’s new online Spinner Winner competition is running until 30th August and offers shoppers a daily opportunity to spin a wheel and win prizes including  the chance to win a car up to £50,000 or £10,000 in cash. The Spinner Winner campaign is already proving to be a huge success since launch on 17th July with over 333,000 spins of the virtual wheel and 68,623 prize vouchers won by contestants in the first four weeks [data to close of day 14 August 2023]. Sarah Ellis, Group Marketing Director at SPAR wholesaler A.F. Blakemore & Son Ltd, said: “We are thrilled with how successful the launch of Feastables in SPAR stores is going. It’s great to see how well our stores have embraced this exciting launch. Our Spinner Winner campaign is also exceeding all expectations and supports our goal in providing our shoppers with excitement when they visit SPAR convenience stores.” So far SPAR shoppers have won prizes including £100 in cash, cardboard cut-outs of MrBeast or a year’s worth of Feastables plus several spot prizes of SPAR products, vouchers or Feastables bars of chocolates. And for those that want to play Spinner Winner in person, fifteen in-store events remain across the UK which will offer SPAR customers the chance to physically spin a wheel and immerse themselves in the ‘Beastmode’ game. SPAR announced last month (July) that the range of Feastables chocolate bars from MrBeast, are now available from stores across the UK. Created by the American YouTuber turned business mogul, who currently has 116M subscribers, the snacks are proving a huge hit in SPAR stores since launching in stores on 10th July. MrBeast commented: “I’m incredibly excited to join forces with SPAR UK. It’s a fantastic opportunity for my fans to engage in a fun and interactive experience while having a shot at winning some amazing prizes.” Spinner Winner is open to individuals who are 18 years of age or older. To access the list of participating stores and to review the complete terms and conditions, kindly refer to the website www.sparspinwin.co.uk   THE NEXT EVENT