No good deed goes unpunished—for the recipient. The "YouTube celebrity" is a modern phenomenon, the likes of which we've never had to contend with before. In the past, celebrities of all stripes rose to wealth and prominence thanks to an apparatus around them, one that published their work or got them on TV, or arranged interviews. Their handlers were unseen conduits between the celebrity and the public as they rose, and along the way, helped advise them to avoid public relations hiccups that might arise in terms of how they speak, act, or spend their money. Media training and mediation, all unseen by the public eye. But since the YouTube celebrity rises to prominence on their own, self-producing and self-publishing their work, they emerge onto the world stage unrefined by any industry system, entirely themselves, and therefor susceptible to the many faux-pas more traditional media figures are trained to avoid. Such is the case with YouTube celebrity, and noted philanthropist, MrBeast. The artist formerly known as Jimmy Donaldson runs the fourth most-subscribed-to YouTube channel, with over 139 million subscribers. His elaborate stunts, and extensive philanthropy using money earned through various business ventures, have made him an icon of young people today, winning him two Nickelodeon Kids Choice Awards for "Favorite Male Creator."  Now, considering the previous YouTube celebrities that kids admired have screamed racial slurs or filmed literal corpses, MrBeast is inarguably a far better role model thanks to his more philanthropic leanings. But when that philanthropy crosses over into shameless self-promotion, that can land MrBeast in a bit of a pickle. And a different kind of pickle than the kind you can get on a delicious "Beast Style" burger from MrBeast Burger. (This guy has a burger chain, by the way.) Ordered online or in person at the American Dream Mall, a MrBeast Burger always hits the spot. Mm-mm-tasty. In his latest TikTok, MrBeast is dining at a restaurant when he asks his server, Amy, "What's the biggest tip you've ever gotten?" After she responds that it's likely $50 or so, Donaldson asks "Has anyone ever tipped a car?" In the video, he proceeds to take her outside and show her a black Toyota sedan, which he declares is hers, as a tip for good service. As with any elaborate or viral stunt, there was backlash in the comments section.  How could anyone have any qualms with a young server being gifted a brand new car? Well, some raise the point that the car, being considered a "tip," would also be considered taxable income, and could lead to Amy owing the government a lot of money, akin to when Oprah gifted her audience all those cars, only for them to get crushed in taxes. Others are making a point that the arguably charitable act is also arguably exploitative, since MrBeast films and publishes all of these acts of philanthropy and uses struggling people to create "content," an argument that was also levied against a video in which Donaldson used his wealth to give 1,000 blind people an operation that restored their vision. And still others were incensed that this free car would, in effect, provide MrBeast with free publicity for his candy brand, Feastables. Indeed, the sedan does have a very blatant Feastables logo branded on the sides, and even had a Feastables chocolate bar in the cupholder when Amy climbed inside. This isn't the first time Donaldson has pulled the public into the promotion of his candy brand, having previously implored fans to tidy up the candy bars' displays in their local Walmarts for a chance to receive $5,000. Now, some might say hordes of people desperately hurling themselves at an influencer, prostrating themselves in the hopes of financial reward from a wealthy celebrity like the starving Argentinians gathered around Eva Peron's train in Evita, is near-dystopian. But as far as this writer is concerned, that brand new car MrBeast is dolling out looks pretty sweet. Sweet like a Feastables candy bar. Feastables: available in milk chocolate, crunch, and "deez nutz" peanut butter, or even plant-based recipes like chocolate sea salt or quinoa crunch. No matter how you snack, there's sure to be a Feastables for you. Mm-mm-tasty. In the end, who knows if this latest outrage will have an impact on MrBeast going forward? Will this latest backlash make him amend his charitable ways? Will he view it as simply "No good deed goes unpunished"? Will those on the other side of his omnipresent smartphone camera decide to reject his gifts, refusing to be party to any acts of promotion?  Indeed, is the ever-online MrBeast reading this very article, wondering if there's a better way to approach his philanthropy? If so, then there's only one humble message this writer hopes to get across: I could, like, really use that money, Jimmy. Is it okay if I call you Jimmy? I got a lotta student loans, man. It's brutal, Jim. I stare into the abyss, and the abyss stares back, you know? So what do I gotta do? Live in a bunker? Ride a bike for days on end? Do you want to hunt me for sport, Jimmy? I don't care anymore. I have no dignity left to give. My life has gone out of the frying pan and into the fire, Jimmy. Just like a delicious, juicy MrBeast Burger, in all its smashed crispy goodness. Mm-mm-tasty. Michael Natale is the news editor for Best Products, covering a wide range of topics like gifting, lifestyle, pop culture, and more. He has covered pop culture and commerce professionally for over a decade. His past journalistic writing can be found on sites such as Yahoo! and Comic Book Resources, his podcast appearances can be found wherever you get your podcasts, and his fiction can’t be found anywhere, because it’s not particularly good.  Prince Harry Once Gave Obscene Gift to the Queen Chiefs Owner Shares Gift for Taylor Swift Babies Born on T-Swift's Birthday Get Bracelets Harry and Meghan's Gift for the Holidays: Peace Why Suzanne Somers Was Laid to Rest in Timberlands Kim K's Cute Gift for Paris Hilton's New Baby  How the Royal Grandkids Celebrate Christmas Beyoncé Sent a Birthday Bouquet to Kim K The Story Behind King Charles's Pyramid Martha Stewart's Gifting Advice for Dinner Parties Conor McGregor Gave Booze to Anti-Doping Agents Fan Gifts Adele a Beyonce T-Shirt A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn a commission for purchases made through our links. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.