FedEx is expecting package volumes to finally bounce back after five straight quarters of declines. Executives shared that prediction in an earnings call Tuesday, though they didn't provide further detail on exactly when they expected volumes to return to growth — or by how much. While the remarks lacked details, they could be a meaningful sign from a company that has historically served as a bellwether for the broader economy.  Package volumes are a strong indicator of consumer purchasing behavior. In other words, FedEx delivering more boxes to customers' doorsteps often means more money is being spent online. And spending growth is a positive sign for the overall economy.  On Tuesday, FedEx said package volume was down 9% year over year in the most recent quarter and margins were down from a year ago. But executives said the most recent quarter was the strongest in a year in terms of profitability, leading them to assert that drastic efforts to cut costs and reimagine a 50-year-old logistics network were working.  "We're entering the year with a clear focus on what is within our control in an underlying environment that remains dynamic across geographies," said FedEx CEO Raj Subramanian. He added that he expects margins to continue to improve over the next year.  
                                Related stories
                               But to truly see the upside of the 29,000 workforce reductions, multiple facility closures, and retiring nearly 50 planes, FedEx will need to see what the entire e-commerce industry is pining for — a consistent return of demand for package shipping services.  Though the overhaul underway at FedEx is significant, the return of robust demand in the form of packages is what analysts at Morgan Stanley are watching more closely.  "We continue to believe that FDX is more of a revenue story rather than the cost story the market thinks it is," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a note to investors published after the earnings call.  FedEx's guidance for the next 12 months includes moderate revenue growth, somewhere between 1% and 3% year over year. The company doesn't just need consumers to shop online. It needs them to place the kind of orders that are delivered to their doorstep, rather than picked up at the store. FedEx misses out on one of the fastest growing categories in e-commerce: grocery, Chief Customer Officer Brie Carere explained on the Tuesday call.  Traditional, non-grocery e-commerce orders are lagging even at some of the most adept retailers. Target, a widely recognized "winner" of the pandemic e-commerce explosion noted on a May 17 earnings call that store visits and pickups of online orders were growing while purely digital orders dwindled.  Carere said Tuesday that while e-commerce spending is growing at 7% or 8% per year, the share FedEx can benefit from is more like 2% or 3%. She said she hasn't seen many encouraging signs from the US consumer yet. "Green shoots," or signs of potential revenue growth, are beginning to show in Europe however, she said.  The state of the economy is confounding many experts.  "I feel I cannot even give you a confident answer to: over the last two quarters, did the economy grow or shrink let alone what's going to happen over the next two," said Jason Furman, a professor of economic policy at Harvard in late May in a webinar with Flexport.  FedEx's earnings over the next few quarters could provide some clues.  "​​The key external factors that will determine the FY '24 outcome, are broader economic activity in North America, Europe and in Trans-Pacific trade, inventory restocking, and the development of e-commerce activity as we continue to differentiate our offering," said CFO Mike Lenz, who announced Tuesday he will retire this year.  The inventory-to-sales ratio, a stat closely watched by the logistics industry, has been on a roller coaster since 2020. It shows the amount of inventory retailers are holding compared to how fast goods are selling, and it skyrocketed at the beginning of the pandemic when consumers froze buying. Then it plunged to previously unseen depths by April 2021 when everyone started shopping again with abandon. Supply chains were snarled and Americans had bought seemingly everything on offer nationwide.  As of April this year, the figure had recovered about half of the ground lost, but it still has yet to reach pre-pandemic normal. This time though, retailers are hesitant to restock while the consumer is showing hesitance.  Baked into the inventory-to-sale ratio is imports, retailer behavior, and consumer behavior. Normalization of this figure would show execs across many industries that retailers are confident enough in the consumer to start bringing in more goods and that the consumer is once again in a buying mood.  "Visibility, especially in the second half, is very difficult given the dynamic circumstances we are seeing," Subramanian said. "We'll see how the industrial production goes. We'll see how GDP and trade goes, and we'll follow the inventory stocking and inventory-to-sales ratio very carefully." 
                                Read next
                               Jump to