
                
                    
                        Let Retail Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The service can deliver goods in two to five business days for shipments within the contiguous U.S. First published on Amazon previously offered Amazon Shipping in a handful of cities before pausing the service in 2020, a year in which e-commerce demand surged and led the company to rapidly expand its fulfillment network. The relaunched service being for only Amazon sellers limits its ability to compete directly with FedEx and UPS, but Amazon does have a sizable pool of independent businesses selling on its website. "More than 60% of sales in the Amazon store come from independent sellers, and in 2022, U.S.-based sellers sold more than 4.1 billion items to customers worldwide, averaging more than $230,000 in sales in the Amazon store," Dharmesh Mehta, VP of Worldwide Selling Partner Services, wrote last week. With Amazon Shipping, the company is betting that many of these sellers would be interested in using its delivery network for orders outside the Amazon.com ecosystem. Amazon still uses UPS and the Postal Service to deliver many of its customer orders, but it has reduced its reliance on UPS over the years as its own network has grown. Last year, the company's in-house delivery arm shipped 4.8 billion parcels in the U.S., outranking FedEx, according to the Pitney Bowes Parcel Shipping Index. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The past year was riddled with bankruptcies, layoffs and a handful of public debuts. What does this next year have in store for the industry? The disease outbreak is no longer an emergency, but some of the adaptations retailers made during its height endure — for better or worse. Subscribe to Retail Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The past year was riddled with bankruptcies, layoffs and a handful of public debuts. What does this next year have in store for the industry? The disease outbreak is no longer an emergency, but some of the adaptations retailers made during its height endure — for better or worse. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines