Decentralized-finance (DeFi) project Yearn Finance will allow users to create their own vaults to accrue yield and deposit proceeds to earn even more token rewards. Yearn will charge 10% as performance fees for providing such a facility. DeFi is a term used to describe financial activities carried out on a blockchain without traditional middlemen. So far, users have been limited to vaults created by Yearn’s contributors and developers. With the introduction of the “permissionless vault factory,” anyone can create their own strategies and offer them on Yearn, where other interested users can deposit their own tokens and earn yields. This may, in time, increase Yearn’s user base and attract more liquidity to the popular DeFi tool. Yearn produces revenue based on user liquidity, when it charges a portion of the rewards as fees for its yield-aggregation service. Vaults refer to an on-chain product that uses crypto deposits to earn yield through various investment strategies. These yields are generated as a “reward” for participation in DeFi applications, such as lending, borrowing, or trading. Yearn had over $360 million in total value locked as of Tuesday, DefiLlama data shows. More than 24 vaults are already active on the Yearn platform, offering yields ranging from 1.3% to as much as 17% annualized. As of Tuesday, users can initially make vaults only for the liquidity tokens of Curve Finance, a stablecoin-swapping application. Those vaults will use veCRV, a time-locked token issued by Curve that allows users to effectively boost their yield rewards. Some $100,000 in fees was generated on Curve in the past 24 hours, data shows, with these fees distributed to Curve users and liquidity providers. The permissionless vaults are part of a broader V3 plan, which aims to make Yearn wholly decentralized in the future in terms of products and services offered to users. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Shaurya is the Deputy Managing Editor for the Data & Tokens team, focusing on decentralized finance, markets, on-chain data, and governance across all major and minor blockchains. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk