Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     The highly anticipated reveal event for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is almost here, and Activision has unveiled a host of rewards for players participating in the live in-game event in Warzone. Incorporating live-service elements of a prequel to promote a sequel isn't a novel concept, and it's one that Activision has employed in the past, with Call of Duty: Warzone setting the stage for many future games.
      Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is the third installment in the rebooted Modern Warfare subseries and is the direct sequel to the previous two titles. Modern Warfare 3 is also the first title in the series to release merely a year after its prequel. While rumors regarding a new Call of Duty game surfaced shortly after Modern Warfare 2's launch, no concrete evidence was found to suggest the new game was its sequel. As Modern Warfare 2 continued receiving a frosty reception from the community, certain in-game activities and narrative developments indicated unknown threats on the horizon.
      RELATED: Modern Warfare 3 Price Cleared Up by Activision
                     On August 7, Activision confirmed a November release window for Modern Warfare 3 and promised players an official reveal event on August 17, incorporating Warzone as a playing field. According to a post on the official Call of Duty Twitter page, the reveal event titled Shadow Siege will offer six unique rewards for contributing players. The rewards include a Battle Pass tier skip, the Crimson Sound Calling Card, Serpent Slayer skin for Heavy Chopper, Gas Canister weapon charm, the new M13C Assault Rifle, and a Konni Group emblem. The post doesn't elaborate on what contribution entails, but based on previous events, the rewards shouldn't be too difficult to acquire even for solo players.
                         Interestingly, the rewards could indicate the narrative direction of the upcoming title, with the Crimson Sound calling card heralding the new theme for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3. The weapon charm is a nod to the first installment of the Modern Warfare reboot and the older Modern Warfare 3, where gas attacks were used as a prelude to an invasion. Most importantly, the emblem directly refers to the primary antagonist forces of Season 5, named the Konni group, who will likely have prominent roles in future conflicts owing to their possible ties to Makarov.
                         To reinforce Activision's dedication to the series, Modern Warfare 3 is bringing several features long requested by the community while teasing the return of fan-favorite locations such as Verdansk. Coupled with a progression carry-over system to facilitate veterans, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 will likely become another blockbuster title.
      Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 launches on November 10 on PC, PS4, PS5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.
      More: What Content Does (and Doesn't) Carry Over to Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3?
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. As post-launch support for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 winds down, August 21 is going to mark the end of an era for the hit shooter. Developer Game Science at last shows off Black Myth: Wukong PlayStation 5 gameplay footage just ahead of the action RPG's release. While uncovering secrets in the huge world of Elden Ring, Tarnished might miss a rare weapon or two. Dakini is a Persona of the Hermit Arcana, and she's required for one of several Special Fusions in Persona 3 Reload. Corsair announces that it will be laying off a number of its staff, continuing an unfortunate trend that has been plaguing the gaming industry. Terraria's upcoming 1.4.5 update is set to deliver a sprawling buffet of new features and big changes, perfect for fans of all stripes. Overwatch 2 reveals an out-of-this-world backstory for Juno, the brand-new support hero coming to the game in Season 12, New Frontiers.