You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Apr 9, 2024, 10:42am Have a question for Becky Pokora or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to Becky Pokora, Caroline Lupini and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. For die-hard General Motors fans who want to make every effort to build GM savings, the My GM Rewards® Mastercard®* might help. But while this isn’t the worst co-branded auto industry card on the road, it doesn’t make our hearts race, either. Issued through Marcus by Goldman Sachs, the My GM Rewards® Mastercard®* has no annual fee nor any foreign transaction fees and earns 7 points per dollar spent at GM and 4 points per dollar elsewhere. The card also offers a welcome bonus: 15,000 bonus points after spending $1,000 in the first three months of account opening and an introductory APR offer: 0% intro APR on purchases for the first 9 months, then a variable APR of 20.24% to 29.99% applies. Though point redemptions are limited when it comes to buying eligible pre-owned vehicles from participating dealers, there are no limitations when using points toward an eligible, new GM vehicle. A yearly maximum is also extended to gift cards, but at a quarter of the usual point value—the gift card redemption isn’t particularly worthwhile. This limited redemption option means this card should only be used by customers who want to make rewards count (albeit at a respectable rate) toward buying, leasing, repairing or outfitting a GM vehicle. Extra benefits of this card are fairly generous. Cardholders can either earn a $100 statement credit after spending $1,500 on fuel per calendar year or earn a $100 statement credit when using the card to pay six months of electric bills. A $50 annual vehicle detailing allowance is included and authorized users are permitted. World Mastercard Elite Benefits such as zero fraud liability are included, though notably missing from the list is MasterRental, Mastercard’s auto rental collision damage waiver benefit. The My GM Rewards® Mastercard®* comes with automatic Gold status with the My GM Rewards program, meaning your points don’t expire like they do with Silver status. To achieve Platinum status, a cardholder must spend $15,000 annually on the card. Though earning is not impacted by status, reaching Platinum status unlocks access to exclusive GM experiences and a dedicated member support specialist. It also gives you the ability to rollover spending to the following year once you’ve reached your tier spend requirements, giving you a headstart on maintaining your tier the following year. 
                        Why you can trust Forbes Advisor
                     Our credit card editors are committed to bringing you unbiased ratings and information. Our editorial content is not influenced by advertisers. We use data-driven methodologies to evaluate financial products and companies, so all are measured equally. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and the credit card methodology for the ratings below. The My GM Rewards® Mastercard®* offers a lot of potential upside to those who are looking to purchase a car, specifically a GM model vehicle. The benefits this card offers can be substantial assuming you are looking to purchase a vehicle. Otherwise, you’d almost certainly do better with a more general rewards card. The My GM Rewards® Mastercard®* earns 7 points per dollar spent at GM and 4 points per dollar elsewhere. Points don’t expire as long as the account remains in good standing. The My GM Rewards® Mastercard®* includes a first-year welcome bonus: 15,000 bonus points after spending $1,000 in the first three months of account opening. Rewards cannot be redeemed for cash back but may be redeemed at a value of $0.0025 cents per point for a statement credit towards your card account balance up to 100,000 points per calendar year. They can also be redeemed at a value of $0.01 cent per point toward a GM Financial account balance, like a GM vehicle loan, starting at 500 points. Points can be redeemed at a value of $0.01 cent per point toward an eligible, new GM vehicle purchase or lease with no limit on the number of points you can redeem Points can also be redeemed for the purchase of an eligible Certified Pre-Owned vehicle at a participating GM dealership in the U.S. with a yearly maximum of $1,000 in value (100,000 points). Points can be used on eligible GM service, parts and accessories purchased from a participating dealer, OnStar® Connected Vehicle Services or SiriusXM. You can redeem points at the sales terminal at participating dealers or by redeeming eligible purchases as statement credit after logging into your account. You must link your card account to your My GM Rewards Account to ensure all points from eligible transactions are available for redemption. Forbes Advisor uses data from various government agencies to determine baseline income and spending averages. The 70th percentile of wage-earning households bring in $118,438 annually. Of this, we estimate $39,337 can reasonably be spent on credit card purchases. My GM Rewards® Mastercard®* Rewards Potential The My GM Rewards® Mastercard®* offers a 0% intro APR on purchases for the first 9 months, then a variable APR of 20.24% to 29.99% applies. Obviously, the car manufacturer you prefer is likely to be the deciding factor here. But for those who prefer Toyota, the Toyota Rewards Visa®* earns 5 points per dollar spent at Toyota dealerships, 2 points per dollar spent on gas, dining and entertainment purchases and 1 point per dollar spent everywhere else. The redemption options include a Toyota vehicle purchase or lease at participating dealerships, cash back as statement credit (every 2,500 points gives you $25) and for rewards through Toyota’s program catalog website. The wider flexibility in redemption options is a big win for the Toyota Rewards Visa®*, but the My GM Rewards® Mastercard®*’s reward earning rates are turbocharged. With only select Visa convenience benefits including roadside dispatch and fraud protections, the Toyota Rewards Visa®*’s perks can’t compete. The DrivePlus℠ Mastercard®* earns 5% cash back on dealership purchases, 2% cash back on gas and travel purchases and 1% cash back spent everywhere else. Rewards may be redeemed for FCA parts and services at participating FCA U.S. dealerships (that’s Jeep, Chrysler, Dodge, Ram and Mopar) or to purchase or lease a new or used Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, Ram or FIAT vehicle at participating FCA US dealerships. You can also redeem  rewards for merchandise, gift cards, travel or cash back as a statement credit. With a wide variety of redemption options, the DrivePlus℠ Mastercard®* would be heavy competition for the My GM Rewards® Mastercard®*, if which credit card you choose aligns with the car you drive or wish to purchase. The DrivePlus℠ Mastercard®* offers a $1,000 bonus certificate toward a new FCA U.S. vehicle for spending $7,500 in the first year and a $100 statement credit for spending $100 in FCA U.S. purchases in the first billing cycle after the account is opened. However, there are no ongoing benefits beyond some convenience benefits including zero fraud liability and no-extra-charge FICO Score access. The BMW Precision Card* earns 5 points per dollar spent on eligible BMW purchases, 3 points per dollar spent on eligible gas station purchases, 2 points per dollar spent on eligible restaurant purchases and 1.5 points per dollar spent on all other purchases. Redemptions for cash back, merchandise and travel are made at $0.01 per point, but when redeemed for a BMW Rewards Card, rewards are worth 25% more value. BMW Rewards Cards can be redeemed for BMW service, accessories, lease end costs and more. Its reward earning rate may seem attractive, and the card’s $99 annual fee is offset by the $70 annual dealership credit and a Priority Pass membership. Ultimately, the choice will come down to which card aligns better with your car preferences. If you want to buy a GM vehicle, this card could help you cut down some of the expense. Still, while other co-branded auto industry cards may not have the same reward earning potential, most offer a wider array of redemption offers. Ultimately, if you’re looking for a credit card co-branded with a car company, there are better options unless you are strictly loyal to GM, in which case this card may be a solid option. No single credit card is the best option for every family, every purchase or every budget. We've picked the best credit cards in a way designed to be the most helpful to the widest variety of readers. Forbes Advisor considers a variety of criteria when assigning credit cards a rating. Cards are graded based on numerous factors including: Card features we expect cardholders to use the most often are weighted more heavily in our ratings. Altogether, the factors come together to provide a star rating for each individual card. Read more: How Forbes Advisor rates credit cards 
*The information for the following card(s) has been collected independently by Forbes Advisor: My GM Rewards® Mastercard®, Toyota Rewards Visa®, DrivePlus℠ Mastercard®, BMW Precision Card. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer.
 With more than 50 million redeemed miles under her belt, Becky Pokora is a rewards travel expert. She's been writing about credit cards and reward travel since 2011 with articles on Forbes Advisor, BoardingArea, The Points Guy and more. Her redemptions have helped her travel to more than 50 countries and all seven continents.