3.8 Frequent travelers or bigger spenders would probably get more value from a card with a higher rewards rate and more perks (and an annual fee), but this is a solid choice for budget-minded occasional travelers.   Annual fee $0 Rewards rate 1.5x Bonus offer UNLIMITED BONUS: Unlimited Mile-for-Mile match for all new cardmembers—only from Discover. Discover gives you an unlimited match of all the Miles you’ve earned at the end of your first year. You could turn 35,000 Miles to 70,000 Miles. There’s no signing up, no minimum spending or maximum rewards. Just a Miles-for-Miles match. Intro APR 0% intro APR for 15 months on purchases and balance transfers Ongoing APR APR: 18.24%-28.24% Variable APR Cash Advance APR: 29.99%, Variable Balance transfer fee 3% intro balance transfer fee, up to 5% fee on future balance transfers (see terms)* Foreign transaction fee 0% No annual fee Intro APR period Flexible rewards redemption Requires good/excellent credit No luxury perks Lower acceptance abroad Some travel credit cards give you the option of redeeming your points or miles for cash back rather than travel, but doing so usually means getting a lower value per point. The Discover it® Miles is a noteworthy exception. Each mile you earn with the card is worth 1 cent, regardless of whether you use it to pay for travel or convert it to cash back. The Discover it® Miles earns 1.5 miles for every dollar spent — pretty good for a card with a $0 annual fee, but low compared with travel cards that charge an annual fee. The flexible redemption options and unique sign-up bonus make this a good low-cost alternative for occasional travelers who want an easy-to-use credit card. But frequent fliers may get even more value out of a more robust travel card, especially if they travel overseas often. Card type: Travel. Annual fee: $0. Sign-up bonus: UNLIMITED BONUS: Unlimited Mile-for-Mile match for all new cardmembers—only from Discover. Discover gives you an unlimited match of all the Miles you’ve earned at the end of your first year. You could turn 35,000 Miles to 70,000 Miles. There’s no signing up, no minimum spending or maximum rewards. Just a Miles-for-Miles match. Ongoing rewards: 1.5 miles per dollar spent on all purchases. Interest rate: 0% intro APR for 15 months on purchases and balance transfers, and then the ongoing APR of 18.24%-28.24% Variable APR. Foreign transaction fee: None. Other benefits: Free access to FICO score.  Access to Discover's free Social Security number monitoring service. One one level, the Discover it® Miles works like a general travel credit card. You earn 1.5 cents per mile, and you can redeem miles at a value of 1 cent apiece for credit on your statement against travel purchases made within the past 180 days. However, you can also convert your miles to cash at the same rate, in the form of a direct deposit. Redeeming for cash gives you more flexibility, and there’s nothing stopping you from later spending that money on travel. But for some, earmarking miles specifically for a big trip might be more enticing. Many credit cards require you to accumulate a certain amount in rewards — often $25 or more — before you can redeem. The Discover it® Miles allows redemptions as small as 1 point. Getting a penny back at a time is obviously not going to revolutionize your travel style. But the lack of a minimum redemption amount means you can reimburse yourself for smaller travel expenses, like cab fare. Discover's offer to new cardholders is as lucrative as you want to make it. The issuer describes it this way: "UNLIMITED BONUS: Unlimited Mile-for-Mile match for all new cardmembers—only from Discover. Discover gives you an unlimited match of all the Miles you’ve earned at the end of your first year. You could turn 35,000 Miles to 70,000 Miles. There’s no signing up, no minimum spending or maximum rewards. Just a Miles-for-Miles match." This effectively gives you 3 miles per dollar spent on everything in your first 12 months. If you spent $20,000 on the card in the first year, for example, you would earn $300 worth of miles, and the bonus would kick in $300 more. That’s nothing to sneeze at, especially on a card with an annual fee of $0. The Discover it® Miles gives you an introductory APR of 0% intro APR for 15 months on purchases and balance transfers, and then the ongoing APR of 18.24%-28.24% Variable APR. Most travel credit cards don’t have a 0% period. You can use this perk to pay off a big purchase — say, an upcoming trip — interest-free over time. Like all Discover cards, the Discover it® Miles doesn’t charge foreign transaction fees. This benefit could save you money the next time you travel abroad, or make an international purchase online. But bring a backup method of payment, too. Discover isn’t as widely accepted abroad as Visa and Mastercard. » MORE: Discover credit cards mobile app review The Discover it® Miles is a great card for people who don't plan to spend a whole lot. Because there's no annual fee to eat into your rewards, you come out ahead immediately. But bigger spenders would be better off with a card that charges a fee but offers a higher rewards rate. For example, if you spend more than $19,000 a year, you'll get more value from the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card. That card gives you 2 miles per dollar spent on most purchases, with miles redeemable for travel expenses at a penny apiece. There's a big sign-up bonus but also a $95 annual fee to consider. For a low-cost travel card that’s widely accepted around the world, check out the Bank of America® Travel Rewards credit card, which operates on the Visa network. Like the Discover it® Miles, it offers 1.5 points per dollar spent, which you can redeem for 1 cent each on travel purchases. Among major issuers, it also has the most inclusive definition of what counts as a travel purchase. Earning the same rewards rate on every purchase is certainly the simplest way to make your spending count, but it may not be the most lucrative. A card that earns more on specific spending categories can be the answer, although you’ll have to put in a little more effort remembering where to use the card. The Wells Fargo Autograph℠ Card earns 3 points per dollar on a broad range of common spending categories: restaurants, travel, transit, gas stations, popular streaming services and select phone plans. It also has a $0 annual fee. Also see the NerdWallet best credit cards roundup for options across credit card types. Among no-fee travel cards, the Discover it® Miles stands out for its versatility, thanks to the ability to redeem for travel and cash back at equal value. It’s not the best option for travelers who spend more time in hotels and planes than at home. But for vacationers looking for a low-maintenance card with flexible rewards, it’s worth consideration. This card earns bonus rewards in a variety of popular spending categories, including dining and travel. Points are worth 1.25 cents apiece when redeemed for travel booked through Chase, or you can transfer them to more than a dozen hotel and airline programs. There's a fantastic sign-up bonus, too — but also an annual fee.  NerdWallet reviews credit cards with an eye toward both the quantitative and qualitative features of a card. Quantitative features are those that boil down to dollars and cents, such as fees, interest rates, rewards (including earning rates and redemption values) and the cash value of benefits and perks. Qualitative factors are those that affect how easy or difficult it is for a typical cardholder to get good value from the card. They include such things as the ease of application, simplicity of the rewards structure, the likelihood of using certain features, and whether a card is well-suited to everyday use or is best reserved for specific purchases. Our star ratings serve as a general gauge of how each card compares with others in its class, but star ratings are intended to be just one consideration when a consumer is choosing a credit card. Learn how NerdWallet rates credit cards. Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105