Unlike many of us, Asda is thinking ahead and has introduced the Christmas Saver Cashpot to its popular Asda Rewards app Asda has added a brand new feature to its Rewards app to help customers save even more cash on their grocery shop this year.  The supermarket chain is thinking ahead and has introduced the Christmas Saver Cashpot to its popular Asda Rewards app. Asda says the new feature will allow customers to save their cashpot to spend over the festive period as budgets could potentially be a lot tighter this year.  Customers will be able to transfer savings from their cashpot into their Christmas Saver Cashpot as many times as they’d like, up to a maximum amount of £300 in total. On top of this, Asda will be rewarding Christmas savers offering a bonus of up to £5 for those who transfer the most cash over to their Christmas Saver pot. The amount you can get is dependent on how much you transfer over with those moving between £10 and £19 getting a £1 bonus and those moving £20 to £24 will get a bonus worth £2. Shoppers who put £25 to £39 in their Christmas cashpot will get a £3 bonus, whilst those with over £40 will get £5.   Asda says these cash bonuses will be paid to Christmas cashpot savers between Monday November 20 and Friday November 24. You can then convert your Christmas cashpot into Asda vouchers from November 24 too - just in time for you festive shop. You have until December 31 to convert your Christmas cashpot.  On top of this, Asda shoppers will still be able to use its Christmas Savings Card. This scheme allows customers to top up the card with money to spend over the Christmas period at Asda, they then again will receive a £15 bonus from the supermarket chain. You can save up to £485 on the card, but you only need to save £280 by November 12 to get the full £15 bonus cash. The cash bonus is paid in November and this year the cut off date for when you can add money to your card is 5pm on November 12 - you will then receive the bonus by 9am the next day on November 13.  If you don't think you are able to save much between now and the cut off date in November then you shouldn't worry as Asda offer a tier system for bonuses which is:  You can either order a card online or grab one in-store, and you can top it up whenever you see fit. Your top up payments can be again made both online or in-store - you can make one off payments or regular ones - whatever suits you best.  Last year, Asda gave £1.3million in bonuses to over 170,000 customers. Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter