News | Tech It has been nearly 37 years since Knight Rider left our screens but if you still harbour fantasies of having a sentient car respond to your chatter, then you may want to keep an eye on what General Motors – the brand behind Chevrolet, Cadillac and Buick – is up to. After reports emerged last week that the firm was looking towards adding ChatGPT – the unnervingly inventive artificial intelligence chat bot – in future cars. GM vice-president Scott Miller confirmed the news to Reuters. “ChatGPT is going to be in everything,” he told the outlet. While more basic virtual assistants such as Alexa and Google Assistant can already be included in cars, ChatGPT’s abilities have quickly overshadowed them in other areas; however, so far no other big car companies have announced plans to use it. The chatbot’s unique ability to quickly create compelling content from a basic prompt has even spooked some London universities into preemptively banning its use in academia. So what sort of thing could ChatGPT provide in the cars of the future? Some of Miller’s suggestions sound like the kind of thing that Alexa or Google Assistant could do now given the right combination of words – think integrating schedules from a calendar, or smarthome functionality like opening garage doors. Other things are potentially game changing. Miller suggests the chatbot could be asked specific questions about the vehicle without you needing to dig out the owner’s manual. Semafor, which originally broke the story, gives a couple of specific examples from talking to Miller. If you got a flat tyre, you could ask the car to explain how to change it, which might bring up a handy video on a screen in the car. Alternatively, if a diagnostic light were to appear on the dashboard, drivers could ask the in-car assistant what it means, or even contextual questions like whether they need to pull over or if it can be ignored until they’re home. It is possible the assistant could even make an appointment at a garge on the driver’s behalf. That may be just the tip of the iceberg. “This shift is not just about one single capability like the evolution of voice commands, but instead means that customers can expect their future vehicles to be far more capable and fresh overall when it comes to emerging technologies,” a GM spokesperson added. Daily Mirror publisher Reach reveals AI is already writing articles Which London universities ban ChatGPT and AI chatbots? AI-generated content appears in LinkedIn phishing scams, but can users spot it? Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Football Transfer news LIVE! Arsenal surprise U-turn, Merino medical; Chelsea earn Osimhen boost; Man Utd doubts; Spurs 2 Showbiz Eamonn Holmes replaced on GB News with no explanation 3 UK Sicily yacht sinking LIVE: London tech boss Mike Lynch 'among several missing' as Bayesian superyacht sinks 4 Football Champions League Draw: Date, start time, teams, fixtures and new format for 2024/25 season 5 Business Angela Bacares net worth | Evening Standard Tech Rich List