
  A 'unique' property with a mega open concept kitchen has gone on the market.
 
  The two-bedroom upper cottage flat on Castlemilk Road in Croftfoot is expected to fetch offers over £130,000.
 
  The property is described as "generously proportioned" and well-maintained by the existing owner.
 

 

 

 

 

 
  A spokesperson from estate agents Allen & Harris said: "Having been maintained to an exacting standard by the existing owner this generously proportioned and unique extended upper cottage flat should not fail to impress upon inspection.

 

 
  "The interior comprises of welcoming reception hall with storage off, an attractive formal lounge with patio doors leading to an open plan dining room and modern fitted kitchen displaying base and wall mounted units, two generously proportioned double bedrooms (one with a bay window) and a new modern bathroom completes the accommodation.

 

 
  "Externally the property offers maintained level landscaped gardens which are located to the rear, driveway and garage.
 
  "The property also has gas central heating and double glazing.

 

 
  "Located within this established and convenient locale the property is well-placed for local shops catering for day-to-day requirements.
 
  "Excellent public transport links are available close by which provide fast commuter access to Glasgow city centre and nearby destinations.
 
  "Excellent schooling can also be found locally both at primary and secondary levels.
 
  "Access to the M74 motorway network can be reached within a 10 to 15 minute average drive."
 

 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.