Cashiers, fast-food workers, and other retail employees are cashing in on customers' abandoned receipts and are posting about it in TikTok videos in a new trend.  The videos show customer service employees scanning receipts that were left behind by shoppers to collect rewards on cashback apps like Fetch.  Fetch lets users collect rewards like gift cards by scanning receipts. The company is partnered with hundreds of brands including L'Oréal, Pepsi, and KFC. The hashtag #fetchrewards has just over half a billion views on TikTok.  One user racked up 4.9 million views and 879.5k likes on a TikTok video which shows her taking pictures of various customer receipts to the song "Say 'Click'" from an animated Nickelodeon show "Go, Diego, Go!"  The song appears to be associated with the practice on TikTok.  It's unclear where she works, but she appeared to be behind a store counter wearing a uniform.  Comments under the post show it appears to be a common habit among some workers. One use claimed: "I work at Walmart and be going crazy."  Another user wrote: "What else am i supposed to do with my receipts as a delivery driver😭"  But one user wrote: "Omg a girl got fired from my job for doing this."  Some McDonald's workers have also posted themselves doing the same thing, garnering over a million views.  Other users are taking part in the trend as a joke. Tiktoker @heyitsjocyx posted a video with 5.8 million views saying: "After every customer reprint the receipt to scan to my fetch reward."  
                                Related stories
                               In the caption, she clarified: "For legal reasons this is a joke!" Videos on her page show a tutorial on how to use the Fetch rewards system including a referral code for the app in her profile.  Customer service workers in the US may be keen to get their hands on rewards because businesses are not willing to pay their employees more as the cost of living rises, Insider previously reported.  This has led to an increase in businesses asking customers to tip to compensate for poor wages, per Insider.  One Tiktoker even made a video saying tipping culture in the US is getting "out of hand" after being asked to tip on a $2 ice cream at Ben & Jerry's. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to