An American Airlines flier couldn't believe her eyes when her checked bag was returned to her. The traveler told Insider the bag was apparently "run over," leaving $1,000 worth of her belongings destroyed. Now the 32-year-old Texas resident says she never wants to fly again after the hellish ordeal. This novice flier never wants to get on a plane again after American Airlines forced her to check her carry-on bag at the gate, only to have the luggage returned to her in a "mutilated" state with more than $1,000 worth of her possessions completely destroyed, she told Insider. The 32-year-old traveler told Insider her luggage had been apparently "run over" at some point during an "absolutely nightmarish" 16-hour-long journey last week from Houston, Texas, to Nashville, Tennessee, that included lengthy delays and a canceled connecting flight in Dallas. "I don't want to fly anymore," the American Airlines passenger who asked to only be identified by her first name, Tiffany, said during an interview on Friday. When Tiffany finally landed at Nashville International Airport last Friday morning on American Airlines flight No. 1118 for a friend's bachelorette weekend and went to fetch her luggage, she said she was told by an airline baggage claim attendant that her suitcase had gotten "a little banged up." But what she then saw was nothing like she imagined. The baggage claim attendant brought Tiffany's luggage to her, holding it sideways as her clothes protruded out of it, she recalled. "The zipper was completely off. It had been torn off of the luggage. It could not close and my clothes were coming out of the bottom," Tiffany told Insider, explaining, "This is not at all what I was expecting with 'banged up' — this is mutilated." Tiffany was even more shocked when she opened up the mangled bag at the airport to find her clothes, makeup, medicine bottles and other personal belongings like her pricey Invisalign retainer ruined. "My personal items like some makeup and skincare, haircare stuff — it had all been completely smashed, thrown around," she said. "My skin creams, my lotions, my shampoos and stuff was all over everything." Her eye shadow makeup palettes were "smashed to pieces," Tiffany added. At that point, a helpless Tiffany said she just began to cry. The baggage attendant who helped Tiffany file a claim "felt so bad" for the sobbing woman that the airline employee even offered to give her a hug, which Tiffany said she gladly accepted. Tiffany was not given an explanation as to what exactly happened to her suitcase, but she's been "running under the assumption that it was run over," possibly by a maintenance or baggage truck. The airline gave Tiffany a hard-case luggage to leave with and when her friends picked her up from the airport and took her back to their hotel, she said she was "catatonic" as she sat on the floor staring at her "broken" belongings. "I cried at the airport. I cried in the car the whole way to our hotel. I cried taking pictures" of the destroyed items at the hotel and "when I finally got in the shower, cried a bit more," Tiffany said. Some pieces of clothing were salvageable after her pals washed them at the hotel, but the rest was destroyed, according to Tiffany. Her friends let her borrow their clothes and makeup for the party weekend out in Nashville. Tiffany, a Texas resident, has now been in a back-and-forth with American Airlines to get reimbursed for just over $1,000, including for the cost of a new $525 invisalign retainer. So far, she says she's only been credited with 5,000 American Airlines miles. "It's unfortunate to have to jump through so many hoops," said Tiffany, whose trip from hell marked only her 7th ever time flying and left her "traumatized." All she says she wants now is "accountability" for what happened to her bag. American Airlines did not immediately respond to Insider's requests for comment on the matter on Friday. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.