Palm Beach County’s single-family home market continued a steady churn of sales in August with median prices settling 7% higher than the same time in 2022 and with a nearly equal number of closed deals. The $605,000 median price for an existing single-family house last month and 1,250 sales came despite a market strangled by higher interest rates and little to choose from for homebuyers. The numbers were reported this month by the Broward, Palm Beaches and St. Lucie Realtors Group. Inventory of available homes for sale dwindled to 2.9 months following a recent peak of 3.4 months in January. A balanced market where neither the buyer or seller has the advantage is considered a 5.5 to 6 months’ supply. Still, Realtors said they’ve seen more people willing to pony up for the homes that are available with sellers last month getting a median of 96% of their original listing price. Real estate:West Palm Beach developers build spec homes under specter of recession “I think people who were waiting for interest rates to go down are now, like, 'Screw it, it’s time to buy,'” said Talbot Sutter, president and broker of real estate firm Sutter and Nugent, which has seven offices in Palm Beach County. “Honestly, they were waiting for a bottom that never happened and once they realized the market isn’t changing, they are jumping in.” Housing experts said the lack of homes for sale is partly an issue of sellers not wanting to lose their low mortgage interest rates in favor of recent rates that were as high as 7.23% toward the end of August. As of Sept. 21, the rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 7.19%, according to Freddie Mac. “Housing continues to reel under the impact of high mortgage rates,” noted a September economics report from Freddie Mac. Still, the report says home prices nationwide have continued to rise as “the reduction in supply has outweighed the decrease in demand.” Although the August median sale price in Palm Beach County was a small increase from August 2022, it was down $20,000 compared to the record high set in June. The average single-family home price in August was $895,426, which was 1.4% higher than the same month last year. Don Moore, a broker associate with Compass real estate, specializes in homes in the historic neighborhoods south of downtown West Palm Beach, and in the non-historic community south of Southern Boulevard, also known as SoSo. He said some of his sellers want to price their homes high because they know there is a lack of inventory. He also represented a buyer who bid $75,000 more than the asking price for a home in SoSo but lost to an even higher bidder. “I’m also still seeing investors who are willing to just pay for the dirt and either knock a house down or bring the property up to higher standards,” Moore said. “Everyone is asking what’s going to happen when interest rates fall. What I know is we have resiliency, and people want to be here.” Flavortown is in town:Food Network star Guy Fieri buys another waterfront home in Palm Beach County U.S. Census data released in June found Florida grew by 706,600 people between April 1, 2020 and July 1, 2022, which was a 3% increase. Palm Beach County added 26,280 people during the same time period, which was a 2% increase. The realtors group that released the August sales report also looks at who is moving to Florida through change-of-address forms. “The top state, not surprisingly, is New York, then New Jersey, and California is third or fourth,” said the group’s President-elect David Serle. “We never had the Californians coming into Florida and we’ve seen a spike over the past couple of years." Statewide, the median sale price for a single-family home last month was $415,000, which is 2% higher than the August 2022. The median price for a condominium or townhome was $324,000. That’s 6.2% higher than last year. In Palm Beach County, the median sale price for a condominium or townhome last month was $305,000, which is nearly 5% higher than in August of last year. Kimberly Miller is a veteran journalist for The Palm Beach Post, part of the USA Today Network of Florida. She covers real estate and how growth affects South Florida's environment. Subscribe to The Dirt for a weekly real estate roundup. If you have news tips, please send them to kmiller@pbpost.com. Help support our local journalism, subscribe today.