Keys left in unlocked cars in over half the reports Keys left in unlocked cars in over half the reports The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Keys left in unlocked cars in over half the reports Car thefts are up by more than 28% in Boca Raton in the first four months of this year compared to last year. Boca Raton police say in over half of their cases, owners left the keys or fobs inside an unlocked car, giving easy access to thieves who roam neighborhoods at night looking for exactly those opportunities. A 2023 BMW was stolen out of the owner's Camino Gardens driveway Friday night. She doesn’t want to reveal her identity out of fear for her safety. “It was like my dream car, and it was just like one of those things where you're just like, wow, you know, I wanted the car. It takes forever to order a car now. And, like, you know, it meant something to me," said the woman. Your neighborhood: Local coverage from WPBF 25 News The doorbell camera did pick up some motion in the middle of the night. The car’s security app alerted at 3:36 am the car was unlocked and the trunk open. But it was dark and  the camera did not pick up the actual theft. “And that's all I have. And then the next scene in my car was gone," the victim said. The car GPS tracked the car to Ft. Lauderdale, where the thieves disabled the tracking device.  And that’s the last she saw of it. Deep Dive: WPBF 25 News Investigates So how did the thieves make such a clean getaway? "I think I left my keys in it," the victim said. And that’s what Boca Raton police say is happening in over half of their stolen car cases. The number of stolen car cases is increasing:  72 stolen cars in the first four months of this year — up 28% over this time last year. But police don’t know if that trend will continue for the coming months. "Some neighbors said that they've had people come rummaging through their car over the past few days, meaning, like, they'd wake up in the morning, and their car door would be ajar or all this stuff from the glove compartment would be on the seat," the victim said. Stay up-to-date: The latest headlines and weather from WPBF 25  What police do know is thieves are canvassing neighborhoods, looking for opportunities,  and they warn you to take out your keys and lock your car doors. Car thefts are also up across Palm Beach County, according to a law enforcement source, about 6% higher this year than last.  WPBF 25 News reached out to a Sheriff's Office spokeswoman to confirm those numbers but have not received the data. And the top model stolen in Boca Raton? A BMW just like Friday's victim. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.