Sam Kelly has more than 11 years’ experience in the financial services sector. Sam Kelly. New Zealand’s largest locally owned life insurer Fidelity Life has announced the appointment of Sam Kelly as its new Head of Regulatory Affairs. Kelly will be responsible for building and maintaining Fidelity Life’s relationships with regulators, policy makers, and industry bodies to help ensure the business meets its ongoing regulatory obligations. With more than 11 years’ experience in the financial services sector – most recently as ASB Bank’s head of government relations and regulatory affairs – Kelly has a comprehensive understanding of the regulatory environment and strong relationships with government and industry stakeholders. Prior to ASB, Kelly worked at Sovereign (now AIA) as a solicitor and in management roles, providing him with a sound understanding of the life insurance sector and the often-nuanced challenges the industry faces. Fidelity Life chief risk officer Adrian Riminton said Kelly would be a significant asset for the business as it navigated regulatory change and delivered its customer-led transformation. “Sam’s background is a perfect fit for us, especially as we move into an increasingly regulated environment. His experience with the conduct and culture reviews by the Financial Markets Authority and Reserve Bank will no doubt be of value as he takes the lead on ensuring our own reputational and regulatory risks are well managed and in line with customer and regulator expectations. “There’s significant change under way both in our business and our industry, so Sam’s deep understanding of financial services law, policy, and regulation, coupled with his life insurance experience, will be invaluable as we make these transitions,” Riminton said. Prior to his time in financial services, Kelly served as a corporate lawyer in New Zealand and London, with experience both in-house and at local law firm, Buddle Findlay. This is supplied content and not commissioned or paid for by NBR.  L3, Suite 304, 131 Queen Street 1010, Auckland, NZ L3, Suite 304, 131 Queen Street 1010, Auckland, NZ 0800THENBR
                            +64 (0)9 870 1779 0800THENBR
                            +64 (0)9 870 1779