Comment Welcome back to The Interchange! If you want this in your inbox, sign up here. We’ll be taking a break next weekend as Mary Ann and Christine both take much-needed vacations (we didn’t plan this, honestly!) but don’t worry, The Interchange will be back in your inbox on June 25. Last week ended with a couple of significant news events in the fintech world. First up, Ingrid and I wrote about FIS acquiring banking-as-a-service startup Bond for an undisclosed amount. (Fintech Business Weekly’s Jason Mikula initially broke the news). The deal is both an example of the resilience of infrastructure in the fintech space and a year that is proving to be filled with consolidation – as expected in a no-IPO, less capital rich environment.  Earlier this year, Marqeta acquired financial infrastructure startup Power Finance in a $275 million deal. JPMorgan closed its acquisition of Aumni. And Brazilian fintech infra company Pismo is said to be in the midst of being courted by the likes of Visa and Mastercard in a reported $1 billion transaction. As Ingrid pointed out, not every M&A deal works out well, of course, with the biggest often being the hardest to digest. FIS made one of the largest-ever acquisitions in the world of payments when it acquired WorldPay for about $43 billion in 2019. That deal never really came up trumps, though. In February of this year, FIS confirmed that it would be spinning WorldPay off. I also wrote about Better.com’s laying off its real estate team and the related shedding of its real estate business unit – a move that we knew was coming, but just didn’t know when. The company reportedly bet big on real estate in 2022, presumably before the housing market turned and mortgage interest rates soared. But as the refinancing market dried up and fewer people wanted to lose their lower interest rates by buying another home in a tight market, the unit was negatively impacted. The company declined to comment on the move but one person (who wished to remain anonymous) who was affected by the layoffs told TechCrunch via email on June 8: “At 8AM yesterday, after being praised in Tuesday’s meeting, our computers where disconnected and logged out of work emails. No warning.” Guess Better.com hasn’t learned from its past experiences of botching layoffs. – Mary Ann As you may recall, the imploding of banks, like Silicon Valley Bank and First Republic Bank, shed a lot of light on payment rails, and the Federal Reserve’s new FedNow Service, set to launch in July, is being referenced as something that will ease some of the pain being felt by legacy payment rails.  The Fed suggests that FedNow, an instant payment infrastructure, will be a faster payment rail for financial institutions, offering real-time, 24/7, every day of the year with immediate access to funds. Even investors are keen on it. This week, we saw some movements related to FedNow. First, TX Zhuo, managing partner of Fika Ventures, noted that “FedNow presents both compelling opportunities and potentially complex challenges,” and many of the effects will be something we can see as early as next year. Zhuo points to one of the immediate opportunities being risk management, especially with the incidences of fraud and scams we read about each day. Read more. The other has to do with companies working to integrate FedNow. Global digital transformation company GFT is drawing on its experience with Pix in Brazil and the Universal Digital Payments Network to provide a three-part approach for banks. GFT developed architecture and compliance measures so that banks can scale transaction volume and no longer be dependent on closed, third-party services for instant payments. To illustrate the potential for FedNow, Brazilian instant payments Matera released a report in May highlighting how well Pix is doing in Brazil. Notably, in 12 months, Pix reached 100 million users and 24 billion transactions were made in 2022, with nearly 3 billion transactions made just in December 2022. – Christine Affirm has become the first buy now, pay later player to be added to Amazon Pay, the two companies announced on June 7. As part of the new partnership, any Amazon Pay merchants in the U.S. can now choose to offer their customers the option to “buy now, pay later” using Affirm’s technology. Affirm first announced an initial partnership with Amazon in August of 2021, which was exclusive through January of 2023. The news gave Affirm’s stock a much-needed boost. Shares had closed at $15.82 on June 6, the day before the announcement came out. By Friday late morning, they were trading at $18.32 after having shot up as high as $19.58 – up 15.8%. More on the news here. As reported by Sarah Perez, Apple on June 7 “two significant changes to Apple Wallet among a handful of other updates that didn’t make the keynote address last Monday, which kicked off the start of its Worldwide Developers Conference. With the launch of iOS 17 this fall, Apple says users will be able to set up recurring payments with Apple Cash — handy for regular expenses, like rent, or for parents paying kids’ allowances, for example. In addition, Apple is announcing a new system that will allow businesses to accept IDs stored in Apple Wallet.” More here. Anthemis Group announced last week that it has named Harry Harrison CEO of Anthemis Asset Management. Besides being the husband to Anthemis Group founder and CEO Amy Nauiokas, Harrison is the former head of Barclays Non-Core in London. The fintech-focused venture capital firm has been in the news several times in recent months. In May, TechCrunch reported that Anthemis Group is trying to raise $200 million for a third fund, according to an SEC filing. That new fundraising filing came just months after Anthemis laid off 16 people, or 28% of its staff, as reported by TechCrunch in April. At that time, a spokesperson for London-based Anthemis told TechCrunch that the move was an effort “to better reflect current market conditions and to set up the business for future growth” against its “strategic priorities.” In a TechCrunch+ guest post, Healy Jones, who runs financial planning and analysis for Kruze Consulting, analyzed revenue, spending and runway data from 2021 and 2022 for over 700 startup clients to find out just how well certain industries were doing, including fintech. We won’t spoil the whole thing, however, we will note that the data confirms some things we’ve seen in the fintech industry in the past year, including growth among startups was doing well until the third quarter of 2022, “suggesting that the collapse of the cryptocurrency market severely impacted fintech sector revenues.” Read more. Spotted on Twitter: Nik Milanovic, general partner at The Fintech Fund, tweeted “Impressive to see three UK neobanks – @monzo, @StarlingBank, and @tandem_bank – all turn a corner and declare profitability last week.” Catch our recent coverage of how well Monzo and Starling Bank have been doing.   According to Capterra’s 2023 Accounting and AI Survey of 317 business leaders, “51% of SMBs say AI and ML will fundamentally change business finance operations for the foreseeable future, and 76% of businesses have adopted at least one form of AI or ML technology to handle accounting and finance needs.” More here. Plaid unveils new identity verification experience The company first expanded into identity (and income) verification in April 2022, a move that we reported on here Human Interest: Can $250 get you to start saving for retirement?   TechCrunch reported on BlackRock acquiring a minority stake in Human Interest earlier this year here. Fed, FDIC, OCC update guidance on third-party risk management Andreessen Horowitz merges fintech and consumer teams after some bets fizzle Wealthfront introduces automated bond portfolio Breef adds payment infrastructure to B2B marketplace for agencies Valyant AI and Paerpay team to bring AI, contactless payments, to the drive-thru ForwardAI launches B2B platform that enables real-time payments Glue42 and Finsemble merge, reshaping interop vendor landscape Fintech firm Nium plans U.S. IPO in 2 years, CEO says Mosaic raises $26M to help inform companies’ financial decisions Insify raises another $10.7 million for its business insurance startup Bonside launches with $4.35M to provide growth capital to brick-and-mortar businesses Payrails banks $14.4M for its OS for complex payments flows Life insurance startup Getlife becomes Life5 and raises $10.7M Eric Schmidt backs Keeta, a startup working to make cross-border payments ‘as easy as Venmo’ Banking-as-a-service fintech Griffin just raised $13.5 million B2B payments platform Sprinque adds €20 million bounce to its step Swiss lender Teylor secures up to €275 million to support more than 500 SMEs through its credit platform Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Fabric has developed a custom RISC-V-based chip that is optimized to run the algorithms necessary to establish zero-knowledge proofs and enable fully homomorphic encryption.  BEVC is the latest life sciences VC to add planetary health to its portfolio, suggesting that the trend is catching hold.  As TikTok Shop gains traction, YouTube is expanding its partnership with Shopify to onboard more brands for its YouTube Shopping affiliate program, the company announced on Tuesday. The expanded partnership…  Waymo disclosed Tuesday it’s now giving more than 100,000 paid robotaxi rides every week across its three main commercial markets in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Phoenix. Those figures were…  Until recently, saving the world usually didn’t involve turning a profit. But as the world has warmed, a range of startups and investors have emerged that have squared the circle,…  The countdown continues! You have 4 days left to lock in your TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 tickets at the discounted rate. Don’t miss the chance to save up to $600 —…  On Monday, the U.S. government formally accused Iran of hacking the Donald Trump campaign. In a joint statement issued by the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence…  The United States Department of Justice filed a major lawsuit against Live Nation-Ticketmaster in May, arguing that the entertainment giant is acting as a monopoly. An additional 10 state attorneys…  Construction companies deal with a lot of documents — so many that it can be difficult to process and manage them all. According to one recent survey, a third of…  The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round. The new capital will go toward…  The U.S. Department of Defense is a mammoth organization. It not only employs millions of service members and hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, but also has the world’s largest…  Eppo has closed a new funding round that values the company at over $100 million.  Simulating the real world is a tremendously complex problem if you want to do it at any useful level of fidelity. Traditional techniques are holding back design teams at vehicle…  NASA and the space industry are in agreement: if we want to establish a permanent human presence on the moon, we’ll need to make use of every native resource we…  AI models have proven capable of many things, but what tasks do we actually want them doing? Preferably drudgery — and there’s plenty of that in research and academia. Reliant…  Update: Authorities have yet to access the inside of the sunken yacht, and Mike Lynch is still classified as missing. Other details have emerged in the interim. The accident appears…  Global technology giants are pushing back against attempts by India’s telecom networks to bring internet services under stricter regulation, rejecting arguments that such measures are necessary to create a “level…  Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Powered by WordPress VIP