You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Jan 4, 2024, 9:32am Have a question for Emily Batdorf or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to Emily Batdorf, Lauren Graves and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Huntington Bank is a regional bank headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. It offers full-service personal, business and commercial banking with branch locations in 11 states and the ability to open most accounts online. Huntington has four business checking accounts, each with its own fee structure and benefits. Huntington business bank accounts are ideal for banking in person and doing all of your banking with one institution. Customers who don’t prioritize these benefits can find more affordable and user-friendly options at competing banks. This Huntington Bank business checking review focuses on business checking accounts. All account details and annual percentage yields (APYs) are current as of July 18, 2023. Huntington Bank offers four business checking accounts, three of which can be opened online or in person and one that can only be opened at a branch. Huntington’s Business Checking 100 is the bank’s only business checking account with no monthly maintenance fee. Free transactions are limited to 100 per month and this account has a $5,000 cash deposit limit. There are no minimum opening deposit or balance requirements. Unlike other Huntington business checking accounts, Business Checking 100 doesn’t include bonus services. However, it does come with a 120-day trial of Reverse Positive Pay, a tool that can help detect fraudulent checks. The Unlimited Business Checking account is a mid-tier business banking option at Huntington Bank. As its name suggests, this account offers unlimited monthly transactions. It has a $10,000 cash deposit limit and charges a waivable monthly maintenance fee of $20. This account includes one free “bonus service” of your choosing. The options for these are: The Unlimited Plus Business Checking account has the highest limits of any Huntington business checking account. It also offers unlimited transactions and has a cash deposit limit of $25,000. This is the only interest-bearing business checking account with the bank, but rates vary by location and are far below those offered by the best high-yield checking accounts. This account charges a steep $40 monthly maintenance fee with equally-steep balance requirements to waive it. Unlimited Plus Business Checking customers can choose two bonus services to apply to their accounts from the same options listed above. Along with its three primary business checking accounts, Huntington offers Business Analyzed Checking. This account can only be opened in person at a branch and it has a $20 monthly fee and a minimum opening deposit requirement of $100. There is a $25,000 cash deposit limit. In terms of unique features, the Business Analyzed Checking account offers an earnings credit to help offset deposit and transaction fees. This credit is determined by your monthly balance. In addition to business checking accounts, Huntington provides the following products and services: Huntington Bank’s business banking products and services stand out from other banks in a couple of key ways. Unique features of this bank include the following. Huntington Bank offers in-person, online and mobile banking, with the option to open most business accounts digitally. However, certain accounts, like Business Analyzed Checking accounts and business CDs, require customers to visit a branch and apply in person. The Huntington Bank mobile app scores well with users. With online and mobile banking, customers can transfer and deposit money, pay bills, access reports, receive alerts and more. Huntington Bank’s branch network is somewhat limited with around 1,000 branch locations in 11 states. Its ATM network is also on the smaller side, with roughly 1,600 ATMs. To reach customer service, you can call the phone line between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. ET Monday through Friday and 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. ET on Saturday. There’s also an online chat feature on the bank’s website, but it often prompts users to call customer service directly. Huntington Bank has a number of bank fees to look out for—notably out-of-network ATM fees, foreign transaction fees and wire fees. Many business bank accounts also have monthly fees, but most can be waived by meeting balance requirements. However, these are tough to meet. Below are some of the most common fees for Huntington’s business checking accounts: The following bank fees apply to all business checking accounts: And finally, the following fees apply to optional online services for business checking: Huntington Bank has a generous offering of business banking features and benefits for customers within its geographical reach. However, as a regional bank with no national ATM network, that reach is limited. Customers who appreciate doing all of their banking with one institution—and who live within the branch network—may be well served by Huntington Bank. While Huntington’s business bank accounts offer several advantages, they carry many fees and have transaction and deposit limits that some business owners may find restrictive. If you’re looking for fee-free options with fewer requirements, there are better banks. Here’s how Huntington stacks up against three competing banks. Overall, Bank of America has fewer fees than Huntington and offers more benefits and services. With branches across the country, Bank of America has a wider physical reach than Huntington. It may also appeal more to those looking for dedicated support and business tools. Bank of America offers one business checking account, Business Advantage Banking, that’s available in two settings,  the Bank of America Business Advantage Relationship Banking and the Bank of America Business Advantage Relationship Banking. These settings are essentially service tiers, with the more premium option having a higher monthly service fee but fewer banking fees otherwise. Bank of America’s business checking accounts come with a number of useful tools and capabilities including QuickBooks integration and customizable employee accounts. These accounts are also eligible for Business Preferred Rewards, a rewards program that offers bonuses, discounts and advising for qualifying accounts with balances over $20,000. Similar in size and reach to Huntington, Fifth Third Bank is a full-service regional bank with a large suite of business banking options. It also offers lending, credit cards and wealth planning. Fifth Third Bank has three business checking accounts including a fee-free, mid-tier and premium option. While monthly fees and cash deposit limits between Huntington and Fifth Third are similar, none of Fifth Third’s business checking accounts have unlimited free transactions. Between these two banks, the better choice may be the one that’s more accessible to you. However, it’s worth noting that Fifth Third has a much broader ATM network. Unlike Huntington Bank, Bluevine is an online-only fintech company that provides a limited number of business banking services. Currently, it offers only business checking and loans. The Bluevine Business Checking charges no monthly fees and allows for unlimited transactions, combining the biggest perks of Huntington’s range of accounts, in addition to earning a competitive interest rate. One of Bluevine’s only notable fees is for out-of-network ATM transactions, but its ATM network is several times larger than Huntington’s. Bluevine has a lot more to offer business owners across the board, including low fees, competitive interest and unlimited transactions, but Huntington will be the better choice for in-person banking. 
 Huntington Bank is a perfectly safe bank. All deposit accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for up to $250,000 per depositor. In case of bank failure, your money is safe up to this amount. Huntington Bank also offers safe and secure online and mobile banking platforms as well as fraud detection features. It doesn’t cost anything upfront to open a Huntington business account. But certain accounts—like Huntington Business Premier Savings and Huntington Business Premier Plus Money Market accounts—have minimum balances or opening deposit requirements. You’ll also be charged monthly fees for most accounts, unless you can waive them, as well as other banking fees. To open most business bank accounts with Huntington, you can either apply online or at a bank branch. No matter how you start the process, you’ll need to provide your Social Security number or Employer Identification Number and documents proving your business’s legal structure. Requirements may vary by state. Get the Forbes Advisor newsletter for helpful tips, news, product reviews and offers from a name you can trust.