NEW YORK, Oct. 26, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Levi & Korsinsky, LLP notifies investors in Adobe Inc. ("Adobe" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: ADBE) of a class action securities lawsuit. 



 CLASS DEFINITION: The lawsuit seeks to recover losses on behalf of Adobe investors who were adversely affected by alleged securities fraud between July 23, 2021 and September 15, 2022. Follow the link below to get more information and be contacted by a member of our team: https://zlk.com/pslra-1/adobe-inc-lawsuit-submission-form?prid=53003&wire=4  ADBE investors may also contact Joseph E. Levi, Esq. via email at [email protected] or by telephone at (212) 363-7500. CASE DETAILS: The filed complaint alleges that defendants made false statements and/or concealed that: (a) Figma was growing its market share and was becoming a leader in user experience design; (b) Figma was in direct competition with Adobe on user experience design; (c) Adobe's product "Express" was not an effective counter to Figma's growing market share in bringing new customers to Adobe's paid offerings; (d) Adobe's other offerings were not succeeding in competing with Figma on user experience design; and (e) Adobe was losing market share to Figma. WHAT'S NEXT? If you suffered a loss in Adobe during the relevant time frame, you have until December 19, 2023 to request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. Your ability to share in any recovery doesn't require that you serve as a lead plaintiff. NO COST TO YOU: If you are a class member, you may be entitled to compensation without payment of any out-of-pocket costs or fees. There is no cost or obligation to participate. WHY LEVI & KORSINSKY: Over the past 20 years, the team at Levi & Korsinsky has secured hundreds of millions of dollars for aggrieved shareholders and built a track record of winning high-stakes cases. Our firm has extensive expertise representing investors in complex securities litigation and a team of over 70 employees to serve our clients. For seven years in a row, Levi & Korsinsky has ranked in ISS Securities Class Action Services' Top 50 Report as one of the top securities litigation firms in the United States. CONTACT:Levi & Korsinsky, LLP Joseph E. Levi, Esq.Ed Korsinsky, Esq.33 Whitehall Street, 17th FloorNew York, NY 10004[email protected]Tel: (212) 363-7500Fax: (212) 363-7171www.zlk.com SOURCE  Levi & Korsinsky, LLP