UK Edition In the heart of the City of London and — appropriately for a young, funky design company — next to a karaoke club, Figma has set up its new European headquarters. It seems its founder couldn’t be happier. Dylan Field has become a regular visitor to these shores in the past year as the business has expanded in Britain. “It’s ironic. The more time I spend in London, talking to the CMA, the more I fall in love with it,” he said. And he is spending a lot of time talking to the Competition and Markets Authority and its peers around the world as Figma tries to complete a takeover by Adobe. Although Forbes dubbed it “design’s hottest start-up” in 2021, Figma is hardly a household name. The American technology design company sprang to prominence last year, though, when it emerged that Adobe was buying it for $20 billion. Figma’s platform helps people who are developing apps to collaborate online as they build new products. It is used by companies including Microsoft and Walgreens, is based in San Francisco, boasts 1,300 employees (or “Figmates”) worldwide and is expected to have passed $400 million of annual recurring revenue in 2022, with gross margins of 90 per cent. While a basic version of the product is free, subscriptions build on a sliding scale to the most expensive business package charging £70 per user, per month. Field, a dropout from Brown University, the Ivy League institution in Rhode Island, started his career in technology working for Flipboard, the content aggregator, as an intern. He made an impact. Business Insider, the magazine, published a profile of him in 2012 under the headline This Flipboard Intern Is Only 20 And He’s Already A Star In Silicon Valley. Field had always considered starting his own business and had some powerful backers. He had built a relationship with Jeff Weiner, at that time the chief executive of LinkedIn, the business social network. According to Weiner, he told Field: “If you ever start a company, let me know and I’ll fund it.” When Figma emerged in 2012, he put $500,000 into the business and made some early introductions to investors. The company grew rapidly over successive funding rounds, raising more than $300 million from a who’s who of technology venture capital investors. One early investor was Danny Rimer at Index Ventures. Field and Rimer had come across each other during the Flipboard days. The evening after a meeting in which Field demonstrated some of his products, Rimer rang and said he wanted to invest. “He was the perfect seed investor, because he had an appreciation of art and design,” Field said. “We used to take all of our meetings at Moma [the Museum of Modern Art in New York]. We would have a coffee and walk around, look at art and talk about Figma. He has a unique sense of brand, he thinks big in a way that no one else does. I’m very thankful to have him on board.” Fast-forward a decade and Field, 31, finds himself on the cusp of another new beginning with Adobe. Founded four decades ago, Adobe specialises in software, with services including Photoshop and Illustrator. The group, based in San Jose, California, has a global workforce of 28,000and is listed on the Nasdaq stock exchange with a market value of $240 billion. The two companies had been flirting with a potential merger since 2020, which turned into a firm commitment in September 2022. If it goes through, it values Field’s 10 per cent stake in the business at $2 billion, but there are hurdles to overcome as the companies’ merger is being examined by competition watchdogs worldwide. Britain and the European Commission have referred it for in-depth investigations and the Department of Justice in the United States is said to be looking into the deal, too. Field is frustrated by some of the issues raised, disagreeing with the CMA, for example about the size of the market. He argues that product design is broken down into different stages and that Figma’s software can be used for every stage. There are, he says, plenty of other companies working purely in one of the steps. The intended takeover of Figma is the second significant technology deal to be looked at this year, after the $67 billion mega-merger of Microsoft and Activision Blizzard, the video games group. The UK watchdog was the only regulator to block the deal initially, but that may change now that Microsoft has resubmitted its deal with a different structure. Technology businesses have been watching these actions closely from the sidelines. Shantanu Narayen, 60, the chief executive of Adobe, said in June that if smaller companies could not be bought up by larger rivals, “it will be a significant disincentive for people to invest in new start-ups”. One reason Field believes that the market is wider than the CMA has judged is the adoption of generative artificial intelligence, arguing that it will revolutionise product design. It will “lower the floor and give people more ability to participate in product design and development. This is what we should be able to use to cure cancer, to run scientific models that we can’t run right now. There’s so much that can be possible from a science perspective that could advance humanity.” In the short term, the more pressing concern is whether Figma and Adobe can convince regulators. “There are disagreements we have,” Field said, “but I try to take the long view. Figma will be in the UK for a long time. We fit in a larger ecosystem. I think that tech sometimes thinks too highly of itself and I don’t intend to fall into that trap.” © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.