"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." The Moccamaster is hands-down my favorite coffee pot. It makes delicious pour-over quality coffee, brews extremely fast, and has an automatic 90-minute shutoff feature, giving me the peace of mind I need every time I jet out the door in a hurry. The only problem? It almost never goes on sale, making it a pricey purchase for many coffee drinkers. Shop Now 53923 KBGV Select Coffee Maker  $239.00 amazon.com Thankfully, Amazon is running a major Prime Day sale on the Moccamaster, allowing you to grab one for just $250. With a retail price of $359, this Prime Day Moccamaster deal will save you 33% — allowing you to give your morning routine the upgrade it deserves, all on a budget. Pour-over coffee is for people with the time and patience to make their coffee one cup at a time with a million steps in between. I have neither time nor patience, plus I'm not the best at making coffee — but what I do have is a need for caffeine. With my Moccamaster and its easy-to-follow ratios for coffee to water, spray-over drip mechanism, and super-fine filter, I manage to make a delightfully drinkable pot of coffee. I was so blown away by it when I first got it that I wrote a Moccamaster review, pledging my love for it and promising it will change how you view drip coffee. The retail $359 price tag makes many people think twice about ordering it — I get it. But when it's priced at $239.99 for Prime Day, it becomes a splurge that's doable for more people, especially in the name of upgrading your morning ritual on a daily basis. As for what exactly makes this drip coffee maker so special, the water is superheated and then sprayed over the grounds much in the way a pour-over cup of coffee is made, saturating all of the grounds before it is filtered into the 10-cup pot. Plus, it looks absolutely gorgeous on my countertop. And let me tell you, taking advantage of this Prime Day deal won't just be a gift to yourself — it's also an investment in your future — it's just that good. Shop Now You Might Also Like The Paris Hilton Housewares Collection Brings ‘That’s Hot’ Energy to Your Kitchen 16 Best Noise-Canceling Headphones Perfect for Rocking Out in Quiet Bliss Beyoncé Uses This $26 Amazon Product for Her Glossy Blonde Hair New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.