One executive uses a hiring strategy called the "coffee cup test" on candidates in job interviews. He said in a resurfaced 2019 clip that he doesn't hire people who don't offer to wash their cup after the interview. Social media users are calling him out for playing a "deeply disturbing psycho-social game." A boss has gone viral on social media after sharing an interview process he calls the "coffee cup test" to filter candidates in job interviews, with some users accusing him of playing mind games with jobseekers. Trent Innes, a chief growth officer at SiteMinder, appeared on The Venture Podcast with Lambros Photios in 2019 when he was still the managing director of Xero Australia to discuss his hiring strategy. Innes said he only hires people if they offer to take their coffee cups to the kitchen at the end of an interview. In the podcast, Innes explained that he always takes candidates for a walk to the kitchen to offer them a drink whether it be water, coffee, a cup of tea, or a soft drink. "Then we take that back and have our interview and one thing I'm always looking for is at the end of the interview is that the person doing the interview wants to take their empty cup back to the kitchen," he said. "You can develop skills, you can gain knowledge, and gain experience but it really does come down to attitude," Innes told Photios about why such a minor task is so significant to him. He said: "What I was trying to find was what was the lowest level task I could find that regardless of what you do inside the organization was still super important." Most candidates did offer to take back their cup with only a few that didn't, Innes noted at the time. The podcast episode has now resurfaced on social media, being shared on both TikTok and Reddit, with some users saying that Innes' strategy is manipulative. Under one TikTok video about the podcast with over 24,000 likes, a user wrote: "I feel like it's weird to wash your own cup at an interview when you're a guest there. I'd prob just ask what they want me to do with the cup." Another user commented: "Good to know. If an employer plays mindgames like this. It's an immediate red flag for me. I end the interview right there." The episode is making the rounds on Reddit too, with one thread accumulating over 100 comments. One person wrote in the thread: "The boss actually said he actively manipulates potential hires into taking a drink, all so he can play his deeply disturbing psycho-social game." Another agreed saying: "So he doesn't communicate his needs, and punishes people for not reading his mind? Sounds like a shitty boss." Although Innes' hiring method appears harmless in theory, social media users are convinced that it signals a toxic work culture. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.