There are plenty of ways to get your caffeine fix, whether that's with a piping hot cup of cappuccino or a refreshingly sweet cold brew. The latter can require a completely different filtration process than an electric coffee machine or pouring a hot coffee over ice. The two main processes for perfecting a cup of cold brew are infusion, in which coffee grounds and cold water are mixed through a filter, or via cold drip, which involves pouring water over coffee grounds. We've handpicked our favourite cold brew coffee makers, so whichever method you prefer, there's a machine for you. All on our list are non-electrical, easy to use and even easier to clean, with the majority costing less than £40. This simple bottle uses coffee grounds, which you add into its strainer with water. Shake it up, put it in the fridge for eight hours (ideally overnight), then pour and enjoy a refreshing cold caffeine fix. This is ideal for anyone who loves getting to grips with a new gadgets. To use, fill the top bulb with water and ice to infuse it with coffee and you can brew up to 10 cups. You can adjust the drip speed for enhanced flavour. Another jug-style we like is this Takeya model, which can make iced and hot coffees. Ideal for serving larger groups, or bringing to a picnic, it works in a similar way to the one above. Just add ground coffee into its inner infuser, fill it with water and leave it for a few hours. This works exactly the same as a cafetiere except you use it with cold water instead of hot. You can also fine-tune the taste and strength of your cold brew by pressing the plunger to the base to stop brewing when you're ready to pour. This gift-set is perfect for the caffeine lover in your life, or as a present for yourself. It contains a cold brew coffee maker, a brewing guide and 300g of Rave cold brew ground coffee. Best of all it fits in your fridge and is easy to clean. For a refreshing cup of cold brew that's rich in flavour, this iced coffee maker ticks every box. It comes with a silicone lid to preserve the taste and a plunger lid to filter coffee grounds, as well as a locking system to stop spillages. For larger coffee-loving households, this cold brew filter jug holds 1500ml water and up to 150g of coffee grounds. Made from stainless steel, it easily filters said coffee grounds, has an air-tight lid and the glass pot can also be used to make tea infusions. This coffee maker can be used for hot or cold coffee and through a simple switch you can activate its filter and will automatically stop when the carafe is removed. It's fuss-free and leaves no mess, and the silicone seal will keep your coffee fresh. This chic double-walled design is made with a copper lining and a stainless steel mesh that delivers a sweeter taste in every cup. It's portable too, so you can bring it into the office to get your caffeine fix whenever you want. This sturdy glass pitcher is easy to clean thanks to the bottom of the filter basket being able to screw off to be quickly rinsed after use, and the recommended brewing time is 12 hours. Ground coffee needs to be placed in the filter basket, then water poured over the top through the hole in the lid, then left to infuse. Design lovers will enjoy using this mocca-coloured coffee maker. There's a handy filter inside the bottle and a secure rubber lid so you can serve up your drink directly from the bottle. This glass and stainless steel coffee maker allows water to drip through coffee grounds instead of mixing them. Simply fill up the top section with ice and water, adjust the drip speed and wait. But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" The celebrations of Team GB's incredible medal haul was aired on BBC One last night (Saturday, August 18), but viewers all thought the same thing when they saw Emma Willis and Vernon Kay Louise Redknapp looked incredible on Instagram wearing a black blazer dress which the former wife of Jamie Redknapp teamed with a pair of over the knee boots. Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." As King Charles and Prince Andrew reportedly still disagree over the younger royal's living arrangements, he has been offered the exclusive use of the Queen's old Balmoral cottage Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel