MILWAUKEE, May 10, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Ademi LLP is investigating Livent LTHM for possible breaches of fiduciary duty and other violations of law in its transaction with Allkem.  



 Click here to learn how to join the action https://www.ademilaw.com/case/livent-corp or call Guri Ademi toll-free at 866-264-3995. There is no cost or obligation to you. Livent public stockholders are expected to receive only 2.406 New Topco Shares for each share of Livent common stock they hold. Following the completion of the transactions, former Allkem shareholders are expected to hold approximately 56% of New Topco and former Livent stockholders are expected to hold approximately 44% of New Topco. The transaction agreement unreasonably limits competing bids for Livent by imposing a significant penalty if Livent accepts a superior bid. Livent insiders will receive substantial benefits as part of change of control arrangements. We are investigating the conduct of Livent's board of directors, and whether they are (i) fulfilling their fiduciary duties to all shareholders, and (ii) obtaining a fair and reasonable price for Livent. If you own Livent common stock and wish to obtain additional information, please contact Guri Ademi either at gademi@ademilaw.com or toll-free: 866-264-3995, or https://www.ademilaw.com/case/livent-corp.                        We specialize in shareholder litigation involving buyouts, mergers, and individual shareholder rights throughout the country. For more information, please feel free to call us. Attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee similar outcomes. Contacts Ademi LLP                                                                                        Guri AdemiToll Free: (866) 264-3995Fax: (414) 482-8001  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/shareholder-alert-ademi-llp-investigates-whether-livent-corp-has-obtained-a-fair-price-in-its-transaction-with-allkem-301821578.html SOURCE  Ademi LLP © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.