Building Blocks 23, a one-day web3-focused event set to bring top together developers and community members in the Ethereum ecosystem, will happen in Tel Aviv. Details on the 7 February, 2023 ETH TLV event highlight three major Israeli companies as the hosts. Accordingly, the Building Blocks 23 event will be organised by digital assets focused venture capital fund Collider, blockchain PR and marketing firm MarketAcross, and enterprise-grade crypto platform Fireblocks. The hosts will collaborate with Israeli-based zero knowledge proof technology provider StarkWare, a press release shared with CoinJournal revealed. Building Blocks 23 is targeted at forming the foundations of Web3 entrepreneurship and will offer participants access to a series of events – including workshops and panel discussions. The organisers will look to guide representatives of various projects through the process of building successful Web3 businesses. Among the topics to be covered are fundraising, product marketing, creating a security-first organisation and building teams and communities around projects. Valuable lessons on offer will be the art of building in Web3, mastery of leading protocols, and how to navigate the inevitable market turbulence. Delegates will also learn from industry leaders on issues such as treasury management, sustainable tokenomics and effective branding. Udi Wertheimer, a blockchain sceptic and Ethereum expert is on the confirmed list of guest speakers, as is Alon Muroch, CEO of SSV Network. There will also be speakers from across the industry, including from The Graph, Aave, Safe, Avalanche, and Solidus Labs. Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
