Fireblocks has received the Cryptocurrency Security Standard (CCSS), a first-of-its-kind certification that was built as a security standard for crypto wallets and custody. Focusing on storage and usage within an organization and augmenting standard information security practices, the certification was created specifically for the crypto industry. For example, it analyzes how a provider generates keys, the hardware it uses and how the policy and workflow engine works, as well as the cybersecurity controls used. Fireblocks received a level three certification – the highest there is – and the one most suitable for enterprises. To win the level three standard, “multiple actors are required for the all-critical actions, advanced authentication mechanisms are employed to ensure authenticity of data, and assets are distributed geographically and organizationally,” according to accounting firm Deloitte. Fireblocks is the first company to meet all requirements for this level. “An in-depth and rigorous audit was conducted of Fireblocks’ people, processes, and technology components for compliance with the CCSS and found that Fireblocks went above and beyond the CCSS Level 3 requirements,” said Marc Krisjanous, the CCSS auditor who led the exam. The CCSS was built in 2014 but no company in the crypto industry has so far met the necessary standards to receive it. Specifically, startups in the space don’t follow security best practices and every system that was subject to breach in the past didn’t pass level one of the standard, Deloitte said. “I think the reason why we were able to be the first one to get this certificate – we got it within four months of intensive interrogation – is the expertise that we have from working with leading banks that already took us through a very similar process previously,” Michael Shaulov, co-founder and CEO of Fireblocks, said. Fireblocks’ clients include Bank of New York Mellon, Robinhood and fintech company Revolut, among others. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Helene is a New York-based reporter covering Wall Street, the rise of the spot bitcoin ETFs and crypto exchanges. She is also the co-host of CoinDesk's Markets Daily show. Helene is a graduate of New York University's business and economic reporting program and has appeared on CBS News, YahooFinance and Nasdaq TradeTalks. She holds BTC and ETH. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk