Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Destiny 2's Season of the Haunted brought the second of the updates to the Light subclasses. Solar saw an absolute overhaul to the hierarchy of subclass power in classes, and Warlock is no exception. Dawnblade is arguably the strongest subclass in the game in PvE and one of the top picks in PvP. This article will provide two top-tier builds for Warlock that can beat every piece of content in the game.
      RELATED: Destiny 2: Hunter Gunslinger Build Guide
                     All Solar Aspects, Fragments, and Abilities can be bought at Ikora Rey in the Tower. They are rather pricey, so make sure you are stocked up on Glimmer before you visit, as these unlocks are crucial for our builds here.
                         Every build in Destiny 2 has a number of core elements that make them function. Ensuring that your Aspects, Fragments, and Mods are all up to scratch is essential for a working build. Certain weapons will also be better than others, as well as specific Exotic Armor being necessary for your builds.
                         These Aspects are remarkable and are key to the success of our builds. They provide a myriad of powerful effects that shouldn't be ignored. You can only use two at a time, so you'll want to customize your choice based on the build you're crafting.
                         Aspect
                         Effect
      Icarus Dash
                     Dodge quickly while airborne. While Heat Rises is active, you have an additional dodge. While airborne, rapidly defeating targets with your Super or weapon grants Cure to you.
      Heat Rises
                     You can fire your weapons, melee, and throw grenades while gliding. Hold your grenade button to consume your grenade to activate Heat Rises. Final blows while airborne increase the duration of Heat Rises and grant melee energy.
      Touch of Flame
                     Your Healing, Solar, Firebolt, and Fusion Grenades have enhanced functionality. Healing Grenade: Improves the strength of Cure and Restoration effects applied. Solar Grenade: Increases linger duration and periodically emits blobs of lava around its perimeter. Firebolt Grenade: Increases target search radius and maximum target count. Fusion Grenade: Explodes twice.
                         Fragments are the real driving force behind our two builds here and are vital to the build's functionality.
                         These are some of the best picks:
                         Fragment
                         Aspect
      Ember of Ashes
                     You apply more scorch stacks to targets.
      Ember of Searing
                     Defeating scorched targets grants melee energy and creates a Firesprite. +10 Recovery
      Ember of Torches
  Powered melee attacks against combatants make you and nearby allies Radiant. - 10 Discipline
      Ember of Mercy
                     When you revive an ally, you and other nearby allies gain restoration. Picking up a Firesprite grants restoration. +10 Resilience
      Ember of Empyrean
                     Solar weapon or ability final blows extend the duration of Restoration and Radiant effects applied to you. -10 Resilience
      Ember of Resolve
                     Solar grenade final blows cure you.
                         These Fragments play into the builds perfectly and can be experimented with as only a couple are necessary for the builds.
                         Dawnblade has two meta-defining exotics that are some of the best Exotics for Warlock right now. Starfire Protocol and Sunbracers both utilize the potency of the Touch of Flame Aspect and its grenade-enhancing abilities. With these exotics, the builds become incredible for clearing out enemies and dealing insane boss damage.
                         With the overhaul of how the Mod system works in Lightfall, a number of builds got changed, but these builds stayed relatively unchanged.
                         Here are some of the best mods for these builds:
                         These mods are very important to these builds, so include them when recommended.
      RELATED: Broken Weapons Were Great In Destiny 2, And We Need Them Back
                     This first build uses Starfire Protocol's incredible damage potential to deal as much damage to bosses as possible. Witherhoard has excellent synergy, as the damage over time refunds your Fusion Grenade, and Demolitionist Rocket Launchers allow for even higher DPS combos, as firing a rocket and then a Fusion Grenade will allow you to fire another rocket shot.
                         This build has the highest potential damage output in the entire game, so much so that players have gotten close to beating Nezarec, the new Raid boss in Root of Nightmares, solo.
                         The damage rotation of this build can take a bit of practice to get down, but once you do, you will always be top of the damage charts.
                         Armor Piece
                         Mods
      Helmet
                     Ashes to Assets, Heavy Ammo Finder and Heavy Ammo Scout
      Arms
                     2x Firepower and Bolstering Detonation
      Chest
                     Resistance mods matching your enemy's damage type
      Legs
                     Surge mods matching your weapon's damage type
      Bond
                     2x Time Dilation and Reaper
                         Make sure to include stat mods wherever possible to make your Resilience, Recovery, and Discipline as high as possible, in that order of priority.
                         This mod setup, combined with the Fragment picks, will make for a build that generates heavy ammo for your team while also dealing outrageous damage. When this build comes together, it is one of the most powerful builds in the game.
      RELATED: Destiny 2: Threadrunner Hunter Build Guide
  Stats: Resilience, Recovery, Strength
      Aspects: Touch of Flame and Heat Rises
      Fragments: Ember of Empyrean, Ember of Ashes, Ember of Resolve, and Ember of Searing
      Weapon Choice: Demolitionist Weapons
      Abilities: Solar Grenade, Phoenix Dive, and Incinerator Snap
                         Sunbracers is a relic of an exotic. It has always been a bit of a sleeper pick, but with the release of Lightfall, it gained much more traction. Sunbracers is not only fun but devastatingly powerful too, leveling entire battlefields with just your Solar grenades.
                         Armor Piece
                         Mods
      Helmet
                     Ashes to Assets, Heavy Ammo Finder, and Heavy Ammo Scout
      Arms
                     Firepower, Bolstering Detonation, and Momentum Transfer
      Chest
                     Damage resistance mods matching your enemy's damage type
      Legs
                     Orbs of Restoration, Invigoration, and Bomber
      Bond
                     2x Distribution
      
                     Once again, try to fit as many stat mods in as possible, focusing on Resilience, Recovery, and Strength in that order.
                           These mods will turn you into an Orb of Power and Heavy Ammo generator for yourself and your team and will have you clearing out rooms with this build with ease.
                         These two builds are arguably the best builds in the entire game. Solar Warlock is remarkably powerful right now, and can easily destroy the hardest pieces of content in the game. The raw damage from Starfire Protocol, or the incredible enemy control with Sunbracers, make for two potent builds for you to choose from.
      NEXT: Lightfall's Verglas Curve Is My New Favorite Weapon In Destiny 2
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Specializations play a key role in the game, especially when you are among the chosen ones who can fend off the evil lurking in the shadows. Against all odds, these games managed to become huge success stories.  Fans divided regarding Dr.Disrespect's imminent return to streaming.  Sorry, we're closed.  The popular four-star character is rumoured to get a second form much like March 7th and Dan Heng. While many players give up against the very first boss, this WWE Star has dedicated over 600 hours to Elden Ring.