
Published: Jul 19, 2023 12:02 pm 
 It seems as though Blizzard has taken some harsh strikes against the Sorcerer class in Diablo 4 in the latest update patch notes. Although there are many things that have improved the class, certain Sorcerer nerfs have upset players. If you want to know all the Diablo 4 Season of the Malignant Sorcerer changes, buffs, and nerfs, continue reading. Some players were taking advantage of an Aspect bug that let them deal more damage. Now this isn’t possible anymore, which has disappointed some Sorcerers. Otherwise, Blizzard squashed a few other Sorcerer bugs for the Diablo 4 Season of the Malignant. If you originally abused the Aspect of Control’s damage bug, that sadly won’t be a feature in Season of the Malignant. On the bright side, the other bug fixes focus on things that hindered players. Although, if you don’t intend to use Aspect of Control, these bug fixes are pretty okay. Screenshot by PC Invasion There are plenty of major buffs available to Sorcerers in Diablo 4’s first Season. Overall, these buffs are large in number, but less impactful in the long run. But as a Sorcerer myself, I’m glad to see some changes to the Hydra Enchantment Mana threshold, and damage increased with Charged Bolts. Screenshot via Blizzard Even though the amount of buffs seem massive, some of the nerfs harshly affect fire Sorcerers. Significant damage was reduced to burning enemies, which is a bad thing for players who relied on fire abilities. Luckily, for Sorcerers who’d rather use ice or lightning skills, these nerfs may be fine by you. Also, Critical Strike damage was pretty nerfed throughout the patch notes. All in all, you can read these Diablo 4 Season of the Malignant patch notes very differently depending on which Sorcerer build you enjoy. If you plan to play a fire Sorcerer during Season one, you may want to consider being a lightning or ice Sorcerer instead. Also, you won’t be able to rely so much on the Aspect of Control or Critical Strike damage anymore. Diablo 4 is available on Battle.net.