Team Penske's Will Power flashes past on the streets of St. Petersburg, Florida in last year's ... [+] Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg. (Photo by Mark Brown/Getty Images) The Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding has earned a special place on the NTT IndyCar Series schedule. The season-opening race features sun, high-speed Indy cars on the streets of this beautiful city located between Florida’s Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico and a festival atmosphere. It’s a spectacular backdrop for NBC Sports, giving the Florida tourist community valuable exposure on a national network. In many ways, it has become IndyCar’s version of “Spring Break.” According to St. Petersburg Mayor Ken Welch, the annual IndyCar weekend has an economic impact of at least $50 million. “Those are conservative, pre-Pandemic levels,” Mayor Welch said at Thursday’s annual welcome breakfast. Bridgestone Americas, the company that makes Firestone tires, recognizes that. On Thursday morning, it announced a contract extension with Green Savoree St. Petersburg, LLC that keeps it the Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding through 2025. “It’s an honor for our team to host this event in the City of St. Petersburg each year and to do so with the unparalleled support of an iconic brand like Firestone spanning 19 years now. Lisa (Boggs) and her team continue to help us grow the Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding and to elevate the stature of Josef Newgarden of Team Penske in last year's Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg. (Photo by Mark ... [+] Brown/Getty Images) the NTT IndyCar Series as a world-class sport,” said Kim Green, co-owner, chairman and CEO of Green Savoree Racing Promotions, organizers of the Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding. “Year-after-year Firestone delivers a great racing compound to the drivers producing awesome competition on the track for our fans to enjoy.” As the streets of St. Petersburg are about to come alive as the city is set to host the NTT IndyCar Series for the 19th Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg, its sponsorship is secure for another three events. Firestone has been a partner with the event since 2005, then elevated its commitment to become the naming rights partner of this NTT IndyCar Series event in 2014. “We are proud to continue our partnership with Green Savoree Racing Promotions to support a marquee event in a community that shares our passion for IndyCar racing,” said Lisa Boggs, Director of Motorsports at Bridgestone Americas. “This year’s race marks the Firestone brand’s tenth year as entitlement sponsor, and we’re honored to extend this relationship through 2025.” This is Firestone’s 24th consecutive year as the sole tire supplier of the NTT IndyCar Series as the season gets underway this weekend for the 13th time on the downtown streets of St. Petersburg. The race continues to be an ideal setting for the brand to engage race fans and consumers while showcasing its tire technology. In 2023, starting with the Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding, NTT IndyCar Series cars will race on guayule natural rubber, featuring a green sidewall, as the alternate tire on all street circuits. Additionally, INDYCAR and Green Savoree St. Petersburg, LLC, the company which owns and operates the Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding, have signed a multiyear extension. This ensures the continuation of the NTT IndyCar Series racing on the streets of St. Petersburg. “The Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding has proven to be an exceptional season opener for the NTT IndyCar Series season,” Penske Entertainment Corp. President and CEO Mark Miles said. “We are pleased to agree to a multiyear extension as we commit to what has become a pillar event on our calendar. The growing crowds and TV audience and continued support from Firestone are important signs of the event’s strength and future. “We look forward to the city of St. Petersburg providing the perfect showcase for the stars of the NTT IndyCar Series for years to come.” Firestone’s roots run deep in the Tampa/St. Petersburg area. For nearly 100 years, Firestone Complete Auto Care (FCAC) has been a trusted provider of tire and automotive services for drivers in the region. Its location on Kennedy Boulevard in downtown Tampa, which is just a few miles from where the Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding will be held, first opened in 1933 and stands as the longest still-operating FCAC location in the U.S. FCAC is part of Bridgestone Retail Operations, which owns and operates more than 2,200 tire and vehicle service locations across the country. Firestone is the official tire of the NTT IndyCar Series currently through the 2025 season. The Firestone Race Tire Engineering team develops race tire specifications to meet the demands of each unique oval, road, and street course circuits on the NTT IndyCar Series schedule. These efforts to support the most versatile racing series in the world continue to serve as the ultimate proving ground for the tire technology that everyday drivers can find in the Firestone passenger tires on their personal vehicles. The 2023 Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg presented by RP Funding runs March 3-5.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.