We’ll deliver breaking news directly to your inbox. Sign up today. WASHTENAW COUNTY, MI - An empty lot in a commercial area off Jackson Road outside Ann Arbor could soon see new construction, giving residents another place to take their car for service. Developers are proposing to build a new Firestone Complete Auto Care location next to the Culver’s restaurant and Lowe’s home improvement store on Jackson Road in Scio Township, expanding access to the existing stores in the process. The project was first approved in 2020, but didn’t move forward then. It’s now back in a slightly modified form, advancing through the township approval process with a vote of the Scio Planning Commission on Monday, Oct. 23. “Obviously during COVID, people stopped driving. (It) really spooked organizations like Bridgestone/Firestone, so they put things on hold like a lot of their competitors. Lucky for us, the property is still available,” said Todd Hamula with Zaremba Group, LLC, the developers on the project, during the Monday meeting. The plans presented Monday call for a roughly 6,000-square-foot tire shop, also offering general automotive repair, with eight vehicle bays. Access would come via the main entrance drive to Lowe’s and a connection to the current Culver’s lot, as well as an entrance to the west from a private drive leading to the Gerber Collision & Glass auto body shop. The Firestone location would be the fourth in the Ann Arbor area, according to the company’s website. Tire sales are about 40% of its business, but the locations also provide general repair services like oil changes, brake work and tune-ups, without doing major maintenance, Hamula said. “It is another choice for consumers,” the developer said, when asked Monday about existing tire shops along Jackson Road in the township and what set Firestone apart. The project will include electric vehicle charging for at least two parking spaces at the site, according to the conditions planning commissioners placed on a zoning permit for the project, while voting unanimously to recommend it be approved by the township board. Firestone was already planning to include EV charging, Hamula said, though developers are still determining what level of charges will be included. The access to Lowe’s and Culver’s will improve the area, and the EV stations are appreciated, said Planning Commission Chair Jan Culbertson, who told developers the township has set carbon neutrality goals and is asking projects to consider going all-electric or include other renewable energy components. The zoning permit will next go for a vote by township elected leaders. The project must also pass through a detailed review of its site plan before receiving final approval. Want more Ann Arbor-area news? Bookmark the local Ann Arbor news page or sign up for the free “3@3 Ann Arbor” daily newsletter. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.