A US estate agency that features on international television is making an exciting move to the Balearic Islands The Agency, which has been featured on international television programs including Netflix’s Buying Beverly Hills, Bravo’s The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills and Million Dollar Listing Los Angeles is launching in Mallorca.  The Agency was founded by Mauricio Umansky, who some fans of American TV network Bravo will recognize from the Real Housewives of Beverly Hills as the husband of long time cast member Kyle Richards.  The Agency also made an appearance on Buying Beverly Hills, which debuted on Netflix in November of last year. The Mallorca office will be led by industry veteran and managing partner, Alby Euesden.  Euesden was born in Essex but moved to Mallorca at the age of four. With a wide range of experience with real estate on the Balearic Island, specializing in properties in the coveted southwest region, particularly Bendinat.  “I am delighted to expand The Agency’s brand throughout Europe with our first office in Mallorca,” he said.  “With its rich culture and history, great climate, and scenic coastlines, I am honored to help bring The Agency’s white glove service and world-class brand to this unparalleled destination.” The Mallorca office will be The Agency’s third office in Europe and joins the brokerage’s global network of more than 70 offices in the U.S, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Europe.  “We’re thrilled to expand our presence overseas in Europe with the launch of our new franchise in Mallorca,” said Mauricio Umansky.  The Financial Times noted The Agency as one of America’s fastest growing companies and ranked among Inc Magazine’s 5000’s list of fastest growing private companies in the country for six consecutive years.  Recently, the brokerage ranked 21st on the 2022 Real Trends 500 list and led the top 50 firms in average sales prices by sides with a $2.5 million average sales price. READ MORE:  DO YOU HAVE NEWS FOR US at Spain’s most popular English newspaper - the Olive Press? Contact us now via email: newsdesk@theolivepress.es or call 951 273 575. To contact the newsdesk out of regular office hours please call +34 665 798 618. You must be logged in to post a comment. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.  To contact the newsdesk out of regular office hours please call +34 665 798 618 We are available over the Christmas and Easter holidays Voted Spain‘s number one expat newspaper and ‘second in the world’, by 27,000 people polled by UK marketing group Tesca. Also dubbed “The best English newspaper in Spain,” according to the UK’s Rough Guide. The Olive Press is the English language newspaper for Spain. Local news, in particular, from the Costa del Sol, Andalucia, Alicante, Murcia and Mallorca, plus national news from around Spain. A campaigning, community newspaper, the Olive Press launched in 2006 and represents the huge and growing expatriate community in Spain – with over 100,000 printed copies monthly, 50,000 visitors a day online we have an estimated readership of more than 500,000 people a month. 
Enter your Email address: 


 

 I have read and agree to the privacy policy

 

 © 2006 - 2024 Luke Stewart Media SL  - All rights reserved. 