Calpine Bethlehem Energy Center, 2254 Applebutter Road in Bethlehem, is seen Sunday, Feb. 12, 2023. The combined-cycle power plant is fueled primarily by natural gas, the dominant fuel for electricity in Pennsylvania and nationwide.Kurt Bresswein | For lehighvalleylive.com Lehigh Valley electricity-supply rates from Met-Ed and PPL Electric Utilities, for customers who don’t shop for a competitor, rose about 38% in December from mid-year, amid what the U.S. Energy Information Administration described as “volatile” wholesale electricity prices in 2022. Natural gas customers with UGI Utilities Inc. faced a similar hike over that time in the company’s commodity charge on their bills, rising 33%. Now, with a warmer-than-average start to 2023, the federal EIA is forecasting 47% lower natural gas prices in 2023. With natural gas the dominant source for electricity generation both in Pennsylvania and across the United States, the administration is forecasting moderately lower electricity prices: The Mid-Atlantic’s residential rates are forecast to drop about 4.5% from 19.26 cents per kilowatt-hour in fourth quarter of 2022 to around 18.4 cents for the first half of the year. We asked the Lehigh Valley’s utility providers to peer into their crystal ball for a look at what to expect from the monthly bills that have been generating increasing anxiety when they arrive each month. Following below is a look at what they said. But first, what’s been driving the rate hikes of the past year? “When it comes to the question about what’s driving prices, the short answer is an ongoing global demand for every type of fuel and energy — including the fuels used to power electric generation,” said Nils Hagen-Frederiksen, spokesman for the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission that regulates companies like Met-Ed, PPL Electric Utilities and UGI. The EIA also points to extreme weather events — a July heat wave in Texas, cold temperatures in January 2022 and in the Pacific Northwest in December — as majority contributors to recent volatility in electricity prices. Natural gas prices continued an upward trend driven by economic growth in Asia, pipeline constraints and high international demand for U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas, including due to reduced exports to Europe from Russia amid its continuing war with Ukraine. For 2023, “we expect lower natural gas prices across the United States,” EIA spokesman Chris Higginbotham said. “Our forecast is that domestic natural gas production will continue to increase to balance against demand, and that will contribute to wholesale natural gas prices coming down. And we expect the lower wholesale prices to translate to lower residential retail prices as well.” By law, utilities cannot make a profit on electric generation, as generation costs are simply passed through to utility customers. Utility providers and regulators encourage customers to shop for better supply rates, known as the Price to Compare. (This is separate from distribution costs on utility bills.) The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission offers tools to compare supply costs both for electricity at papowerswitch.com and for natural gas at pagasswitch.com. Consumers are advised to make sure they read the fine print and understand the agreement they’re signing, the length of term for the deal and how long any introductory rate may last. FirstEnergy Corp., which also owns JCP&L in New Jersey, is changing how often its Pennsylvania utility providers purchase electricity on behalf of their non-shopping customers. Under the companies’ new Pennsylvania Default Service Program that runs from 2023 through 2028, Met-Ed along with FirstEnergy’s other three Pennsylvania utilities will make those purchases twice a year, rather than quarterly as in the past. However, with 2023 the transition year, three purchases are being made — one in January, then at auctions on the program’s new cycle in April and November. “While I can’t provide perspective on where Met-Ed’s future default service rates or ‘price to compare’ may trend in the future, I can say with certainty that the near term relief will arrive in a few weeks,” Met-Ed spokesman Todd Meyers told lehighvalleylive.com. For non-shopping customers, Met-Ed’s residential Price to Compare effective March 1 will dip 3% from 10.3 cents to 9.99 cents per kWh, he said. For the typical residential customer using 750 kWh of electricity per month, the monthly bill would fall from $131.64 to $129.30 for an overall bill decrease, including distribution costs, of 1.78%, according to Meyers. Allentown-based PPL Electric Utilities’ next price change is June 1, with Dec. 1 the other date for its semiannual purchases to take effect. Spokeswoman Jane George would not say what will happen with this year’s default supply rates that get passed along to customers. The company does not issue a forecast or estimated Price to Compare, she said, “given the variables inherent in wholesale power supply.” However, the company issues its Price to Compare 30 days in advance of the rate changing, and invites customers to view the current Price to Compare and sign up to receive alerts at pplelectric.com. PPL Electric Utilities this winter drew an investigation from the PUC, announced Jan. 31, after the company said it had fixed a “technical system issue” that temporarily blocked access to customer usage data. That resulted in estimated bills, based on past usage, going out to some customers. Differences between estimated bills due in January and February would be resolved on a following bill, the company said. Affected customers may have received bills much higher than their average usage suggested they should receive or their personal budgets could accommodate. The company’s president apologized, saying the electricity provider had “fallen short of (our) standard in both our billing and responsiveness to customers.” “We are not forecasting what rates may do this year,” UGI spokesman Joe Swope told lehighvalleylive.com by email. “The next time we can adjust rates would be March 1. Any change will be announced February 28.” Swope explained that UGI deals with actual costs (gas the company already purchased) and gas purchases in the future that have already been locked in based on New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) future prices — and where there are forecasted prices in the equation for purchases yet to be made, they’re based on NYMEX futures. “Then, when actual costs come in, they’re reconciled,” Swope said. “Any future purchases are based on the NYMEX futures.” UGI is three months into a five-year pilot program to charge customers a Weather Normalization Adjustment, instituted in November with PUC approval. The adjustment tacks on a fee or gives customers a credit based on deviations from 15-year temperature averages from the National Weather Service, according to Swope. “It’s been sort of a mixed bag so far for customers,” he said when asked how that’s been working out, noting UGI is monitoring the charge for reporting to the PUC: “And at the end of the five-year period, it’ll be evaluated to see if any modifications are necessary.” Residential heating oil prices have declined from record-highs in November, the federal Energy Information Administration said. At the start of the winter heating season (October–March), the national retail price of home heating oil climbed rapidly, establishing a new record in early November, the EIA said in summarizing data from its State Heating Oil and Propane Program (SHOPP). “The national average price for home heating oil was $4.73 per gallon (gal) on Oct. 3, 2022, the beginning of the winter heating season,” the EIA said this month. “By Nov. 7, the national average price had climbed to a record $5.93/gal, the highest price reported since we began collecting this data in October 1990, after adjusting for inflation. Low distillate fuel inventories in the United States and tight supplies in the Atlantic Basin both contributed to the rapid price increase. Since then, the price of home heating oil has fallen $1.47/gal (25%) to $4.47/gal as of Feb. 6, 2023.” Editor’s note: This article contains charts looking at “U.S. and Pa. electricity generation by energy source”; “Met-Ed electric rate up 62.5% since June 2018″; “PPL Electric Utilities electric rate up 95% since June 2016″; and “UGI Utilities Inc. rate up 101.5% since November 2020.” Click the links here to view them, since they may not display on all platforms, or to view them full-screen. Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to lehighvalleylive.com. Kurt Bresswein may be reached at kbresswein@lehighvalleylive.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices