Oct. 17—As Halloween nears, FirstEnergy reminds the public to be safe as they decorate their homes and partake in seasonal festivities. Celebrating responsibly will help keep people of all ages safe and the electricity flowing reliably this season. As children and adults celebrate the holiday, FirstEnergy wants them to know where potential electrical or fire risks exist so they can take the steps needed to minimize them. Keep your home spooky and safe If your home will be decked-out with eerie lights and jack-o'-lanterns, take the time to ensure all decorations are installed safely and functioning properly. Consider these safety measures while decorating this Halloween: * Never put any decorations on or near utility equipment, like poles and transformers. * Inspect each electrical cord of lights and decorations before use. Look for damage such as cracked, frayed or bare wires, damaged sockets or loose connections that can lead to shocks. If a cord is hot, don't use it. * Use the proper clips for securing lights and decorations. Staples and nails can damage electrical cords. * Decorative lights should be approved by Underwriter's Laboratory and carry a UL seal on the tag. Red UL marks indicate the lights are approved for indoor or outdoor use, while green UL tags indicate approval for indoor use only. * Outdoor lights and decorations should be plugged into outlets that feature Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCIs). * Indoor lights should not touch window treatments, carpet or furniture. * Replace traditional candles with flame-free options like flashlights, battery-operated candles or glow sticks to light up your jack-o'-lanterns or seasonal decor. * Keep flammable decorations, like cornstalks and bales of hay, far away from any open flames or heat sources, such as candles, heaters and light bulbs. Stay safe while trick-or-treating * While collecting treats this season, the following tips can help keep your family and friends safe during popular events, including trunk-or-treat or trick-or-treat: * Keep a clear, well-lit path at your home for trick-or-treaters. Prevent falls by keeping walkways, steps and porches free of electrical cords or any other items that may pose a hazard for trick-or-treaters. * Carry a flashlight or add reflective tape, LED shoelaces or glow sticks to your costume to make yourself more visible to others in dark or dimly lit areas. * Limit travel to well-lit, familiar areas. Always walk in groups and use sidewalks or crosswalks, whenever possible. * Motorists should use extra caution and keep an eye out for children crossing the street. Know the trick-or-treat hours in your neighborhood and anticipate heavy foot traffic. * Customers are reminded to report any issues with their streetlights so they can be addressed as quickly as possible. Here are the best ways to report a streetlight outage: Call FirstEnergy at 1-888-LIGHTSS (1-888-544-4877) and say "streetlight" after the greeting Report the lighting problem online When reporting a streetlight outage, please provide the following information: Your name and phone number, address where the streetlight is located (nearest house or business address and the nearest cross street), number on the utility pole and what is wrong with the streetlight (damaged pole; broken light fixture; light is off at night, on during the day, or flickers). Visit www.firstenergycorp.com/publicsafety to learn about FirstEnergy's "Stop. Look. Live." safety campaign to educate the public about staying safe around electricity and near power lines and equipment. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.