An entrance to the Potter Stewart U.S. Courthouse in Cincinnati, where the 2023 bribery and corruption trial of two Statehouse figures concerning FirstEnergy Corp. and House Bill 6 was prosecuted.  An entrance to the Potter Stewart U.S. Courthouse in Cincinnati, where the 2023 bribery and corruption trial of two Statehouse figures on charges concerning FirstEnergy Corp. and House Bill 6 was prosecuted.  (AP Photo/Joshua A. Bickel)AP CAMBRIDGE, Massachusetts -- When was the last time a prosecutor obtained a guilty admission from a party, and then, having done so, took steps to assure that the malefactor could continue to collect its ill-gotten gains from the victims? That is exactly what Ohio is witnessing, something perhaps unprecedented in the annals of American law. Kenneth L. Parker, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio, might well be, quite literally, and to the explicit benefit (and at the apparent request) of a corporation which has already admitted in a deferred prosecution agreement to paying millions of dollars in bribes, ensuring that the same corporation can continue to collect some of its ill-gotten gains. This highly unusual development, of course, relates to the July 2021 action of the U.S. Attorney’s office and FirstEnergy Corp., wherein the company admitted to paying bribes to state officials in exchange for the passage of House Bill 6, a piece of legislation that would have provided it with ratepayer-funded subsidies in excess of one billion dollars, and for subsequent favorable regulatory treatment. In March -- nearly two years after the Akron utility’s admission -- jurors in federal court convicted ex-Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and lobbyist Matt Borges for taking part in a scheme to use those bribes to pass and preserve HB 6 to bail out two aging nuclear power plants owned by a subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corp, and also provide other regulatory benefits to FirstEnergy. HB 6 also included subsidies for two money-losing coal plants, one in Indiana, owned by a consortium of utilities, including FirstEnergy. Key parts of HB 6 were repealed in 2021, including the nuclear subsidies and some other benefits, but the coal subsidies remain in force. Federal prosecutors showed that FirstEnergy, with help from its allies, paid more than $60 million to secure passage and then preservation of HB 6 in the face of a citizens’ referendum attempt. Although FirstEnergy admitted in its July 2021 deferred prosecution agreement that it bribed Sam Randazzo, chair of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), Randazzo insists he is not guilty, and he has not, to date, been charged. The curious behavior of the U.S. Attorney is the result of that office’s self-described “continuing investigation” of the HB 6 matter (an investigation proceeding at a pace slower than glacial movement). That federal probe has been proceeding concurrent with more than one PUCO investigation, as well as several civil lawsuits related to the same subject. The issue of which agency/party takes precedence, or which party is better equipped to investigate, is not trivial. Each of those proceedings serve legitimate, but quite different purposes: the prosecutor is investigating criminal behavior; civil litigants are looking out for shareholders; and regulatory proceedings are attempting to protect consumers and make them whole -- something the U.S. Attorney is not able to do. And if the PUCO continues to delay its probes at the U.S. Attorney’s request, consumers may well continue to be victimized by an admitted perpetrator. When the PUCO proceedings -- largely because of effective discovery by the Office of Ohio Consumers’ Counsel -- began to produce critical information, it appears FirstEnergy convinced the U.S. Attorney to request a six-month halt in all further inquiries. The PUCO hurriedly approved this request, then extended it twice. The U.S. Attorney’s stated motive for seeking suspension of the PUCO investigations was to avoid interference with his own investigation, but it seems curious that his office did not make the request until FirstEnergy asked him to do so. So, what is the harm from delaying the PUCO proceeding? Ashley Brown is a former two-term commissioner of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio. The harm stems from a 2018 Ohio Supreme Court decision that interpreted a 1957 precedent as precluding a PUCO order to refund consumers for unlawfully collected revenues because the court believed that refunds constituted statutorily prohibited retroactive ratemaking. While the court appears to have been confused about the difference between refunds and retroactive ratemaking, its decision is, nonetheless, binding precedent. As a result, any funds continuing to be unlawfully collected from consumers under what remains of HB6 can never be returned to consumers until such time as the PUCO stops authorizing the collection, something it is unable to do if it keeps honoring the repeated delays requested by the U.S. Attorney. Thus, we have the spectacle of a malefactor being able to keep their ill-gotten gains at the explicit request of the office that prosecuted those crimes. Ashley Brown is the retired executive director of the Harvard Electricity Policy Group at the Kennedy School at Harvard University. He served two full terms as a PUCO commissioner from 1983-1993. He also co-authored The World Bank’s Manual for Evaluating Infrastructure Regulation. Have something to say about this topic? * Send a letter to the editor, which will be considered for print publication. * Email general questions, comments or corrections on this opinion column to Elizabeth Sullivan, director of opinion, at esullivan@cleveland.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices