FirstEnergy payments to the dark money group Generation Now, which pleaded guilty in the $60 million federal House Bill 6 corruption case, according to the U.S. v. Householder criminal complaint. FirstEnergy is now seeking state regulatory approval to raise its rates. (Jake Zuckerman/cleveland.com) Akron-based FirstEnergy Corp., which supplies electricity to much of Greater Cleveland through the Illuminating and Ohio Edison companies, and to Northwest Ohio via its Toledo Edison unit, wants to raise rates -- with part going to reinforce the company’s grid of power lines. Stated aim: to reduce power failures. Cleveland.com’s Sean McDonnell recently reported that the “electric security” rate request as a whole, if approved by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), would mean the average Illuminating Co. customer would pay $4 more per month, with $2.35 more monthly for typical Ohio Edison customers. The Ohio Office of Consumers’ Counsel, which presents residential utility customers, vigorously opposes the rate increase, which the counsel’s office said would amount to a $1.4 billion rate hike beginning in mid-2024 and continuing through mid-2033. “Since about 2008, electric security plans have been used by electric utilities as a tool to get more rate increases in between traditional rate cases … [and] provided more ‘security’ for utilities than consumers,” the Counsel’s office said. FirstEnergy says it would use the money “to reinforce the grid against progressively worsening storms, and … wants to expand its tree-trimming programs so that it can remove more branches that may cause power outages,” McDonnell reported. FirstEnergy should know a thing or two about its power lines’ vulnerability to nearby trees. In August 2003, millions of people in eight northeastern states and parts of Canada lost power after a high-voltage FirstEnergy line, likely in Walton Hills, brushed against some overgrown trees. In the end, “50 million people lost power for up to two days in the biggest blackout in North American history [contributing] to at least 11 deaths and [costing] an estimated $6 billion,” Scientific American magazine later reported. In today’s climate, grid-hardening might not be such a bad idea. And in the normal course of things at the PUCO, the “if” on whether such a rate case would be approved would not be a very big “if.” However, given the ongoing federal criminal probe into the House Bill 6/FirstEnergy bribery and corruption scandal that has, among other things, exposed PUCO’s corruptibility and servility -- with FirstEnergy admitting it bribed then-PUCO chairman Sam Randazzo to do its bidding -- this rate case should be different. In particular, it’s critical that the PUCO not agree to any grid-improvement-related rate increases without strict accountability and transparency requirements so that average ratepayers can see for themselves how their money is being spent. Such accountability was lacking in 2016, when PUCO agreed to let FirstEnergy jack up bills with a “distribution modernization rider” that the Ohio Supreme Court finally blocked in 2019 -- after ratepayers shelled out nearly $460 million. A 2022 audit to determine, in part, whether any of that $460 million went to underwrite HB 6 bribes found FirstEnergy had not tracked any of the rider spending -- because it was not required to do so. That sorry example of regulatory irresponsibility should not recur. PUCO’s own efforts to get to the bottom of how its regulatory oversight might have been corrupted by the FirstEnergy bribes and other insider influence-peddling have essentially been on hold pending completion of the federal corruption investigations. It’s important PUCO not hesitate to follow through on those probes, completely and transparently, once the U.S. Attorney’s office in Cincinnati completes its investigation and prosecutions. Public trust is on the line. In the federal case, former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and former Republican State Chair Matthew Borges have both been sentenced to federal prison terms after being found guilty. Two other individuals and a dark-money group have pleaded guilty, and FirstEnergy agreed to pay a $230 million fine as part of a deferred prosecution agreement. The grand jury is still meeting. In evaluating FirstEnergy’s electric security plan request, and specifically its grid modernization component, the PUCO should follow Ronald Reagan’s maxim -- “Trust but verify.” First, FirstEnergy should create a readily accessible website so anyone can determine specifically how the new money is being spent, block by block, community by community, to safeguard the electric grid from storms, encroaching vegetation and other hazards. Additionally, the PUCO should designate a special master -- say, an inspector general, or consumer monitor -- to independently hold FirstEnergy accountable for how, how much, and where, grid modernization money is spent. The utility may bridle at third-party oversight. But scandals have consequences. And the PUCO, by itself, doesn’t inspire great confidence among Ohio ratepayers. Public accountability, by a website and an independent third-party master, is imperative. About our editorials: Editorials express the view of the editorial board of cleveland.com and The Plain Dealer -- the senior leadership and editorial-writing staff. As is traditional, editorials are unsigned and intended to be seen as the voice of the news organization. Have something to say about this topic? * Send a letter to the editor, which will be considered for print publication. * Email general questions about our editorial board or comments or corrections on this editorial to Elizabeth Sullivan, director of opinion, at esullivan@cleveland.com If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices