Get ready for an epic launch that will celebrate and uplift the Latino culture like never before! Purpose Toys announced the unveiling of Purpose Toys LATIN. This new cultural-focused division is all set to make waves. And the best part? They’re launching the world’s first and only all-Latina fashion doll line, “Latinistas,” in a major way! Latinistas is a game-changer in the toy industry, bringing much-needed representation and diversity to the toy aisles. With a wide variety of skin tones, eye colors, hair textures, and heritage backgrounds, these dolls are designed to reflect the true beauty and diversity of the Latino community. And let’s remember their aspirational interests, which will inspire young girls everywhere to dream big and aim high! Lola, Liv, Julianna, and Dani, are ready to take the world by storm, shattering industry-wide trends of limited cultural representation. You can find Latinistas at major retailers such as Walmart, Target, and Amazon in August 2023. Under the leadership of Jovanna Rosado, Purpose Toys LATIN is proud to lead this historic launch of Latinistas. With over a decade of toy media, entertainment, and toy marketing experience, Rosado is the perfect person to take the reins. She’s passionate about the Latino community and can’t wait to bring her love and commitment to Purpose Toys LATIN. “I am beyond honored to be part of this historic moment for our community. Our goal through Purpose Toys LATIN is to unite, empower and celebrate our community through play. This is only the beginning! We are so excited to work with Purpose Toys and DeeDee Wright-Ward in their mission to ‘Center and Celebrate Communities of Culture,” said Rosado. Diana Garcia, Purpose Toys LATIN’s social media and social impact leader, is ready to make her mark. Together, they’re a force to be reckoned with, a community-led division poised to impact the world positively. At Purpose Toys LATIN, their mission is to celebrate the warmth, pride, and diversity of the Latino community. And with Latinistas, they’re doing just that! So get ready to unite, empower, and celebrate the Latino community through play.