MENU Business.com aims to help business owners make informed decisions to support and grow their companies. We research and recommend products and services suitable for various business types, investing thousands of hours each year in this process. As a business, we need to generate revenue to sustain our content. We have financial relationships with some companies we cover, earning commissions when readers purchase from our partners or share information about their needs. These relationships do not dictate our advice and recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates and recommends products and services based on their research and expertise. Learn more about our process and partners here. Medical software from AdvancedMD and Dr Chrono will streamline your healthcare practice and improve the patient experience. At business.com, our team of technology experts has analyzed hundreds of tools and services designed to improve essential business operations, from POS systems to GPS fleet management services to remote PC access software, and we use these experiences to provide business owners with actionable guides and industry insights. Every playbook and explainer is infused with advice from real IT consultants, implementation experts, security specialists, software developers and more.  Our rigorous product review process involves in-depth industry research, vendor interviews, hands-on testing and service comparisons. Each analysis — whether for a business phone system, CRM platform, call center software or website builder — is independently verified by a business.com editor to ensure our recommendations are free of bias and errors. Learn more about our editorial process. When choosing our best picks for medical software, we looked for platforms that make it easy for medical staff to schedule appointments, update patient charts and execute the billing process. We examined each system’s implementation... When choosing our best picks for medical software, we looked for platforms that make it easy for medical staff to schedule appointments, update patient charts and execute the billing process. We examined each system’s implementation process, patient portal functionality, analytics options and device compatibility. Monthly prices and setup fees also factored into our assessments. evaluated researched chosen When choosing our best picks for medical software, we looked for platforms that make it easy for medical staff to schedule appointments, update patient charts and execute the billing process. We examined each system’s implementation process, patient portal functionality, analytics options and device compatibility. Monthly prices and setup fees also factored into our assessments. evaluated researched chosen Medical software is a required part of modern medical practices, not only for regulatory compliance but also for operational efficiency. Medical software helps both the clinical and administrative sides of a practice function more smoothly, from setting and managing appointments to securely sharing patient information to streamlining claims generation, medical billing and financial reporting. We spent hundreds of hours testing some of the top medical software on the market to determine which were most effective and affordable for small medical practices across a range of specialties. We selected the following six solutions and identified where each excels to help narrow down your search.  CareCloud’s clinical home screen offers an overview of patient profiles and provider schedules, making it easy for each team member to plan their day. This screen can be easily customized to suit the preferences of each user, showing only the information that’s most relevant to their role. Source: CareCloud RCM Companies Large Practices Billing Ease of Use New Practices Patient Experience $110 per month, per provider (EMR); $193 per month, per provider (PMS); $298 per month, per provider (Full Suite) $349-629 per month, per provider Starts at $249 per month, per provider Discounts for custom bundles of up to 30%. Quote-based plan $150 to $300 per month, per provider Starts at $140 per month, per provider Implementation and onboarding training included 2 tiers $349-$629/month. 3 -7% of collections Four pricing models. Implementation and training included. Medical billing service 4% – 8% of collections. 2 plans: standard & custom software bundles. Billing: 4%-8% of collections. Marketing services: $150-$300/month PM: $150-$300/monthMedical billing: 4%-9% of collections Varying implementation and training fees 4%-7% of collections 4 to 8 weeks Varies by package Typically takes 30-60 days 8 to 11 weeks About 30 days from sign-up to fully set- up, trained, and actively using the software 11-week implementation process Weekly onboarding coaching Minimal training and onboarding provided in subscription Included in subscription No free trial. Free 2-day onsite implementation for practices with collections above $200,000/ month Training and continued customer support are free Full solution training and live support in subscription iOS/Android iOS/ Android iOS iOS/Android iOS iOS/ Android RXNT is our choice for revenue cycle management (RCM) companies because of its strong medical billing tools and competitive pricing. In our testing, we found that medical billers and coders can make effective use of the software to generate and track claims, whether on behalf of a medical practice or as part of an outsourced medical billing team. We also liked that RXNT offers a mobile application on both iOS and Android devices, giving providers the flexibility to use the system on the device they’re most comfortable with. Moreover, the company’s HIPAA-compliant telehealth feature is available across all devices as well, which we felt was especially helpful for practices scheduling remote appointments. While we found RXNT a useful tool for medical practices, we thought its medical billing service tools were especially useful. We expect medical practices will find the suite effective, but we particularly recommend it for RCM services that are managing the medical billing and coding needs of a portfolio of clients.  This example of RXNT’s dashboard shows a quick overview of key information, like upcoming provider appointments, EPCS data, pending tasks that need attention, and how well the medical software meets interoperability requirements. This dashboard can be customized to display the most relevant information on a user-by-user basis. Source: RXNT RXNT received an 8.0/10 from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Users repeatedly praised RXNT’s medical software for its ease of use and the efficiency of the data migration process. Others, however, complained about sometimes slow or unresponsive customer service. We chose CareCloud as the best medical software for large practices because of its support for more than 70 specialties, its wide range of available integrations, and user-friendly features like its drag-and-drop scheduling feature. Large practices need a great deal of flexibility and a comprehensive slate of features and integrations, and in our testing of CareCloud we found it checked these boxes nicely. We also liked the CareCloud Breeze add-on, a mobile patient portal that allows patients to manage their own registration, check-in and payments, helping expedite each visit. Breeze also supports HIPAA-compliant telehealth visits, which can reduce the need for in-person appointments and keep the waiting room moving smoothly.  We found CareCloud’s user interface easy to manage on both the clinical and administrative sides of the platform. An intuitive and customizable user experience helps streamline tasks and reduce time in the system, keeping things moving efficiently for large practices with a lot to do. Source: CareCloud CareCloud received a 9.1/10 from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers particularly enjoyed CareCloud’s training and customer service, both of which they report are exceptional. However, some users reported slow loading times and crashes that could be disruptive to operations. Check out our complete CareCloud review for more information. We chose DrChrono as the best for billing because it offers user-friendly, robust billing tools — including an integrated claims management tool and electronic remittance advice (ERA) posting for claims at higher pricing tiers. When testing, we especially liked DrChrono’s live claims feed so billing staff can easily monitor claims as they’re processed. The company also maintains a staff of medical billing and coding experts who can support practices as they manage their revenue cycle, something we liked for new and small practices in particular. During our testing of DrChrono, we found the user experience to be intuitive and straightforward. Your staff won’t need a lot of training to get up to speed with DrChrono’s software, which we found helpful for keeping tabs on how well the billing team is performing on your behalf. Moreover, we liked that DrChrono’s ease of use means other functions won’t be disrupted, such as setting appointments, verifying patient insurance eligibility, updating patient demographics and more.  We especially liked the clean and easily navigable DrChrono user interface, which makes it easy for new users to find the tools they’re looking for. Coupled with free training, any team should be able to get up to speed with DrChrono in no time with minimal disruptions. Source: DrChrono DrChrono received a 9.0/10 from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Check out our complete DrChrono review for more information. We chose AdvancedMD as the best medical software for ease of use because of features like its color-coded navigation, which makes for an intuitive workflow and enjoyable overall experience. We liked that the dashboard is readily configurable and easily scales and adjusts to practices as your office grows without making the software clunky to use. We also liked that AdvancedMD offers a custom bundle for large practices or health systems that need a tailor-made plan. These bundles allow you to create a platform that’s specific to your organization’s needs, and AdvancedMD offers some significant discounts for custom bundles as well. As healthcare organizations grow, their circumstances become increasingly unique, so we especially liked the flexibility AdvancedMD offers in creating custom packages for customers.  We liked AdvancedMD’s dashboard, which provides a three-column approach that displays a provider’s schedule, outstanding tasks, and a feed of documentation in need of signatures or other attention. The dashboard acts as a hub for keeping processes moving forward, a workflow support tool that we really liked. (Source: AdvancedMD) AdvancedMD received a 7.3/10 from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Users applauded AdvancedMD’s implementation process; despite the lengthy-time period, many called it thorough and effective. However, some users complained about the company’s customer service. Check out our complete AdvancedMD review for more information. Tebra is our pick for the best medical software for new practices because of its cost-effective price point and user-friendly interface. We like that the platform isn’t packed with unnecessary bells and whistles. Instead, it does a good job of providing the tools practices need to operate without any frills. It also offers the fastest implementation period out of all the platforms we reviewed, so new practices can get up and running to establish their revenue cycle quickly. We like that Tebra caters specifically to new and independent medical practices, which need a straightforward and intuitive platform that can help them operate effectively. Many medical software platforms are sprawling and complex, which is important for large practices with immense needs but can sometimes be overkill for smaller practices. Tebra knows its audience and caters to it, and we like the dedication the company brings to serving the independent healthcare space.  Core features like patient scheduling are straightforward and intuitive with Tebra, reducing the time needed for training and helping new practices launch operations quickly. Source: Tebra Tebra received a 6.9/10 from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Many users were pleased with Tebra’s usability and flexibility, which made training and onboarding easy. However, some reported bugs and crashes that could often be disruptive. Check out our complete Tebra review for more information. We found athenahealth to be the best medical software for patient experience because it offers a level of visibility into patient data, unlike other platforms we reviewed. Thanks to athenaNet, providers have access to information from all other organizations using athenahealth software, which can be leveraged to improve the overall patient experience and boost satisfaction. We loved how athenahealth made use of data from its wide network of healthcare organizations, and data-driven medical practices will find it invaluable for improving operations.  We liked how athenahealth’s clinical tools make charting easy, with easily identifiable fields for data entry. Each field can be enabled or disabled based on the provider’s preferences and the practice’s needs. Source: athenahealth athenahealth received an 8.0/10 from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers gave athenahealth big points for its reporting suite and the data it provided from athenaNet. However, others cited customization as lacking, particularly for custom reports and the dashboard. Check out our complete athenahealth review for more information. Generally, based on the EMR systems and medical practice management software we reviewed, practices should expect to spend about $140 to more than $729 per month on one of these software-as-a-service platforms. According to the Michigan Center for Effective IT Adoption, providers can expect to pay yearly to five-year costs of $8,000 to $58,000. All of the EMR systems on our best picks list are priced per provider per month. In most cases, these subscription rates do not include additional costs, such as installation and training. These fees can range anywhere from $1,000 to $20,000. Some EMR vendors require an initial licensing fee, with monthly costs for maintenance and support. Upfront costs average $30,000, with around $300 to $400 in monthly IT support fees. Even fewer platforms charge per patient or per visit. Prices fluctuate, depending on the scope and breadth of the system. There could be additional fees for customer support, clearinghouses, electronic statements and more. Rates are subject to change based on the size of your practice and your specific needs. Many EMR vendors also offer RCM or medical billing services as well. Generally, these services charge a percentage of their net collections and, in exchange, perform all critical billing tasks for a practice. Most medical billing services charge a percentage of monthly collections in exchange for managing a practice’s billing and providing complete access to their medical software suite.  When you’re negotiating with an EMR and medical practice management software vendor, it’s important to have a clear understanding of your practice’s specific needs and how you expect the system to integrate with your existing workflow. This knowledge will help you avoid purchasing unnecessary components of a larger suite, which a vendor may try to sell you. Here are some of the most important factors to keep in mind when you’re choosing EHR and practice management software: The main difference between EHR/EMR software and medical practice management software (PMS) is that an EHR/EMR system collects and stores your patient records, while PMS gives you the functionality to run your practice, deliver excellent patient care and make sure you get paid. EHR/EMR systems are generally a physician’s primary tool. These systems allow providers to document clinical encounters with patients, order tests and prescriptions, and track patient health trends over time.  Healthcare providers engage with EHR software on the clinical side of the practice, using it to fill out patient charts, prescribe medications, and order lab tests and review results. This example comes from DrChrono, our best pick for billing tools. Source: DrChrono Medical practice management software, on the other hand, is the primary tool used by a practice’s office staff. It organizes documentation, specifically concerning billing and scheduling. The software completes tasks such as patient insurance eligibility verification and accepts copayments through patient portals. It enables medical coders and billers to prepare claims and submit them to payers through clearinghouses. Billers can also manage rejected or denied claims through medical practice management software. Some PMS include tools for promoting your practice and enhancing doctor-patient relationships.  Practice management software provides detailed reports and billing tools like this CareCloud claims management center to help your administrative team stay on top of financial performance. Source: CareCloud These two software solutions must work closely together. Naturally, the clinical documentation of a patient encounter flows directly into the billing cycle managed by the front office. To accurately submit claims and follow up on denials, the office must have access to data stored in the practice’s EMR system about what services the physician provided during a visit. This is just one example of how practice management software and EMR software work in tandem. As a result, many PMS vendors also offer EMR systems. Some solutions automatically integrate with EMR software; others do not. If the application you’re considering is a stand-alone practice management solution, you must ensure that the software can adequately communicate with your EMR platform. Technically, there are differences between an EMR system, which is essentially digitized paper charts for a single practice, and an EHR system. For one, EHRs not only replace paper charts but also streamline critical functions, like billing, prescription and test ordering, practice management, and communication with patients and other healthcare providers. EHR systems are also interoperable, and patients can access their data. They’ll soon be available for digital download. However, this also makes EHR systems more vulnerable to cyberattacks. Industry members often use the terms “EMR” and “EHR” interchangeably, so to make it easier for our readers, we’ve chosen to use them interchangeably as well. Anywhere you see the term “EMR system” in our reviews, it refers to the interconnected capabilities of an EHR. Even the more cost-effective healthcare IT platforms are a significant expense for most medical practices, so it’s natural to wonder precisely what benefits you’ll get in return for your money. Good EMR systems and medical practice management software can become the central pillar of your practice, helping you to streamline operations, improve patient experiences, and provide better care. EMR systems help providers deliver care to patients and record their medical histories in a digital format that can be transmitted to other providers.  Medical practice management software covers the practice’s front and back office operations, such as appointment scheduling, insurance eligibility verification and medical billing. EMR and practice management software complement each other and allow data to flow seamlessly between modules. For example, practice management software gives patients access to an online portal where they can fill out intake forms before their visit, thus speeding up the check-in process. That information then auto-populates in the EMR software’s clinical tools, thereby saving providers time and ensuring records are up to date. Data interchange works in the other direction as well. After a patient encounter, for example, the provider can save and export a clinical note. The charges captured during the encounter are then pushed into the practice management software, where the medical coders and billers at the practice (or at an outsourced medical billing service) can create and code claims and prepare them for the appropriate payers. If you choose a user-friendly and reliable healthcare IT platform that meets your staff’s needs, it can improve your entire workflow. The wrong EMR system, however, could be counterproductive. Medical practice management software governs the front and back office of a medical practice, including the reception staff and the medical coders and billers. It is closely linked to the EMR system, but it’s typically a distinct module within the medical software suite.  The best medical software is an all-inclusive package that lets you handle provider-patient encounters, conduct billing, schedule appointments, check patients’ insurance eligibility, track claims, and create custom templates that suit your practice’s workflows. Most importantly, the software should be easy for the entire office to use. To reduce your office staff’s workload, the software should include a portal where patients can schedule appointments online. It’s also important for the software to have various integrations, including those for credit card processing, lab ordering and e-prescribing. The billing software should easily integrate with the EMR software so you don’t have to seek outside help to use the two applications in tandem. The implementation and integration phase can be time-consuming and costly, especially if something goes wrong, so make sure your practice management software and EMR systems are compatible.  When you’re considering specific software to integrate with your practice, look for medical practice management software that can fully handle all office responsibilities – including scheduling, billing and task management – and also provide solid security and support resources. Also look for an EMR with flexible charting tools that can be customized to each care provider’s liking, as well as seamless integration with the billing software so coders and billers can easily generate claims after a patient’s visit. Here’s more about the specific features you’ll want to look for. There are four major administrative features to look for in a practice management application. Some of the most important features of medical software are the clinical tools that make providers’ jobs easier and help to establish thorough medical histories for all patients. Be sure to get feedback and buy-in from staff members and care providers regarding the software. Everyone in your organization will be using the system, so involving them in the selection process is critical to choosing the right software.  A good practice management system helps with both administrative and financial requirements. It should make collecting payments and filing insurance claims as easy as possible for your staff while using the fewest resources. This means automatically generating superbills after providers conclude a patient visit. It also requires a seamless integration with the EMR system, where providers record notes about a patient’s visit. Further, the software should be able to scrub claims for errors so you don’t waste resources appealing denied claims and incur further delays in payment. Most practice management systems are interoperable with EMR systems. Some companies sell both software options as a suite, while others let you choose what you need. If you already have an EMR system and don’t want to switch, look for companies that partner with common EMRs and can integrate their software with your current EMR system. You may want to consider partnering with the same vendor that provides your EMR system if you’re satisfied with your current software. While not all practice management and EMR systems are compatible, all solutions should follow basic safety and privacy standards. At a minimum, they should comply with HIPAA regulations. Because medical practice management software is vital to your daily operations, the manufacturer should offer support that conforms to your practice’s schedule and needs. You should have access to live support or a ticketing system to quickly resolve any issues you experience with the software. As powerful as many medical office software applications are, you still may want separate software for medical billing. Medical transcription services are still in demand by many practices. Selecting the healthcare IT platform that best fits your practice is a big task. These systems are generally sprawling and complex, making it hard to get a full picture of the software during the first use. Following these steps can help you organize your search and choose the ideal medical software suite for your workflow and your team. The first step in any buying journey is to learn about the market. Take some time to research EMR software, the recent history of the industry, and some of the leading brands on the market today. Seek out user reviews on multiple platforms to get an idea of how previous and current customers responded to the EMR software after implementation. While you’re researching the market, consider your priorities in a healthcare IT platform. Ease of use is often a big consideration for medical practices, because some medical software suites are complex and difficult to learn. However, a system with a steep learning curve might offer advanced features and tools that can improve your medical practice’s performance. So, while there might be a rocky introduction to the software, this little extra time might pay off in the long run. Another key consideration is the customizability of the system, such as which templates it offers for clinical notes and how much you can tailor them to suit individual users’ preferences. Patient engagement tools, such as a user-friendly patient portal that allows patients to take an active role in their healthcare, are also increasingly common. Finally, look for interoperability with labs, pharmacies and hospitals for seamless data interchange. Consider which aspects of a healthcare IT platform would match your team’s existing workflow, rather than how you would adapt your workflow to a new system. Many medical software vendors do not post pricing on their websites, but almost all of them offer live demonstrations, which are often followed by a price quote or estimate. Live demos give you an opportunity to walk through the software with a company representative who will show you the highlights. They will often tailor the demonstration to your needs, showing you the tools you’re most interested in seeing. Most live demos take place through video conference software. During the live demos, take extensive notes on each of your priorities and anything that stands out as a positive or negative. If you can, record the live demo or ask the company representative to do so. Saving recordings to review later or share with team members can help you make a final decision. Oftentimes, if you’re interested in a healthcare IT platform, company representatives will give you a second, more in-depth demonstration. Some of these demos even include sample software you can control and click through yourself. Take detailed notes yet again, and record this demo if possible. When you’re finished with these final demonstrations, request a contract or agreement from each company you’re considering to compare them side by side. In the contract or agreement you request, there should be a detailed breakdown of all pricing and fees. You need to see an explicit list of everything you are paying for, alongside a contractual obligation for the vendor to provide certain services. Don’t simply trust a promise from a sales representative; if they promised it, it needs to be added in writing. Once you’ve compared contracts, you should be ready to make your buying decision. When you’ve selected a healthcare IT vendor, closely review the contract before you sign it. If possible, have an attorney review the contract and mark it up accordingly. Be sure to request a detailed breakdown of pricing and any additional fees that might be included. Many vendors charge extra for setup, implementation and training, for example. Again, make sure any promises a vendor made during your research phase are guaranteed in writing. Many medical practice software solutions and third-party services go hand in hand. For example, an electronic medical record (EMR) system and practice management software are closely related. A medical billing service might work within your practice management software, while a medical transcription service can help you create notes in your patients’ charts, which are stored in your EMR system. If you’re looking for a full suite of healthcare IT solutions or additional medical practice services that could improve the way your practice runs, take a look at our other medical practice review categories: To determine the best medical software on the market, our team of technology experts and software analysts evaluated an initial list of 46 platforms. After whittling our list down to 8, we chose six medical software platforms as our top recommendations. Our experts and analysts studied each solution’s functionality and evaluated the products on more than 30 factors. These factors were broken down into categories and weighted differently in our overall conclusion. The weights were determined based on how much business owners prioritize these criteria when shopping for business software and services and making purchasing decisions. Based on these criteria, we not only determined which medical software our readers could trust but also the ways in which each solution could best serve different business needs. Some platforms were better at certain tasks than others or more suited to a particular type of company. These takeaways informed the “Best for” use cases you see on this page. To learn more about our methodology, see our full editorial process. EMR systems are designed to support the clinical operations of a medical practice, including a healthcare provider’s ability to chart an encounter, electronically prescribe medications, order lab tests and view the results, and monitor patients’ medical histories. EMR systems are also designed to integrate with medical practice management software for patient registration, appointment scheduling and billing purposes. EMR systems are designed to support the clinical operations of a medical practice, including a healthcare provider’s ability to chart an encounter, electronically prescribe medications, order lab tests and view the results, and monitor patients’ medical histories. EMR systems are also designed to integrate with medical practice management software for patient registration, appointment scheduling and billing purposes. EMR systems and the practice management software associated with them help medical practices streamline and automate tasks that previously required extensive labor and repetitive data entry. With healthcare IT platforms, tasks such as documenting clinical encounters and verifying patient insurance eligibility are much quicker. Additionally, tools such as automated appointment reminders reduce pain points, like last-minute cancellations and no-shows. Patient engagement tools allow patients to take a more active role in their healthcare by regularly updating their information and securely communicating with care providers. Healthcare IT platforms also make it easy for doctors to reference a patient’s history without consulting paper records, thereby reducing the time it takes to find relevant information and eliminating the need for vast paper record archives. “EMR” stands for “electronic medical record.” This software supports the clinical side of a medical practice. EMR systems are primarily used for charting patient encounters, referencing medical histories, prescribing medications, and ordering lab tests and viewing the results. Some also have built-in telemedicine tools that allow providers to offer virtual appointments to patients who prefer to meet via video conference. In the past, the term “electronic health record” (EHR) referred to a system that could seamlessly transfer data over the internet, while “EMR” referred to a non-networked digital recordkeeping system. Today, most EMR systems are capable of data interchange over a network, so the terms have become largely interchangeable in the industry. Throughout our reviews, we use the terms interchangeably as well. Medical software is now a well-established part of most healthcare organizations’ workflows. From hospitals and enterprise health systems to single-provider practices, almost everyone uses medical software thanks to government incentives and penalties intended to spur mass adoption. In 2024, look for continued updates to existing medical software platforms, a consolidation of brands in the industry, and healthcare providers settling into the systems they’ve chosen for their practices, given the significant upfront investment in capital and time. Allied Market Research has reported that the global medical software industry will reach $63.8 billion by 2030, up from $30.6 billion in 2020, according to Allied Market Research. That represents a 7.7 percent compound annual growth rate over 10 years. According to the report, the space is mainly driven by advancements in artificial intelligence (AI). New developments in this technology are already bearing this out. For example, some doctors are using DocsGPT, a ChatGPT-powered platform, to write post-surgery instructions, patient referrals and death certificates. The platform is powerful enough that leading EMR vendors may eventually have little choice but to fully integrate it into their software. AI is also proving to be useful in the development of new patient care systems. NYU Langone Health researchers recently found success with using ChatGPT to facilitate communication between medical professionals and developers on patient messaging systems. In this study, ChatGPT has been helpful in translating nuanced medically-focused prompts from doctors and nurses into language developers can understand. This advancement could prove beneficial in designing patient messaging systems that provide relevant, helpful tips for patients with conditions such as diabetes. In 2024, another type of technology may start being integrated into the umbrella of medical software. According to Virti research, 77 percent of healthcare organizations are using virtual reality (VR) for staff training in pre-operative preparation, empathy and communication. Expect VR to gradually join EMR and PMS as types of technology included in the medical software umbrella in 2023. An emphasis on data security is expected as the use of cloud-based software continues. This emphasis may become especially prevalent in light of the October 2023 announcement that the medical billing service Arietis Health experienced a major data breach. A suspected ransomware attack on UnitedHealth Group unit Change Healthcare in February 2024 may contribute to this focus on security as well. Expect your medical software provider to respond with increased security measures – and the expectation that your practice ups its cybersecurity as well. Alongside security, quality in medical billing may be emphasized in 2024. According to a December 2023 study, only 38 percent of U.S. hospitals met three key billing criteria. These were the timely delivery of itemized patient bills, patient access to qualified billing employees and hospital legal action on outstanding patient payments. Given hospitals’ lacking quality on all these fronts, expect medical billing services to prioritize them in 2024 for health systems of all sizes. There may also be consumer and legislation expectations that medical practices prioritize transparency in their billing. In Texas, for example, a new law requires hospitals to provide patients with clear, itemized invoices ahead of sending them to collections. In Colorado, one consumer made national headlines with his complaints to the state government about billing errors that could affect tens of thousands of people. This suggests that a strong focus on billing transparency is necessary for medical practices in 2024. Similarly, in Minnesota, the Attorney General’s office is investigating the billing procedures of the health systems Mayo Clinic and Allina Health. This investigation indicates an increasing government focus on medical billing practices that keep consumers happy. Using your medical software to power this billing transparency should be a prerogative in 2024. Additionally, the No Surprises Act that went into effect in 2023 and banned unexpected medical bills for patients came under fire in 2023 – and continues to be disputed in 2024. In February 2023, a federal district court struck down part of the law, but in July 2023, federal executive agencies asked the court to reverse this decision. In April 2024, the Litigation Center for the American Medical Association filed an amicus brief requesting the original decision be upheld. As approximately 30 public companies labeled the Act a risk in November 2023, it’s apparent this law will continue to be contested in court. The Biden administration’s 2024 progress report suggests that this labeling is correct. In more than 80 percent of Act-related legal disputes, mandated insured payments to out-of-network providers exceeded their equivalents for contracted providers. The three federal agencies co-managing the Act are also spending significantly more time enforcing it than expected. As enforcement of the Act changes, practices may need to alter how they use their medical software to oversee patient billing. The No Surprises Act is thus key to keep track of in 2024. B. newsletter is your digest of bite-sized news, thought & brand leadership, and entertainment. All in one email. Our mission is to help you take your team, your business and your career to the next level. Whether you're here for product recommendations, research or career advice, we're happy you're here!