Story Highlights: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., April 5, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Clinovera, a specialized Healthcare technology service provider, today announced its initial portfolio of custom Healthcare and Life Sciences services focused on using AI, machine learning, intelligent analytics and other digital technologies to transform business and clinical processes, lower costs and deliver personalized care experiences. "The unprecedented pace of change and innovations in technologies are transforming the way Healthcare and Life Sciences organizations operate, compete, provide care and bring new treatments to market," said, Anatoly Postilnik, Managing Director, Clinovera. "Far from being a startup, Clinovera's experts have decades of domain-specific expertise to help organizations digitally transform to improve the quality of care, speed clinical development, lower costs and ultimately change millions of lives for the better." New Clinovera Healthcare and Life Sciences Services: Additional Resources: About ClinoveraClinovera is a First Line Software division and distinct brand focused solely on providing new value and technology services for Healthcare and Life Sciences organizations. About First Line SoftwareCambridge, Mass.-based First Line Software is a software engineering powerhouse helping clients in a variety of industries be more agile and transform with digitally focused business and operating models. Rick LacroixMedia RelationsClinoverarick.lacroix@firstlinesoftware.com This release was issued through WebWire®. For more information, visit http://www.webwire.com.  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/clinovera-introduces-new-healthcare-and-life-sciences-services-that-harness-technology-breakthroughs-for-better-care-and-outcomes-301789957.html SOURCE  Clinovera © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.