News Inward Investment Examining foreign investment into the UK Retail Spotlighting business in the retail sector Business in Sport Spotlighting business in the world of sport Resources About us Learn about our dedicated team and combined mission. Editorial values Our talented editorial outfit and that which drives them. FAQ Frequently asked questions. Careers Career opportunities at Bdaily. Join us and make your mark. North East BIC Northumbria University Newcastle South Yorkshire Mayoral Combined Authority 
Published by

        Member
    
 Lucy Jefferson
 on
27 Jan 2023
 
Member Article
 Anti-money laundering tech scaleup First AML has today announced its ICAEW Technology Accreditation. The recognition was given after a rigorous technical assessment in areas including access and security, data processing and reporting, usability, and functionality. The Institute of Chartered Accountants In England and Wales (ICAEW) is a professional membership organisation of accounting professionals with over 198,000 members. It is also a supervisory body that ensures its members comply with their obligations under the Money Laundering Regulations 2017. The evaluation methodology of the ICAEW Technology Accreditation Scheme allows software providers to show that their software is fit for use by accountants in England and Wales. The scheme ensures accounting firms can easily identify trusted solutions that have been evaluated by an independent third party as being appropriate for their practice. Simon Luke, UK Country Manager at First AML, commented “Being accredited by a respected industry body like the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales is a significant step for us and has further reinforced our position in the marketplace. We are proud to be part of a suite of solutions that the Institute has approved for its members, and look forward to supporting more accountants to manage their anti-money laundering processes in a fast, frictionless and secure way.” 
                        This was posted in Bdaily's Members' News section
                                                    by
                            
                                Lucy Jefferson
                            .
                                             Sign up to receive our popular morning London email for free.   
                    © 2024 Bdaily Ltd. All rights reserved.                    Bdaily is a 

 company.                