 Fidelity National Information Services Inc., or FIS, announced Aug. 22 it appointed the former chief financial officer of pharmacy giant Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc. as its new CFO. James Kehoe joined Jacksonville-based FIS on Aug. 22, succeeding Erik Hoag. FIS said Hoag, who has been with the banking technology company since 2008 and became chief financial officer in November 2022, is leaving to pursue other opportunities. Kehoe had been CFO of the parent company of Walgreens since June 2018. Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreens Boots ranks 27th on the Fortune 500 list of largest U.S. companies with $132.7 billion in fiscal 2022 revenue. In addition to operating the Walgreens and Duane Reade pharmacy chains in the U.S., the company operates the Boots chain in the United Kingdom. FIS ranks 283rd on the Fortune list with $14.5 billion in revenue last year. Walgreens Boots announced July 27 that Kehoe was leaving the company to pursue an opportunity in the technology sector. “I am excited to join a leading player in the global financial infrastructure as it continues to take bold action to achieve its next chapter of growth and transformation,” Kehoe said in an FIS news release. “FIS is highly regarded for scaled and trusted platforms, marquee clients, global distribution, and strong cash generation, and I am energized by the opportunity to join at this critical juncture and help drive superior financial and operational execution in the years ahead,” he said. FIS has shaken up its top management in the last nine months, promoting Stephanie Ferris to CEO in December. The company has been saddled with disappointing results from its merchant payments technology subsidiary, Worldpay, which it acquired in 2019. FIS in July announced an agreement to sell a 55% stake in Worldpay to private equity firm GTCR for $11.7 billion.    Your free article limit has been reached this month.Subscribe now for unlimited digital access to our award-winning business news. Click here to Subscribe Click here to Login