In a report released today, Darrin Peller from Wolfe Research upgraded Fidelity National Info (FIS – Research Report) to a Buy, with a price target of $65.00. Darrin Peller made his Buy rating for Fidelity National Info (FIS) based on a few key factors. He sees a favorable risk-reward scenario for FIS, thanks to its relative valuation and the expected sentiment following the sale of Worldpay. Peller anticipates that once FIS completes the divestiture of Worldpay to GTCR, it will return to its core business of providing banking and capital market technology, a strategy that is expected to drive recurring revenue growth and eliminate any concerns about share-loss or legacy acquiring. He also believes that this narrative change could spark significant investor interest and result in outperformance for FIS in the coming years. In terms of valuation, Peller’s end-of-year 2024 price target of $65 for FIS is based on a 12x multiple of his calendar year 2025 RemainCo EPS estimate of $4.68, plus FIS’s 45% equity stake in Worldpay valued at about $7.00. His bullish outlook is supported by several factors, including the prospect of less competitive pressures, easing non-recurring revenue headwinds, a positive backlog inflection in the second half of 2024, the potential for a large transformational deal, and an attractive 2024 total return profile given the company’s plans to deleverage and target a 35% dividend payout ratio. However, Peller also acknowledges several bear case factors that could negatively impact FIS, including constrained bank tech spending, increased competition, and potential dividend cut. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  TipRanks tracks over 100,000 company insiders, identifying the select few who excel in timing their transactions. By upgrading to TipRanks Premium, you will gain access to this exclusive data and discover crucial insights to guide your investment decisions.  Begin your TipRanks Premium journey today.
		   Fidelity National Info (FIS) Company Description: Incorporated in 1968, Florida-based Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. operates as a financial services technology company in the United States and internationally. It operates through three segments: Merchant Solutions, Banking Solutions, and Capital Market Solutions.  Read More on FIS: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks