NEW YORK, May  02, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Levi & Korsinsky, LLP notifies investors in Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("Fidelity National" or the "Company") FIS of a class action securities lawsuit. CLASS DEFINITION: The lawsuit seeks to recover losses on behalf of Fidelity National investors who were adversely affected by alleged securities fraud. This lawsuit is on behalf of all persons or entities who purchased Fidelity National common stock between May 7, 2020 and February 10, 2023, inclusive. Follow the link below to get more information and be contacted by a member of our team: https://zlk.com/pslra-1/fidelity-national-class-action-submission-form?wire=3 FIS investors may also contact Joseph E. Levi, Esq. via email at jlevi@levikorsinsky.com or by telephone at (212) 363-7500. CASE DETAILS: The filed complaint alleges that defendants made false statements and/or concealed that: (1) the integration of the Company's acquisition, Worldpay, Inc. ("Worldpay"), was not ahead of schedule; (2) the integration of Worldpay was not successfully completed during the class period; (3) the increases in revenue synergies were not driven by the Worldpay integration; and (4) as a result, defendants' positive statements about the Company's financial guidance, business, operations, and prospects were materially false and misleading and/or lacked a reasonable basis at all relevant times. WHAT'S NEXT? If you suffered a loss in Fidelity National during the relevant time frame, you have until May 5, 2023 to request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. Your ability to share in any recovery doesn't require that you serve as a lead plaintiff. NO COST TO YOU: If you are a class member, you may be entitled to compensation without payment of any out-of-pocket costs or fees. There is no cost or obligation to participate. WHY LEVI & KORSINSKY: Over the past 20 years, the team at Levi & Korsinsky has secured hundreds of millions of dollars for aggrieved shareholders and built a track record of winning high-stakes cases. Our firm has extensive expertise representing investors in complex securities litigation and a team of over 70 employees to serve our clients. For seven years in a row, Levi & Korsinsky has ranked in ISS Securities Class Action Services' Top 50 Report as one of the top securities litigation firms in the United States. CONTACT:Levi & Korsinsky, LLP Joseph E. Levi, Esq.Ed Korsinsky, Esq.55 Broadway, 4th Floor Suite #427New York, NY 10006jlevi@levikorsinsky.comTel: (212) 363-7500Fax: (212) 363-7171www.zlk.com   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.