Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	October 13, 2023   	
				         Fiserv, a global provider of payments and financial services technology, and Plaid, a data network, has announced an agreement to enable secure and reliable data sharing through application programming interfaces (APIs).
Through this collaboration, consumers who bank with the nearly 3,000 bank and credit union clients hosted by Fiserv will have secure, credential-less API-based connectivity to the more than 8,000 applications and services on the Plaid network via AllData Connect from Fiserv, allowing consumers to share their financial information with the third-party financial apps and services of their choice.
“Our partnership with Plaid allows banks and credit unions to empower consumers to access their financial information beyond the financial institution, while maintaining their trusted role at the center of people’s financial lives,” said Matt Wilcox, President of Digital Payments at Fiserv. “By facilitating access to a broad range of capabilities and experiences through third-party apps and services we are charting a course towards an open finance ecosystem that prioritizes data privacy, consumer access, and choice.”
AllData Connect from Fiserv, part of the AllData Aggregation product suite, enables credential-free data sharing for hosted banks and credit unions, empowering consumers to consent to share their financial data with third-party applications without the need to share their login credentials. By connecting to the Plaid network via AllData Connect from Fiserv, financial institutions can ensure consumers have reliable access to their data as well as a seamless and more secure experience when using third-party apps and services.
“Financial institutions regardless of size, location, or capital should be able to power these digital experiences for their consumers via APIs,” said Aly Yarris, Financial Access Partnerships at Plaid. “We’re proud to partner with Fiserv to bring secure, reliable API connectivity to thousands of financial institutions on behalf of their many customers.”
 Fiserv, a global provider of payments and financial services technology, and Plaid, a data network, has announced an agreement to enable secure and reliable data sharing through application programming interfaces (APIs). Through this collaboration, consumers who bank with the nearly 3,000 bank and credit union clients hosted by Fiserv will have secure, credential-less API-based connectivity to the more than 8,000 applications and services on the Plaid network via AllData Connect from Fiserv, allowing consumers to share their financial information with the third-party financial apps and services of their choice. “Our partnership with Plaid allows banks and credit unions to empower consumers to access their financial information beyond the financial institution, while maintaining their trusted role at the center of people’s financial lives,” said Matt Wilcox, President of Digital Payments at Fiserv. “By facilitating access to a broad range of capabilities and experiences through third-party apps and services we are charting a course towards an open finance ecosystem that prioritizes data privacy, consumer access, and choice.” AllData Connect from Fiserv, part of the AllData Aggregation product suite, enables credential-free data sharing for hosted banks and credit unions, empowering consumers to consent to share their financial data with third-party applications without the need to share their login credentials. By connecting to the Plaid network via AllData Connect from Fiserv, financial institutions can ensure consumers have reliable access to their data as well as a seamless and more secure experience when using third-party apps and services. “Financial institutions regardless of size, location, or capital should be able to power these digital experiences for their consumers via APIs,” said Aly Yarris, Financial Access Partnerships at Plaid. “We’re proud to partner with Fiserv to bring secure, reliable API connectivity to thousands of financial institutions on behalf of their many customers.” October 13, 2023 October 13, 2023 July 19, 2024 Consumers Today  Today  Today  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
