The finalists for the Fish and Chip Takeaway of the Year category at the National Fish and Chip Awards 2024 have been unveiled, and three Scottish chippies are included. The best fish and chip shops in the UK have been named, including three popular destinations in Scotland. Ahead of the National Fish and Chip Awards 2024 next February, the finalists for the Takeaway of the Year category have been revealed. Chippies in Fife, Aberdeenshire, and North Ayrshire are among those that will compete for the top prize. The Wee Chippy in Anstruther, Garioch Fish Bar in Inverurie, and The Fish Works in Largs are the only fish and chip shops in Scotland to be nominated for the coveted award. The extensive application process saw a panel of experts put entrants through an rigorous judging process, testing them on best practice, environmental issues, product knowledge, and their responsibilities as an employer. Now, the nominees have been whittled down to the final 40.  All three Scottish nominees are popular among customers, with The Wee Chippy, Garioch Fish Bar, and The Fish Works having average ratings of four out of five, 3.5 out of five, and four out of five respectively on travel website Tripadvisor. Visitors to The Wee Chippy have praised its "hot and tasty food" and efficient service, while Garioch Fish Bar has been singled out for its "tasty polony supper". Meanwhile, a recent visitor to The Fish Works lauded its "fresh" food and "huge" servings. Andrew Crook, president at the National Federation of Fish Friers, which organises the awards, commented: "The calibre of entries for the National Fish and Chip Awards 2024 have been nothing short of fantastic and we are proud of all the eateries that clearly put in huge amounts of effort to be considered for the accolade.  "Fish and Chip Takeaway of the Year is a notoriously difficult category to stand out in, but the panel of experts had many tough decisions to make.  "However, we've selected an exceptional shortlist that showcases the unwavering passion, dedication and excitement that the fish and chip industry brings to British culture." Now in its 36th year, the National Fish and Chip Awards celebrate businesses and workers who make notable contributions to food service.  The awards will be held at the Park Plaza in London on February 28, 2024. The full list of finalists for the Fish and Chip Takeaway of the Year category can be found on the Fish Friers Review website. Scotland The Wee Chippy – Anstruther Garioch Fish Bar – Inverurie The Fish Works – Largs Cumbria Angel Lane Chippie – Penrith Lancashire Westgate Fish & Chips – Morecambe Westend Fish and Chips – Oswaldtwistle County Durham Yarm Road Fish and Chips – Darlington Yorkshire Lighthouse Fisheries of Flamborough – Bridlington The Fish Bank – Sherburn-in-Elmet Auckley Friery – Doncaster Mr C’s – Selby Lincolnshire Catch 22 – Tattershall Angells Fisheries – Newark-on-Trent Pips chips – Cleethorpes Marina Fish & Chips – Skegness Linfords Traditional Fish and Chips – Market Deeping Greater Manchester Eastleigh Town Street Fryer – Marple Bridge Chips @ No.8 – Prestwich Cheshire Hooked on the Heath – Knutsford Herefordshire Fiddlers Elbow Fish & Chips – Leintwardine Bristol Bishopston Fish and Chips Norfolk French’s Fish Shop – Wells-next-the-Sea Essex The Fish Inn Clacton – Clacton-on-Sea Henley’s of Wivenhoe – Wivenhoe Johnny Macs – Colchester London, Kent, Surrey Stones Fish & Chips – London Newington Fish Bar – Ramsgate Sandy’s Fish and Chip Shop – Folkestone Lewis’s Fish and Grill – Maidstone Seafare – Guildford Oxfordshire Harrisons Fish & Chip Co. Botley – Oxford Hampshire Mike’s Traditional Fish & Chips – Bishopstoke Berties – New Milton Wales Posh Fish and Chip Company – Cardiff Fintans Fish & Chip Co – Cardiff Hennighan’s Fish & Chip Shop – Machynlleth Finneys Fish & Chips – Benllech Ship Deck – Caerphilly Zero Plus Fish & Chips – Cardiff Northern Ireland Chipmongers – Portstewart Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our newsletter here.