This as-told-to essay is based on a transcribed conversation with Gaurav Shrishrimal, a 39-year-old in Bengaluru, India, about his side hustle on Fiverr. Insider has verified his earnings with documentation. The following has been edited for length and clarity. I was frustrated by my 9-to-5 job as a nuclear safety consultant and looking for an alternative income. I heard about Fiverr from my brother. I felt like I was good at writing. I understood what people wanted to read and how to communicate it to them. I saw there were a few people on Fiverr offering copywriting help to clients to sell their products. I created my first "gig" on the site, saying I could write clients' Amazon product descriptions, in June 2015. At the same time, I launched my own e-commerce store selling products such as a portable voice-amplification system on a Shopify website and on Amazon. That helped me hone my skills writing Amazon descriptions on Fiverr, too. I like that I have my business, which is mainly passive. I'm not reliant on my Fiverr income. I wasn't sure if I'd get any orders. Initially I set my price at $5, which included five 500-character bullet points, a title of around 200 characters, and a description of around 2,000 characters. I looked at what others were charging, but in India $5 goes a lot further than in the US. I also wanted to build my confidence before charging more. After my first order, my client had lots of feedback on how to better incorporate SEO into the listing. I worked for about three days completing that first job for one SEO description, taking into account all the client's feedback. 
                                Related stories
                               When I'd finished, the client was so pleased that she recommended me to an Amazon selling group she was part of. I had many new orders from them by the next day. The client said I should charge more for my service. I increased my price to $15. After a few months, when I had enough orders coming in, I decided to quit my job. I wasn't making more money from Fiverr than I was from my job at that point, but I wanted the flexibility, and I knew that the more I worked on Fiverr, the more I'd make. I never promised clients they'd get a certain number of sales from my product descriptions, even though I saw other sellers do that. My strategy was to underpromise and overdeliver. When I worked with a client, I'd ask them about the product, its specifications or features, any documents they had, and the supplier's link or a competing listing for the same product so I could read and understand more about it. I did a thorough competition analysis to better understand the positioning of different people in that niche, in order to help my client stand out. From working with clients I learned what to ask at the start — for example, whether they want shorter bullets or longer bullets for the Amazon features, or whether they want a benefit-oriented listing or a feature-oriented listing. I wanted clients to understand up front how I worked. I posted an image of an example of some copy I wrote, including my approach, for prospective customers. It showed how I could write about the problem the product is trying to solve and why the product is definitely better than others. After one year, I started getting good reviews. I wanted them to stand out to prospective customers. I collated the best reviews and put them in my display image, so customers would see them right away. I started to get too many orders coming in — I didn't want to end up working as much as I had in my 9-to-5 again. But at the rate I'd set for my service, I felt I had to be continuously working in order to make money. I wanted to get out of that mode. In 2017, I decided to increase my prices. I tried out a few different ones, from $50 to $100, but I settled on $35 for a basic product description and $75 for a premium description, which included five paragraphs of text, SEO bullet points, and search terms. I used Helium and Google Keyword Planner for SEO. I started taking around two assignments per day at the most. Last year I made around $19,000 from Fiverr from working around two hours a day in the week. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to