e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Running in a race is a challenge in its own. Add muddy, wet terrain and showers pouring down from the sky and this feat becomes even more arduous.Whether rain or shine, the Loop the Lagoon Fun Run at Lagoon Valley Park in Vacaville was on. Its participants conquered the race and the weather, receiving a 20th annual Loop the Lagoon medal upon crossing the finish line.Four of those participants, friends Alejandro Hernandez, Serena Carbajal, Wilson Lam and Nancy Conde gathered at the finish line after completing the race.It was Carbajal’s second Loop the Lagoon and the first for Hernandez, Lam and Conde.There were four different races run at Loop the Lagoon on Saturday in Vacaville, including a 5K and 10K Tower Challenge, a 2-mile untimed walk, a half-mile kids fun run and a 1-mile kids fun run. (Photo by Rebecca Wasik, The Reporter)Despite the wet conditions, the group said the event was super fun and rewarding.“Now it’s taco time,” remarked Hernandez.Loop The Lagoon is an event put on by Fleet Feet Vacaville to benefit the Vacaville Public Education Foundation (VPEF).There are four races that are a part of Loop the Lagoon; a 5K and 10K Tower Challenge, a 2-Mile Untimed Walk, a Half-Mile Kids Fun Run and a 1-Mile Kids Fun Run.

According to Fleet Feet Vacaville Owner and Race Director Carol Gilpin, before race day, a little over 600 people had registered for Loop the Lagoon.“I love that I can put on events that impact our community in such a large way,” said Gilpin of raising funds for VPEF and Vacaville schools.Gilpin also mentioned that the race would not be possible without the support and sponsorship of Kaiser Permanente and the Solano County Office of Education (SCOE). Seeing the event grow each year is something that Gilpin loves.“I opened Fleet Feet Vacaville in 2004 and have been involved ever since, so this is my 18th year,” said Gilpin. “Originally we were a sponsor and now I’m the Race Director. I love the family aspect of the morning; everyone getting some exercise, earning their medals and raising money for VPEF.”Each runner was given a special 20th anniversary Loop the Lagoon medal at the finish line on Saturday at Lagoon Valley Park in Vacaville. (Photo by Rebecca Wasik, The Reporter)In addition to the race, there were also several booths set up at the finish line.Sam’s Club had a booth and passed out water to runners. There was also a station with bananas and mini muffins to help the participants refuel.Other booths included a petting zoo with rabbits, goats, chickens and ducks, Brooks Running Shoes, SCOE, In-Shape, Nurti-Shop, Solano Safe Routes to School, Crossfit Vacaville North and of course, Fleet Feet.“I hope the race brings attention to the importance of exercise not only for health but for fun,” said Gilpin. “Exercise can be fun if you approach it correctly. At my store’s training programs, we really try to emphasize to do things at your own pace and start slow and build up, that is my recipe for success.”“I take great pride in being a community leader and helping make Vacaville a great place to live.” Whether rain or shine, the Loop the Lagoon Fun Run at Lagoon Valley Park in Vacaville was on. Its participants conquered the race and the weather, receiving a 20th annual Loop the Lagoon medal upon crossing the finish line. Four of those participants, friends Alejandro Hernandez, Serena Carbajal, Wilson Lam and Nancy Conde gathered at the finish line after completing the race. It was Carbajal’s second Loop the Lagoon and the first for Hernandez, Lam and Conde. Despite the wet conditions, the group said the event was super fun and rewarding. “Now it’s taco time,” remarked Hernandez. Loop The Lagoon is an event put on by Fleet Feet Vacaville to benefit the Vacaville Public Education Foundation (VPEF). There are four races that are a part of Loop the Lagoon; a 5K and 10K Tower Challenge, a 2-Mile Untimed Walk, a Half-Mile Kids Fun Run and a 1-Mile Kids Fun Run. According to Fleet Feet Vacaville Owner and Race Director Carol Gilpin, before race day, a little over 600 people had registered for Loop the Lagoon. “I love that I can put on events that impact our community in such a large way,” said Gilpin of raising funds for VPEF and Vacaville schools. Gilpin also mentioned that the race would not be possible without the support and sponsorship of Kaiser Permanente and the Solano County Office of Education (SCOE). Seeing the event grow each year is something that Gilpin loves. “I opened Fleet Feet Vacaville in 2004 and have been involved ever since, so this is my 18th year,” said Gilpin. “Originally we were a sponsor and now I’m the Race Director. I love the family aspect of the morning; everyone getting some exercise, earning their medals and raising money for VPEF.” In addition to the race, there were also several booths set up at the finish line. Sam’s Club had a booth and passed out water to runners. There was also a station with bananas and mini muffins to help the participants refuel. Other booths included a petting zoo with rabbits, goats, chickens and ducks, Brooks Running Shoes, SCOE, In-Shape, Nurti-Shop, Solano Safe Routes to School, Crossfit Vacaville North and of course, Fleet Feet. “I hope the race brings attention to the importance of exercise not only for health but for fun,” said Gilpin. “Exercise can be fun if you approach it correctly. At my store’s training programs, we really try to emphasize to do things at your own pace and start slow and build up, that is my recipe for success.” “I take great pride in being a community leader and helping make Vacaville a great place to live.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group