We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Medical News Today only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. People with flat feet need running shoes with proper support to help distribute their weight and support the arches of their feet. There are several brands that make shoes that may be suitable for people with this condition. Please note that the writer of this article has not tried these products. All information is purely research-based and correct at the time of publication. Medical News Today follows a strict product selection and vetting process. Learn more here. Brooks makes several running shoes for people with flat feet. One of the more popular is the Dyad 11. Anecdotal evidence suggests that many people with flatter arches find the shoe to be a good all-around exercise shoe. The Dyad 11 is a stability shoe that also provides a good amount of solid cushioning. It may suit people with slightly flat or medium arches.  Brooks has designed the shoe for walking and running on hard, flat surfaces, such as roads. The company states that the cushioning system in the Dyad 11 will adapt to the person’s stride, weight, and speed, which may make it ideal for a wide variety of runners. The Dyad 11 is a bit roomier than the average shoe. As a result, it may be more comfortable for people with wider or rounder feet. It may also provide space for orthotic devices if the person needs to use them. HOKA ONE ONE makes running shoes that are suitable for all types of runners. For people with flat feet, the Arahi 6 is a stability shoe that also provides a firm cushion for each step. The shoe itself is not heavy and does not weigh the foot down, making it suitable for running. The company states that its J-Frame stability technology is what provides the light-yet-firm support. This feature makes for a more responsive running shoe that also provides some necessary structure. The Arahi 6 also has a slightly wider foot base than other shoes. Many people with flat feet may enjoy the shoe because of this, as it allows more room for the foot to move as it should while still providing structure. Some people may find the base too wide, though. Additionally, people who do not prefer very stable shoes may find the shoe a bit stiff. The Arahi 6 is also available in men’s sizes. Some people with flat feet may find that shoes that manufacturers have designed specifically for stability are uncomfortable, especially while running. Mizuna has aimed for the Wave Inspire 19 to strike a balance between support and comfort. The shoe plate features shock absorption in both the heel and the midsole, which helps reduce the impact of each step.  The company states that the midsole of the Wave Inspire 19 is thicker than previous models. The top and bottom midsole has Enerzy foam, which offers a springy, soft feel that helps with propulsion. This design may help reduce stress on the feet. The Wave Inspire 19 is also available in women’s sizes. The Asics Gel Kayano 29 is a stability shoe that includes some firm foam in the midsole to prevent pronation. This product may be best for people who overpronate and want the extra structure in their shoes to correct this movement. However, not everyone with flat feet may enjoy this feeling. Some may find that it makes their feet hurt. It’s important to note that the shoe provides plenty of cushioning alongside the support to help make it comfortable. The company states that its GEL technology provides high-density shock absorption, which should lead to a comfortable run, even over long distances. Additional features such as LITERUSS technology and a AHARPLUS heel plug help improve durability and stability. This option may be more stiff or structured than others, so it may be most suitable for people who enjoy stability. The Gel Kayano 29 is also available in men’s sizes. The Saucony Triumph 20 is highly cushioned with soft and lightweight foam. Its design has additional cushioning under the foot, contributing to smooth strides. The company states that this running shoe has a precise fit that does not add pressure to the foot. The sole has bounce to it with a rocker feel, helping with propulsion. The average runner with flat feet may find that the additional cushioning translates to extra comfort while running. This shoe is also available in wide sizes, making it suitable for people with wider feet. The Triumph 20 is also available in women’s sizes. The New Balance Fresh Foam Vongo v5 may be best for people who need a more cushioned support system with lighter stability. The company states that the shoe provides medial stability. It may not be ideal for people who heavily overpronate, but it may make a good shoe for the average runner with flat feet. Cushioning is a major factor here. People who need a lot of cushioning to support their feet may enjoy this shoe. Others who do not enjoy the feel or fit of a heavily cushioned shoe may prefer other options. The FreshFoam X Vongo v5 is also available in women’s sizes. The following table compares the shoes in this article on price, cushioning, and more. A person with flat feet should look for certain characteristics when choosing a running shoe. Running shoes for flat feet typically have a few important features: Stability helps people who overpronate, which is a symptom of irregular arch structure. This means that their foot rolls inward more than the ideal amount as they run. Most people with flat feet overpronate. Shoes with extra stability may also help prevent the arch from collapsing. Shoes with added or firm support may help compensate for the lack of arch in the foot or prevent injury while exercising. However, some people consider the support uncomfortable and find that it causes issues rather than solving them. Motion control shoes may be more suitable for people who have feet that are very flat or heavily pronate while running. These shoes provide a more sturdy frame for the foot to reduce its overall movement. A shoe’s last indicates the shape of the mold of the shoe itself. Shoes with a straight last will have less of a curve on the sole. In this way, they allow more room for the flat foot to move naturally, which may sometimes be key to avoiding pain and injury. It’s recommended that anyone who is unsure of their personal needs see a specialist. In many cases, this may simply mean working with a local footwear store that specializes in running. Well-informed staff members may be able to identify specifics about a person’s gait and foot type and help them identify the proper shoe to wear. In other cases, it may be better for an individual to see a podiatrist to discuss their needs. Doing this may be most helpful if the person struggles with pain or swelling in their feet and ligaments or has any other conditions of the foot. A specialist can help the person correctly identify their foot and gait type, which will help them choose the right shoe. Here we answer some common questions about these running shoes. People with flat feet may find running shoes that balance stability and cushioning the most comfortable. These features help control overpronation and absorb shock impact, which can help protect against discomfort. Running shoes can be good for flat feet. However, it’s important people ensure that there is adequate support for the feet, particularly in the arches, to reduce discomfort when running. Shoe designs that prioritize stability and arch support may be most suitable for flat feet, as these help keep the foot comfortably aligned and avoid overpronation. Wide-fit shoes may be more comfortable for people with flat feet. This varies from individual to individual. However, running with flat feet can cause leg, foot, knee, hip, and back discomfort.  This is because people who overpronate can shift their weight onto their toes, leading to extra stress on the foot arch. Without the proper support from running shoes, people with flat feet may feel especially tired or sore after a run, especially in their feet and legs. The ideal shoe will vary depending on several factors. While one pair of shoes may seem ideal on paper, variations in a person’s foot may make a different pair of shoes more suited to their needs.  People looking to find the right pair of running shoes for flat feet may need to try a few different makes and models. Share this article Flat feet can lead to issues such as back pain, bunions, or tendon damage. Wearing the correct shoes is crucial. Learn about some of the best options… Many treadmills offer a range of technological and mechanical features to enhance the running experience. Learn how to choose the best treadmills for… Regular running may reduce the risk of certain conditions and improve health in other ways. Here, learn about tips, risks, benefits, and more. Manufacturers should consider the foot structure and running style of males when creating running shoes for men. Here, we explain what makes a good… Running watches can help people track their progress toward their fitness and health goals. Learn about how to choose a running watch and seven of the… OUR BRANDS