By Julian Bovill For Mailonline   Published:  08:31 EDT, 10 April 2023   |  Updated:  08:31 EDT, 10 April 2023      1 View  comments  Jadon Sancho embarrassed Everton players Demarai Gray and Amadou Onana with a piece of deft movement in Manchester United's victory over the Toffees. The one-time England international was filmed by a member of the crowd running at speed down United's left-hand side with Gray and Onana making chase.  Showing a fleet-footedness characteristic of his days with Borussia Dortmund, Sancho turned inside with the two Everton players unable to stop in time before both slipping over rather comically.  The video then shows Sancho passing the ball in-field for Antony while Gray and Onana remain lying in heaps on the Old Trafford turf. It capped what had been an impressive performance from Sancho, recently recalled to the starting XI in place of the dropped Wout Weghorst. Jadon Sancho showed a brilliant piece of fleet-footedness to evade Amadou Onana and Demarai Gray The Manchester United forward was running down the left-hand side before quickly turning Sancho has endured something of a mixed campaign for United this season, with inconsistency seemingly being the dominant theme. Having started the campaign well, he forced his way into Erik ten Hag's plans, scoring against Liverpool in a 2-1 win in the third game of the campaign. However, prior to the World Cup he was sent to the Netherlands to train amid a variety of concerns. Since being recalled to the first team fold, Sancho has found starts difficult to come by, with Ten Hag opting for Weghorst alongside Rashford and Sancho, however the former's lack of goals and Rashford's groin injury could open the door to further starts. Ten Hag has offered subtle hints in recent weeks that Sancho can prove to be a main man for his side, including suggesting he could step up on the goals front in the absence of Rashford. ‘We have the capabilities,’ said Ten Hag. ‘Jadon Sancho can score a goal, Bruno Fernandes can score a goal, Marcel Sabitzer can score a goal and Antony. The good thing is Anthony Martial is getting fitter and he can definitely score goals.’  Sancho has endured something of a mixed campaign for United - perhaps reflecting his wider career with the club so far United are sweating over the fitness of Rashford after he was withdrawn against Everton with a groin injury. Ten Hag was left angry after the game, bemoaning the packed schedule. 'But this was avoidable, it was not necessary to set the schedule like we have now,' he said.  'I think another fact is more important than the sporting element like protecting the players. Today we have seen a very entertaining afternoon but players can't do it so often when they're not fresh.'  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group