"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." Whether you're spending most of your time standing, walking or running, wearing ill-fitting shoes when you have flat feet can not only result in chafing, bunions and foot pain, it can even increase your risk of long-term injuries. "Wearing improper shoes can lead to plantar fasciitis, tendinitis and bursitis, as well as pain in the knees, hips and back," says Kristina Quirolgico, M.D., a sports medicine physiatrist at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York City. For individuals with flat feet, finding stylish and affordable shoes that provide support for low arches along with a cushioned insole for maximum comfort can be a challenge. That's why we did the research and consulted experts (including our own footwear testing pros in the Good Housekeeping Institute) to put together this list of the best shoes for flat feet that includes a diverse range of options for every style and budget.  If you're uncertain about whether you have flat feet or need guidance on what to consider when shopping for shoes suitable for flat feet, you'll find additional expert insights at the bottom of this article. Before diving into our top picks, it's also worth noting that individual preferences and needs can vary, so it can be helpful to start by consulting with a podiatrist who can evaluate your specific foot condition and guide you towards the most suitable footwear options for your needs. For more top-tested shoe recommendations, check out our recommendations for the best walking shoes for women, the best running shoes for women, the most comfortable heels and the most comfortable flats. In our tests, ASICS sneakers are consistently popular for providing excellent stability, support and comfort. This pair, in particular, is designed to help you stay comfortable and cool, with a mesh upper that allows for ventilation plus a firm foam base that provides excellent cushioning. GH Institute product analyst Grace Wu, who has low arches, tested these motion control sneakers and found them to be ideal for those experiencing overpronation, which is when the foot rolls excessively inward so that the foot bears weight unevenly and can be caused by low arches. "Those with flatter feet can be more prone to overpronation and therefore need a stability running shoe like this one to prevent potential injury," she notes. And she isn't the only one who shares this opinion. According to one online reviewer with flat feet, these shoes are suitable for a range of activities such as running, walking and even working in retail. "I have flat feet and overpronate... and now I don’t need to [rely on] inserts," the reviewer wrote. "They are a pronation control shoe!" While some online reviewers expressed a desire for these shoes to be waterproof and more lightweight, the impressive design and the fact that they're available in over a dozen different colors make these shoes a popular choice on Amazon, too. Shop Now Women's Gel-Kayano 28 Running Shoes amazon.com $89.95 These lightweight slip-ons have garnered over 22,000 five-star reviews on Amazon, making them a very popular choice. What's more, they have a surprisingly affordable price point of under $40. Made with a unique stretchy fabric that some reviewers liken to a comfortable sock, these shoes feature memory foam insoles for added support aimed at those with foot issues like plantar fasciitis, bunions and foot pain. While these shoes may not be considered the most stylish option, they do offer an unbeatable combination of affordability and comfort. Numerous online reviewers specifically mention wearing them as work shoes due to the thick rubber outsole, which they say not only provides extra support but helps with traction, reducing the risk of slipping. "I have wide, flat feet with bunions so buying shoes online, for me, is always taking a chance," one Amazon reviewer wrote. "[However, I] would wear these shoes anywhere. They are so very comfortable and I actually have more energy wearing them." Shop Now  Slip-On Sneakers amazon.com $37.99 Designed specifically to prevent overpronation, Brooks' Ghost 14 running shoes stand out for their stability and comfort. In fact, in GH Institute testing, these sneakers receiving high scores for stability, support and traction from our testers — particularly those with chronic foot pain. Made with a removable foam insole and special midsole cushioning for added support underfoot, this shoe has ample cushioning. It's also backed by over 12,000 five-star Amazon reviews. "These Ghosts are what make my feet happy," wrote one reviewer who claimed to have tried "a lot" of shoes for flat feet. "My podiatrist brother highly recommended these shoes while I rehab an Achilles tendon injury," another reviewer wrote. "They are extremely comfortable, like walking on clouds." While some online reviewers note that the outside edge of the shoe can wear down quickly if you're a runner logging lots of miles, a few think the shoe could benefit from even more cushioning. But overall, the majority of reviewers say they appreciate the lightweight and sturdy nature of these sneakers for everyday activities. Shop Now Men's Ghost 14 Running Shoe amazon.com $109.95 Our team of footwear analysts in the GH Institute is quick to recommend Adidas' cushioned sneakers, based on their years of extensive testing. "In my experience, I’ve found Adidas to be the most comfortable sneaker brand for flat feet," says Wu, who recommends Adidas' Ultraboost 22 running shoes. Many Amazon shoppers agree, with one saying, "I have flat feet, and... these were a lifesaver. I've recommended them to multiple family members." According to the brand, these shoes are outfitted with a lightweight, elastic outsole for stability and grippy traction. They also feature Adidas' special Boost foam, which contains small pockets of cushioning throughout to absorb shock and propel you forward, making them great for both treadmill- and road-running. Our testers also appreciated that they can be easily slipped on and off.At three pounds, these shoes are on the heavier side, and some reviewers say they find them to be bulky, particularly during workouts. However, many customers say they appreciated the comfort, support and breathability they provide. Shop Now Ultraboost 22 Running Shoes amazon.com $75.41 With ample cushioning and a thick foam outsole, these Hoka running shoes are undeniably sturdy. In fact, GH Institute product analyst Emma Seymour says she was blown away by just how cushioned and supported her feet felt while testing them out. They also feature a heel crash pad, a section of the midsole often found in stability shoes to facilitate a smoother heel-to-toe transition. We also appreciate the breathable mesh upper, which is available in 15+ different color combinations. While some reviewers find the design to be bulky, those with flat feet say that the ultra-thick heel is actually a game-changer. "These are definitely worth the hype," wrote one Amazon reviewer. "I work 11 hour days and [wearing] HOKA is like walking on clouds. Very cushioned and soft." Just take note that the extra cushioning does come with some added weight. But if you have the budget and prefer a denser sneaker, we think the HOKA is an excellent choice. Shop Now Bondi 8 Running Shoes nordstrom.com $165.00 These lightweight shoes are a favorite among runners and joggers of all ages, who say they strike the perfect balance between firmness and softness. Our testers gave this style perfect scores for fit, comfort and cushioning — and online reviewers agree. "I can't believe how perfect these shoes are for my feet!" wrote one Amazon reviewer. "I'm a walker and a runner, and they feel so great on my feet and toes, considering my tendon and bunion problems." These New Balances are especially suitable for individuals with wider feet, as they offer three different width options: narrow, wide and extra wide. Soft foam cushioning underfoot provides comfort and stability, while the stretchy knit upper offers a unique blend of flexibility and support. And with 28 different color and design choices, there's an option to suit every style.  That said, we believe there is one aspect of these shoes that could be improved upon. "They provide adequate cushioning, but the midfoot support could be better," says Wu. "I recommend replacing the insoles with more supportive orthotic insoles, if possible." These sneakers also tend to run big, so if you typically size up half a size in running shoes, you likely won't need to do so with these. Shop Now Fresh Foam X 1080 V12 Running Shoe amazon.com $124.53 Searching for the perfect white sneaker? Look no further. Not only does this podiatrist-designed canvas sneaker slip on effortlessly (no need to fuss with the laces), it has a removable insole that offers extra cushioning around the midsole, which is meant to absorb shock and help with weight dispersion. While some reviews mention that the shoe can run big and may feel slightly bulky depending on your personal preferences, most customers appreciate the affordability, comfort and stylish look of these shoes. "The arch fit in these shoes takes them up a notch in the comfy department!" wrote one reviewer. "I have fairly flat arches and usually deal with foot pain... these shoes fit like a glove, not too tight, not loose, just right." Shop Now Arch Fit Arcade Meet Ya There Sneakers skechers.com $75.00 You don't have to compromise on style when it comes to support, and these black-and-white leather sneakers are the perfect example of that. According to our GH Institute analysts, Frankie4 is a podiatrist-founded shoe brand renowned for its cushioned soles — and these leather sneakers are a lightweight, comfortable choice if you have flat feet and prefer a fashion-forward style. With a unique triple-layer cushioned sole designed by podiatrists, these shoes are not cheap, but fans swear they help alleviate foot pain. "The Nat is a godsend for my flat feet," one reviewer raves. "The shoe provides me with all the necessary support. Its style complements dresses, activewear and jeans alike. I find myself reaching for them more often than any other pair of shoes!" Because they're made of leather, these shoes don't offer the most breathability, meaning they're not ideal for warmer weather conditions. However, customers adore the chic design, as well as the versatility of wearing them with or without laces. Shop Now Nat II Black/White frankie4.com $195.00 Finding flats that offer adequate support to keep foot pain at bay can be challenging, but this affordable pair of slip-ons prioritizes stability and comfort with a cushioned memory foam insole. With over 32,000 five-star reviews, many Amazon customers rave about how comfortable these flats are. "If you are as flat-footed as I am, standing for eight hours a day, five days a week can really hurt your feet, which in the long run affects your performance," wrote one. "BOBS are the best shoe I've found for flat feet... they're the only shoe I wear to work." The canvas shoes are not waterproof, so you wouldn't want to wear them if there's a chance of rain. That said, the budget-friendly price and versatile style makes this pair an option worth considering. Another added bonus? A portion of each BOBS purchase is donated to animal organizations. Shop Now Plush Peace & Love Ballet Flat amazon.com $29.99 Finding footwear for flat feet can be a challenge when you're looking for something beyond sneakers. However, these cute sandals are an excellent option when you want style and support. Vionic claims the design of these shoes helps correct pronation and aids in alleviating heel pain associated with conditions like plantar fasciitis and tendonitis. Plus, they feature a patterned tread bottom to help prevent slipping. They're offered in a wide range of colors and are available in both wide and narrow sizes. With nearly 8,000 five-star reviews on Amazon, they're also popular. One online reviewer wrote, "Vionic is the best for my fallen arches and plantar fasciitis. I had almost given up on finding cute slippers that didn't hurt my feet until I found these. I own at least four pairs now!" One drawback: Some reviewers note the microfiber-covered footbed is prone to getting dirty. Shop Now Rest Bella Toe Post Sandals amazon.com $69.95 With a two-inch-thick block heel, these Vionic pumps are specifically designed to provide support and evenly distribute your weight while you walk. The elastic trim around the shoe is meant to ensure a comfortable and snug fit in order to prevent blisters. With a podiatrist-designed footbed, these heels offer built-in arch support, making them a good choice for those with flat feet or heel pain. According to one satisfied reviewer, "This is the only shoe I have been able to wear without an insert. It offers excellent support for my fallen arches." Another said, "I adore these shoes. I have plantar fasciitis and have trouble finding shoes I can wear, so finding adorable heels that leave me feeling great is kind of a miracle." Shop Now Women's Olympia Natalie Pumps amazon.com $139.95 Flat feet are a relatively common condition, with approximately 30% of the population developing them. If you have flat feet, that means that the arches on the inside of your feet flatten when pressure is applied. According to the Mayo Clinic, when individuals with flat feet stand up, their feet tend to "point outward and the entire soles of the feet fall and touch the floor." Some may only experience this condition in one foot, while others may still retain a slight arch in the affected foot or feet. Flat feet can be a condition developed independently or it can be hereditary. While some grow up with anatomically flat feet, others develop the condition over time, as their arches collapse due to factors such as muscle weakness resulting from injury, age or significant wear and tear. Furthermore, if you overpronate (meaning your feet lean inward when you walk or run) you are also at higher risk of developing flat feet, according to the Cleveland Clinic. Overpronation places extra strain on tendons, muscles and ligaments, leading to the collapse and flattening of existing arches. Consequently, collapsed arches and flat feet are sometimes used interchangeably. Although flat feet may initially seem like a minor inconvenience, without the proper footwear support, it's possible to develop intense pain in your feet, ankles and heels. Over time, this can even lead to issues with your knees, hips and lower back. If your arches have collapsed, you can try adding extra arch support with inserts in your existing shoes to help build them back up. However, if that's not working for you or you're someone with anatomically flat feet, it's important to invest in shoes designed to help keep your feet pain-free. Before embarking on your shoe shopping journey, it's crucial to understand the characteristics of your feet and how they function in action. Assessing factors such as arch height, pronation tendencies, toe box preferences and foot width will help you select shoes that provide optimal support and minimize the risk of injury. If you've been experiencing long-term foot pain, it's advisable to first consult a podiatrist or orthopedist. They can assess any underlying issues and provide specific recommendations based on your foot shape and needs. You can also consider a consultation with a footwear professional. "Some running stores like Fleet Feet and Road Runner offer foot scanning services free of charge," says Lexie Sachs, the executive director of the Good Housekeeping Institute's Textiles, Paper & Apparel Lab, which handles all of our shoe testing. If you prefer a do-it-yourself approach, you can examine your existing shoes, preferably a pair of sneakers. Start by assessing the wear pattern on the outsole, as this can reveal your foot type. In an article written for UConn Health, Katherine J. Coyner, M.D., advises, "If the inner soles of your shoes are usually worn down, you are an overpronator and probably have a low arch." In other words, if the inside sole near the ball of your foot and big toe is showing the most wear, it indicates overpronation, often associated with flat feet. Meanwhile, Dr. Quirolgico suggests some alternative methods that do not require shoes: After showering, examine the imprint of your wet foot on the floor. A lack of imprint in the inside arch area indicates a normal arch. However, if the entire foot is imprinted, you likely have flat feet. Stand in front of a mirror and observe your feet. If the inner arch touches the floor, you have flat feet. "Identifying high arches is trickier compared to normal arches," Dr. Quirolgico explains. "However, if your arch height remains consistent when sitting and standing, you may have high arches." In such cases, you should seek shoes designed for high arches rather than those recommended in this article, which cater to low arches. When searching for shoes for flat feet, there are several important factors to consider. Here are the key points to keep in mind during your shoe shopping journey: ✔️ Arch support: Generally, shoes that provide proper arch support are recommended for people with flat feet. "You want to look for an arch in the shoe that corresponds to where your inner arch is," says Dr. Quirolgico. "It'll often look like a slight incline in the sole." Look for designs that offer built-in arch support to distribute weight evenly and maintain proper alignment, which helps overpronators and those with flat feet. Or, consider using orthotic inserts for added support. We recommend Physix Gear Sport's Full-Length Orthotic Inserts for flat feet, which offer structure and support. However, it's also important to note that because individual preferences and needs can vary, some individuals with flat feet may find relief in shoes with minimal arch support. If you're considering this type of shoe, we recommend consulting with a podiatrist first. ✔️ Cushioning: Of course, you'll want to ensure that the shoes fit well and are comfortable overall (don't assume that shoes will "break in" over time — the right shoe should feel comfortable right from the start!). Generally speaking, those with flat feet want to look for a shoe with ample cushioning in the midsole, to absorb shock. Look for shoes with cushioning materials like EVA foam or gel inserts — but just be aware that too much bulk may leave you feeling unbalanced. ✔️ Toe box: You don't want a cramped toe box, since a wide one can provide room for your toes to spread out naturally. That said, you'll also want to take care to avoid styles with excessive space in the toe box, as this can lead to discomfort and toe squishing if your foot slides forward while walking. ✔️ Stability: If you have flat feet and need the extra support, a heavier style of shoe is ideal to offer stability and control. A stable base and a firm heel counter (the back part of the shoes that wraps around the heel) can help prevent excessive foot movement. ✔️ Traction: Ideally, you'll want to opt for a shoe with a sturdy, grippy sole. Rubber is a great choice, since it's flexible, slip-resistant and can stand up to the elements. ✔️ Heel height: When it comes to heel drop, there is no one-size-fits-all recommendation for those with flat feet. The ideal heel drop — which refers to the difference in the height of the midsole at your heel and at the ball of your foot — can vary depending on foot structure, personal comfort and other factors. Some with flat feet may find that a slightly higher heel drop (8 to 12 mm) provides more support and helps alleviate discomfort. On the other hand, some individuals with flat feet may prefer a lower or zero-drop heel to encourage a more natural position. Ultimately, the best heel drop for those with flat feet is a personal preference and may require some trial and error. As an assistant editor for Good Housekeeping, Annie O'Sullivan has written comprehensive product reviews about everything from the best shoes for nurses to the best evaporative coolers, relying on her own in-depth research as well as insights from experts and consumers. For this story, she consulted the experts in the Good Housekeeping Institute's Textiles, Paper & Apparel Lab, including Grace Wu, Lexie Sachs and Emma Seymour, for their insights and top picks based on the extensive footwear testing they've conducted across the past year. She also consulted Kristina Quirolgico, M.D., a doctor trained in sports medicine who has a special interest in patients with foot and ankle injuries. Finally, she rounded out these interviews with extensive research, including sifting through hundreds of online customer reviews, to ensure comprehensive coverage of the available footwear options for accommodating flat feet. You Might Also Like 67 Best Gifts for Women That'll Make Her Smile The Best Pillows for Every Type of Sleeper New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.