The Department of Biotechnology has joined hands with the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS), as part of a unique initiative aimed at tracking health trends, optimising treatment plans and improving overall healthcare management. A formal MoU was signed on Tuesday at the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), Pune, in this regard. Dr Jitendra Singh, Union Minister of State (Independent charge), Ministry of Science and Technology, said this was a significant partnership that will improve and enhance the quality of medical research. “It will open new vistas for research, development and medical teaching,” Singh, who was in the city on Tuesday, said. On the occasion, the AFMS chapter housed under the Association of Physicians of India (API) was inaugurated at the AFMC. “It is indeed a landmark day as under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi we have started a wider integration of institutions. We are looking at an integrated approach in delivery of healthcare and imparting medical education rather than work in silos. The MoU is a major step in that direction,” Singh said. This is an umbrella agreement where scientists will come together and work towards improving healthcare management. “Using genomics is an aspect of our activity and the integrated approach would involve assembling medical informatics data with good innovation and technology partners. We have already collaborated with Army Hospital (R&R) and there are upcoming programmes like the Genome India one,” Singh said. Dr Rajesh Gokhale, Secretary, DBT, said the aim was to build robust health information systems based on data analytics tools that are used to manage and analyse vast amounts of healthcare data. “AFMC is known for providing high-quality health services. Hence when you work with high-quality health data and combine it with innovation, technology and entrepreneurship, this can bring tremendous value to the nation — create a more healthy India. Also this will help us in the overall healthcare management,” Gokhale added. “One of the significant areas of impact of this joint initiative could be personalised nutrition and performance enhancement. Genetic and metabolic profiles can be analysed to design personalised nutrition plans for military personnel. This can optimise performance and resilience under challenging conditions,” Dr Gokhale said. Meanwhile, it was an important day in the history of the AFMS, when a large body of physicians from the armed forces came together to form the ‘The Armed Forces Medical Services Society’, a new chapter added to the API. Lt Gen Daljit Singh said the inception of the API-AFMS chapter pays tribute to the unwavering commitment of AFMS physicians. “This platform serves as an exclusive forum for physicians dedicated to ensuring the health and well-being of military personnel. By uniting some of the finest minds committed to both national service and the advancement of military medicine, the society aims to foster unity and excellence,” Lt Gen Singh said. Director and Commandant of AFMC Lt Gen Narendra Kotwal, Dr Girish Mathur, president of API, and Maj Gen Sandeep Thareja, senior consultant (medicine) in the office of DGAFMS, were present on the occasion. Dengue vaccine While a phase 3 trial is underway for a vaccine against dengue, Dr Rajesh Gokhale, Secretary, DBT, sounded a word of caution. “See dengue vaccinations will create problems tomorrow unless we come up with a safe vaccine. There is a mechanism that is antibody mediated enhancement and hence we need to be careful about it,” he said. “Safety is of utmost importance. The dengue virus, on a second infection, tends to enhance its own antibody. So we have to be very clear that the immune response to the patient is not harmful. Hence we are carefully studying various aspects,” Gokhale said. 
Click here to join Express Pune WhatsApp channel and get a curated list of our stories NC releases poll manifesto for J&K elections, promises restoration of Articles 370 and 35A, repeal of PSA, and dialogue between India and Pakistan. Pledges to implement autonomy resolution, protect land laws and employment rights, and rehabilitate Kashmiri Pandits. Focuses on job creation, power crisis, and assistance for EWS women. Elections to be held in three phases with counting on October 4.  