Salas O’Brien announced that K2 has joined the company, uniting the two firms in the technology and acoustics space. This move expands Salas O’Brien’s presence to 60 North American offices with more than 1,750 team members and 380 registered professionals, including over a dozen Certified Technology Specialists (CTS). This merger increases the combined team’s ability to provide comprehensive, multi-disciplinary services. These include acoustical design, electronic safety and security system design and customized audiovisual solutions. K2 notes its capabilities and portfolio complement Salas O’Brien’s existing technology and acoustics team. The latter grew significantly when Idibri joined the organization a year ago. Also Read: How to Make a Backup and Recovery Plan for Your Business The K2 team will now follow the next step in Salas O’Brien’s strategy to be local everywhere, with international resources. Here, the team will continue with management by its current leaders. It will also adopt the Salas O’Brien name after a transition period. “Technology and acoustics are vital for enhancing human connection in the built environment,” says Darin Anderson, chairman and CEO, Salas O’Brien. “This service touches every industry sector. Adding this experienced team with outstanding leadership demonstrates our commitment to being a future-focused firm that is engineered for impact.” “K2 and Salas O’Brien share similar values; and I have tremendous respect for their approach to teamwork and client service,” adds Deb Britton, K2 CEO and founding principal. “We are very excited to unite with Salas O’Brien and build a future with even more opportunities for our team members and clients.” This merger also marks the seventh company to join Santa Ana, Calif.-based Salas O’Brien in 2022. Posted in: News Tagged with: AV Business, business operations, Mergers and Acquisitions, technology services Social: Social: ABOUTCAREERSAUTHORIZED SERVICE PROVIDERSYour Privacy ChoicesTERMS OF USEPRIVACY POLICY