Partnership will seamlessly fuse cutting-edge ATM and UTM technologies in one innovative offering.  London, UK;  In a joint announcement made today, Altitude Angel and Saab have revealed they have formed a partnership which will see Altitude Angel’s market-leading UTM technology platform integrated as part of Saab’s Digital Tower (r-TWR) offering.  Saab’s r-TWR is a next-generation Digital Tower solution, which builds on proven Saab video processing, visual presentation, and automation solutions. The Saab r-TWR is a flexible and scalable solution for a broad range of use cases and is already deployed for civil and military airports in Sweden, UK, US, and Germany and with implementations ongoing in Belgium, Netherlands, Ireland, and Romania.  With the formal partnership agreement in place, Altitude Angel will begin integrating its GuardianUTM services into the r-TWR digital tower solution offered by Saab, allowing ANSPs and appropriate stakeholders to digitally authorise and manage uncrewed flights in conjunction with crewed flights, directly communicating authorisation, clearance, and in-flight instructions to provide enhanced situational awareness of drone operations.  Richard Ellis, Altitude Angel, Chief Business Officer, said: “We’ve been working with Saab Tower Systems and Saab (operating the world’s first Digital Tower Centre in Sundsvall, Sweden) for some time and I’m excited to announce the formal partnership agreement. Our partnership with Saab allows us to seamlessly fuse cutting-edge ATM and UTM technologies in one innovative offering reducing time, effort, and complexity for airports, ANSPs, and drone operators to safely carry out operations integrated into the airspace.   “Through the integration of GuardianUTM, Saab will be able to provide Digital Towers which are equipped and ready for the demands of our future skies, as the use of drones increases and Urban Air Mobility through eVTOL aircraft becomes a day-to-day occurrence.”   Per Ahl, Saab Digital Air Traffic Solutions, Chief Executive Officer: “In Altitude Angel, Saab can partner with the provider of the leading UTM platform in order to provide our airport and ANSP customers with the greatest and most accurate picture of the sky they manage. In harmony with the capability the Saab r-TWR gives us, GuardianUTM Enterprise is providing us with key functionalities the future proof our product for existing and new customers”  About Altitude Angel:   Altitude Angel is an award-winning provider of UTM (Unified Traffic Management) software, enabling those planning to operate, or develop UTM/U-Space solutions, to quickly integrate robust data and services with minimum effort.  Today, Altitude Angel’s market-defining technology is providing a critical, enabling service on which the future of UTM will be built across the globe. Altitude Angel is leading a consortium of businesses to build and develop 165 miles (265km) of ‘drone superhighways’ connecting airspace above Reading, Oxford, Milton Keynes, Cambridge, Coventry, and Rugby over the next two years. The Skyway superhighway network, enabled using Altitude Angel’s ARROW technology, will unlock the huge potential offered by unmanned aerial vehicles and be a catalyst to enable growth in the urban air mobility industry.  Altitude Angel’s first-party solutions also power some of the world’s leading ANSPs, aviation authorities and Enterprises, including LVNL (Netherlands) and Avinor (Norway), empowering them with new capabilities to safely manage and integrate drone traffic into national operations.  From a consistent, well-documented and standards-based platform, drone manufacturers such as DJI and cutting-edge software developers around the world use our Developer Platform to obtain rich, relevant, and local geofencing data, exchange and share flight plans, de-conflict their own flights in real-time and interface with national flight authorisation systems. A growing portfolio of enhanced capabilities help our customers to comply with current and future regulations and interface with changing national systems with only minimal effort.  By unlocking the potential of drones and helping national aviation authorities, ANSPs, developers and enterprise organisations, Altitude Angel is establishing new services to support the growth in the drone industry.   Altitude Angel was founded by Richard Parker in 2014 and is headquartered in Reading, UK.    Altitude Angel’s developer platform is open and available to all at https://developers.altitudeangel.com  Subscribe to get the latest posts sent to your email. 

Type your email… 
  







 
Subscribe 
 
Cream Magazine by Themebeez 