We’re going batty over these bold costumes. Kylie and Kendall Jenner looked to the ’90s for some Halloween 2023 inspo, posing in racy lingerie as they dressed like villains Sugar and Spice from “Batman Forever” in pics the Kylie Cosmetics founder posted on Instagram Monday.  “sugar & spice” Kylie, 26, captioned the snaps, which included two looks at their sexy outfits inspired by Two-Face’s lovers in the 1995 flick. Kendall, 27, went for the sweeter Sugar — played by Drew Barrymore — for her costume, wearing a white lace corseted teddy with a sheer, feather-trimmed white robe on top. The model accessorized with white lace-trimmed stockings held up by a garter belt, just like Barrymore’s character. She sported a very Marilyn Monroe-inspired curly blond wig in the pics, with her bombshell moment coming just a day after Kendall dressed like the Hollywood legend on her own Instagram account. Kendall finished off her look with what appears to be the same diamond drop earrings she wore for her Monroe costume. As for Kylie, she dressed like the saucier Spice in the pics, showing off some serious cleavage in a strapless black leather bustier with skulls printed on the front.  sugar & spice  The mom of two carried a dagger with a purple jewel-encrusted handle on the side of her bodysuit, adding black gloves, a black armband decorated with a 3-D silver skull’s head and layers of spiked silver chokers. The Khy founder wore a voluminous black-and-red curled hairstyle for her costume and bright purple eyeshadow with a burgundy lip like Debi Mazar sported in “Batman Forever.” Not everyone got their villainous tribute, though, with many fans posting versions of “Who are they though?” on the post.  However, makeup artist Scott Osbourne Jr. understood the reference, commenting, “Batman Forever! Ok it was a serve!”  For more Page Six Style .. The Jenner sisters also shared a more lighthearted look at their costumes on TikTok, with Kylie posting a hilarious “Mean Girls” tribute Monday night.  In the video, Kendall gasps and asks “Why are you dressed so scary?” as she lip-syncs to audio from the comedy classic, spilling her drink as Kylie steps in with her Spice costume.  “It’s Halloween?” her sister says with a shrug, just like ghoulish bride Lindsay Lohan did in “Mean Girls.”  As for their villainous looks, they’re definitely going to go down in the Kardashian kostume hall of fame.  

 Advertisement