Get opinion pieces, letters and editorials sent directly to your inbox weekly! Question: Fifty years ago, in 1973, a popular rock band, “Grand Funk Railroad pretty much defined rock and roll at the time,” as Rolling Stone magazine puts it, and Illinois State University landed the band for a concert at Horton Field House. Do you know how Grand Funk Railroad got from the Bloomington airport to Horton Field House?   Answer: Life was so different 50 years ago this autumn, Grand Funk Railroad flew into what was then the Bloomington Municipal Airport and instead of an entourage or bus, the band “got a ride” to Horton by an ISU student photographer at the time, Bruce Nelson, who picked up the band and took them to Horton. Veteran actor Jeff Perry addresses the crowd gathered for a luncheon on Tuesday as Perry was inducted into the Illinois Broadcast Association Hall of Fame during the Illinois Broadcast Association conference 2023 on Tuesday at the Bloomington-Normal Marriott Hotel and Conference Center. Katie Koch, center, rides a inflatable chicken on Tuesday during the second annual Trunk or Treat event at Oakdale Elementary School. The event was sponsored by the parent teacher organization. Oliver Cotton, left, and Asher Burns dressed as Eeyore and Winnie the Pooh on Tuesday during the second annual Trunk or Treat event at Oakdale Elementary School.  Second grade student Majesty Doage dressed as a cat on Tuesday during the Trunk or Treat event at Oakdale. Illinois State University's Pawfficer Sage attended the event on Tuesday during the second annual Trunk or Treat event at Oakdale Elementary School. The event was sponsored by the parent teacher organization. Principal Casey Heimer dressed as Cap'n Crunch during Trunk or Treat at Oakdale. Elleke Mesdag, 92, and other members hand out candy with other members of Normal Rotary Club on Tuesday during the second annual Trunk or Treat event at Oakdale Elementary School. The event was sponsored by the parent teacher organization. Britney Angel, right, and her four-year-old daughter Mya Angel get candy on Tuesday during the second annual Trunk or Treat event at Oakdale Elementary School. The event was sponsored by the parent teacher organization. Chloe Beeman ,5, has fun at Illinois Art Station on Tuesday during the second annual Trunk or Treat event at Oakdale Elementary School. The event was sponsored by the parent teacher organization. Fifth grade instructor Michele Herrmann hands out candy with other teachers on Tuesday during the second annual Trunk or Treat event at Oakdale Elementary School. The event was sponsored by the parent teacher organization.  Get opinion pieces, letters and editorials sent directly to your inbox weekly! Columnist    Let's test your knowledge with today's quiz from Bill Flick.  Let's test your knowledge with today's quiz from Bill Flick.  Let's test your knowledge with today's quiz from Bill Flick.  FLICK LITE: Our latest listings, as offered by the readers and your own resident Lite Boy... Let's test your knowledge with today's quiz from Bill Flick.  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.