Jul 29, 2023  A decision by a Pennsylvania judge to require a new funding formula for our state’s public schools has not received the appropriate level of our elected officials’ attention. First, Pennsylvanians deserve answers — from both the governor’s office and from the state Legislature. Does the Republican caucus in the legislature plan to appeal the ruling? The plaintiffs’ attorneys argue, according to an Associated Press report in Tuesday’s edition of the Sun-Gazette, that the deadline to seek an appeal has already passed. If not, what steps will be taken to comply? Second, whatever steps the state Legislature takes are likely to be costly — and bring to mind the important concerns of our lawmakers, state Rep. Joe Hamm, R-Hepburn Township and state Rep. Jamie Flick, who in the past several weeks noted that the 2023-24 budget simply spends too much money. If the Legislature must step in to more equitably fund Pennsylvania’s public schools, the need for the state to rein in excessive spending in other areas becomes even more urgent. Gov. Josh Shapiro and the leadership of the state Legislature would have been wise to heed the concerns of Flick and Hamm sooner. While we sincerely hope that the neglect of how likely these future expenses would be when pledging revenues to other programs and projects will not lead to proposals for tax increases or new taxes, we certainly can understand if our readers fear that possibility. Tax increases — particularly income tax increases — should be off the table. Pennsylvania’s government already collects more than $20 billion a year.  Flick and Hamm are correct when they identify excessive spending. “I found there are over 25 line items that increase spending by double-digits or more,” Flick recently wrote for a Sun-Gazette commentary. “For example, the Office of International Business Development which falls under Community and Economic Development, has a 20.2% increase. Strategic Management Planning Program has a 52.8% increase. And under the state government line item, General Government Operations increases by a whopping 52.4%.” We suspect it would be harder for the state to commit our tax dollars to these outrageous increases if they were confronting the reality of the court’s ruling and the new role for state government in ensuring schools are adequately and equitably funded. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox It was disturbing, though not surprising, when members of the Chautauqua-Conewango Watershed Consortium reported ... President Biden explained his abrupt departure from the presidential campaign in a speech to the nation in late ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Williamsport Sun-Gazette | https://www.sungazette.com | 252 W. Fourth Street, Williamsport, PA 17703 | 570-326-1551 