We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. But there's a catch. The Super Mario Bros Movie has set another record, becoming the second biggest animated flick in film history. The computer animated adventure starring Guardians of the Galaxy's Chris Pratt as the iconic plumber from the Nintendo's game has hit $1.3 billion at the worldwide box office last weekend (via Variety).  This impressive figure means that Mario and his brother Luigi (here voiced by It's Always Sunny's Charlie Day) have bested another sibling duo of the animation world: Frozen sisters Anna and Elsa. Related: How to watch The Super Mario Bros Movie online at home The Super Mario Bros Movie has surpassed the first film in the Frozen saga, which landed in third position as the third highest-grossing animated movie with $1.28 billion. It is unlikely, however, that Mario and Luigi could do better than Anna and Elsa in the follow-up to the 2013 Disney outing set in Arendelle.  It seems that the sisters voiced by Kristen Bell and Idina Menzel can rest easy in the top spot with 2019's Frozen II. The sequel is currently the biggest animated movie of all time, smashing the box office with a whopping $1.45 billion.  Related: Guardians of the Galaxy 3 box office debut fails to top Super Mario record Technically, another 2019 Disney movie has grossed even more than Frozen II: The Lion King, drawing in a jaw-dropping $1.65 billion, but there's a caveat. Though the film is computer-generated, the studio considered it a live-action remake and, as such, it doesn't belong in the animated movie ranking. As for Mario, the feisty hero was always going to give Anna and Elsa a run for their money following his own film's box office debut. Back in April, the film grossed $377 million during its initial five-day run worldwide, with a staggering $204.6 million in the US alone (via The Hollywood Reporter). The Super Mario Bros Movie is out now in cinemas. Reporter, Digital Spy Stefania is a freelance writer specialising in TV and movies. After graduating from City University, London, she covered LGBTQ+ news and pursued a career in entertainment journalism, with her work appearing in outlets including Little White Lies, The Skinny, Radio Times and Digital Spy.  Her beats are horror films and period dramas, especially if fronted by queer women. She can argue why Scream is the best slasher in four languages (and a half).  Millie Bobby Brown adapting debut book for Netflix Studio Ghibli's saddest movie is coming to Netflix Kelly Reilly's best horror film now on Prime Video Is It Ends With Us available to stream? New 28 Days Later movie gets exciting update When is Inside Out 2 coming to Disney Plus? Richard Osman recalls Steven Spielberg set visit Inside Out 2 is now available to watch at home First trailer for Line of Duty star's vampire film Beetlejuice is now available to watch on Netflix Why Deadpool & Wolverine has been a box-office hit When does Alien: Romulus take place? DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.