The phoneline has been set up to offer access to mental health support and advice across Portsmouth A new telephone helpline has been set up in a city to offer residents better access to mental health support. The phoneline has been set up by Health and Care Portsmouth after people said access to support was "confusing, daunting and unclear". The phoneline (0300 123 6621) is already available and can be used by anyone over 16 and carers. It is staffed between 08:00 - 18:00 on weekdays by trained call handlers. GP referrals are not needed. Jo York, managing director of Health and Care Portsmouth, said: "People told us that the number of routes to access support was confusing, daunting and unclear, and felt they were being sent from one service to another without getting the help or information they felt they needed. "We are determined to change that." Callers will be given appointments with organisations including Talking Change and Positive Minds, or put in contact with local services through Hive Portsmouth and other services based in the city. The phoneline is set to expand to include a dedicated website and mobile app, as part of a wider service called The Portsmouth Mental Health Hub.  Follow BBC South on Facebook, external, Twitter, external, or Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk Health and Care Portsmouth First residents move into Hampshire first net-zero carbon retirement village New drama 'The Lion and the Unicorn' to premiere in Winchester Here's why the floating bridge is briefly off later this week Richard Carpenter cancels Basingstoke show due to health issues Alresford auction house expecting a lot of interest at Granny's antiques fair New book explores the historic 1588 battle of the Spanish Armada off the Isle of Wight Hillary Clinton tells Democratic faithful Kamala Harris 'writing a new chapter' UK tech tycoon among six missing after yacht sinks Who is British tech tycoon Mike Lynch? Power, oil and a $450m painting - insiders on the rise of Saudi's Crown Prince Who is British tech tycoon Mike Lynch? In pictures: Blue supermoon glows red Tinashe's Nasty named TikTok's song of the summer What to expect from the 2024 Democratic National Convention India's schoolgirls are leading a silent cycling revolution  Russians tell BBC they are worried and angry at Ukraine incursion Long-doubted by Democrats, Kamala Harris faces her biggest political moment Switzerland offers cash prize to get munitions out of lakes The story of the so-called M&S pyjama killer Amber and Julia look into a couple's life for clues about what led to their fatal lockdown row Scott Mills takes on Celebrity Race Across the World This series is no holiday! Four celebs, 24 countries, zero VIP treatment The role of social media in violent disorder How people used social media during the violence that broke out in parts of the UK Stranded whales caught on camera A pod of 77 pilot whales was found stranded on a beach in Orkney © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.