Wrexham claimed a battling draw to stay top of the National League despite playing almost half the game at Barnet down to 10 men. Callum McFadzean was sent off early in the second half for a foot in the face of Barnet goalkeeper Laurie Walker. The hard-won point means Wrexham now need six more from their remaining three games to clinch promotion. Notts County beat Woking 3-0 in Saturday's late kick-off to end the day a point behind Wrexham. Wrexham took a huge step towards the National League title and the one automatic promotion spot on offer with a thrilling 3-2 win against nearest rivals Notts County on Easter Monday. That victory took the Dragons back to the top of the table on 104 points, with the Magpies now on 103. Phil Parkinson's Dragons host Yeovil Town in their game in hand on Tuesday, 18 April. But the title race - and the automatic promotion that goes with it - will not be settled that soon. Barnet, starting the day sitting in fifth, are themselves in the play-off promotion hunt, but have seen their bid stutter without a win in their previous four games. Wrexham have also enjoyed their National League history against the Bees, unbeaten with nine wins and three draws from their previous encounters. After Monday's fireworks, the early National League kick-off at the Hive Stadium was a relatively subdued start, lacking any buzz with both goalkeepers untroubled apart from Elliot Lee's shot that was fielded comfortably by Walker in the Barnet goal.  The home side just edged the first half, with Ryan De Havilland particularly impressive on the right wing. Six minutes into the second half the game turned against Wrexham, when McFadzean was shown a straight red card after the defender left his foot in on Walker as the keeper gathered Paul Mullin's blocked bicycle kick. Walker was left clutching his face and needed extended treatment, but was fine to continue. Sensing an opportunity, Barnet boss Dean Brennan withdrew holding midfielder Emmanuel Fernandez in favour of 19-goal Nicke Kabamba. The extra space worked for both sides though, with Ollie Palmer bringing a smart save out of Walker before Kabamba had Ben Foster diving to save at the base of the Wrexham stopper's near post. Slowly Barnet's numerical advantage started to tell and Harry Pritchard held his head in his hands when his deflected shot spun just the wrong side of the far post. Nevertheless Wrexham remained dangerous and Walker had to parry Eoghan O'Connell's close-range header off the line after a long throw-in. With 10 minutes remaining Harry Smith seemed certain to win it for Barnet when the ball was stood up to the back post, but the striker somehow glanced his header just wide. Substitute David Moyo had an equally gilt-edged chance for the home side, but failed to connect with an inviting cross with the goal at his mercy, before Foster had to punch clear from a corner goalmouth scramble. De Havilland had one last chance for the Bees when Foster's punched clearance lacked distance, but shanked the ball over the bar, allowing Wrexham to escape with what seems likely to prove to be a precious draw. Despite that point, a clearly unhappy Parkinson was sent off after the final whistle as the Wrexham boss had strong words with the match officials. Wrexham manager Phil Parkinson said: "I knew it was going to be a tough game because Barnet are decent, they make it difficult. "After the sending off we had to dig deep; I still felt there may have been an opportunity for us to win the game - a possible penalty decision which wasn't given that I've looked back at and I think it's a penalty. "The lads were immense, they dug deep and defended with discipline at the long throws and set plays, the organisation was very good. "You come into every game wanting to win, but we'll take the point and it's another onto the tally. "At the time (of the red card) I thought there's nothing in it, I thought the keeper made a meal of it. I've seen it back since and I think in 99 times out of 100 that's not given as a sending off, it's a very soft incident.  "He has caught him with the trailing leg, but there's no intent there." National League official site Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.