Amanda Bynes is reportedly in a new mental health facility at her own discretion. Sources told TMZ the Nickelodeon alum’s decision to check herself into the “intensive inpatient mental health treatment center” came about a week after she was released from of the facility she had been admitted to on a psychiatric hold in late June. After leaving the psychiatric facility, the outlet reported that Bynes — who suffers from bipolar disorder and has a history of substance abuse — entered an outpatient program that allowed the former actress to receive treatment while living at home.  However, sources claimed that the “She’s the Man” star felt she needed more help than the outpatient program was providing, so she opted for a more “therapeutic” environment.  Per TMZ, Bynes was introduced to inpatient facility in Orange County, Calif., through her previous treatment center.  For more Page Six you love… The new location will provide the “Hairspray” star, 37, with a medical team, therapists and other patients for her to socialize with during her stay.  Back in June, TMZ reported that Bynes was taken into custody after police received a call about about a woman who was in distress. She was then placed on a psychiatric hold for a mental health evaluation. It marked the second time this year that Bynes was evaluated by a professional medical unit.  The former child star was also detained in March after being found roaming the streets of Los Angeles naked.  Bynes reportedly called the police on herself and was taken to a nearby police station.  After arriving, a mental health expert determined Bynes needed to be placed on a 5150 hold.  At the time, her ex-fiancé, Paul Michael, exclusively claimed to Page Six that Bynes was “off her meds,” which prompted the erratic behavior.  The two ended their engagement in July 2022 — months after Bynes publicly accused Michael of watching “mom-and-son porn” and using crack cocaine. She later clarified that she caught her ex watching “MILF” porn, but insisted that Michael had relapsed despite him providing a clean drug test.  In October 2022, Bynes enrolled in cosmetology school with plans to become a manicurist. It’s unclear if she plans to continue her career plans following treatment.   

 Advertisement