
                
                    
                        Let Construction Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The Irving, Texas-based company is poised to maintain a 20% to 30% stake in the joint venture, according to a Wall Street analyst. Award: Hanford Integrated Tank Disposition
Value: $45 billion
Location: Richland, Washington
Client: DOE’s Office of Environmental Management The DOE’s Office of Environmental Management has selected Hanford Tank Waste Operations & Closure, a consortium made up of three companies including Irving, Texas-based Fluor, to perform work at the Hanford nuclear cleanup site in Richland, Washington, according to a press release. The consortium for the nation’s largest and most complex nuclear waste project consists of Fluor, Lynchburg, Virginia-based BWX Technologies and Chantilly, Virginia-based Amentum. Fluor will likely maintain a 20% to 30% stake in the joint venture, according to Andrew Wittmann, senior research analyst at Milwaukee-based financial services company Baird. The project will fall under Fluor’s Missions Solutions segment, he added. The $45 billion indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract over a 10-year ordering period covers a broad scope of work, including: Fluor won a similar contract at Hanford, albeit smaller, along with Amentum from the DOE in 2020, according to the Baird research note shared with Construction Dive. That contract was subsequently canceled when the DOE decided a different approach was needed. Wittmann said to expect a protest, standard with large contracts, from the losing bid-teams. That should delay Fluor’s backlog recognition of the award until the protest clears, which generally takes six to nine months, according to Wittmann. “[Protests] probably delays Fluor’s backlog recognition until the second half of 2023,” said Wittmann in the analyst note. “This will likely be a very large award when it hits Fluor’s recognition threshold.” Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The case is one of several in which an employers’ alleged use of coded language became potential evidence in an age discrimination claim. The heavy civil contractor says demand for megaprojects is high, but disputes continue to make them risky business. Subscribe to Construction Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The case is one of several in which an employers’ alleged use of coded language became potential evidence in an age discrimination claim. The heavy civil contractor says demand for megaprojects is high, but disputes continue to make them risky business. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines