Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec 20, 2022-- Fluree, a company headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, which has developed a graph ledger database and data pipeline toolset for trusted-, interoperable-, secure-data management and sharing, today announced Peter Serenita as the inaugural member of its advisory board. This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221220005070/en/ Peter Serenita, chair of the Enterprise Data Management Council, is the inaugural member of Fluree’s advisory board. (Photo: Business Wire) “We are thrilled to welcome Peter to Fluree’s advisory board as our inaugural member,” said Brian Platz, Fluree co-founder and CEO. “Peter brings the highest caliber of industry experience and knowledge to our organization. He has witnessed how data management has transformed over the decades to meet new demands and create new opportunities. We are, again, at the precipice of a new wave of data management and Fluree is at the forefront of this new chapter. We look forward to Peter’s mentorship and insights.” Serenita is board chair of the Enterprise Data Management Council, the leading global association of chief data officers and IT executives advancing data management globally across industries. The council advocates for data-standard, best-practice and training and certification development and implementation. OnConferences named Serenita the Data & Analytics Professional of the Year in January 2021. “Fluree’s innovation as well as its planned growth in the data-management arena thanks to the merger with ZettaLabs made joining the company’s advisory board a very exciting proposition,” Serenita said. “We share the same vision in being on the vanguard of shifting the enterprise data management sector to transform enterprise data silos into secure, collaborative data infrastructure that supports modern analytical, business, operational and regulatory demands.” Fluree’s merger with ZettaLabs, announced in September, has expanded the company’s offerings, particularly in data management, and positioned the company well for rapid expansion next year in the global data management market. Fluree is looking to build an advisory board of world-class technologists with unparalleled real-world experience. Serenita’s seasoned guidance will help Fluree’s executive team advance its product-market fit and expand into sectors that are highly regulated, such as financial services. With his decades of CDO experience, Serenita will advise Fluree as it develops the company’s product suite to meet the needs and match the expectations of customers, partners and prospects. Serenita was among the first chief data officers in the financial services industry, serving in that role for JPMorgan for its Worldwide Securities division. During his 28 years at JPMorgan, Serenita held several key positions in business and information technology, and created JPMorgan’s first data organization to concentrate on data quality and access improvements. Serenita later joined HSBC, where he became its first group CDO, establishing a global data organization and enhancing data consistency. Following his tenure at HSBC, Serenita came aboard Scotiabank, where he rose to become CDO and improved data quality, integrated the institution’s data and analytics operations and incorporated the public cloud. Serenita was a member of the Treasury Department’s inaugural Financial Research Advisory Committee. He was Inside Reference Data magazine’s 2009 Reference Data Executive of the Year. Fluree’s products include its secure graph ledger database product Fluree Core, perfect for new projects that need digital trust and distributed data collaboration. For companies steeped in legacy infrastructure grappling with disparate data sets, data silos and outdated data-governance systems, Fluree’s product Fluree Sense will guide them toward a modern data architecture. The company continues its mission of building data-centric infrastructure for its Web3 customers, enabling the power of digital trust for new applications in verifiable credentials, enterprise blockchain and decentralized-data management. Fluree also continues to assist enterprise organizations in data transformation journeys for upgrading legacy infrastructure into collaborative modern data platforms. The company seeks to help all its customers by providing data-centric architecture that simplifies governance, consolidates security and provides secure access to clean and linked data for a diverse range of data consumers. To learn more about Fluree, please go to https://flur.ee/. About Fluree Co-founded in 2016 by CEO Brian Platz and Executive Chairman Flip Filipowski, Fluree PBC is headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Fluree is pioneering a data-first technology approach with its Web3 data management platform and AI-powered data-transformation pipeline. It guarantees data integrity, facilitates secure data sharing and powers data-driven insights. The Fluree platform organizes blockchain-secured data in a scalable semantic graph database — establishing a foundational layer of trusted data for connected and secure data ecosystems. The company’s foundation is a set of W3C semantic web standards that facilitate trusted data interoperability. Fluree currently employs 50. For more information, follow Fluree on Twitter or LinkedIn, or visit flur.ee. View source version on businesswire.com:https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221220005070/en/  CONTACT: Treble Monique Beals  [email protected] INDUSTRY KEYWORD: DATA MANAGEMENT SECURITY TECHNOLOGY BLOCKCHAIN SOFTWARE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  SOURCE: Fluree  Copyright Business Wire 2022.  http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221220005070/en Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.