Former Big Brother host Davina McCall has broken her silence on the reboot. The 55-year-old TV presenter, who presented the reality TV show during its original run from 2000 to 2011 on Channel 4, revealed on social media that she had tuned in to watch the new iteration’s launch which aired on ITV on Sunday night. Taking to X, formerly known as Twitter, the Wimbledon-born star wrote: “How’s it going? I’ve got horrific FOMO,” meaning “fear of missing out”. One fan joked that she and Rylan Clark, who also previously worked on the iconic show, should form a support group on WhatsApp. “Rylan and yourself, should start a WhatsApp support group,! they penned, to which McCall responded: “We have,” alongside a string of laughing emojis. Clark previously admitted that he was “devastated” to not be invited back as host, despite “presuming” he would continue his stint working on the series. The TV presenter, 34, won Celebrity Big Brother in 2013 and fronted Big Brother’s Bit on the Side from that year until 2018. Speaking on Loose Women earlier this year, the Essex native explained: “So obviously Big Brother was a massive part of my life. It was my favourite thing in the world to do. For the past five years since it’s been off I’ve been very vocal in saying it should come back. In my eyes, it’s the best reality show out there. “At that point I didn’t know what was going with Big Brother. I’d said ‘I hope I’m a part of it’. And I suppose naively and stupidly to a point, I thought I’d been there six or seven years. You’ve been to my house, I’ve got a diary room built I love the show so much. “I just presumed I’d be asked back. And I wasn’t. It didn’t transpire to be. I could be one of those people who says ‘it wasn’t what I wanted’. It was what I wanted. I would have gone back to Big Brother in a heartbeat. It was quite difficult actually because I didn’t find out until everyone else found out, which I was quite upset about.” Not one to hold a grudge however, Clark was sure to wish the cast and crew working on the show well online. “Good luck to team @bbuk . Have a fantastic series and welcome back Big Bro x,” he penned on X. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.