Erika Rasure is globally-recognized as a leading consumer economics subject matter expert, researcher, and educator. She is a financial therapist and transformational coach, with a special interest in helping women learn how to invest. DragonImages / Getty Images  Many investors are terrified of missing lucrative investment opportunities—so much so that there is even a term for it: FOMO (fear of missing out). FOMO is a term that’s popular in the cryptocurrency community, a market that has become associated with irrational and sometimes unsubstantiated trading decisions.
  Research has found FOMO is more predominant in people ages 18 to 35; however, it is not limited to that age group. Learn more about crypto FOMO and how to deal with it so that you can prevent its development.
  FOMO in the crypto world occurs when a person makes an irrational decision to trade or invest in a crypto asset based on information received without properly verifying the source and or accuracy of it. FOMO in cryptocurrency leads people to buy assets at non-optimal prices, whereas a strategic purchase would be much more beneficial and profitable.
  Sometimes, the consequences of crypto FOMO can be worse and more profound than a loss of invested capital—it can lead to damaging situations such as disconnection from family, anxiety, and depression.
  When a person loses trading capital in a bad investment, especially a large amount, it might affect them mentally. In turn, this failure can be reflected in other aspects of their life, such as relationships, connections with family and friends, and more. The person can start experiencing social decline and gradually become dysfunctional if extra care isn’t taken.
  In an 80-year study of male Harvard students on what makes a good life, the fourth director of the study, Robert Waldinger, mentioned, “The surprising finding is that our relationships and how happy we are in our relationships has a powerful influence on our health.”
  Waldinger’s explanation also can be applied to crypto investing. FOMO in crypto can affect people’s portfolios and translate to how healthy they are and the quality of their lives.
 It is important to avoid crypto FOMO by learning more about what it is through examples, understanding its causes and possible symptoms, and, ultimately, acting to prevent FOMO as an investor.  A familiar example of crypto FOMO to many was a rumor published on a popular cryptocurrency publication in 2023 stating that Spot Bitcoin ETFs had been approved. In response, Bitcoin's price climbed nearly $2,000 in a few hours before the rumor was corrected and an apology issued, which caused it to fall again.
 TradingView  The effect caused by FOMO in the crypto community has fueled the investment into many shitcoins. Crypto FOMO is fostered mainly by the desire to seize the next moneymaking successor to Bitcoin whenever possible. In reality, making a potentially profitable move in the market results from making rational decisions after conducting in-depth research before leaping to invest in any token.
 FOMO is a fear-based emotion that affects traders on crypto and other exchanges. Dealing with this behavior takes willpower and support from friends and family. It may also indicate addictive behavior tendencies, so if you're struggling with it or know someone who is, you can get assistance by contacting your healthcare provider or contacting care and treatment facilities in your area.  FOMO is being driven in the cryptocurrency community for several reasons, and identifying some of them could help preempt the emotion when it next appears. The five causes below aren’t exhaustive, but the list may help lay the foundation for overcoming FOMO as a crypto trader or investor.
  The idea of catching the next big move generally has dominated the crypto community, fired by the knowledge of how much money was made by some early investors in cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum. Bitcoin, for example, has experienced cumulative growth of more than 68,000% (as of July 28, 2024). The zeal to discover another such surge has prompted FOMO in the community.
  Crypto FOMO is often seen as being one-way: only profit-oriented, with individuals searching for a big move to gain from. But the reverse is also true: People experience FOMO when trying to avoid significant losses. One prominent example is the crash of TerraUSD (UST) and Luna, a stablecoin pair that caused a run and losses of $50 billion in 2022.
  Information is a crucial driver, especially for profiting in the cryptocurrency space. But it also can be a tool that drives FOMO, mainly when there’s access to an overwhelming array of data from multiple sources.
  This mentality stems from people who believe the early-mover advantage always leads to a positive outcome due to success stories of early investors in booming cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin.
 Just as there are sometimes benefits to being an early investor, it’s worth acknowledging that there are downsides to trading and that not all cryptocurrencies will show up on the leaderboard of high-performing crypto assets.  Unlike the foreign exchange and stock markets, the crypto market is relatively untested, largely unregulated, and has a low barrier of entry. These factors have led to an influx of people with limited knowledge and understanding of how the market works eagerly participating, with their strategy mainly compelled by FOMO.
  Understanding some of the causes of FOMO is a good first step, but being able to recognize its signs, especially in oneself, is just as important. Here are some behaviors that could indicate the possibility of an investor being FOMO-driven:
  These four actions illustrate how greed can lead to making risky decisions and how these choices can be irrational and fleeting.
  FOMO is compulsive and driven by information received from a variety of channels. Usually, this news isn’t verified and is interpreted to suit a personal bias.
 As a crypto investor, doing independent research to understand the coin’s situation is a must before being tempted to make an irrational decision that might trigger a loss or, even worse, liquidation.   Conducting research gives you an edge in overcoming FOMO. Still, an additional helpful practice is having a list of expert individuals and media to turn to for more information. Relying on these selected media outlets and influencers as secondary sources contributes to better decision-making when buying or selling a crypto asset. The extra details and clarity can help inform trading or investment decisions.
  Life is a combination of ups and downs; coming to this realization gives an investor a logical perspective and better grounding. Understanding that one can't always be in a profitable position in investing sets the tone for more wins and being able to handle occasional losses. Not even Bitcoin advocates like MicroStrategy co-founder Michael Saylor are always on the winning side of the crypto market. Crypto investors' or traders' best bet is to develop strategies that make it easy to spot FOMO.
  Having a guiding principle is a constructive way to overcome the effects of FOMO. It means maintaining a checklist to prevent making drastic decisions or jumping too quickly on the market bandwagon. Your strategy will incorporate nuances like the use case of the crypto assets that you’re considering, their tokenomics, and more. Combine fundamental and technical analysis whenever possible to shield yourself from poorly thought-out trading decisions.
  The cryptocurrency market, like others in the financial world, moves in an up-and-down cycle, with bullish and bearish periods. The bull market comprises a series of price highs, and the bear market comes with lows and people losing money. Understanding this cycle will help reduce the risk of being driven by FOMO because you can recognize the right time to enter and exit a trade.
  One of the best ways to avoid anxiety from FOMO is to learn from previous mistakes. Reflect on the moment you panic-sold your Bitcoin—prompted by news you heard about an incoming dump—only to watch its price rise sharply after you clicked the sell button. You discovered the information wasn’t profound or possibly wasn’t correct. A scenario such as that can make you regret selling. To sidestep this, reflect on a situation in which you made a trading decision that led to lost money, one that you regretted. As the saying goes, “Once bitten, twice shy.”
  Since crypto started gaining global recognition, many initial coin offerings (ICOs) have emerged. Some are genuine, but others have been a tool for exploitation. 
  Scammers use these fraudulent tokens or ICOs to persuade investors via FOMO to sink money into them. One study showed that 80% of ICOs are a scam. Another report estimated that $9 million is lost daily to small-scale cryptocurrency scams. It’s important to remember how ICO scams can seem plausible when FOMO clouds a decision.
 Fear of missing out (FOMO) is the irrational thoughts and feelings that you might miss out on the one opportunity that could change your life for the better. It's applicable in many circumstances, but in the modern day, it's used heavily regarding cryptocurrency and stock market investing. Fear of missing out is a human instinct that can be powerful enough to drive bad decision-making. Everyone wants to improve their lives, and opportunities for quick riches are very few. It often leads people to an eventual physical and financial demise. The best way to deal with the fear of missing out is to become educated about the markets, take the time to research, and understand that sticking to an investing strategy that is tailored to your specific needs works best.  Forms of FOMO have been a part of human existence long before cryptocurrency was invented. Consider the nineteenth-century global gold rush craze. People feared missing out so much that they abandoned their jobs and spent the equivalent of between $500 and $1,000 in the 1850s ($20,000 and $40,000 in 2024 dollars, respectively) just to travel to the sites and dig.
  With cryptocurrency, this fear can be just as detrimental as the gold rushes of the past because of the potential for losing an entire investment. For example, FTX was rumored to be a successful and reputable exchange and place to earn big returns—people lost their entire savings and nest eggs when it collapsed after its fraudulent foundations were discovered. Self-discipline, information, and an investing strategy are the best tools against cryptocurrency FOMO.
  The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info. 
 Australian Psychology Society, via Heads Up. “Stress and Wellbeing in Australia Survey,” Page 39. Psychology Today. “6 Ways Real Investors Cope with Serious Financial Anxiety.” The Harvard Gazette. “Good Genes Are Nice, But Joy Is Better.” Cointelegraph. "Clarification on Sharing False Spot Bitcoin ETF News." CoinGecko. “Bitcoin (BTC).” National Bureau of Economic Research. "Anatomy of a Run: The Terra Luna Crash." Investment Executive. “Crypto and FOMO Lure Retail Investors, ASIC Finds.” Satis Group, via Bloomberg. “Cryptoasset Market Coverage Initiation: Network Creation: Summary,” Page 1. Bitcoin.com News. “$9 Million a Day Is Lost in Cryptocurrency Scams.” Oxford Academic. "Gold Rushes, Universities and Globalization, 1840–1910."