Spice Girl Mel C wowed on stage as she showed off her toned abs amid rumours the iconic 90s girl group will reunite once more for Glastonbury next year Spice Girl Mel C wowed as she took to the stage showing off her toned abs at a music festival over the weekend.  The iconic singer, 49, stunned as she lived up to her Sporty Spice nickname in a blue bralette and tracksuit bottoms. Mel gave an energetic performance at Hardwick Festival in County Durham on Saturday as she entertained the crowd with her hits. The Spice Girl was on the lineup alongside the likes of Noel Gallagher and The Kooks.   Mel's performance came as she cheered on the Lionesses by recording a song in the hopes of a World Cup victory. She teamed up with a host of pop stars to record the Lionesses' World Cup song Call Me A Lioness. She sang alongside an 11-strong team of artists, including Self Esteem and Olivia Dean, who make up Hope FC. Released the day before the tournament kicked off, the track will raise money for charities that support grassroots girls’ and women’s football.  Speaking about the 'privilege' to perform on the eagerly awaited track, Mel said: “It’s been amazing to see the popularity of women’s football grow and their incredible win last year was a huge inspiration for this new song for the World Cup. I’m so privileged to be involved with a whole host of amazing female artists, cheering on our women’s team to bring it home again!”  Just last month Mel C spoke of the rumours Spice Girls are set to headline Glastonbury next year. She raised hopes the famous girl band could play at Somerset’s Worthy Farm in the future, saying she “would love” to be on stage with the Spice Girls while speaking at Wimbledon on the fourth day of the tennis tournament. Mel said: “Glasto was incredible. I was there for the first time in 2022 DJ’ing, then I played with my band this year. It’s such a magical place.  “It’s a real honour to play there as an artist and I would love to be on the stage with the Spice Girls, I think it would be the most incredible experience of my Spice Girl life.” In 2019, the beloved girl band of Mel B, Geri Halliwell, Mel C , and Emma Bunton – minus Victoria Beckham – got back together for a string of tour dates across the UK and Ireland. It was the first time the Spice Girls had performed together since the 2012 London Olympics closing ceremony.   Mel - real name Melanie Chisholm - shut down rumours the 90s band were set to appear at this year's Glastonbury. It came after Mel B aka Scary Spice teased the possibility during a chat about the forthcoming 25th anniversary of the band's movie, Spiceworld. She dropped hints that the band were set to appear, before backtracking, as though she had let on too much. Mel C told The Guardian : “It’s the question I hate the most because the answer is as disappointing to me as it is to Spice Girls fans.  “We would love to do Glasto. It just doesn’t fit with the current plan with the girls. We do want to get back on stage – everything is up in the air.” However, she explained: “Of course, we had incredible stadium shows in 2019. And you know, there’s definitely a bit of FOMO for [Victoria Beckham], so I’m a big optimist. We were all at Geri’s 50th a couple of months back and Victoria was the first one on the dance floor requesting Spice Girls songs.” Follow Mirror Celebs onSnapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads. Love Glastonbury? From tickets to headliners, get the latest updates direct to your inbox with Worthy Welly