National Scrap Car, the UK’s premier marketplace for scrap vehicles, has warned drivers of a warm weather habit that they should avoid or risk a hefty fine and points on their licence. Don't miss any of Glasgow Live's biggest stories - sign up to our daily email newsletter We have more newsletters Don't miss any of Glasgow Live's biggest stories - sign up to our daily email newsletter We have more newsletters  The weather in Glasgow this week is giving many of us some pretty major FOMO if you're stuck inside workings in in an office or from home.  But thankfully the sunny weather won't stop as soon we we close our laptops, with it set to stay warm until we hit our pillows.  And with June just around the corner, more people will be making the most of the with trips to beer gardens or the seaside.  READ MORE: Glasgow's favourite beer gardens to soak up the sun on a glorious day But when it comes to days where we will be switching from our boots to flip flips, people have been warned that they could risk a pretty hefty fine if they wearing impractical footwear at the wheel. As exciting as the hot weather is, it’s vital not to take your foot off the brake when it comes to road safety, warns Dorry Potter, car expert at  National Scrap Car. So what are they warning drivers about? Here is what you need to know Potential penalty: £5,000 + penalty points  The experts warn that whilst flip flops are popular in summer, they don't make the most appropriate footwear for driving in. they explain: "In fact, Rule 97 of the highway code clearly states that clothing and footwear should not prevent you from being able to use the controls. "This means that if you are caught by the police or involved in an accident, you can be charged for “driving without due care and attention” - which carries a £100 on-the-spot fine and three penalty points on your licence. "If it goes to court that can increase to a maximum penalty of £5,000, nine points and potentially a driving ban. "This goes way beyond just a fashion disaster, so to avoid any of this, we recommend that drivers check their footwear before hitting the road or keep a spare pair of shoes in their car." Get all the latest Glasgow news and headlines sent straight to your inbox twice a day by signing up to our free newsletter. From breaking news to the latest on the coronavirus crisis in Scotland, we''ll have you covered. The morning newsletter arrives every day before 9am and the evening newsletter, manually curated by the team, is sent between 4pm and 5pm, giving you a round up of the most important stories we've covered that day. To sign up, visit this link. READ NEXT:  Glasgow to be drenched in glorious sunshine today as temperature to soar in city   Chef Rick Stein visits Glasgow University Cafe for new food show   TRNSMT 2023 full line up and key dates for Glasgow Green's music festival   Glasgow hotels to stay in during TRNSMT 2023 festival at Glasgow Green  What the TRMST 2023 VIP tickets are and how to buy them 