With Glastonbury 2023 fast approaching and what seems like the whole of Bristol gearing up to go, it’s easy to get a serious case of FOMO, but have no fear because Erratic Batting have you sorted.   Erratic Batting’s Glasto Not Glasto 2023 will take place at The Crofters Rights on Saturday 24 June 2023.   The event is split in two with an action-packed ‘By Day’ programme full of love post-punk, noise rock, psych, synth-pop, jazz, trip-hop, Neo-classical, doo-wop and Middle Eastern music and a ‘By Night’ lineup featuring sets from SWU FM’s Yusuf Suave, Back A Yard founder Riesh Tafari and popular local DJ Nathan Worm.        In terms of the live event, music lovers can expect a vibrant multi-genre lineup across three rooms featuring a carefully curated selection of some of the best-emerging acts from Bristol and further afield.   Room One will see sets from heavy krautrock-inspired psychedelic groove dwellers Bigbyrd, Bristol’s very own angular post-rock buzz band HAAL and esoteric post-punk, noise rock specialists, Repo Man.   The second room will feature performances from neo-trip hop/R&B multi-instrumentalist El Knight, Birmingham-based neo-fusion jazz duo BIGHEADMODE and much-loved local new wave/dance duo, Getdown Services.   Those who can’t afford a ticket will also be able to join in the fun with a free stage set up in the Crofters bar. Enjoy sets from transcendental violin looper Boci and intergalactic doo-wop crooner Dubi Dolczek as well as a DJ set featuring Asian, Middle Eastern, African grooves and psych rock from The Grey Area.      Part two of Erratic Batting’s Glasto Not Glasto festival will see an all-night DJ set, floating between UK garage, carnival, Bhangra, Dancehall, jazz, Afrobeat, jungle and much more.   The first act, Nathan Worm, is a name known throughout Bristol’s underground dance scene. Known for his work as a founding member of Worm Disco Club, his own club night Bubble and his new residency at The Gallimaufry. His eclectic set will include a selection of world funk, house, garage, jungle and much more!    This will be followed by a set from Back A Yard founder Riesh Tafari. Merging vinyl and digital, this is sure to be a performance that will make you sweat featuring raw dancehall and a sprinkling of guest refixes.   Closing the night-time proceedings is Yusuf Suave. The SWU FM and RepresentAsian favourite have made a name for himself across Bristol, Manchester and London, founding his Top Rankin’ club night and performing a prestigious B2B at Bristol Beacon with Roni Size.      Erratic Batting’s Glasto Not Glasto 2023 will take place at The Crofters Rights on Saturday 24 June 2023. Tickets for the show can be purchased HERE. Read more:   Bristol Music: Look back at the magic of Bristol experimenters EP/64 with a special night of music and film Bristol Music: Everything you need to know about Bristol Sounds 2023 Stan is a born and bred Bristolian, recently graduated from studying English Literature in Sheffield. His passions are music and literature and he spends the majority of his time in venues all over the city, immersing himself in Bristol’s alternative music scene. A lifelong Bristol City fan, Stan’s Saturdays are spent watching his team both home and away.
 Stan is a born and bred Bristolian, recently graduated from studying English Literature in Sheffield. His passions are music and literature and he spends the majority of his time in venues all over the city, immersing himself in Bristol’s alternative music scene. A lifelong Bristol City fan, Stan’s Saturdays are spent watching his team both home and away.