Tiffany Watson has shared that she won't be able to attend the wedding of her co-star Jamie Laing. The Made In Chelsea star is set to marry Sophie Habboo in a second ceremony this month in Spain. Tiff responded to a fan question on Instagram about whether she'd be attending the event and explained: "I had it all booked, hotel, flights, etc. "But sadly I'm no longer allowed to fly so can't go. So gutted I'm going to have serious FOMO all weekend!" Related: Made in Chelsea's Spencer Matthews discuss Jamie Laing friendship after wedding snub She added: "@sophiehabboo so sad I'm going to not witness you being the most beautiful bride." It comes after the reality star announced she was expecting a baby with her husband Cameron McGeehan. In an Instagram post, she wrote: "Baby McGeehan on the way. "Pregnancy after miscarriage can come with a lot of anxiety and I’ve been having to take it one day at a time but very grateful for where we are on our journey." Meanwhile, Jamie previously married Sophie in a London Registry Office ceremony, a move that became quite a talking point when he apparently forgot to invite best friend Spencer Matthews. Related: MIC's Sam Thompson responds to Jamie Laing fall out claims after not being invited to wedding or stag do Clearing up exactly what happened, the former Strictly Come Dancing star said: "I f**ked up. We had our wedding, our civil ceremony, in the UK. It was a hectic process. "Amongst the hectic-ness of getting people there and things like that, I thought Spen and Vogue were away. Actually, Sophie took over and said, 'Are they coming?' and I said, 'No, they're in Portugal'. And I didn't send out an invite... for you guys to come. "Spen got upset – understandably, I get it... So I sent Vogue a message – and what was really bad is I said, 'Vogue, well I hope I can get support', and Vogue went, 'To be honest, Jamie, it's not good'. And I was like, 'F**k'." Spencer added that he will be very involved in the couple's next ceremony, taking place in Marbella. Made in Chelsea airs on E4. You Might Also Like Animal Crossing New Horizons is finally announced on Nintendo Switch How to watch Amazon Prime on your TV, smartphone and tablet – and enjoy Good Omens online Nintendo to release two new Switch consoles this year New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.