Chad Green's long road back to MLB may have just gotten a little bit longer. The rehabbing Toronto Blue Jays reliever has entered the MLB's concussion protocol and will be sidelined for at least seven more days after he was hit in the head by a throw on Tuesday. Green left Tuesday's Triple-A outing with the Buffalo Bisons after getting hit in the head by a throw from his catcher Tyler Heineman, who was trying to eliminate a runner on a stolen base attempt. Chad Green left tonight's rehab outing in AAA after being hit in the head on a throw to second base.You can see Green speaking with trainers here, too, which is good, but of course anything involving the head will need to be checked out. He's close to his #BlueJays debut. pic.twitter.com/CAeujYIwMv — Keegan Matheson (@KeeganMatheson) August 9, 2023 Green departed after two-thirds of an inning in which he gave up one hit on 11 pitches. The 32-year-old was able to walk off the field under his own power and it doesn't appear he was seriously hurt, judging by his conversation on the mound with the Bisons' trainer. The Blue Jays signed the longtime New York Yankee to a complicated two-year deal last offseason knowing he was in the midst of recovering from Tommy John surgery. Green's timeline for a return was always sometime after the All-Star break and he appeared to be very close to making his season debut. It's unclear whether Tuesday's incident will set him back. Green's rehab stint has been extremely successful to this point as he has yet to surrender a run in six games (6.2 innings) across two minor-league levels. The right-hander has allowed four hits and hasn't walked a batter while recording seven strikeouts. Quick clarification: there’s a possibility Green is out of protocol sooner than seven days if he’s cleared by club, MLB, and MLBPA physicians. He’d have to pass concussion testing and complete an activity progression first. — Arden Zwelling (@ArdenZwelling) August 9, 2023 His looming return to the Blue Jays figures to boost a relief corps that has already excelled in 2023. Toronto's bullpen owns the seventh-best ERA in the majors, has the fifth-best K/9 rate and ranks second in stranding inherited baserunners. Green owns a career 3.17 ERA over his seven MLB seasons, all of which have come with the Yankees. Khelif’s dominant showing will only inflame the debate over whether she should be allowed to compete at the Paris Olympics. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Every driver involved in the late crash was uninjured. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their running back rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Analyst Fred Zinkie examines the biggest discrepancies between his 2024 fantasy football rankings and those of the rest of the Yahoo Fantasy team. Steven Sabino was disqualified after a false start in his men's 100 preliminary round, ending his Olympic Games without ever running. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Should Trey McBride be the fantasy football TE1 in drafts this season? Here's Dalton Del Don on that and more. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their updated quarterback rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Miami Dolphins receiver Tyreek Hill says he wants to race Olympic gold medalist Noah Lyles, publicly challenging him on social media. Dillon entered Sunday night's race 32nd in the points standings. The Minnesota Vikings will honor Khyree Jackson with helmet decals this season. Coaches will wear matching pins. The rookie was killed in an automobile crash in early July. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. The Steelers and 49ers reportedly have the framework of a deal in place for Brandon Aiyuk. Photos of the finish between USA's Noah Lyles and Jamaica's Kishane Thompson show how close the result truly was. The 49ers might be close to trading one of their best players. The Indiana Fever have won two consecutive games coming out of the WNBA's Olympics break, beating the Seattle Storm on Sunday, 92–75. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. If you needed more proof of just how iconic Turkish pistol shooter Yusuf Dikeç has become during these 2024 Paris Olympics, look no further than Swedish pole vaulter Armand Duplantis. McIntosh announced herself as perhaps the finest female swimmer on the planet.