After finishing six weeks of spring training, the Blue Jays’ 2023 season kicked off in dramatic fashion Thursday, with Toronto coming away with a thrilling 10-9 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals. But it wouldn’t have been possible without George Springer’s historic showing. Springer, beginning his third season with Toronto, led the way offensively, going 5-for-6 at the plate with four runs scored on the afternoon — becoming the first ever Blue Jays player to record five hits on Opening Day. George SpringerFirst player in Blue Jays history with 5 hits on #OpeningDay #NextLevel pic.twitter.com/lQtErMkSVN — Sportsnet Stats (@SNstats) March 30, 2023 The 33-year-old also became the first player in American League history to register five hits and four runs scored on Opening Day. He joins Hall of Fame icon Billy Herman — who had five hits and four runs scored in 1936 — as the only MLB players to accomplish that feat. Springer was on the right side of some favourable batted-ball distribution, as four of his five singles produced an exit velocity lower than 83 mph. But as the Blue Jays right fielder noted post-game, luck is a major part of the game on occasion. John Schneider joked that the #BlueJays bench was "giving Springer some love for his lawn darts."Springer: "Sometimes it's better to be lucky than good, so I'll take it." — Keegan Matheson (@KeeganMatheson) March 31, 2023 Toronto’s offence received support beyond just Springer, though, with the top three of the batting order, including Springer and young superstars Bo Bichette and Vladimir Guerrero Jr., going a combined 11-for-16 and driving in five runs. Daulton Varsho made a solid first impression during his Blue Jays debut, cashing in the team’s first run of the game. The torch was then passed to Alejandro Kirk, who scored two more runs with a single, putting Toronto ahead 3-0 in the top half of the first inning. Altogether, the club’s new-look offence played off each other all game, connecting for 10 runs on 14 hits — and they needed every bit of it to come away victorious. With ace Alek Manoah struggling to find the strike zone consistently, the 2022 AL Cy Young finalist surrendered five runs on a career-high nine hits (two home runs) and two walks over 3.1 innings, tied for the second-shortest outing of his career. It snapped a streak of 39 consecutive starts of pitching five innings or more. Aside from scoreless appearances by Canadian Zach Pop, Erik Swanson and Adam Cimber, Toronto’s bullpen couldn’t hold down St. Louis’ talented lineup, leading to a wild back-and-forth heavyweight bout throughout the later frames. The Blue Jays and Cardinals traded punches in the seventh and eighth innings, matching each other’s offensive output, until an RBI single from Springer and a sac-fly from Guerrero Jr gave Toronto a one-run lead in the ninth. As Toronto carried a 10-9 advantage into the bottom of the ninth, in came closer Jordan Romano, who finished things off on just 12 pitches, inducing his first pair of strikeouts of 2023 to complete the win — a contest that nearly slipped away from the Jays more than a few times. Khelif’s dominant showing will only inflame the debate over whether she should be allowed to compete at the Paris Olympics. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Every driver involved in the late crash was uninjured. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their running back rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Analyst Fred Zinkie examines the biggest discrepancies between his 2024 fantasy football rankings and those of the rest of the Yahoo Fantasy team. Steven Sabino was disqualified after a false start in his men's 100 preliminary round, ending his Olympic Games without ever running. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their updated quarterback rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Should Trey McBride be the fantasy football TE1 in drafts this season? Here's Dalton Del Don on that and more. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Dillon entered Sunday night's race 32nd in the points standings. The Minnesota Vikings will honor Khyree Jackson with helmet decals this season. Coaches will wear matching pins. The rookie was killed in an automobile crash in early July. Miami Dolphins receiver Tyreek Hill says he wants to race Olympic gold medalist Noah Lyles, publicly challenging him on social media. The Steelers and 49ers reportedly have the framework of a deal in place for Brandon Aiyuk. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. Photos of the finish between USA's Noah Lyles and Jamaica's Kishane Thompson show how close the result truly was. The 49ers might be close to trading one of their best players. The Indiana Fever have won two consecutive games coming out of the WNBA's Olympics break, beating the Seattle Storm on Sunday, 92–75. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their updated wide receiver rankings for the 2024 NFL season. If you needed more proof of just how iconic Turkish pistol shooter Yusuf Dikeç has become during these 2024 Paris Olympics, look no further than Swedish pole vaulter Armand Duplantis. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season.