To work or volunteer in regulated child-related employment or operate a regulated child-related business in Queensland, you may need a blue or exemption card. Following the process outlined on this page to apply for a blue or exemption card will help to ensure you have everything ready to complete your application. If you are unsure if you need a blue or exemption card, find out when a card is required. To help ensure the safety of children and young people in Queensland, the blue card system stops certain people from holding or applying for a blue card. Find out if you are eligible to hold a blue card. You will need a Customer Reference Number (CRN) from the Queensland Department of Transport and Main Roads (TMR) before you apply for your blue or exemption card to prove your identity. You can find your CRN on any TMR product. If you are not sure if you have ever had a CRN, you can contact TMR. We use the photo from your TMR product for your blue card. If your photo with TMR was taken more than 6 years and 11 months ago, you will need to have a new photo taken at a TMR customer service centre. If you don’t have a CRN, or your photo has expired, you will need to visit a TMR customer service centre to get one. If you are unable to visit TMR or live interstate you can still apply for a CRN from them. There is no fee to get a CRN or have your photo updated. To get a CRN you must: When you have done this, TMR will give you a CRN. Keep your CRN in a safe place as you will need this number to register for an online account to apply for your blue or exemption card. To update your expired photo, take your TMR product to a TMR customer service centre to get a new photo. They will keep the new photo on file for the next time you renew your TMR product. If you are unable to attend a TMR customer service centre, you can complete a remote pack. You can complete a remote pack if: Existing CRN holders who need to update your photo refer to information for updating your photo with TMR remotely. Non CRN holders who need to apply for a CRN from TMR refer to information for getting a CRN from TMR remotely. Watch our videos to learn more about applying for a CRN using a remote pack for a blue card application if you’re from interstate, overseas or a remote area of Queensland. To apply for a blue or exemption card, follow these 3 steps. Apply online The online application works best on desktop or tablet devices. Please use an up-to-date browser such as Chrome, Firefox, Safari or Edge. You may encounter issues with older browsers. If you can’t apply online, you can submit a paper application. If your application requires payment, you will need to have a: You can submit your paper application to us by: Processing and approval times may take longer for paper applications.  We have also created some videos to help you with your application: You can withdraw your consent to screening at any time before a decision is made about your application by contacting us. If your application is approved, we will notify you via email or post. We will send your physical card to your postal address. Delivery times to receive your blue or exemption card may be up to 21 days. Once you receive confirmation, you can start or continue in child-related work straight away. You do not need to have your physical blue card or exemption card before you can start working or volunteering with children. You or your employer can validate your blue or exemption card at any time after you receive your Working with Children Check approval email. Back to top Go back to Blue Card Services home. Read our information for existing blue card holders if you already have a blue card and only need to update your details, renew or replace your card, or reflect that you have changed your workplace. As an applicant or card holder, you must immediately let us know if your police information changes by completing a change in police information notification.  Call 1800 512 451 and ask for an interpreter. You can also find information about translation services in your language. Call us on 1800 113 611 or (07) 3211 6999 or send us an email. 13 QGOV (13 74 68) Help us improve the content on our website or tell us what is working really well. Please contact us. 
                                This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google
                                Privacy Policy and
                                Terms of Service apply.
                             We pay our respects to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander ancestors of this land, their spirits and their legacy. The foundations laid by these ancestors—our First Nations peoples—give strength, inspiration and courage to current and future generations towards creating a better Queensland.
            