If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on June 13, 2023
 
By: Natasha Etzel
 Writer  KEY POINTS Many people use credit cards to earn rewards and enjoy credit card perks. One perk that some rewards credit cards have is delivery app credits. You can use these credits to purchase food through delivery apps like Grubhub and DoorDash, and these credits can make ordering delivery more affordable. Now that food costs are higher, you're likely seeking ways to stretch your credits further. We've outlined a few tips below to help you get the most out of your delivery app credits. You'll likely pay higher prices for your food when you order off the dinner menu. If you love a good deal and don't mind a slightly smaller portion, ordering off the lunch menu is a great way to keep your spending in check and stretch the value from your delivery app credits. The next time you're considering ordering food delivery, compare the lunch and dinner prices first. It may surprise you how much more expensive it is to get dinner delivered. It's worthwhile to pay attention to restaurant-specific deals when using food delivery apps like Grubhub, Uber Eats, or DoorDash. Some eateries have limited-time coupons available in these apps. By using one of these deals or ordering when there's a money-saving promotion, you can get more food for less money.


 Delivery fees can add up quickly, making your takeout night more expensive and negatively impacting your personal finances. If you dislike paying extra fees and want to keep more money in your checking account, consider ordering from restaurants closer to your home placing a pickup order. This will save you money and help squeeze more value from your delivery app credits. Depending on the card in your wallet, you may be able to stack your delivery app credits. If you're only getting a $10 monthly credit from your credit card issuer, you won't be able to buy much when placing an order. But if you stack your credits, or let them collect until you're ready to place a larger order, you can save more on that order. Before placing your next foot order, check whether you can do this. If so, you may want to wait to hold off using a credit for now. Another technique that may help you stretch your delivery app credits further is to invest in a delivery app subscription. Subscriptions like Grubhub+ and DashPass promise no delivery fees on eligible orders. If you order delivery often, these subscriptions may be worth the cost. By avoiding delivery fees, you can get more from your delivery app credits. Before paying for a food delivery app subscription yourself, check to see if your credit card provides a subscription for free. Make an effort to use your credit card benefits, especially if you're paying annual fees to use your cards. Remember, you can get more value from your credit cards by using all the available perks. If you receive food delivery app credits, don't let them go to waste. You can stretch your credits further by getting creative and using strategies like the ones above. If you order delivery often, check out our list of the best credit cards for dining and restaurants. 
Natasha is a freelance writer who specializes in personal finance, credit card, credit card rewards, and travel hacking content.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.