— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed's editors. Purchases made through the links below may earn us and our publishing partners a commission. There’s a flurry of new book-based content coming out this year, and one of the latest will be Red, White & Royal Blue, a movie based on the novel by Casey McQuiston. Featuring an ensemble cast, the romantic comedy is directed by Matthew Lopez, who earned a Tony Award for his 2018 play The Inheritance.  In a nutshell, the story is about the son of a U.S. president who clashes with the prince of Britain. But of course, there’s a beautiful, romantic twist. The Red, White & Royal Blue movie will be released on August 11, 2023, just in time to be a heartwarming and romantic end-of-summer watch. Red, White & Royal Blue will be streaming exclusively on Amazon Prime Video, so you’ll need an Amazon Prime subscription to access it (or you can rent or buy it from Amazon without an Amazon Prime subscription). In the book, Red, White & Royal Blue follows Alex Claremont-Diaz, the eldest son of the current and first female U.S. president. While attending a royal wedding, he runs into the British Prince Henry, whom he loathes. The two end up in a physical fight that raises a commotion and brings unwanted negative publicity to both families. The two young men are forced to pretend to be friendly with one another to keep up appearances for both the president and the high-profile royals. It’s important that they put on a front to prevent any type of diplomatic crisis from emerging.  As is predictable with most rom coms, the two begin to grow closer to one another, and the friendship eventually turns romantic. But while Alex’s mother supports her son, homosexuality in the royal family would be frowned upon. So, Henry struggles with coming forward with his sexuality, especially to his grandfather the King (in the book, it’s the Queen to whom Henry grapples with revealing his secret). Even if Henry decides to tell the truth, however, it isn’t as easy as either of them think. The public fallout could be devastating. But it might also surprise them. Some casting details are known thus far for Red, White & Royal Blue. Red, White & Royal Blue has received positive reviews, with critics applauding the representation of a gay relationship. The story is more so about intense love than spicy physical connection, with reviewers calling it “earnest and sweet.” With that said, there are quite a few sex scenes in the book, and in some cases, the scenes are quite graphically described. Other sex scenes, however, aren’t described in as much erotic detail like you might find in a traditional romance novel. Instead, they are sweet and have meaning, leaving the reader to let you own imagination run wild.  Along with being somewhat spicy, Red, White & Royal Blue is often described as funny, intelligent, romantic, and full of witty dialogue. Nonetheless, given the language and intense sex scenes, the book, and the move as well (which is rated R), is recommended for ages 15+. The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.