Color Scheme Subscriber Actions Staff Options Connect With Us Support Local Journalism FX’s “The Bear,” a show about a family-run sandwich shop in Chicago transitioning into a fine-dining restaurant, depicts a lot of crave-worthy food in its second season. There’s the day Sydney Adamu (Ayo Edebiri) spends eating at restaurants across the city, the time Marcus (Lionel Boyce) spends in the pastry kitchen at a high-end restaurant in Copenhagen, and the pasta Carmen “Carmy” Berzatto (Jeremy Allen White) makes for his love interest, Claire (Molly Gordon), to name a few. But the food that I’ve seen talked about and even replicated the most on my social media feeds is an omelet Sydney makes for Natalie “Sugar” Berzatto (Abby Elliott) in the season’s penultimate episode, aptly titled “Omelette.” What makes this omelet so hunger-inducing is the line of Boursin cheese piped down the middle before it gets rolled up and then a sprinkling of crushed sour cream and onion potato chips – “The type with the ridges,” Sydney specifies. According to the show’s culinary producer, Courtney Storer, the Boursin Omelet With Potato Chips was inspired by chef Ludo Lefebvre’s Boursin omelet (sans potato chips). The omelet on the show starts with Sydney whisking the eggs through a mesh strainer. While I am loath to dirty the extra dish, straining the eggs achieves an extremely smooth texture with no streaks of egg whites or bubbles. Made in the French style, the omelet is cooked so that the eggs don’t brown on the bottom and are baveuse, or still wet on top. The cheese melts into the eggs for an extremely creamy center like I’ve never had before. Lefebvre recommends the cracked black pepper flavor of Boursin in the recipe he shared online, but in my re-creation, I opted for the garlic and herb version to mimic the flavors of the potato chips. (Or you could use whatever flavor of soft, spreadable cheese that you want to make the dish your own. The show does not specify which flavor of cheese is used.) Thanks to the cheese, the potato chips and a sprinkling of chives, the dish is full of onion-y, herb flavor with textural contrast between the creamy, supple omelet and the crisp chips. “I could cry,” Natalie said after taking her first bite. While the flavor of the omelet is delicious, what truly makes it special is the care it represents, which is what great hospitality is all about. At this point in the series, Natalie is well into her pregnancy while also serving as the manager of the soon-to-reopen restaurant. As the team gets ready for their friends and family debut, Natalie is looking the worse for wear and says she hasn’t eaten. After initially turning down Sydney’s offer to make her something, Natalie asks for an omelet. Sydney sees someone in clear need of nourishment and jumps at the chance to provide it. This scene speaks to part of what drew Sydney – and others both on the show and in real life – to food in the first place. Cooking and serving others can help foster a sense of connection and satisfaction. In a conversation with Carmy, Sydney calls the act of making an omelet for Natalie the best part of her day. “You like taking care of people,” he responds. “Yeah, I guess.” This French-style omelet based on the one shown in FX’s “The Bear” is filled with Boursin cheese and topped with crushed sour cream-and-onion chips. The eggs are whisked through a mesh strainer to get an extremely smooth texture with no trace of egg whites or bubbles, and the finished omelet is rubbed with butter to make it shine.   3 large eggs 1/8 teaspoon fine salt 1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon unsalted butter, divided 2 tablespoons garlic-and-herb spreadable cheese, such as Boursin brand cheese Thinly sliced chives, for serving Crushed ruffled sour cream and onion potato chips, for serving Freshly ground black pepper, for serving Set a mesh strainer inside a medium bowl. Crack the eggs into the strainer and whisk with a fork until they pass through the mesh. Set the strainer aside and whisk the salt into the eggs. In a 10-inch, nonstick skillet over medium-low heat, melt 1 tablespoon of the butter, swirling to coat the bottom and sides of the pan. Add the eggs and, using a rubber spatula in one hand, constantly stir the eggs while gently jerking the pan back and forth with your other hand. Cook the eggs, continuing to stir and scraping down the sides of the pan with the spatula periodically. Once the eggs are mostly set yet still runny and wet on top, about 3 minutes total, smooth them evenly across the skillet. Place dollops of cheese in a line across the upper third of the omelet. Tilt the skillet and use the spatula to fold the top edge of the omelet over the cheese to the center; use the spatula and gravity to nudge the omelet to roll and fold over completely. Slide it onto a plate, seam side down, and rub the top of the omelet with the remaining 1 teaspoon of butter. Top with a sprinkling of chives, crushed potato chips and a couple grinds of black pepper, and serve. Serves 1. Local journalism is essential. Give directly to The Spokesman-Review's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below. Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible, but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds.  Get the day’s top entertainment headlines delivered to your inbox Thursday afternoons. Like many expectant mothers, Miranda Kekauoha had a plan. Follow Us Support Local Journalism Subscribe Help User 
Advertising
 More Contact Us © Copyright 2024, The Spokesman-Review | Community Guidelines | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Copyright Policy