Christopher Storer created “The Bear,” but his surprise FX hit might not nail the precision of its nail-biting comedy without his sister: culinary producer Courtney Storer. Executive producer, associate producer, co-producer, sure;what exactly is required to be a “culinary producer?” At the show’s TCA winter press tour panel, the answer to that question was as satisfying as an Italian beef sandwich. More from IndieWire Why Ayo Edebiri Didn't Watch Certain Episodes of 'The Bear' 'The Bear' Is Great. Its Fight Scenes Are Not “Culinary producing goes beyond just food styling, or making sure the food looks beautiful,” said Courtney, the former culinary director of Jon + Vinny’s Italian restaurant in Los Angeles. “It’s a little bit deeper into what do people look like when they’re cooking? How are they holding a knife? Where are they standing? “Movement in a kitchen is something that’s super important to this show,” she continued, describing the magnificently stressful one-shot Episode 107 as similar to dance choreography. Culinary producing can also include pan and pot selection, dressing the set with the correct ketchup, and the difference between a “reach-in” and a “freezer.” Also, just what the hell is a low boy (it’s an under-counter refrigerator) or a salamander (that’s the broiler)? Courtney, whom Chris calls “Coco,” is not alone in the tall task: Matty Matheson, who plays “Neil Fak” on the series, is among the series’ executive producers. He is also a renowned chef and restauranteur — so yeah, between the two of them, the food of “The Bear” is legit. Matheson believes it’s that authenticity, particularly in the cast’s pivot-heavy movement around the kitchen, is why the food industry adopted “The Bear” as much as TV critics. “You’re moving with urgency, you’re moving with purpose, or not — right?” he said. “You’re seeing a couple people with purpose and urgencies in the way that they move, around people that don’t. So you’re watching them move in a particular way that’s very important and makes a lot of sense to people in the (food) industry.” Christopher said both Courtney and Matheson have the authority to “yell ‘cut’ if something was fucked, or looked way off.” Well, not much was fucked in the final Season 1 product, which is probably why it’s whipping up wins this awards season. “The Bear” Season 2 enters production in Chicago at the end of January. The show will return with 10 new episodes this summer. The eight-episode first season is available on Hulu. Best of IndieWire 17 HBO and HBO Max Original Series to Get Excited About in 2023 The Best TV Shows of 2022 The Best True Crime Streaming Now, from 'Unsolved Mysteries' to 'McMillions' to 'The Staircase' Sign up for Indiewire's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.