
December 23, 2022 at 4:00 a.m.
 by
Joe Gamm
  Kennedy Hartmann swallowed a gummy bear. It was a little over a week ago. And her parents were so proud of her. Five-year-olds are going to swallow gummy bears from time to time. But not Kennedy. Truth told, this was a milestone for her. The gummy bear was the first solid food she had ever eaten. Kennedy was born a micro preemie (meaning she weighed less than 1 pound, 12 ounces) at only 24 weeks gestation on March 22, 2018. She weighed in at 1 pound, 3 ounces. And she spent the first 15 months of her life inside the MU Health Care Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, in Columbia. "She's our miracle baby," father Kevin Hartmann said. "They said she had a 50 percent chance of making it. She pulled through. She's our fighter." An early start Kennedy's mother, Kristen Hartmann, said she had been carrying Kennedy for 24 weeks when she developed HELLP syndrome (hemolysis elevated liver enzymes and low platelets), in which red blood cells break down. HELLP also causes problems with the liver, bleeding and blood pressure. Kristen's blood pressure was very high. She went to Capital Region Medical Center, where physicians could administer steroids to increase Kennedy's oxygen and build her lung capacity. Doctors thought they could keep Kristen in the hospital and monitor her for a couple of days. But she immediately had to go to the Women's and Children's Hospital. By the time they arrived, the HELLP symptoms started to spread to Kennedy. The family was forced to make a snap decision -- leave Kennedy in the womb and try to get more steroid shots to help build her lungs up, or deliver immediately so the HELLP syndrome didn't potentially kill both of them. Kristen was on the verge of having seizures because of her high blood pressure, she said, so the family opted to deliver the baby. "We put everything in God's hands, and we delivered her," Kristen said. "And it was a bit scary. She was so small at 24 weeks." Doctors were uncertain if they could intubate her with their smallest breathing tube. "God took over," Kristen said. "By the grace of God, they were able to put the smallest feeding tube down her." But Kennedy wasn't out of danger. Because it was possible she wouldn't survive, nurses broke the rules and wheeled her bed to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), so she could see and touch her baby for the first time. "They weren't sure if Kennedy was going to make it through the night. So that nurse -- he was bound and determined to let me see my baby -- in case (Kennedy died)," Kristen said. Kennedy's first surgery, to close an artery that normally closes immediately after birth, happened within about two weeks. The next challenge was to remove the breathing tube. But she couldn't breathe without it, so after about four months, physicians chose to conduct a tracheotomy. Once the tracheostomy tube was in, Kennedy could begin being fed orally. "Unfortunately, Kennedy then developed an oral aversion," Kristen said. "She had this weird thing where she would suck from the bottle so hard, she pulled in the back of her mouth (forward) and couldn't swallow at all. It was a coordination thing. She still struggles with that coordination." At about six months, she began refusing a bottle. Then came a discussion about putting a gastrostomy tube in, to send nutrition to the stomach. "And that's where everything went sideways. We were supposed to leave after that. We were like, 'Yeah, we finally get out of here.' There were complications in the surgery," Kristen said. "She developed a condition called NEC (necrotizing enterocolitis), which inflames intestinal tissue, causing it to die." Two days later, Kennedy went into another surgery, when doctors found out a good chunk of her intestines had died. "That was an awful time -- to see her lie there," Kristen said. "Her belly was bloated so much you could see her veins. And, she was dusty blue, dusty gray. That was a very nerve-wracking time." The hospital again suspended rules and let the family stay overnight, in case Kennedy died. A later surgery showed her intestines weren't growing back, so surgeons set up her ostomy bag and a broviac line (to provide nutrients in a vein in her chest). Kristen had to learn to hook up nutrition lines before the hospital would release the baby. Finally, on June 2 or 3, the family left the hospital. "It was about a year and a half she spent in the NICU," Kevin said. "They said we had hit every roadblock along the way. It was the kind of thing, if you speak it, Kennedy's going to get it. She's had 23 surgeries." At home at last She spent the first 15 months of her life in the NICU. After arriving at home, she began receiving physical, occupational and speech therapy from the therapy team at Special Learning Center, which provides services through the Missouri First Steps program. That was when Terri Brune, a Special Learning Center occupational therapist, came to their home, Kristen said. Brune arrived to assess Kennedy, to see what they would be working with. Brune said her workload was too much for her to be able to work with Kennedy. "By the end of that assessment," Kristen said, "Terri's like, 'I'm going to take her on. I'm going to find room. I'm going to be her therapist.' We are so fortunate she did." Her physical therapist, Lisa Borgmeyer, taught her to walk, jump and ride a bike. Kennedy learned sign language from Linda Kuebler. Doctors removed her tracheostomy tube in 2020. Brune began seeing Kennedy twice a week through the Early Intervention Program and the Missouri First Steps Program. "When I started with Kennedy, she was not sitting on her own. She was not crawling. She was not playing with anything," Brune said. "Of course, she was not doing anything by mouth." They worked on feeding skills and play skills. She was about 2 when she began to learn to walk, Brune said. Around her mouth Initially, Brune and Kennedy started with just play around Kennedy's mouth, letting Brune touch her around her mouth, engage with things around her mouth. "We've done some horns," Brune said, and let Kennedy demonstrate. "She couldn't blow bubbles initially. And she can do that now. She got to blow out her fifth birthday candle. That was really exciting." Kennedy in the past six months has gotten to where she's exploring around her mouth, and is even willing to put food in her mouth. As an infant, Brune said, Kennedy spent so much time in the newborn intensive care unit undergoing lifesaving measures, so she missed out on some developmental exploration things, like mouthing toys or doing anything with her mouth. "She didn't want anything around her mouth because so much of her life -- bless her heart -- had been a negative," Brune said. "They had done so many lifesaving measures -- which was a good thing -- but she was very averse to being touched on her face and on her mouth." Now Kennedy is exploring, Brune continued. She's playing. "She's interested in food. She's aware of when other people are eating," Brune said. "This has been kind of a big deal for her. As soon as something enters her mouth, she's not sure -- to be able to plan -- what to do with it next. It's fearful for her. This is huge, for her just to chew on it and want to be interested in it." Kennedy can figure out how to bite food. But she can't put all the pieces of the motor plan together -- like chewing food, swallowing it and feeling safe about it. Kristen said talking and eating are the next milestones she's looking forward to for Kennedy. And on the back burner are everyday activities for kids -- like learning to jump, hop or skip. "That's where the Special Learning Center has been a blessing," Kevin said. "She had such an aversion from having the breathing tube down that ... it seems like Terri is the only one she wants to eat for. (Brune) definitely has a bond with Kennedy. She makes Kennedy comfortable. We're starting to see that at home now, where she's comfortable eating with us. We really feel she's close to kind of jumping that milestone. I'm hoping it starts to come more naturally to her here in the next weeks, months." That gummy bear was the first solid thing Kennedy had ever swallowed, Kristen said. Christmas Wish That's easy, Kristen and Kevin said at the same time, when asked for a Christmas wish. In May, through the Make-a-Wish Foundation, the family was able to travel to Disney World. Kennedy's wish is to go again. Kristen and Kennedy watch YouTube videos of people visiting Disney World every day. "She had an amazing time," Kristen said. "She talks about Mickey and Minnie every day." How to donate The United Way is establishing an “A Christmas Wish” fund, and donors can give a gift “in the name of” someone specific or a United Way partner agency. In order to be tax-deductible, checks must be made payable to the United Way of Central Missouri and the United Way must retain the right to specifically determine whom the donation will benefit. A volunteer committee will oversee the distribution of these funds. If you want to help fulfill a Christmas wish in Mid-Missouri, mail checks to United Way of Central Missouri, 205 Alameda Drive, Jefferson City, Mo., 65109. “News Tribune Christmas Wish Fund” should be noted on the memo line of the check. Questions may be directed to Ann Bax, president of United Way of Central Missouri, at 573-636-4100 or [email protected].   In the digital edition, watch Terri Brune work and play with Kennedy as Kennedy’s parents talk about Kennedy and how the Special Learning Center has helped her. The digital edition also includes financial information about this nonprofit organization. To access it, you may click here or go online to https://bit.ly/3WFbXvG     Copyright © 2024, News Tribune Publishing All rights reserved. This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of News Tribune Publishing Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2024, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.