published author share on Online food and grocery delivery company foodpanda Singapore is highlighting its 24-hour fresh produce delivery service with a new campaign that utilises 2D creatives.   It's new 'CHILL: We got you fresh!', which was done in collaboration with Clear Channel Singapore, features  foodpanda’s iconic mascot, Pau-Pau, standing by an illuminated fridge that highlights fresh vegetables and fruits, to simulate what a well-stocked fridge will look like, foodpanda said in a statement. Don't miss: airasia partners with foodpanda to leverage vast network of on-demand services for consumers The installation targets working adults and those with young children who prefer to cook their own meals after work and who would appreciate a quick, grocery delivery service that will help them to save time.  By leveraging 2D creatives, foodpanda Singapore aims to grow its pandamart offerings and to make it customers' go-to grocery platform by spotlighting the convenience of buying fresh groceries in both the comfort of customers' home and on the go.  Judson Teo, head of marketing for new verticals, foodpanda Singapore, explained that foodpanda wants its customers to associate its ads with not only the fresh products that they can purchase from pandamart but also "the freshness of its content" and the way that its advertising messages are displayed.  "As we continue to grow pandamart’s visibility to be Singaporeans’ grocer of choice, we need to constantly think of creative, effective ways of showcasing pandamart and what it offers. This campaign is a great illustration of how we can do so, and we’re excited to see how we can continue delivering freshness, in both produce and experience," Teo added.  The campaign execution is located strategically at Robinson Road near Capital Tower and Serangoon Central outside NEX mall, targeting high-traffic areas with a significant footfall. It will also run till 7 June. MARKETING-INTERACTIVE has reached out for more information.  Recently, foodpanda also partnered up with the airasia Superapp, to combine the strengths of both platforms to offer better value and greater convenience to users across ASEAN and beyond. This strategic partnership enables both platforms to leverage each other’s strengths. For instance, airasia Superapp’s ride-hailing service, airasia ride, has been made available on the foodpanda app.  Related articles: foodpanda and TADA ink deal to introduce new user benefits for customers in Asiafoodpanda shows love to delivery partners with ‘double tips, double love’ campaignfoodpanda names new chief marketing officer for APAC share on We break down the big and messy topics of the day so you're updated on the most important developments in Asia's marketing development – for free. MARKETING-INTERACTIVE is an online publication of Lighthouse Independent Media. ©  Lighthouse Independent Media. All rights reserved. Marketing Interactive is not responsible for the content of external sites.