Submitted by Stomper Anonymous This story was submitted via Web contribution form. This story was submitted via Web contribution form. A woman was disgusted after finding a dead fly in her food, which she had already nearly finished. Stomper Anonymous had ordered lunch from Saap Saap Thai's Bedok Mall outlet via Foodpanda on July 14, at around 12.54pm. She recounted: "I was about to finish eating and found a dead fly in my boat noodles." The Stomper informed Foodpanda about the incident and received a refund. She also reported it to the Singapore Food Agency (SFA) and the restaurant. Anonymous added: "Saap Saap Thai actually emailed me back and mentioned that they would send their manager down to the outlet to investigate. "Honestly, this is disappointing, totally unhygienic and unacceptable!" In response to a Stomp query, Saap Saap Thai's director Jack Poon said the restaurant treats every feedback seriously and apologised for the incident. He said: "We replied to the customer on July 17, at 8am, regarding their feedback sent to us on July 14, at 8.42pm, and extended our sincere assistance to her. "SFA inspected us on the afternoon of July 17, and we sent our last three months of pest control invoices to them the following morning for their verification. "Our on-site supervisor and supervisory manager were both made aware of this matter on the afternoon of July 17 via our internal Bedok Mall outlet's WhatsApp group and had inspected the store. "I also personally checked in the next morning to double confirm that there was no fly infestation in our store and, if necessary, step up our pest control measures immediately. "As a precaution, we also cleaned up our store, in particular the kitchen area, on the evening of July 17 upon closing and thoroughly washed the store again later in the week when manpower was made available. "We sincerely apologise for this unfortunate incident and really hope that this is a one-off incident that we wish should never happen to anyone." SFA told Stomp that it is investigating the matter. It added: "Food safety is a joint responsibility. "While SFA puts in place and enforces the regulatory measures, food operators must play their part by adhering to good food hygiene and preparation practices. Members of the public who come across any potentially errant food operator should report to SFA via the online feedback form. "As part of the enquiry and gathering of evidence, SFA may engage the feedback provider for more details and will not hesitate to take enforcement action if sufficient evidence has been obtained." Get more of Stomp's latest updates by following us on Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. View the discussion thread. View the discussion thread. Download the new STOMP app today. SPH Digital News | The Straits Times All rights reserved | Terms & Conditions | Data Protection Policy | Advertise with us Copyright (c) 2021 SPH Media Limited. Co. Regn. No. 202120748H. All rights reserved.