Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  SINGAPORE — Singapore-based food delivery apps Grab and Foodpanda are expanding into the dine-in space, as consumers look to eat out more post-pandemic. Grab is testing its dine-in feature across 15 cities in Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia, allowing users to pre-purchase dine-in vouchers at up to 50% discounts. App users can also view restaurants' menus and reviews, order and pay via a QR-based system, as well as book rides to restaurants. The company told CNBC it has plans to launch in Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam as well. Foodpanda was the first food delivery companies in Singapore to introduce dine-in features in 2021. Foodpanda Dine-in is currently available in Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Pakistan and Bangladesh. Since 2022, over 8,000 restaurants across these countries have started offering dine-in discounts ranging from 15% to 25%. "We triggered the discussion already during the pandemic. And of course, we knew back then already, that there will be life after [the pandemic]," said Jakob Sebastian Angele, Asia Pacific CEO at Foodpanda, at a media briefing last week. Angele said the company sees "a huge potential in dine-in" and it can become "very, very sizable" for Foodpanda. Food delivery is currently still Foodpanda's largest business, followed by grocery delivery, he said. Last week, Foodpanda announced a collaboration with Singapore-based restaurant solutions provider TabSquare to automate food ordering processes through digital menus, QR ordering and more. TabSquare was fully acquired by Foodpanda's parent company Delivery Hero in 2021. In June, food delivery service AirAsia Food launched dine-in services in collaboration with restaurant reservation platform eatigo. In Thailand, it even offers a queuing service which allows users to book riders to queue up for them at restaurants. Tay Chuen Jein, head of deliveries for Singapore at Grab, said at the time when the firm launched GrabFood's Dine-in service that offering these discounts "makes eating out more affordable." "It not only helps our users discover restaurants to go to, but also makes eating out more affordable as several merchant-partners are offering attractive dine-in vouchers that can be purchased through the app," Tay said in a press release. Jonathan Woo, a senior analyst at Phillip Securities Research, said that with dining out costs increasing with higher inflation, "consumers are also looking for deals to save costs wherever they can, and there's almost no better feeling than having a good meal at a discount." He said Grab can "indirectly generate incremental revenue from dine-in services." In this instance, revenues are derived from commission fees for each dine-in voucher purchase. "Increasing monetization from existing users is significantly more cost effective, while also raising awareness for F&B merchants," said Woo. Investment banking firm Benchmark Company said in an April report that food delivery experienced stellar growth in the past three years. But the report added that a 50% compound annual growth rate "has been showing signs of moderating growth lately as consumers resume their normal daily routines and go out and dine in more frequently." "With reduced incentives as high growth companies prioritize cash preservation, we anticipate that consumers may order less frequently, and merchants will likely shift their efforts towards dine-in, which could further slow on-demand order volume growth near term," said the analysts at Benchmark Company. Benchmark added that it expected "normalized food delivery growth going forward with a CAGR of 13% through 2025." CAGR is a measure of annualized returns for an investment over a period of time, with the assumption that profits are reinvested at the end of each year. Grab's CFO Peter Oey said during the firm's first-quarter earnings call in May that the company expects deliveries to recover in the second quarter. Deliveries gross merchandize volume in the first quarter was about 9% lower than a year ago. "Notably, deliveries transactions have rebound strongly in the back end of April, following the Ramadan fasting period, and this has been sustained into the early parts of the month of May," said Oey. Chinese tech giants such as Alibaba and ByteDance provide so-called local life services, including food delivery, in-store dining, travel booking and group buying. Chinese food delivery giant Meituan offers in-store dining services which include dine-in vouchers. Sachin Mittal, head of telecom, media and internet sector research at DBS Bank, told CNBC this was a "standard template which everyone does." "Food delivery apps want to help [restaurants] get some business in terms of dining in and booking. So I think it's a very natural thing to do," said Mittal. "Whether it's because of Covid or not, it has to be done like this because there's no delivery charges involved in this so this increases the [profit] margin," said Mittal. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by