
                
                    
                        Let Retail Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              While many in the retail industry are struggling with consumers pivoting away from discretionary spending, Dick’s Sporting Goods is not feeling that impact. Unlike Foot Locker, which is more sneaker and apparel driven, Dick’s offers a lot of equipment necessary for sports, which Hobart pitched as non-discretionary.  “If you are a runner or you want to be outside or you want to play golf or you have a kid and they play team sports, it's not really discretionary to need to replace that equipment,” Hobart said. GlobalData Managing Director Neil Saunders noted in emailed comments that the overall sporting goods and apparel market has softened, and so have Dick’s growth figures over the last few quarters. “However, the fact Dick’s is still in growth shows it is bucking the trends and is taking market share,” Saunders said. That includes in the more casual, everyday apparel space. Dick’s is in growth mode in several other ways. The retailer closed its acquisition of Moosejaw in March and expects the business to contribute $100 million in the 10 months of 2023 Dick’s will have owned it for, Chief Financial Officer Navdeep Gupta told analysts.  The retailer continues to revamp its store experiences, including adding premium footwear sections to 20 stores in the quarter and planning for that experience to reach 75% of stores by year end. That’s in addition to opening more House of Sport stores, which will be a “significant” part of Dick’s growth over the next few years, according to Hobart. The retailer is taking learnings from its House of Sport locations and translating them into a “next-generation” concept for its core store fleet. The next-generation Dick’s concept will be a more standard 50,000 square feet. Public Lands, which was launched in 2021, is still in a test-and-learn phase, but could be helped by the Moosejaw acquisition, Gupta said. Also expanding are Dick’s private labels. The retailer’s VRST and Calia brands both entered the golf category and Calia also now sells fitness accessories.  Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Eastern Mountain Sports and Bob's Stores are the latest retailers to file Chapter 11. The retailer retreated from its diversity and climate goals after an “anti-woke” protest on social media — and ignited a backlash. Subscribe to Retail Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Eastern Mountain Sports and Bob's Stores are the latest retailers to file Chapter 11. The retailer retreated from its diversity and climate goals after an “anti-woke” protest on social media — and ignited a backlash. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines