New dating technologies have uncovered the oldest human footprints ever found – showing that two-legged homo sapiens were in South Africa almost 30,000 years earlier than previously thought. The 153,000-year-old track was found in the Garden Route National Park, near the coastal town of Knysna on the Cape South Coast. Previously, two other nearby sites – Nahoon and Langebaan – had yielded footprints or other traces dated at 124,000 years and 117,000 years respectively. Just two decades ago, tracks dating back more than 50,000 years were exceedingly rare, scientists said. Read more: A 1988 warning about climate change was mostly right Writing in The Conversation, researchers Charles Helm, of Nelson Mandela University, and the University of Leicester's Andrew Carr said: "In 2023, the situation is very different. It appears that people were not looking hard enough or were not looking in the right places. "Today, the African tally for dated hominin ichnosites (a term that includes both tracks and other traces) older than 50,000 years stands at 14. "Given that relatively few skeletal hominin remains have been found on the Cape coast, the traces left by our human ancestors as they moved about ancient landscapes are a useful way to complement and enhance our understanding of ancient hominins in Africa." The researchers said that optically-stimulated luminescence helped to find footprints on the Cape South Coast. This dating method shows how long it has been since a grain of sand was exposed to sunlight, and that the Cape South Coast is the perfect location for this, thanks to sediments rich in quartz grains. The researchers write: "We suspect that further hominin ichnosites are waiting to be discovered on the Cape South Coast and elsewhere on the coast. "The search also needs to be extended to older deposits in the region, ranging in age from 400,000 years to more than 2 million years. "A decade from now, we expect the list of ancient hominin ichnosites to be a lot longer than it is at present – and that scientists will be able to learn a great deal more about our ancient ancestors and the landscapes they occupied." Watch: World's oldest burial reveals emotions of early man But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" The celebrations of Team GB's incredible medal haul was aired on BBC One last night (Saturday, August 18), but viewers all thought the same thing when they saw Emma Willis and Vernon Kay Louise Redknapp looked incredible on Instagram wearing a black blazer dress which the former wife of Jamie Redknapp teamed with a pair of over the knee boots. Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." As King Charles and Prince Andrew reportedly still disagree over the younger royal's living arrangements, he has been offered the exclusive use of the Queen's old Balmoral cottage