A Holly Springs day care worker was arrested on Wednesday and charged with sexual exploitation of a minor, according to police.Cameron Johnson, 25, was charged with second-degree sexual exploitation of a minor.Police said Johnson was employed at Children’s Lighthouse Early Learning School, located at 1605 Avent Ferry Road. He was hired as an assistant teacher three months ago, according to a statement from the school. He passed a background check, they said, and that all proper protocols were followed when hiring him.Johnson was arrested at the school and charged with five counts of second-degree sexual exploitation of a minor, as well as duplicating child porn involving boys as young as 7. Warrants show the date of offense was Feb. 11, 2023.According to the incident report from Holly Springs police, the alleged offenses took place at Johnson's home, not at the school.Lighthouse Daycare released a statement, saying in part: "Upon learning the details yesterday surrounding this individual, we took prompt action to terminate his employment immediately. We also notified state licensing representatives for a thorough internal investigation and to ensure the continued safety of all children in our care."We are shocked and horrified by this news as our number one priority is providing a safe and nurturing environment for children to learn and grow. Our thoughts are with the victims who have been impacted by this." Cameron Johnson, 25, was charged with second-degree sexual exploitation of a minor.Police said Johnson was employed at Children’s Lighthouse Early Learning School, located at 1605 Avent Ferry Road. He was hired as an assistant teacher three months ago, according to a statement from the school. He passed a background check, they said, and that all proper protocols were followed when hiring him.Johnson was arrested at the school and charged with five counts of second-degree sexual exploitation of a minor, as well as duplicating child porn involving boys as young as 7. Warrants show the date of offense was Feb. 11, 2023.According to the incident report from Holly Springs police, the alleged offenses took place at Johnson's home, not at the school.Lighthouse Daycare released a statement, saying in part: "Upon learning the details yesterday surrounding this individual, we took prompt action to terminate his employment immediately. We also notified state licensing representatives for a thorough internal investigation and to ensure the continued safety of all children in our care."We are shocked and horrified by this news as our number one priority is providing a safe and nurturing environment for children to learn and grow. Our thoughts are with the victims who have been impacted by this." Police said Johnson was employed at Children’s Lighthouse Early Learning School, located at 1605 Avent Ferry Road. He was hired as an assistant teacher three months ago, according to a statement from the school. He passed a background check, they said, and that all proper protocols were followed when hiring him.Johnson was arrested at the school and charged with five counts of second-degree sexual exploitation of a minor, as well as duplicating child porn involving boys as young as 7. Warrants show the date of offense was Feb. 11, 2023.According to the incident report from Holly Springs police, the alleged offenses took place at Johnson's home, not at the school.Lighthouse Daycare released a statement, saying in part: "Upon learning the details yesterday surrounding this individual, we took prompt action to terminate his employment immediately. We also notified state licensing representatives for a thorough internal investigation and to ensure the continued safety of all children in our care."We are shocked and horrified by this news as our number one priority is providing a safe and nurturing environment for children to learn and grow. Our thoughts are with the victims who have been impacted by this." Johnson was arrested at the school and charged with five counts of second-degree sexual exploitation of a minor, as well as duplicating child porn involving boys as young as 7. Warrants show the date of offense was Feb. 11, 2023.According to the incident report from Holly Springs police, the alleged offenses took place at Johnson's home, not at the school.Lighthouse Daycare released a statement, saying in part: "Upon learning the details yesterday surrounding this individual, we took prompt action to terminate his employment immediately. We also notified state licensing representatives for a thorough internal investigation and to ensure the continued safety of all children in our care."We are shocked and horrified by this news as our number one priority is providing a safe and nurturing environment for children to learn and grow. Our thoughts are with the victims who have been impacted by this." According to the incident report from Holly Springs police, the alleged offenses took place at Johnson's home, not at the school.Lighthouse Daycare released a statement, saying in part: "Upon learning the details yesterday surrounding this individual, we took prompt action to terminate his employment immediately. We also notified state licensing representatives for a thorough internal investigation and to ensure the continued safety of all children in our care."We are shocked and horrified by this news as our number one priority is providing a safe and nurturing environment for children to learn and grow. Our thoughts are with the victims who have been impacted by this." Lighthouse Daycare released a statement, saying in part: "Upon learning the details yesterday surrounding this individual, we took prompt action to terminate his employment immediately. We also notified state licensing representatives for a thorough internal investigation and to ensure the continued safety of all children in our care."We are shocked and horrified by this news as our number one priority is providing a safe and nurturing environment for children to learn and grow. Our thoughts are with the victims who have been impacted by this." "We are shocked and horrified by this news as our number one priority is providing a safe and nurturing environment for children to learn and grow. Our thoughts are with the victims who have been impacted by this." 