Pennsylvania State Police Media Barracks • State police from the Media barracks are investigating two March 23 incidents on Hunters Lane in Chadds Ford Township. A report said troopers were dispatched to the street at 6:27 a.m. because of a theft of a backpack with two laptop computers from a motor vehicle. But during the initial investigation, they learned that an unknown man wearing a white Vlone brand hoodie with an orange V on the back attempted to break into another vehicle on Hunters Lane. The suspect was armed, police said. • Two people were reported injured in a four-vehicle crash on Route 1 at Cheyney Road in Concord Township on April 10. One driver, Ahmir A. Sanders, 22, of Philadelphia, was cited for. his involvement. According to the police report, all four vehicles were traveling north, two in the left turn lane and two in the middle lane. Sanders’ car and one other were in the middle lane. Police said Sanders swerved, struck another car, bounced off of that one, and struck two others. All eight occupants of the vehicles complained of neck and leg pain, according to the report, but only two were transported to Riddle Hospital for treatment. Avondale Barracks • Police from the Avondale barracks arrested a 20-year-old woman from Wilmington for shoplifting at the Walmart in East Marlborough Township on April 14. The woman’s name was not released, but she allegedly tried to steal $300 worth of merchandise. • A 27-year-old man from Delaware was arrested for DUI in Kennett Square on April 14. The incident happened on South Street at 9:42 p.m. Police initially made the traffic stop for traffic violations. • Police are investigating the reported theft of a wallet from an employee at the Pocopson Home on April 11. • Dennis Carmona-Zavala, 25, of Toughkenamon, was charged with DUI following a one-car accident on Newark Road in West Marlborough Township on April 1, according to a police report. According to that report, Carmona-Zavala fell asleep at the wheel and struck a telephone pole at 4:06 a.m. Police also said he fled the scene but was later found at Chester County Hospital.  Kennett Square Police Department • A police report said Giuseppe DeAngelis, 43, of Ventnor City, N.J. — but formerly of Kennett Square — was arraigned on pending charges for arson, insurance fraud, and numerous other offenses related to the fire at J&G Automotive, 340 Cream Street, in the early morning hours of May 3, 2021. • Santos Diaz-Vazquez was arrested for DUI on April 5, according to a police report. The report said Diaz-Vazquez was stopped when observed driving the wrong way on W. Cypress Street. Police said he had an open container of beer in the car and that he failed field sobriety tests. His blood alcohol level was later determined to be 0.194 percent. • Joshua Laaksonen, 23, of Kennett Square, was arrested and charged with DUI and related traffic offenses after the vehicle he was operating was observed failing to stop at two intersections and driving in the wrong direction on Center Street. Upon making contact with Laaksonen, police said they observed indicators suggesting intoxication, and field sobriety tests showed impairment. He was taken into custody for suspicion of DUI and officers attempted to gain two successful breath samples from Laaksonen, however, they said he failed to cooperate during the administration of the test, which was deemed to be a refusal. • Kennett police forwarded a warning they said came from the FBI. People are advised to be wary of using public USB charging stations for electronic devices, specifically when it comes to juice hacking. Juice hacking is when someone manipulates a public USB port or charging cable to install malware or steal data from your device. Hackers can easily tamper with these charging stations, which can result in the theft of personal and sensitive information. The FBI has reported an increase in these types of attacks across the country. For protection, people should use their own personal chargers or portable battery packs. 
About CFLive StaffSee Contributors Page
https://chaddsfordlive.com/writers/Mail | More Posts(8097)
 (1 votes, average: 5.00 out of 5)Loading...Comments comments
 See Contributors Page
https://chaddsfordlive.com/writers/  comments You must be logged in to post a comment. 
Username

 
Password

  Remember Me 


 Cart