SOUTH DARTMOUTH — Davoll’s General Store is honoring the apple with an apple-centric celebration on Oct 8. “Every year, I like to celebrate a different crop that has an outstanding year. And this year, apple has been outstanding,” said Mary Ann Buckley, general manager, adding that last year, Davoll’s celebrated the watermelon. Located at 1228 Russells Mills Road, starting at 3pm, there will be an heirloom apple tasting with Joseph Ingoldsby as well as apple-centric poetry and songs. Buckley, who also co-owns Renegade Rising in Westport, will also be serving apple dishes such as celeriac and apple soup, apple and brie grilled cheese, sourdough cider donuts, fresh cider and smoky cider margaritas. Davoll’s also invites people to bring a favorite apple recipe to be part of their first community cookbook.  Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Aside from the apple being a round firm fruit with shiny red, yellow or green skin, according to TheTogetherPlan.com, the Romans associated this fruit with Venus, the Goddess of Love. At the heart of the cross-section of an apple are five seeds in the shape of a pentagram, which correspond symbolically to the human being with its five fingers, five senses, and five extremities (arms, legs, and head).   The apple is often used as a symbol in literature and art, and it can hold different meanings depending on the context and culture. The apple was famously depicted as the forbidden fruit in the biblical story of Adam and Eve, representing knowledge, temptation and the consequences of disobedience. Apples are also often seen as a symbol of vitality, health and fertility due to their seasonal abundance and nutritional value. “We're all craving community. This is an opportunity to bring people together to celebrate something local,” Buckley said. "It's all about the apple." Standard-Times staff writer Seth Chitwood can be reached at schitwood@s-t.com. Follow him on twitter: @ChitwoodReports. Support local journalism by purchasing a digital or print subscription to The Standard-Times today.