To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. Products are independently selected by our editors. We may earn an affiliate commission from links. I’ll admit it: I was late to jump on the Haus Labs train. The Triclone Skin Tech Foundation was all over my TikTok feed last year. Its glowing reviews were impossible to miss; and with nearly 10 billion views on the hashtag #hauslabsfoundation to date, it doesn’t appear to have lost its touch. Ironically enough, Lady Gaga didn’t anticipate it being a runaway success.  “The truth is, I feel really blessed about the kind of love the foundation has received,” she tells me over Zoom, thankful for the support of her fans and the beauty community. “I think it was successful because it delivered in a way people want makeup to deliver.” Gaga has hit the nail on the head—consumers want ingredients that are good for the skin without compromising efficacy. Today she debuts the next phase for her brand: the Haus Labs Concealer.  Haus Labs Triclone Skin Tech Hydrating Concealer SEPHORA Gaga describes it as the “little sister” to the foundation, working together to complete a full face of makeup. They sit alongside the brand’s cult-favorite liners and pigmented blushes. Much like the foundation, fermented arnica is the key ingredient of the concealer, inspired by Gaga’s longtime use of the ingredient to quell inflammation and redness. This makes it suitable for even reactive skin types. Niacinamide and hyaluronic acid are featured too, ensuring the skin gets adequate hydration and brightening.  With this composition in mind, you might expect the concealer to be on the thinner side, but it’s surprisingly creamy. Just one swipe delivers natural-looking medium coverage that is buildable. It not only conceals but also blurs the look of pores, smooths fine lines, and depuffs skin over time. “I feel like it knocks years off the face, which is nice for me,” Gaga says with a laugh. Texture and finish aside, the shade range was equally (if not most) important for the Haus Labs team who studied undertones, “To make sure it had the right tones across the board to give you a beautiful brightening experience.” With 31 shades to choose from, there’s something for everyone.  In my simultaneous test of the Triclone Skin Tech foundation and concealer, the wear felt easy. After prepping my skin with moisturizer and a hydrating primer, I buffed in the foundation. It instantly refined the look of pores but did not dull my already-glowing visage. I focused the concealer under my eyes, veiling my dark circles by blending with a Beautyblender after allowing the formula to get tacky. Though I’ve been gravitating towards serum-like tints all summer long, I appreciated the weightier coverage. Both formulas wear incredibly well for hours on end, which is particularly helpful right now as I navigate a hectic fashion week schedule and peak summer temperatures. Not to mention, my skin has been rather temperamental lately; and yet, this duo doesn’t exacerbate my already-stressed-out visage.  “I didn’t think it was important for me to make a makeup line unless I was solving a big problem,” Gaga says. As she puts it, the problem that Haus Labs solves is makeup that does not “wreck” your skin. With a jam-packed superstar schedule, Gaga is no stranger to makeup wear. “After years of being in shows, my skin got so wrecked and so red,” she admits. “I wanted to innovate in the space of complexion because it was hard for me to envision the only way to have a long-wear complexion experience that was glowing and beautiful was to use something that was like car paint on my face.” All in all, her products are designed with a certain wellness approach in mind. For her, makeup is a form of self-care and self-expression—an extension of who you are. “I hope that people know that there’s no wrong way to do your makeup; there’s really no way to mess it up as long as you’re being authentically you, and I think that makes it really special.”  Haus Labs Triclone Skin Tech Foundation SEPHORA Haus Labs Triclone Skin Tech Hydrating Concealer SEPHORA Martha Stewart’s Skincare Routine, According to Her Dermatologists The Secret to Blake Lively’s Incredible Hair? Stop Using Conditioner The Blush Hack Every Woman Over 40 Should Know How To Get the Viral Glass Manicure Marc Jacobs Tells Us Everything About His Nails Sign up for Vogue’s beauty newsletter to receive the insider’s guide to all things beauty and wellness Never miss a Vogue moment and get unlimited digital access for just $2 $1 per month. By signing up you agree to our User Agreement (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions), our Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement and to receive marketing and account-related emails from Vogue. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty