Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Rocket Lab said Tuesday it has doubled its order backlog — from about $241 million in contracts at the end of 2021 to $503.6 million at the end of 2022 — and made progress on the Neutron rocket that it's developing. "2022 we are generally very, very happy with, and what's important to me is that we did what we said we're going to do," Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck told CNBC. "We pride ourselves on executing and we'll back ourselves to execute this year," Beck added. The space company also reported fourth-quarter revenue of $51.8 million, up 88% from a year prior, with an adjusted EBITDA loss of $14.5 million – which was 75% wider than the fourth quarter a year ago. It had $484.3 million in cash on hand at the quarter's end. Rocket Lab conducted two successful launches of its Electron vehicle during the quarter, generating $12 million in revenue. Its broader Space Systems division continues to bring in the bulk of its revenue, generating $38.8 million. The company also announced completion of the first production building for its coming Neutron rocket, built at NASA's Wallops flight facility in Virginia. Rocket Lab began production of the first Neutron tank structures, as well as construction of the launch pad for the rocket. As for the next major milestone in development, Beck told CNBC that will be when there are "complete tanks rolling out" of its factory. "With a composite launch vehicle, when the actual parts are coming off the molds, then that's a far stronger indicator of progress than anything else," Beck said. "To get to that point where we're actually manufacturing these parts I think is a huge milestone in itself, but a bigger milestone is when a tank actually rolls out the door." Alongside its results, Rocket Lab announced a contract for four Electron launches from satellite company Capella Space. Those missions are scheduled to begin in the second half of the year. Sign up here to receive weekly editions of CNBC's Investing in Space newsletter. Shares of Rocket Lab are up 19% so far this year, as of Tuesday's close at $4.50. The company last month launched its first mission from the U.S. successfully. It aims to complete as many as 14 more Electron launches this year. For the first quarter of 2023, Rocket Lab expects to see launch revenue of about $18 million, and between $32 million to $35 million in Space Systems revenue. Beck noted that Rocket Lab's path to profitability is impacted by the "really heavy investments" it's making in Neutron. "I don't think we're terribly off our model in that respect, but it is heavily influenced by the spending rate and the success of the Neutron program, ultimately," Beck said. The company also announced that Bessemer Venture Partners' David Cowan is leaving Rocket Lab's board of directors in the first quarter, after nine years advising the company. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by