Let your community know Let the family know you are thinking of them Hear your loved one's obituary Share a memory, offer a condolence Give to a forest in need in their memory Share a memory, offer a condolence Let your community know Hear your loved one's obituary Give to a forest in need in their memory Let the family know you are thinking of them September 30, 1960 - May 14, 2023 Carl passed away on Mother's Day, leaving behind his daughter, Cristie (Tim) Forte; his grandson, Jon Bartley; his sisters, Theresa (Anthony) Boggi and Denise (Donald) Beniamino; his step-sister, Eleanor Tuzzolino; as well as nieces, nephews, cousins, and many close, lifelong friends. Carl was predeceased by his parents, Joseph and Jean Forte, and his brother-in-law, Anthony Boggi. Originally from Scarsdale, Carl moved to Mamaroneck for high school. He graduated from Rye Neck in 1978. A sports enthusiast, he played on the football and basketball teams. While at Rye Neck, he made friends and created great memories that he cherished throughout his lifetime. In 1989, Carl moved to Arizona, where he spent the next 12 years. During that time, he developed a love for boating and golfing. Most weekends, you would find him on the lake or playing his favorite golf course, truly enjoying life. He eventually returned to Mamaroneck to be closer to family and friends. Working on cars and cooking were Carl's passions. Sundays were for making gravy! His happy place was in the kitchen, creating dishes for his family and friends. If you were fortunate enough to enjoy one of his English muffin pizzas, consider yourself lucky! Carl had an infectious laugh and a heart of gold. He was a man who put others' needs before his own. There will never be another person like Carl Forte. He will be forever loved and missed. The family will be holding a private memorial for Carl at a later date. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be given to the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. Posted online on May 20, 2023 Published in The Journal News