Mawar, once a formidable typhoon that caused destruction across Guam last week, continued its slow churn in the northern Philippine Sea, near Japan's Ryukyu Islands, as of late Thursday evening, local time. AccuWeather meteorologists say the storm will continue to lose wind intensity into the weekend, but its interaction with a non-tropical system over Japan can lead to a tropical deluge across the country. Mawar, known as Betty in the Philippines, was still packing maximum sustained winds equivalent to that of a tropical storm (39 to 73 mph, or 63-118 km/h) on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale at midweek. Although the storm never directly impacted the Philippines or Taiwan, both countries felt impacts earlier this week. At the beginning of the week, officials in the northern Philippines ordered the evacuation of thousands of people, while businesses and schools were shuttered, according to The Associated Press. Meanwhile, rough seas generated by Mawar swept four people out to sea along the eastern coast of Taiwan on Sunday, with one person reported dead, according to Taiwan News. Mawar was once an even more powerful typhoon over the open waters of the Philippine Sea, following its path close to Guam, with winds equivalent to that of a Category 5 hurricane (at least 157 mph, or 252 km/h) early this past weekend. That wind intensity made the typhoon the strongest storm on the planet so far this year. "Mawar will gradually lose wind intensity as it drifts slowly northward into an area of cooler sea-surface temperatures over the next couple of days," said AccuWeather Lead International Forecaster Jason Nicholls. The typhoon will eventually accelerate northeastward this weekend. GET THE FREE ACCUWEATHER APP • Have the app? Unlock AccuWeather Alerts™ with Premium+ AccuWeather meteorologists say this path will put Japan's Ryukyu Islands and mainland in line to receive strong winds and heavy rain from Mawar, despite its continued loss in wind intensity. "The heaviest rain and strongest winds should occur over the southern Ryukyu Islands into Thursday night as the center makes its closest pass to the islands. Rainfall over the southern Ryukyu Islands will be 4-8 inches (100-200 mm), with an AccuWeather Local StormMax™ of 24 inches (600 mm)," Nicholls said. Rain is expected to be enhanced across Japan as Mawar collides with a non-tropical system over the country. "Rain, some heavy, and a risk of flooding are possible in the northern Ryukyu Islands and parts of southern Japan later Thursday and Friday, local time, as a front interacts with Mawar," Nicholls said. The worst of the rain is expected to reach Tokyo from Thursday night to Friday evening, local time. Travel disruptions are likely as a result of the downpours. Although Mawar is a tropical storm at this point in its life cycle with the center of the storm staying south of mainland Japan, AccuWeather forecasters say locally damaging winds cannot be ruled out across southern Japan. Despite slamming Guam with 120-mph (195 km/h) winds and 2 feet of rain last Wednesday, May 24, Mawar has yet to make a direct landfall anywhere along its path. Continuing that somewhat fortunate trend, the typhoon did not make landfall in the Philippines and Taiwan early this week despite coming dangerously close. That streak may end with Mawar's path close to Japan's Ryukyu Islands later this week. AccuWeather meteorologists are closely monitoring whether the curving tropical system could eventually have a bearing on the weather and temperature trends across the contiguous United States in early June. Want next-level safety, ad-free? Unlock advanced, hyperlocal severe weather alerts when you subscribe to Premium+ on the AccuWeather app. AccuWeather Alerts™ are prompted by our expert meteorologists who monitor and analyze dangerous weather risks 24/7 to keep you and your family safer. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.