The Sentinel Newspaper British broadcaster, author, television host, and brand ambassador Jemma Forte are well-known. With her Disney Channel programme, Jemma Forte is well-known. The British city of London is where Jemma Forte was born on October 10, 1973. The year 2021 will see Jemma Forte turn 48. Parental care for Jemma Forte was provided for her in London, England. Living in London, England, at the moment is Jemma Forte. Christianity, whiteness, and the sign of Taurus all apply to Jemma Forte. Having commented on online dating services, Jemma Forte has become very well-known. Jemma Forte’s Wiki, biography, husband, age, height, weight, family, net worth, and social media will all be covered in this article. Jemma is an English writer, television host, business owner, and brand ambassador for several well-known companies. She has a Disney Channel hosting resume. Her mother’s name is Jenny, and her father’s name is Micheal. Today, they have separated. She has four siblings, three of which are named Imogen, Jessica, and Isabel. Harry is her brother’s name. Jemma was conceived on October 10, 1973. She has a 47-year-old age. She completed her high school coursework at Surbiton High School and her college coursework at Richmond College. Michael is the name of her father, and Jenny is her mother. Today, they have separated. Find out Jemma Forte’s age and other details from Wikipedia. The UK, she was born in London. She will be 47 when 2021 ends. She has four siblings, three of whom are named Imogen, Jessica, and Isabel. Harry is her brother’s name. Shane Carmichael is her boyfriend’s name. Freddie and Lily are her two children’s names. In 1997, she began working at Disney Channel. She put in five years at Disney. In Jack and the Beanstalk, she made her acting debut in 2002. As a television presenter, she also worked for ITV and BBC1. She began writing books in 2009, and “Me and Miss M” was her first book to be published by Penguin. 2011 to 2015, she produced three further novels. She was a panellist on the “Jeremy Vine” talk show. In 2018, she established a media communications training company. In 2021, Jemma Forte will be 48 years old. She was born in London, United Kingdom, on October 10th, 1973. As a broadcaster, novelist, television presenter, and brand ambassador, Jemma Forte has always had the kind of stunning personality that any TV star should possess. Both of Jemma Forte’s parents went through a divorce before getting remarried. Jemma Forte grew up among her four siblings. She is also the most attractive and intelligent of the group. Despite having two kids, she has never been married. Jemma Forte is dating a man named Shane Carmichael; she is not married. Jemma Forte is in a relationship with Shane Carmichael. Years after they first connected, they enjoyed each other’s company. Additionally, they have two kids, Freddie and Lily. Read this article to the end if you want to learn more about Jemma Forte’s private life. Read also: Weston McKennie Girlfriend: Weston McKennie’s rise in the world of football.