Subscribe This content is written in partnership with our chosen advertiser. To learn more click here In partnership with Gold Collagen Perimenopause and the menopause are often avoided in conversation, so it can be difficult for women to know how to navigate their symptoms. Dr Vidhi Patel, a nutritionist at Minerva Research Labs, explains that we need to "normalise" the menopause, and understand that it's just "a phase, like pregnancy or puberty. It's not a monster to worry about". Nevertheless, the menopause - which can often begin between the ages of 45 and 55 -  can bring with it an array of symptoms, including night sweats, hair thinning, joint and muscle aches, and dry, sagging skin with more visible fine lines and wrinkles.  Whilst navigating this change, nourishing our bodies from the inside can play a pivotal role in rebalancing our physical and emotional health, and the right supplements can make a huge difference.  Dry and dehydrated skin is brought about by fluctuating oestrogen levels, which make it more sensitive and irritable. This, combined with the decline of collagen production experienced in our forties, can also lead to an increase in fine lines and wrinkles.  Collagen has long been lauded for its hydrating benefits and transformative effect on skin, but when combined with other powerful ingredients it can deliver results to ease many key symptoms of menopause. So, whilst being the best-selling collagen brand in Boots since 2012 that has sold over 60 million bottles worldwide, Gold Collagen has also created Forte Plus. Developed by the leading nutritionists and experts from Minerva Research Labs, Forte Plus contains a unique formula of Folic Acid, Vitamin B6, Vitamin C, Biotin and 5g in proteins, which are all essential ingredients to support the body throughout the menopause. From easing hot flashes and supporting heart health to strengthening hair and smoothing the skin, the supplement drink offers a wide range of benefits to women aged 40 and over.  When taken daily, each liquid supplement is clinically proven to tackle wrinkles and improve skin elasticity, ease fatigue, balance mood, and protect cells from oxidative stress whilst regulating hormonal activity and reducing hair loss. Made in Japan using innovative technology, Forte Plus also contains no sugars, preservatives, colourants, gluten or lactose, so everyone can benefit from the supplement drink.  Each bottle is packed with 23 active ingredients, making it the richest liquid supplement to date. Gold Collagen Forte Plus offers a powerful combination of antioxidants and collagen, fortified with a patented Nutriglow® complex which includes all your daily Vitamin C and D needs in one simple drink. It's never been easier to improve your hair, skin and nails whilst supporting your immunity and heart health.  Within its comprehensive formula, hyaluronic acid contributes to managing skin dryness, while Vitamin C assists in collagen synthesis, counters oxidative stress, and bolsters immunity. Evening primrose oil and borage oil aid the reduction of inflammation and mood disturbances, similar to the effects of Vitamin B6, and provide relief from hot flashes.  Vitamin B6 is also pivotal in the maintenance of hormonal balance, so it acts as a natural mood enhancer, helping to regulate mood swings.  Additionally, Biotin and rocket extract support hair growth, while resveratrol has shown potential to enhance pain perception. When combined, the ingredients also combat joint pain and stiffness and help to improve vaginal health.  You can also make some healthy alterations in your everyday diet to support your body through the menopause. Doctor Vidhi Patel advises:  “Women in their 40s should eat food rich in calcium and get vitamins C, D, E from supplements or food as well as omega-6 fatty acids, fibre and protein to help relieve the symptoms of menopause." Not only are liquid supplements a more comfortable option to taking pills, but they’ve also been proven to offer better absorption than their powder and tablet alternatives. Each drink is available in a delicious peach and lychee flavour, and you can expect more hydrated skin within three weeks, smoother skin in six weeks and firmer skin within nine weeks. Find Gold Collagen products in Boots stores. To discover how Gold Collagen can help relieve menopause symptoms and improve your hair, skin and overall wellbeing browse the full range online. HELLO! readers can use the code HELLO25 at checkout to save 25% on all purchases made on the Gold Collagen website.  By entering your details, you are agreeing to HELLO! Magazine User Data Protection Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. For more information, please click here. 