The Man in Seat 61  
  
Europe by train introduction 

How to buy European
train tickets 

London to Paris or Brusselsby Eurostar 

 Disclaimer, copyright, data protection & privacy 
policy


Webhosting by	


6 Degrees 


Thank you
for visiting my site...  




 
Webhosting by	


6 Degrees 


Thank you
for visiting my site...  




 
6 Degrees 


Thank you
for visiting my site...  




 
Thank you
for visiting my site...  




 
Series N700 shinkansen trains.  These link Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka, 
Hiroshima & Hakata on the Tokaido & Sanyo line.

►►► 
Buy a Japan Rail Pass

►►► Japan Railpass guide



►►► Buy shinkansen train 
tickets
 

 The best way to get 
around Japan is by train.  On this page you'll find an introduction to 
train travel in Japan, with advice on times, routes, tickets and passes. 

 

Train travel in Japan, an 
overview 
 
Maps of Japan's rail network 
 
How to check train times & fares 
 
Ordinary class or Green Car? 
 
Reserved or unreserved? 
 
Busy periods to avoid 
 
Example journey times & prices 
 
How to buy tickets 
 
Maps of Japan's rail network 
 
Classes & reservations 

 
Japan Rail Pass or point to point 
tickets? 

 
What does a 
Japan Rail Pass cover? 

 
How does a Japan 
Rail Pass work? 

 
Making 
reservations to go with your pass 

 
How to buy a Japan 
Rail Pass 

 

Regional passes & Seishun 18 Kippu pass 

 

A 
suggested 7-day itinerary in pictures 

 
Shinkansen   
Watch 
the video guides 

 
Limited Express 

 
Ordinary & Rapid trains 

 
Sleeper trains 
 
Travel tips:  Luggage, WiFi, finding your train 

 
Rules for large suitcases on shinkansen routes 

 

Useful country information: 
currency, dial code... 
 
Finding your way around Tokyo station 
 
The Tokyo Station Hotel 

 

Ryokans, capsule 
hotels 
 
Haneda Airport train link 
 
Narita Airport train link 

 
Recommended guidebooks 

 
Tours of Japan by 
train - organised for you 
 
Travel insurance, mobile data, VPN & other 
tips 

 


Ferries from Japan to Russia 

 

Ferries from Japan to 
China 

 

Ferries from Japan to 
South Korea 

 

Flights to Japan 

 

Europe to Japan by Trans-Siberian Railway Train operator:  There are
six major regional railway companies, known collectively as Japan Railways (JR) 
Group, plus many private local operators. For Japan train times try

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/ or

japantravel.navitime.com/en/area/jp/route. 
Japan rail map.  Tokyo metro website (with map):
www.tokyometro.jp. 
Japan railpass:  
Japan rail pass 
information. 
Buy a Japan Rail Pass 
online Time zone:   GMT+9 all year round. Dialling code:   +81 Currency: £1 =
approx 180 Yen.   $1 = 140 Yen. 
Currency 
converter Hotels in Japan:  
Ryokans, hotels & capsule hotels     Flights to Japan:  Cheap 
flights to Japan Tourist
information:  
www.jnto.go.jp.  
Hotels 
in Japan  Tripadvisor Japan pages    
Hotels 
in Japan  Tripadvisor Japan pages    
Visas: Not required by UK, EU, US, Canadian 
or Australian  citizens for tourist visits of up to 30 days.  A return 
or onward ticket be necessary.  Recommended guidebooks Page last
updated:  22 March 2024 Japan has an extensive and 
incredibly efficient rail network, you can pretty much assume that trains go almost 
everywhere you'd want to visit.  Japanese trains are clean, comfortable and 
unbelievably punctual.  The average delay to a high-speed shinkansen train 
is measured in seconds. Train travel in Japan is really easy.  Language is 
seldom a problem, stations 
have signs & departure boards in English as well as Japanese.  
You can see for 
yourself in the travel tips section below. Most Japanese trains are operated by the Japan Railways (JR) Group, which consists of 
6 independent regional companies, JR Central, JR East, JR West, JR Kyushu, 
JR Hokkaido & JR Shikoku.  Since 2006, JR Central, JR East & JR West 
have been fully privatised, although the other 3 JR companies remain 
state-owned.  In addition to the main JR routes, there are various 
local routes run by private companies - 'private' in this context means 'non-JR' 
even though 3 of the 6 JR companies are now 
privately-owned. 
See map of train lines in Japan. 
See alternative map of 
Japanese train routes. To check train times & fares 
in Japan on both JR & private companies, use

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln or

japantravel.navitime.com/en/area/jp/route. Tip:  Japanese train fares 
for Shinkansen, Express & Limited Express trains consist of a basic fare + a reserved seat fee or unreserved seat fee for 
that type of train.  For example, Tokyo to Kyoto by 
shinkansen is ¥8,360 basic fare + ¥4,960 shinkansen unreserved seat fee = total fare 
¥13,320.  If you wanted a reserved seat, it would be ¥8,360 + ¥5,610 = 
¥13,970.  Don't make mistakenly think the fare is only the ¥8,360! To buy tickets, see the
how to buy tickets section. Japan's railways were 
originally built to narrow gauge with the rails 3' 6" apart, and today a comprehensive network of 
these lines 
covers the whole country, linking cities, towns and even villages,
see a rail map of Japan here.  
Trains on the classic network are usually categorised as local, rapid,
express or limited express, with the latter two categories 
requiring an express or limited express seat fee on top of the basic fare.  Much of the network is electrified, and even on narrow gauge tracks, smart 
modern limited expresses can travel at over 80mph. Key Japanese cities are linked by bullet train, or to 
use their proper name, shinkansen 
which simply means new trunk line.
Shinkansen are high-speed lines built from 1964 onwards to standard gauge with 
rails 4' 8½" apart and operating speeds of up to 300km/h (186 mph).  In major cities such as Tokyo 
or Kyoto you'll find stations with certain platforms handling standard-gauge shinkansen trains and other platforms 
signposted as JR Lines used by trains on the classic 3' 6" network. 
Shinkansen are high-speed lines built from 1964 onwards to standard gauge with 
rails 4' 8½" apart and operating speeds of up to 300km/h (186 mph).  In major cities such as Tokyo 
or Kyoto you'll find stations with certain platforms handling standard-gauge shinkansen trains and other platforms 
signposted as JR Lines used by trains on the classic 3' 6" network. Each shinkansen route has its 
own name, for example the Tokaido shinkansen.
The Tokaido shinkansen runs westwards from Tokyo to Kyoto & 
Osaka, extended further west to Hiroshima & Hakata as the Sanyo Shinkansen 
and further west into Kyushu over the Kyushu Shinkansen.  The 
Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, Hokkaido, Yamagata & Akita shinkansen routes all run 
north and east from Tokyo 
The Tokaido shinkansen runs westwards from Tokyo to Kyoto & 
Osaka, extended further west to Hiroshima & Hakata as the Sanyo Shinkansen 
and further west into Kyushu over the Kyushu Shinkansen.  The 
Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, Hokkaido, Yamagata & Akita shinkansen routes all run 
north and east from Tokyo Each Shinkansen route has its own 
train service names to indicate an all-stations, semi-fast or express train.For 
example on the Tokaido & Sanyo shinkansen a Kodama is an all-stations 
service, a Hikari is semi-fast and a Nozomi is express.  The 
equivalent terms on the Kyushu Shinkansen are Kodama, Sakura 
and Mizuho. For 
example on the Tokaido & Sanyo shinkansen a Kodama is an all-stations 
service, a Hikari is semi-fast and a Nozomi is express.  The 
equivalent terms on the Kyushu Shinkansen are Kodama, Sakura 
and Mizuho. Japanese trains usually have two classes, ordinary 
class and green car which is the Japanese term for 1st class.Green 
cars are indicated by a green clover symbol 
next to the entrance door.  As you'd 
expect, green car seating has more leg and elbow room with seats arranged 
2+2 across the coach width on shinkansen or 2+1 on the classic network, whereas ordinary class seats are 
usually 
arranged 2+3 on shinkansen or 2+2 on the classic network.  You may also 
find the green car carpeted, ordinary cars have synthetic flooring.  Not 
all trains have green car seats, of course.  Many local trains and even some 
all-stations kodama shinkansen only have ordinary class. Green 
cars are indicated by a green clover symbol 
next to the entrance door.  As you'd 
expect, green car seating has more leg and elbow room with seats arranged 
2+2 across the coach width on shinkansen or 2+1 on the classic network, whereas ordinary class seats are 
usually 
arranged 2+3 on shinkansen or 2+2 on the classic network.  You may also 
find the green car carpeted, ordinary cars have synthetic flooring.  Not 
all trains have green car seats, of course.  Many local trains and even some 
all-stations kodama shinkansen only have ordinary class. Travelling in ordinary class is 
very comfortable, there's absolutely no need to pay extra for green car unless 
you don't mind the extra cost.  On the other hand, the extra leg & elbow 
room is nice if you can afford it.  Indeed, although legroom isn't a 
problem, I find elbow room in the 2+3 ordinary class seating on most shinkansen 
is a little tight. A few premier trains on the 
Tohoku & Hokkaido shinkansen also offer a top-of-the-range Gran Class in 
addition to ordinary and green car seats.  Gran Class features 
luxurious reclining leather cradle seats arranged 2+1 across the car width and 
there's personal steward service of food and drink.  Japan Rail Passes 
cannot be used in Gran Classe at all, so unless you're rich or the Company 
is paying, I'd forget Gran Class. Green Car on a shinkansen, seats 
2+2 across car width. Ordinary class, seats 2+3 across 
car width. A typical shinkansen or limited 
express has reserved cars & non-reserved cars, plus one or more green cars 
(1st class) which are 
always reserved. Tickets the non-reserved 
cars are sold in unlimited numbers, they cannot sell out, but no seat is 
allocated.  You sit where you like on a first-come, first served basis.  
Most of the time finding a seat is not a problem, but at busy times you'll have 
to stand if you find all the seats taken. Tickets for the reserved 
cars cost a little more but come with a allocated seat so you're sure of 
somewhere to sit.  Green cars are always reserved 
so tickets always come with an allocated seat. The peak travel periods when 
reserved seats sell out fast and the unreserved seats get very crowded 
include Golden Week (late April to early May), Obon 
(mid-August) & New Year (29 Dec to 3 January).  Indeed, you may 
want to time your visit to Japan to avoid these times if you can. Although most trains have 
unreserved cars including all trains on the 
Tokyo-Kyoto-Osaka-Hiroshima-Hakata-Nagasaki route, there are a few exceptions 
where trains are all-reserved with no unreserved cars.  These all head 
northeast from Tokyo, namely Hayate & Hayabusa services on the 
Tohoku-Hokkaido Shinkansen (Tokyo-Hakodate-Hokuto), Komachi services on the 
Akita Shinkansen, Kagayaki services on the Hokuriku Shinkansen 
(Tokyo-Kanazawa).  The Narita Express 
& Kesei Skyliner airport trains are also all-reserved. The busy periods when 
reserved seats sell out way ahead and unreserved cars are very 
crowded are: - Golden Week between late April & early May; - Obon in mid-August; - New Year from 29 Dec to 
3 January. The most crowded trains tend to 
be the ones heading out of the big cities into the country at 
the beginning of the holiday and back into the big cities at the end.  If 
you can, time your visit to Japan to avoid these times.  Christmas itself isn't such a big 
issue in Japan. If you can't avoid 
travelling at these busy holiday periods: Aim for the less popular first & 
last trains of the day; Try booking the slower trains such as the 
all-stations Kodama shinkansen rather than the faster & busier Hikari or 
Sakura trains; Try splitting the booking: If you can't 
get reserved seats from Tokyo to Kyoto, try Tokyo to Nagoya then Nagoya to 
Kyoto, that may work; When using unreserved seats, pick a train that 
starts at the station you're at, not one which comes from elsewhere, 
already heavily-loaded.  Journey: Distance Time by Nozomi* Time by Hikari** One-way fare*** Train frequency:  Tokyo - Kyoto 513km, 320 miles 2 hours 18 min 2 hours 38 min ¥13,960 Every 15-30 minutes  Tokyo - Shin-Osaka 552km, 345 miles 2 hours 33 min 2 hours 53 min ¥14,520 Every 15-30 minutes  Tokyo - Hiroshima 894km, 559 miles 4 hours 1 min 4 hours 49 min ¥19,240 Every 15-30 minutes  Tokyo - Nagasaki 1,328km, 830 miles 7 hours 14 min 8 hours 21 min ¥29,220 Every hour, change Hakata  Kyoto - Hiroshima 380km, 237 miles 1 hour 36 min 1 hour 59 min ¥11,420 Every 15-30 minutes  Hiroshima - Nagasaki 434km, 271 miles 3 hours 10 min 3 hours 25 min ¥14,500 Every hour, change Hakata £1 = 180 yen.  $1 = 140 yen. * Nozomi = fastest Shinkansen 
stopping pattern. ** Hikari = 
next fastest train type, Japan Rail Passes can be used. *** Fare by Nozomi with reserved 
seat. Check Japanese train 
times & fares at 
www.jorudan.co.jp.   Children aged 0 to 5 
travel free, children aged 6 to 11 travel at half fare, children 
aged 12 and over pay full fare. Rail fares in Japan are 
expensive, and if you are an overseas visitor a Japan Rail Pass can 
be the cheapest way to travel even if you are only planning one 
return trip from (say) Tokyo to Hiroshima.  See the Japan Rail 
Pass section. 
Back to top Option 1, book online at
www.baolau.com
- JR East, JR Central, JR West Shinkansen, some Limited Expresses
www.baolau.com 
now sells tickets for the Tokaido, Sanyo, Hokkaido, Tohoku, Akita, Yamagata, 
Joetsu & Hokuriku Shinkansen, which includes 
trains between Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka, Kobe, Himeji, Hiroshima, Yamaguchi, 
Fukuoka, Niigata & Aomori.  They now also sell tickets for some JR East & 
JR Hokkaido Limited Express trains, although not yet JR Kyushu tickets to 
Nagasaki.
www.baolau.com 
is a reliable 
agency which sells train, bus and ferry tickets for various Asian countries, 
they now sell Japanese train tickets too, which is good, as Japan Railways don't 
offer online sales in English, at least not for these routes.
Baolau can book Hikari, Sakura, Kodama trains as well as Nozomi & Mizuho trains.
They allow you to select your seat from a seating plan, so you can make sure 
(for example) that you get a window seat, or two seats on the 2-abreast side of 
the aisle, not the middle seat in a row of 3 on the other side of the aisle!
They send you an e-ticket with a QR code which you can either print out or keep 
on your phone.  You then collect a hard-copy ticket at the station from one 
of the self-service ticket machines, simply by scanning the QR code.  You 
can then board the train. 
www.baolau.com 
now sells tickets for the Tokaido, Sanyo, Hokkaido, Tohoku, Akita, Yamagata, 
Joetsu & Hokuriku Shinkansen, which includes 
trains between Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka, Kobe, Himeji, Hiroshima, Yamaguchi, 
Fukuoka, Niigata & Aomori.  They now also sell tickets for some JR East & 
JR Hokkaido Limited Express trains, although not yet JR Kyushu tickets to 
Nagasaki.
www.baolau.com 
is a reliable 
agency which sells train, bus and ferry tickets for various Asian countries, 
they now sell Japanese train tickets too, which is good, as Japan Railways don't 
offer online sales in English, at least not for these routes.
Baolau can book Hikari, Sakura, Kodama trains as well as Nozomi & Mizuho trains.
They allow you to select your seat from a seating plan, so you can make sure 
(for example) that you get a window seat, or two seats on the 2-abreast side of 
the aisle, not the middle seat in a row of 3 on the other side of the aisle!
They send you an e-ticket with a QR code which you can either print out or keep 
on your phone.  You then collect a hard-copy ticket at the station from one 
of the self-service ticket machines, simply by scanning the QR code.  You 
can then board the train. 
www.baolau.com 
is a reliable 
agency which sells train, bus and ferry tickets for various Asian countries, 
they now sell Japanese train tickets too, which is good, as Japan Railways don't 
offer online sales in English, at least not for these routes.
Baolau can book Hikari, Sakura, Kodama trains as well as Nozomi & Mizuho trains.
They allow you to select your seat from a seating plan, so you can make sure 
(for example) that you get a window seat, or two seats on the 2-abreast side of 
the aisle, not the middle seat in a row of 3 on the other side of the aisle!
They send you an e-ticket with a QR code which you can either print out or keep 
on your phone.  You then collect a hard-copy ticket at the station from one 
of the self-service ticket machines, simply by scanning the QR code.  You 
can then board the train. 
Baolau can book Hikari, Sakura, Kodama trains as well as Nozomi & Mizuho trains.
They allow you to select your seat from a seating plan, so you can make sure 
(for example) that you get a window seat, or two seats on the 2-abreast side of 
the aisle, not the middle seat in a row of 3 on the other side of the aisle!
They send you an e-ticket with a QR code which you can either print out or keep 
on your phone.  You then collect a hard-copy ticket at the station from one 
of the self-service ticket machines, simply by scanning the QR code.  You 
can then board the train. 
They allow you to select your seat from a seating plan, so you can make sure 
(for example) that you get a window seat, or two seats on the 2-abreast side of 
the aisle, not the middle seat in a row of 3 on the other side of the aisle!
They send you an e-ticket with a QR code which you can either print out or keep 
on your phone.  You then collect a hard-copy ticket at the station from one 
of the self-service ticket machines, simply by scanning the QR code.  You 
can then board the train. 
They send you an e-ticket with a QR code which you can either print out or keep 
on your phone.  You then collect a hard-copy ticket at the station from one 
of the self-service ticket machines, simply by scanning the QR code.  You 
can then board the train. Option 2, book online at
12go.asia
- most principal train routes across Japan
Reliable trans-Asia train & bus booking agency
12go.asia now sells 
tickets for principal routes in Japan too.  It sells in various currencies 
including £,  & $.  However, at the time I write this it can't book Green Car (1st class). 
Reliable trans-Asia train & bus booking agency
12go.asia now sells 
tickets for principal routes in Japan too.  It sells in various currencies 
including £,  & $.  However, at the time I write this it can't book Green Car (1st class). Option 3, order shinkansen tickets 
from 

www.klook.com
.A well-known online agency with 
an easy-to-use interface which sells shinkansen tickets for major routes in 
unreserved, reserved or green car. A well-known online agency with 
an easy-to-use interface which sells shinkansen tickets for major routes in 
unreserved, reserved or green car. Option 4, buy at the 
station
You can of course buy 
tickets at the station, either at the staffed counters or using ticket machines, 
these have a touch screen with an English language facility.  There are 
many trains & seats, so buying at the station is unlikely to be a 
problem unless you hit one of the busy national holiday periods - and 
even then, you can always travel in the unreserved seats cars.  

For advice on airport trains, see the
Haneda or 
Narita sections below. 
You can of course buy 
tickets at the station, either at the staffed counters or using ticket machines, 
these have a touch screen with an English language facility.  There are 
many trains & seats, so buying at the station is unlikely to be a 
problem unless you hit one of the busy national holiday periods - and 
even then, you can always travel in the unreserved seats cars.  
 For advice on airport trains, see the
Haneda or 
Narita sections below. Consider a Japan Rail PassAs rail fares in Japan are expensive it's 
worth buying a 7-day Japan Rail Pass, see the Japan Rail Pass section below. As rail fares in Japan are expensive it's 
worth buying a 7-day Japan Rail Pass, see the Japan Rail Pass section below. Use the self-service ticket machines.  At any main station you'll find 
a row of these with a big network map above them near the ticket gates onto 
the local platforms, see the photo in the Tokyo 
station section below.  You'll soon get the hang of buying tickets, 
like this: -  Look at the big 
network map on the wall above the machines.  Find your destination 
station & note the fare shown next to it.   -  On the touch screen, 
press English. -  Press the side button 
for the number of adults/children in your party.  For 2 adults & 2 
children you have to buy as 2 transactions. -  You'll now see a 
screen full of possible one-way fares for one adult. -  Touch the fare for 
your destination.  So if the fare shown on the map against your 
destination is 350, touch the 350 button. -  It'll now show the 
total cost for the number of adults & children you have selected. -  Enter coins or 
notes, the machine gives change, but they don't take cards. 
Back to top 1. Exchange Voucher.  
When you order your pass online, you are sent an Exchange Voucher (above, on 
left) plus a handy Japan Rail Pass user guide, a Japan rail timetable and a 
Japan rail map.  The voucher can be exchanged for a Japan Rail Pass at any 
time in the 3 months after ordering. 2.  Japan Rail Pass.  
You exchange the voucher for a Japan Rail Pass at any one of 50 designated JR 
exchange offices in Japan, including Tokyo, Ueno, Shinjuku, Narita International 
Airport, Haneda International Airport, Kyoto, Hiroshima, Nagasaki.  The 
photo above shows an old-school pass, from 2023 passes are being issued as 
credit-card-size card tickets which can operate ticket gates. Japan Rail Pass or point-to-point 
	tickets? Train fares in Japan are 
expensive as there are no cheap advance-purchase fares, just one hefty fixed 
	price for each journey.  A Japan Rail Pass can save 
money over point-to-point tickets even for one round trip, if it's a 
	long-distance one.  A significant Japan Rail Pass price rise in October 
	2023 means it's no longer a foregone conclusion, but here are some 
	comparisons after the pass price increase: A 7-day
Japan Rail Pass costs ¥50,000 = £268 or $340. The normal return fare from 
	Tokyo to Kyoto is ¥27,940 
= £150 or $190.  
 The normal return fare from 
	Tokyo to Hiroshima is 
¥39,120 = £210 or $270. The normal return fare from 
	Tokyo to Nagasaki is 
¥52,620 = £290 or $360. So a 7-day Japan Rail Pass 
	saves money for one round trip from Tokyo to Nagasaki, but not for a round 
	trip from Tokyo to Kyoto.  It may be worth buying a Japan Rail Pass for 
	a round trip from Tokyo to Hiroshima if you do one or more side trips as 
	well. How to work out if a pass 
makes sense First check Japan Rail Pass prices at
www.jrailpass.com.  Then use

japantravel.navitime.com 
to check point-to-point fares for the journeys you intend to make. Remember that the total 
point-to-point price you'd pay = basic fare + the reserved or unreserved seat 
fee.  A pass covers both of these elements, reservations are free. Big price rise 
in October 2023 The price of Japan Rail Passes 
increased significantly in October 2023, we're talking a whopping 68% 
increase.  Check prices online carefully, and check against regular 
fares as shown above.  However, passes are finally valid on the 
fastest limited-stop Nozomi & Mizuho services, if you pay an extra 
fee of around ¥4,000-¥6,500 ($27-$44) depending on distance.  Before October 2023 you 
were limited to the 
second-fastest services, passes were not valid on Nozomi & Mizuho services 
at all. Green car or ordinary class? A green class pass is great if 
you can afford it, but ordinary class on Japanese trains is perfectly adequate, 
there's no need to pay more if you don't want to.  Green car simply gets 
you more leg and elbow room, and carpet rather than synthetic flooring, that's 
all. Personally, I find shinkansen ordinary class 
seats a little cramped where they are arranged 2+3 across the car width, the 2+2 
seats in the green car are much more spacious.  On the other hand, if you 
plan to be spontaneous much of the time and not pre-plan everything you'll end 
up in the unreserved ordinary class cars, so don't fork out for a green car pass 
if you're not going to use it. You can buy a Japan Rail Pass for 7, 14 or 21 days 
in either ordinary 
class or green car (1st class). The pass gives unlimited 
travel on all JR trains across the whole of Japan, 
including high-speed shinkansen (bullet trains), the local, rapid, express 
and limited express trains on the classic network and 
even the Narita Express between Narita Airport & Tokyo 
and the monorail to & from Haneda Airport. There are just the following 
exceptions: You can't use a Japan Rail 
Pass on lines run 
by private rail operators, only lines operated by one of the six JR 
companies.  
For example, it doesn't cover the Tobu Railway from Tokyo to Nikko, or the 
Tokyo subway trains which aren't run by JR either. But it does cover the 
Narita 
Express airport train as that's run by JR.  It also covers JR local trains 
in Tokyo & other cities including the useful Yamanote loop line linking Tokyo main 
station, Ueno, Shinjuku, Shibuya, Shimbashi, Ikebukuro every few minutes, which 
you can use to get around Tokyo. Sleeper trains:  
There there's only one sleeper train left in Japan, the
Sunrise 
Seto/Sunrise 
Izumo, but you can use this with a Japan Rail Pass if you either pay 
the hefty sleeper supplement for a private sleeper - we're talking ¥20,000 per 
room for a private 2-berth B-type sleeper - or use the open-plan shared 
nobinobi or 'carpet berths' which are free of charge with a Japan Rail Pass, 
reservation required.  Indeed, if you're on a budget, saving a hotel bill 
by taking the Sunrise Seto between Tokyo & (say) Himeji is an interesting 
option! Nozomi or Mizuho shinkansen 
trains:  Until October 2023, Japan Rail Pass holders couldn't use the 
fastest limited-stop Nozomi or Mizuho category shinkansen trains.  You can 
now use them, but must pay an extra fee, typically ¥4,000-¥6,500 ($27-$44) 
depending on distance. You'll find more detailed info at
www.jrailpass.com. Order your pass & receive a 
voucher You order your Japan Rail Pass 
online at an official pass agency website such as

www.jrailpass.com and an exchange voucher is sent by tracked courier to your home 
address.  You'll also get a free Japan rail map and a Japan railways 
timetable booklet. You need to buy the pass 
before you leave home, you can't buy a Japan Rail Pass in 
Japan. When you get to Japan, 
exchange the voucher for the pass When you arrive in Japan, you 
exchange this voucher for a Japan Rail Pass at any of the JR ticket offices & 
travel centres designated as a Japan Rail Pass exchange office. The voucher can be exchanged for a pass any 
time within 3 months of buying the voucher, so there's no need to specify exact 
travel dates when you order it. There are Japan Rail Pass 
exchange counters at around 50 JR stations, including Tokyo's main station which 
has Japan Rail Pass exchange counters on both the Marunouchi (west) & Yaesu 
(east) sides of the station, Tokyo's Ueno, Shinjuku, Shibuya, Ikebukuro 
stations, Narita Airport, Haneda Airport, Kansai Airport, Shin-Osaka, Kyoto, 
Hiroshima, Nagasaki and even Sakaiminato where (if & when operating) the ferry 
arrives from Vladivostok. Tip:  The Japan Rail 
Pass exchange counters at Narita and Haneda airports are usually fairly relaxed 
places to exchange your voucher.  In Tokyo the JR East Service Centre in 
the historic North Entrance on the quieter Marunouchi (west) side of the station 
is also a good and relaxed place to exchange your voucher, more relaxed than the 
Japan Rail Pass counter on the more hectic Yaesu (east) side of the station. When you exchange the voucher, 
you'll be asked to show your passport and to fill in a simple form with your name and passport number 
which they incorporate into the pass itself.  You'll be asked on what 
specific date 
you want the 7, 14 or 21 days to start, this can be any date within the next 30 
days - the pass does not need to start on the same day you exchange the voucher for the 
pass. For example, in July I 
booked a flight to Japan for travel in late October.  I ordered my 7-day 
Japan Rail Pass in September.  I didn't need to decide in advance exactly 
what days I would use it, as long as I exchanged the voucher for a pass within 3 
months of ordering it.  So I could have delayed my visit until November and 
still used the same voucher.  Arriving in Japan on 20 October, I exchanged 
my voucher for a pass at Tokyo station on 21 October, asking for my 7 days of 
unlimited travel to start on 22 October. Then ride as many trains as 
you want!  Once you have your pass and your 
7, 14 or 21 
days of unlimited travel have started, you use as many JR trains as you like, travelling whenever and 
wherever you like.  There is no limit on the number of trains you can take 
or the distance you can travel - that's what unlimited means. To look up train times, 
use

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln (please let me 
know if that link stops working).  You can also 
look up train times at

japantravel.navitime.com/en/area/jp/route, click Tourist pass and 
select your type of pass to only see trains for which your 
pass is valid. 3.  Reservations.  
Reservation are free with a Japan Rail Pass.  You get a seat reservation 
ticket like this for each seat you reserve, stating date, train, car & seat 
number. You can make seat reservations at 
any ticket office shown with the green seat reservation logo. Local & Rapid trains:  You don't need a reservation to 
travel on local or rapid trains on the classic network, such trains don't even have seat reservations.  
Just hop on and show 
your pass when the conductor comes along.  Easy! Unreserved seat cars: 
Express, limited express and shinkansen trains usually have several non-reserved 
ordinary class 
cars, as the name suggests you don't need a reservation to travel in these.  Platform 
announcements, departure boards and platform signs in English will tell you 
which car numbers these are, and where you should stand on the 
platform for them - it's all very efficient. If you are happy travelling in the 
non-reserved cars you 
can just get on and sit where you like, and show your pass to the conductor when 
he comes long.  Normally there's little problem finding a seat, indeed you 
may even be spoilt for choice.  But a seat isn't guaranteed, and at busy 
times of day or at busy holiday periods you may have to stand or sit on your 
luggage in the aisle if you find all the seats are taken. Reserved seat cars:  To be sure of a seat on a 
shinkansen, limited express or express train, or to sit in a Green Car seat with a 
Green Car pass, you must reserve a seat in one of the reserved cars. You are unlikely to have any 
problem getting the reservations you need, even booking at short notice when you 
get to Japan, unless you hit a busy holiday period.  
And even then, you can always use the unreserved cars so you'll never be 
stranded, although it may be crowded so you may have to 
stand. Reserving seats at stations:  You can 
reserve seats this free of charge at any JR ticket 
office or travel centre where you see the green seat reservation symbol.  
Just show your Japan Rail Pass and passport and ask for a reservation in the 
class you want on the train you want.  You can make reservations at any 
time right up to a few minutes before the train leaves. Reserving seats using a ticket 
machine:  You can also make reservations using self-service ticket 
machines, these have an English language facility.  Select the rail pass 
option.  Select the number of passengers.  Then scan the QR code on 
your Japan Rail pass and enter your passport number, repeating this for each 
passenger (so youll need their pass & passport numbers).  You then enter 
the starting station, destination, date & time and it will find trains and let 
you choose seats.  It will also let you select oversized baggage seats if 
available.  Itll issue a seat reservation ticket. You can't make seat reservations before you get 
to Japan You can't reserve seats to go 
with your pass until you reach Japan and can get to a station.  There's one 
key 
exception:  JR East have set up a website for Japan 
Railpass holders to make reservations on their high speed trains 
north & east of Tokyo, including the Narita Express and 
the Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, Hokkaido, Yamagata & Akita shinkansen, but not 
the Tokaido, Sanyo or Kyushu shinkansen linking Tokyo, Kyoto, Shin-Osaka, 
Hiroshima, Hakata, Nagasaki as obviously these aren't run by JR East, but by JR 
Central & JR West. To make reservations on JR East services, see
www.eki-net.com/pc/jreast-shinkansen-reservation/English/wb/common/Menu 
(if this link stops working, try
www.jreast.co.jp/e/eastpass and please
let me know).  
Seat reservations made using this service must be collected before 
21:00 the day before travel or they will be cancelled. Green car seats:  Green car (1st 
class) seats on shinkansen & limited express trains are always reserved, 
if you sit in a green car seat without a 
reservation you'll be charged the hefty 
green car shinkansen reserved seat fee, even if you have a Green Car Japan Rail Pass.  
So if you have a Green Car pass, 
either make a reservation to use the Green Car, or if you want to be 
spontaneous and hop on a train without a reservation, use the 
ordinary class unreserved cars. Reservation tips There's no penalty for not using 
a seat reservation you've made with a Japan Rail Pass.  Bad manners not to 
cancel it perhaps, but if you had a reservation for (say) the 18:45 and decided 
to leave earlier, you could hop on the 17:45 and sit in the unreserved cars, no 
problem. If you know 
your itinerary, there's no reason why you can't make all the necessary 
reservations for your trip in one go when you exchange your voucher for the pass.  
But do the legwork first.  Look up each of the trains 
you want using world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en then type out a clear written list of reservations 
specifying date, journey, train number, departure time, class and number of 
passengers.  If it's not too busy, the staff at the Japan Rail Pass counter 
may work through the list for you, issuing a reservation ticket 
for each reserved seat.  But if it's busy and there's a queue behind you, 
don't be surprised of they turn you away, asking you to make reservations as you 
need them at the ticket office.  Staff at the JR East Service Centre did 
all my reservations for me, no problem.  But a notice at the Haneda Airport 
travel service centre said they were only prepared to do reservations for today. 
Feedback appreciated! 
Click here for my 
recommended itinerary using a 7-day Japan Rail Pass, starting 
in Tokyo and visiting Kyoto for its temples & geisha district, Himeji for 
its castle, Hiroshima for its museum and Peace Park and Nagasaki for its 
history as the only point of contact with the outside world from the 17th to 
19th centuries.  I think this is the ideal tour for a first visit to Japan! You need to buy your Japan Rail 
Pass before you leave your home country as you can't (generally) buy a pass once 
you're in Japan. Option 1 buy a 
Japan Rail Pass at
www.jrailpass.com. Passes can be sent any address 
worldwide, you can book up to 180 days in advance, prices are shown in various 
currencies. Option 2, buy a Japan Rail 
Pass at

www.jrpass.com. Also a well-known and popular 
vendor, in GBP, Euro, USD or AUD, with shipping worldwide. Option 3, buy a Japan Rail 
Pass at

www.klook.com,

here's a direct link to their all-Japan pass page. Passes can be sent any address 
worldwide, you can book up to 180 days in advance, prices are shown in various 
currencies.  A well-known online agency with an easy-to-use interface, 
feedback appreciated. 1. Exchange Voucher.  
When you order your pass online, you are sent an Exchange Voucher (above, on 
left) plus a handy Japan Rail Pass user guide, a Japan rail timetable and a 
Japan rail map.  The voucher can be exchanged for a Japan Rail Pass at any 
time in the 3 months after ordering. 2.  Japan Rail Pass.  
You exchange the voucher for a Japan Rail Pass at any one of 50 designated JR 
exchange offices in Japan, including Tokyo main station 
(2 offices), Ueno, Shinjuku, Narita International Airport, Haneda International 
Airport, Kyoto, Hiroshima, Nagasaki.  The photo above shows an 
old-school pass, from 2023 passes are being issued as credit-card-size card 
tickets which can operate ticket gates. 
Back to top There are also regional Japan 
Rail Passes covering smaller areas. The Japan East 
Pass covers Tokyo, Nagano, Niigata, Sendai, Morioka, Misawa & Akita. The JR West 
Pass covers Osaka-Fukuoka and all trains run by JR West, for 7 days. The Sanyo area pass covers 
an area including Osaka, Himeji, Okayama, Hiroshima & Hakata. The Kansai area rail pass 
covers Kyoto, Osaka, Kobe, Nara & Himeji and costs only around £15/$23 a day, 
a pretty good deal. 
For more information and to buy a pass, see

www.klook.com (passes sent to any address worldwide) or
www.japan-rail-pass.com. The Seishun 18 Kippu (Youthful 18 Ticket) 
gives 5 days unlimited travel on Japan Railways' local trains and kaisoku (accelerated local) trains for ¥12,050, 
about $97 or $20 per day.  It's possible to travel all the way across Japan 
this way, incredibly cheaply, but only using the narrow-gauge local trains. It's sold to both Japanese citizens 
and overseas visitors of any age (in spite of its name), but only during 
specific Spring (March-April), Summer (July-September) & winter 
(December-January) periods. Rather than explain it further here, see this page for details: 
www.japan-guide.com/e/e2362.html or
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seishun_18_Ticket or
www.jreast.co.jp/e/pass/seishun18.html. 
Update:  Most online info seems to have disappeared, but in March 2024 
it's confirmed that the pass still exists if you buy in Japan. Foreign visitors can buy Tokyo 
metro 24 hour, 48 hour & 72 hour tickets, see

www.tokyometro.jp/en/ticket/travel. If you like, you can buy a 1/2/3 
day Tokyo metro pass online in advance at

www.klook.com and collect it from the metro ticket machines. You can buy one-day passes 
covering the Tokyo metro, or Tokyo metro+Toei Subway+JR local trains (called the 
Tokyo Combination ticket), see

www.tokyometro.jp/en/ticket/value/1day. 
Back to top Everyone has heard 
of Japan's bullet train lines, more properly known in Japan as shinkansen 
which means new trunk line.  These are high-speed lines, built
to European and North American standard gauge with rails 4' 8½" apart.  The first shinkansen 
was the Tokaido Shinkansen opened in 1964 between Toyo, Kyoto and Osaka, later extended as the Sanyo Shinkansen to Hiroshima, Kobe and 
Hakata.  There are now a whole range of shinkansen
lines linking all the most important cities in
Japan, including Niigata, Tokyo, Kyoto,
Osaka, Hiroshima, Hakata and Kagoshima. 



 Watch 
the video, Tokyo to Hiroshima by shinkansen 

 
Watch the 
video:  Hiroshima to Nagasaki by shinkansen & Limited Express These 16-car N700As owned by JR 
Central & JR West operate the Nozomi and Hikari services on the 
Tokaido Shinkansen between Tokyo, Kyoto and Shin-Osaka.  Many Nozomis 
and a few Hikaris extend to Hiroshima, Kobe & Hakata over the Sanyo 
Shinkansen.  These trains operate at up to 285 km/h (175 mph) on the 
Tokaido Shinkansen and up to 300km/h (186 mph) on the Sanyo Shinkansen. N700A shinkansen at Tokyo main 
station. Green Car, seats 
2+2 across the car width. Ordinary class, seats 2+3 across 
the car width. Shinkansen seats are 
always rotated to face the direction of travel, and all seats come with 
a drop-down table attached to the seat back in front.  If there are 
four of you, you can rotate one pair of seats to make a face-to-face 
group of four.  There are power sockets (Japanese 2-pin) at all 
seats on these N700s. Gent's urinal. Small smoking room. Refreshment trolley, cash 
& cards accepted. These 8-car N700 shinkansen 
trains owned by JR West & JR Kyushu operate the Mizuho & Sakura 
services on the Sanyo & Kyushu shinkansen lines between Shin-Osaka, Hiroshima, 
Himeji, Hakata and Kagoshima. Green Car seats on an N700 8-car 
shinkansen. An 8-car N700 at Shin-Osaka 
station. Ordinary class reserved 
seats on an N700 8-car shinkansen. Ordinary class unreserved 
seats on an N700 8-car shinkansen. On most shinkansen trains, 
ordinary class seats are the same whether reserved or non-reserved.  But on 
these particular trains, ordinary class reserved seats (above left) are arranged 
2+2 across the car width, much more spacious than the non-reserved cars (above 
right).  An added benefit of reserving a seat! You'll find a range of exotic 
trains on the Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, Hokkaido, Yamagata & Akita shinkansen 
routes heading north & east of Tokyo. A JR East E5 shinkansen at Tokyo 
station. A JR East E6 shinkansen. A JR East E7 shinkansen at Tokyo 
station. Gran class (premium 1st 
class) on an E5 shinkansen. 
An extensive network of classic 3' 6" narrow-gauge lines covers the whole of 
Japan taking you to almost every city and town of any size.  The fastest 
trains on the classic network are classified Limited Express, and 
these train come in all shapes and sizes.  Indeed, the classic network often parallels the shinkansen:  
For example, you can travel between Kyoto, Osaka and Himeji by Limited Express 
on the classic network just as easily as by shinkansen.  Give it a try! Limited Express Thunderbird 
between Osaka, Shin-Osaka, Kyoto & Kanazawa.  The photo shows how 
comfortable the ordinary class seats are, and the large picture windows a 
welcome change for the smaller windows on the shinkansen.  You may well 
find yourself using such trains between Kyoto & Shin-Osaka, in connection with 
shinkansen to Tokyo. Completing the picture, there are 
many local & rapid trains on the classic 3' 6" narrow-gauge 
network, again of many shapes and sizes. Rapid train at Shin-Osaka. Local train in Tokyo. There's now  only one sleeping-car train 
left in Japan, the Sunrise Express.  It runs as one combined train 
from Tokyo to Himeji & Okayama and then splits, the Sunrise Seto heading 
for Takamatsu on the island of Shikoku and the Sunrise Izumo heading for 
Izumoshi. You can use the Sunrise 
Express at no extra charge with a Japan Rail Pass 
if you make a reservation for one of the basic nobinobi berths (see the photo 
below left) or you can pay the room fee to have a private compartment.  
Expect a private sleeper compartment for one person to cost around ¥8,000 for a 
B-type single, around ¥7,000 for a similar but slightly smaller B-type 
solo, or ¥15,000 for a more spacious A-type deluxe single-bed sleeper with 
washbasin.  For two people, it costs around ¥15,000 per compartment in a 
B-type single-twin with upper & lower berths or ¥16,000 per compartment 
in a B-type Sunrise twin with two lower berths side by side.  
Without a pass, you pay the regular fare and limited express extra fare plus 
these berth costs. The sleeper train runs on the 
classic narrow-gauge network, but it can save time compared with daytime 
shinkansen travel but more importantly it's a unique experience,
watch the Sunrise 
Express video.  It could save a hotel bill too! 
See 
the official Sunrise Express information page, in Japanese, translatable 
with Google Chrome, to see photo of each accommodation type and check current 
berth fees. Travel tip:  Himeji 
is a popular destination, but the Sunrise Express arrives there very early 
westbound and leaves late at night eastbound.  Remember that with a Japan 
Rail Pass you can easily double back, leaving or boarding the train an hour away 
in Okayama at a more attractive time instead.  The useful Tokyo-Nagasaki 
sleeper train is long gone, and the Hokutosei  & Cassiopeia 
sleeper trains between Tokyo & Sapporo disappeared in late 2015/early 2016 with 
the expansion of high-speed shinkansen services to Hokkaido. The Sunrise Express 
links Tokyo with Himeji, Okayama, Izumoshi & Takamatsu and is now 
the sole surviving sleeper train in Japan.  It has nobinobi 
floor berths (above left, free with a Japan Rail Pass, reservation 
required), single and twin B-type berths (a twin berth compartment is 
shown above centre) and deluxe single and twin compartments, not shown 
here. 
Back to top When entering (or leaving) the 
platform area at any principal Japanese station, you'll need to pass through a set of automatic ticket gates like 
the ones shown here.  To catch a shinkansen train you may need to 
pass through two sets of gates, the first to access the JR 
Lines platform area serving the classic network, then another to access the Shinkansen 
platforms.  The gates are usually open by default, they'll spring shut 
if you try to pass through without a ticket.  All gate lines have a staffed 
side-gate, and if you have an old-style Japan Rail Pass you'll need to use this.  Just 
flash your pass at the side gate and you'll be waved through.  However, 
Japan Rail Passes are now being issued in the same format as normal 
magnetic-stripe card tickets, and passes in this format will operate the gates. Ticket gates at the 
entrance to the Shinkansen platforms at Hiroshima.  As you can see, 
the staffed side gate is on the left. Many visitors 
worry about language in Japan, but signs are in both 
Japanese and English and the system is so efficient and easy to use.  The 
photos below show how easy 
it is to find the right platform, stand in the right place for your car when the train comes in, 
and be sure you're getting on the right train. Main departures board at 
Hiroshima.  It alternates between Japanese & English.  To 
the left of the clock, departures towards Hakata.  To the right of 
the clock, 
departures towards Tokyo.  I have a ticket for Sakura 557 leaving 
at 14:27, I can see it will go from track 11.  
Tip:  The board also tells you which cars are unreserved.  
If you want to use Sakura 557 without a reservation, you can see that cars 1-3 are 
the non-reserved ones.





 


 





Platform indicator at 
Tokyo.  
The train now at platform 16 is Hikari 507 departing 09:33.  
The next train at this platform will be Kodama 645, followed by Nozomi 319.
 

Car 10.  Platform markings tell you 
where to stand for the doors to each car.  The 
'clover' indicates a green car.
 

Hikari 507.  Signs on 
the side of a shinkansen train confirm which train it is.  This is bound 
for Shin-Osaka, this is a green car, and it's reserved.


Luggage on Japanese trains
Luggage is no real problem on Japanese 
trains.  Within reason, you can take what you like, nobody weighs it, measures it or argues about it.  You 
simply take it with you onto the train 
and stick it on any suitable luggage rack.  The overhead racks on shinkansen trains take anything up to backpack size.  If you 
have a huge 
suitcase or don't want to lift heavy bags to the overhead rack, go to the back 
of your car and put your bags in the gap 
between the wall and the rearmost seats, as in the photo 
below right.

Rules for very 
large suitcases from 2020
Extra large 
luggage rules have applied to the Tokaido, Kyushu & Sanyo shinkansen lines 
since May 2020.  
Passengers with very large suitcases over 160 linear centimetres (linear cm = 
length + width + depth) will have to reserve a place for their suitcase at the 
same time they reserve their shinkansen seat, it's free of charge.  
But if they don't reserve, they face a ¥1,000 fine (about $8) on the train.  
It will no longer be possible to travel in an unreserved seats car with very 
large suitcases.  The suitcases will go in behind the rear row of seats, or 
(when modifications are completed) in a new lockable luggage area which will 
replace some of the washbasins in designated cars.  Obviously, the 160cm 
cut-off means this won't affect backpacks or normal-sized luggage, just 
over-sized cases.  For more details see

www.tsunagujapan.com/large-suitcases-shinkansen-policy.





 





Most items fit on the overhead 
racks.
 

Room for large items at the 
rear of the car.


Luggage lockers at stations
All principal stations have luggage lockers in various sizes in various locations.  
Expect a small locker to start at around ¥300 or ¥400, and you'll 
need coins.  It's not usually difficult to find vacant lockers at 
any time of day.  Below right, arriving in 
Himeji at lunchtime it was no problem to find a vacant large locker which 
took two backpacks and a holdall for ¥700.  There's also a small staffed left 
luggage office at Tokyo station, inside the Marunouchi central entrance inside the 
JR Lines gated area.





 





Luggage lockers in Himeji, 
useful when stopping there to visit the famous castle.


Food on board: Eki-ben
First the bad news.  
Japanese trains don't have restaurant cars or even a bar car, just vending 
machines and in some cases a refreshment trolley.  The trolley on premier 
shinkansen trains such as Nozomi, Hikari, Mizuho or Sakura services sells tea, 
coffee, soft drinks, wine, beer, sake, snacks, small tubs of ice cream.  
The trolley accepts both cash and credit cards.
Now the good news.  You can 
of course take your own food and drink onto Japanese trains, and one of the joys 
of Japanese train travel is the ekiben - eki meaning station,
ben short for bento, meaning traditional Japanese packed lunch.  
Ekiben is sold at ekiben shops found at all main stations, and also from the 
refreshment trolley on principal shinkansen services.  Ekiben comes in all 
sizes, shapes and qualities, but expect a decent large box to cost perhaps 
¥800 bought at the station or ¥1,000 bought from the trolley on board a 
train.  The ekiben boxes include chopsticks and finger wipes.
If you want to buy ekiben from 
the shinkansen refreshment trolley, just ask the trolley lady - she'll show you 
pictures of the what she has available in a little laminated menu booklet, just 
point to the one you want.  You'll soon be a Black Belt in the ancient and 
honourable Japanese martial art of Eki-ben...





 





One of many ekiben shops at Tokyo 
station.
 

Ekiben & sake bought from 
the shinkansen trolley.







 





An ekiben with octopus.
 

A selection of 
mouthwatering ekiben at a station.


Power sockets & WiFi
You can reckon on finding power 
sockets for standard Japanese plugs at seats on almost all shinkansen and most 
limited expresses.  Free WiFi is now available on 
most shinkansen routes including the Tokaido, Sanyo & Tohoku lines.  
Check your mobile provider for a data package for Japan, 
there is good mobile data reception along most shinkansen routes.  You'll 
also find JR Free WiFi at a key stations including Tokyo, 
Shinagawa, Nagoya, Kyoto & Shin-Osaka.

Back to top


Tokyo station: 


See location map
Tokyo's main central station is 
shown as plain Tokyo in timetables.  Unlike most main stations 
worldwide, Tokyo station lacks a main entrance and main concourse.  It's 
something of a rabbit warren, but as most visitors end up there sooner or later, 
here are some tips.  You can read more about the station and its history at

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokyo_Station.  It's the busiest station 
in Japan in terms of trains, though not in terms of passenger numbers.


The tracks run north-south 
through the city on a raised viaduct.  So most 
platforms are one level up from street level, above the ticket offices, 
passageways and shops.  However, platforms for the Sōbu & Keiyo 
Lines are underground, 
several floors below street level.

The west side of the station 
is called the Marunouchi side, and it features the historic station building 
built in 1915 and now beautifully restored, with it's upper floors housing the 
wonderful

Tokyo Station Hotel.  It's the quieter side of the station, close to 
the Imperial Palace.
There are Marunouchi North, 
Central & South entrances, each with a row of ticket gates to access the JR lines (classic network) platforms 1-10.  If you are catching a 
shinkansen, you'll need to pass through one of these gatelines and cross the 
JR Lines area to another set of ticket gates at the entrance to either the 
Tokaido/Sanyo shinkansen platforms 14-19 or the Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, 
Hokkaido/Yamagata & Akita shinkansen platforms 20-23.  It's all 
well-signed in English.


The east side of the 
station is called the Yaesu side, it's modern and very busy and has what 
passes for a concourse - broad passageways with various JR & shinkansen ticket offices, 
shops & food outlets.  The Yaesu side also has a North, Central and 
South entrance.  On the Yaesu side you'll find a row of ticket gates at 
the entrance to the JR Lines area (platforms 1-10), another set at the entrance 
to the Tokaido/Sanyo shinkansen (platforms 14-19) and another at the 
entrance to the Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, Hokkaido/Yamagata & Akita 
shinkansen (platforms 20-23).

The north passage:  A useful passageway connects the 
Marunouchi North entrance with the Yaesu North entrance, without passing through 
any ticket barriers - you'll also find lockers and cheap eateries along this 
passageway.  If you want to get from one side of the station to the other 
without a Japan Rail Pass or other ticket, you'll need to use this North Passage.

Which platform?


The platforms are numbered 1 
to 23, with platform 1 on the Marunouchi side of the station, platform 23 on 
the Yaesu side.

Platforms 1-10:  JR 
Lines, the classic network.  The useful Yamanote loop line 
around Tokyo leaves from platform 4 northbound to Ueno & Ikebukuro and 
platform 5 southbound to Shinagawa & Shibuya.

Platforms 14-19:  
Tokaido/Sanyo shinkansen to Kyoto, Shin-Osaka, Himeji, Hiroshima, Kobe, Hakata.

Platforms 20-23:  
Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, Hokkaido/Yamagata & Akita shinkansen heading 
north & east from Tokyo.

Sōbu Line platforms 1-4, 
several levels underground on the western side of the station.  Narita 
Express & local trains.

Keiyo Line platforms 1-4, 
also underground, served by local trains.

Tokyo Station, Marunouchi side








Tokyo's historic 
station building on the Marunouchi (west) side.  The Marunouchi 
North entrance is beneath the dome on the far left, the Marunouchi South 
entrance is beneath the other dome on the far right.  What appears to be 
the grand central entrance is sealed off, the Marunouchi Central entrance 
is a smaller door to the left.   The 2nd & 3rd floors (meaning the 1st & 2nd floors for a 
European) are occupied by the 5-star

Tokyo Station Hotel.







 





Marunouchi North 
entrance, viewed as you walk in from outside, with the North Passage 
to the Yaesu side ahead, and the row of ticket gates just out of short 
to the right.  
Japan Rail Pass 
Exchange office, Marunouchi North entrance:  The arrow marks the JR East Travel Service Centre, 
interior pictured above right.  This is the most relaxed place at 
Tokyo station to exchange a Japan Rail Pass voucher for the actual pass.  
Open 07:30-20:30 every day


Tokyo Station, Yaesu side








Tokyo station Yaesu Central entrance 
on the busy east side of the station.







 





Japan Rail Pass 
Exchange office, Yaesu side:  You can also exchange your Japan 
Rail Pass voucher at counter 6 in the JR Central Shinkansen 
ticket office at Yaesu Central, also open 07:30-20:30.  There are 
several Shinkansen ticket offices on the Yaesu side, all looking very 
similar, it's the one nearest the Yaesu Central entrance that has the 
Japan Rail Pass counter.


How to buy local tickets







Buying local tickets in 
Tokyo.  There's a row of ticket machines like this near every 
entrance to the platform area.
The yellow & green 
machines on the left sell Shinkansen & Limited Express reserved & 
unreserved tickets & reservation changes.
The pink or green machines on 
the right can sell local tickets in the Tokyo area.  
The map above the machines shows the price to each station on the local 
network from the station you're at, you simply select that price on the 
machines, see 
the How to buy tickets section above for more details.
One-day metro & local train passes for Tokyo:  There are 
1-day passes you can get to cover either metro trains or metro trains + 
JR local trains in the Tokyo area.  You need to clock up perhaps 5 
or 6 journeys in a day to make one of these worthwhile.  See

www.tokyometro.jp/en/ticket/value/1day.

Back to top

The
Tokyo Station Hotel:
 

Check prices
The lovely 5-star

Tokyo Station Hotel is another unique place to stay that deserves a special 
mention, even if (unlike capsule hotels) it's not a budget option!  The hotel occupies the 2nd & 3rd floors of the 
historic and beautifully-restored 1915 station building on the quieter Marunouchi side of 
Tokyo station.  Given that so many of Tokyo's classic 
hotels have been destroyed by earthquakes or wartime bombing then rebuilt as modern 
tower blocks, this has to be one of the most historically-interesting places to 
stay.  It's a luxurious and well-located choice, too, with a first-rate 
breakfast buffet served in the Atrium located inside the large central pitched 
roof above the 3rd floor.  And it's so handy for the trains.





 







Tokyo Station Hotel, built in 1915.
 

Double room.







 





En suite bathroom.
 

An excellent buffet breakfast in 
the Atrium.



Back to top



Ryokans 
& capsule hotels


Any visit to Japan is a cultural experience.  Don't just stay in western 
hotels and visit the sights.  Make the places you stay part of the 
experience, by staying in a traditional Japanese ryokan, or even a capsule 
hotel.

Ryokans

Ryokans are traditional Japanese inns.  The
rooms don't have beds, the floor is covered with tatami matting on which
you place a bedroll.  You may be offered a hot cup of
green Japanese tea when you first arrive.  You can sometimes find ryokans 
online on hotel booking sites such as 
www.booking.com.  
The very best and most famous ryokans can be fabulously expensive, but cheaper 
ones can be a budget option. 

Search for Ryokans in Tokyo. 

Search for Ryokans in Kyoto.





 




In Kyoto, the excellent

Gion Ryokan Q-Beh (pictured above) is 10-15 minutes walk from the Kyomizu-dera 
temple, 10 minutes walk from the Gion Geisha district.  It has 
budget dorm rooms and private rooms, and free WiFi.  The photos above show a 
family room with shower & toilet.
In Hiroshima, try the

Chizuru Ryokan, 10 minutes walk from the Peace Park.

Capsule hotels
Another
classic Japanese experience
is to spend a night in a capsule hotel - which coincidentally is also a money-saving 
option for staying a night in the heart of Tokyo or another big city.  These are more civilised than you
might think.

The
hotel reception looks like any other hotel reception.  Remember
to take your shoes off before you walk in, and place them in one of
the lockers in the lobby.  Upstairs, there will probably be
several floors of fibreglass sleeping capsules, each floor with its
own locker room and shared showers.  You change in the locker
room and put your clothes and bags into your locker.  Your
capsule has radio, alarm clock and TV, and a screen or curtain pulls
over the capsule entrance for privacy.  The main drawback is that the main 
clientele for these hotels is Japanese businessmen who have missed their last 
train home, so capsule hotels are usually male-only.  But capsule hotels 
for women do exist.  The pictures below show end-entry 
capsules, but some capsule hotels have side-entry types, and you'll now find 
some capsule hotels with larger, more hotel-style capsules too.
You can usually walk into a 
capsule hotel and ask for a bed for the night, but if you want to pre-book this 
unique experience, try the
Capsulevalue Kanda in downtown Tokyo 
near Kanda station, one stop north of Tokyo station, a bed 
in downtown Tokyo for as little as ¥3,400 (about £26 or $32) per night.  Men 
and boys over 10 can stay there, but not women 
or children.





 


 





The
Capsulevalue Kanda 
is 5 minutes walk from Kanda station, one stop north of Tokyo station.



Back to top


Haneda 
Airport to Tokyo


The cheapest & easiest way 
from Haneda Airport into Tokyo is to take the monorail from Haneda Airport 
International Terminal to Hamamatsucho station and change onto the JR 
Yamanote line to Tokyo station.  The monorail and JR local trains run 
every few minutes, total journey time from Haneda Airport to Tokyo station 
is only around 20 minutes.

For fares & info see

www.tokyo-monorail.co.jp.

Emerging into the Haneda 
Airport International Arrivals hall, follow the signs to the Monorail which 
is just a few metres straight ahead of you.  
Buy a ticket from the row of 
machines at the monorail entrance as follows:  First look at the map 
above the machines and locate your destination station, let's say Tokyo 
station.  Note the price shown against that station.  On the touch 
screen, press English then press JR Transfer as you want a 
combined Monorail + JR local train ticket.  Then select the number of 
passengers and the relevant price on the screen.  You'll need coins or 
notes, the machines don't take cards.



Japan Rail Passes cover 
both the Tokyo Monorail and JR local trains, so you can use your pass to 
travel to and from the airport if you like.  But as the journey doesn't 
cost very much, don't waste a valuable pass day on such a short journey 
unless you have pass days spare.  Arriving at Haneda Airport 
International Terminal, you can exchange your voucher for a Japan Rail Pass 
at the JR East Travel Service Centre next to the entrance to the monorail 
platforms, marked by the arrow in the photo below.









Haneda Airport Arrivals 
lobby, monorail entrance.  From left to right in the picture 
above, an ATM (get some cash out!), ticket machines (buy a JR Transfer 
ticket for the monorail+train into Tokyo), the ticket gates onto the 
monorail platforms and (marked by the arrow) the JR East Travel Service 
Centre where you can exchange a voucher for a Japan Rail Pass if you 
like.







 





Step 1, the monorail from Haneda Airport to Hamamatsucho interchange.  
Every few minutes, journey time 14 minutes.  It's driverless, so get a seat 
up front for great forward views as the monorail threads its way at high level 
through Tokyo's docklands.







 





Step 2, JR Yamanote Line 
from Hamamatsucho to Tokyo station.  It's clearly signposted 
JR Yamanote Line and its trains are colour-coded green as shown 
above.  The line is a loop around Tokyo, look for the Tokyo 
direction.  It runs every few minutes.



Back to top


Narita 
Airport to Tokyo

Option1,
Narita Express to Tokyo main station


The Narita Express is 
a dedicated airport train that runs from Narita Airport Terminal 1 & Narita Airport Terminal 2 non-stop to Tokyo station in the heart of 
Tokyo.  It runs every half hour or so through the day taking 59 minutes.  
Just buy a ticket at the station.  The train has ordinary class and green 
car, all seats are reserved and all tickets come with an allocated seat.

For times & prices see

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/ or 
see 
www.jreast.co.jp/e/nex.

Tip:  The Narita Express 
uses the underground Sōbu Line platforms at Tokyo station.  
These are numbered 1-4, but they should not be confused with the regular 
platforms 1-4 above ground.

Japan Rail Passes 
cover the Narita Express, but when arriving by air at Narita you'll first 
need to exchange your voucher for the actual Japan Rail Pass.  There 
are Japan Rail Pass exchange counters at both the ticket office and the 
Travel Service Centre at both the Narita Terminal 1 station and Narita 
Terminal 2 station.






 





Narita express ordinary class.
 

A Narita Express train at Tokyo.







 





Luggage space.
 

Green Car seating.


Option 2, Keisei Skyliner from Narita to Ueno 
station


Alternatively, the Keisei 
Skyliner links Narita Terminal 1 & Terminal 2 with Tokyo's Ueno station.  
This also runs every half hour or so, also non-stop, journey around 45 
minutes to Ueno, it's a fraction cheaper than the Narita Express and also 
all-reserved.  For times & prices see

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/.  
However, the Keisei Railway is a private non-JR railway so Japan Rail Passes 
cannot be used on it.  

You can buy Keisei Skyliner tickets 
online in advance at

www.klook.com.  You get an open-date voucher.

Cheaper options


If you are counting every 
penny, you can more than halve the cost of airport transfers by using local 
or rapid trains between Narita and Tokyo rather then the Narita Express or 
Keisei Skyliner, changing at Chiba.  It'll take 30-45 minutes longer 
than using the Narita Express or Skyliner.  To find train times, use

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/.


Back to top



Europe 
to Japan by Trans-Siberian Railway



You can travel from London to 
Tokyo in just 12-14 days by Trans-Siberian Railway for roughly £800 in round 
figures.
Update 2024:  War 
in Ukraine & sanctions on Russia 
currently make this route impractical.  Moscow-Beijing trains are 
suspended.



Option 1, via Vladivostok
- Travel from London to Moscow, see the London
to Russia  page.  This takes 48 hours using the
Paris-Moscow Express.
- Take the Rossiya from Moscow to 
Vladivostok, this runs every second day taking 7 days,
see the Trans-Siberian 
page.  
- Take the ferry from Vladivostok to Sakaiminato in Japan, 
sailing once a week taking 36 hours,

see the Vladivostok-Japan ferry section.



Option 2, via Beijing & Shanghai
- Travel from London to Moscow, see the London
to Russia  page.  This takes 48 hours using the
Paris-Moscow Express.
-  Travel from 
Moscow to Beijing on one of two weekly Trans-Siberian trains, taking 6 days,
see the Trans-Siberian 
page.  
- Take an overnight or high-speed train 
from Beijing to Shanghai (see 
the Beijing to Shanghai page).
- Take one of the two weekly 
ferries from Shanghai to either Osaka or Kobe in Japan,
see the China to 
Japan ferry section.



Going via Vladivostok is simpler 
to organise as you need fewer visas, but going via Beijing more varied and 
interesting, and the one I'd recommend.


Back to top



Ferries 
between Japan & China, Korea, Vladivostok



For the weekly ferry from Sakaiminato in 
Japan to Vladivostok in Russia,
see the Trans-Siberian page.


For ferries between Japan and Shanghai in 
China, see the China page.


For ferries between Japan and South Korea, 
see the Korea page.



Back to top




Tours 
of Japan by train
If you want a tour agency to 
organise a tour of Japan for you with train travel, transfers & hotels included 
as a package, Railbookers specialise in train-based tours and have several suggested 
tours of Japan by rail, including Best of Japan, Scenic Japan and Golden Route 
of Japan.  These can be adjusted to your specification.

  
UK call 0207 864 4600,

www.railbookers.co.uk.

  
US call free 1-888-829-4775, 
www.railbookers.com.

  Canada call free 1-855-882-2910,

www.railbookers.com.

  
Australia call toll-free 1300 971 526,

www.railbookers.com.au.

  
New Zealand call toll-free 0800 000 554 or 
see 
website.



Guidebooks

Japan 
by Rail & Lonely Planet guides: 
In the age of the internet, a printed guidebook may seem an unnecessary expense, but 
you'll 
see so much more and know so much more about it 
if you have a decent pocket guidebook.  
The
Trailblazer Japan by Rail 
guide is specifically aimed at train travel around Japan, with both 
city and train information - highly recommended!  Other than that, for the serious independent 
traveller, the best guidebooks to take are either the Lonely Planet or 
the Rough Guide.  I personally prefer the layout of the Lonely 
Planet, but others prefer the Rough Guides.  Both guidebooks 
provide excellent levels of both practical information and historical 
background.  

Click the images to buy online at Amazon.co.uk






 


 






Back to top


Flights to Japan
Overland travel around Japan by train is 
an essential part of the experience, so 
once there, don't cheat and fly, stay on 
the ground!  But a long-haul flight might be unavoidable to reach Japan in 
the first place.  

1) 
Check flight prices at Opodo, 

www.opodo.com

2) 
Use  
Skyscanner to compare flight prices & routes 
worldwide across 600 airlines...






Back to top


Travel 
insurance & other tips



 






 







Always take out travel insurance

Never travel overseas without travel insurance from a reliable 
insurer, with at least £1m or preferably £5m medical cover.  It should also cover 
cancellation and loss of cash and belongings, up to a sensible 
limit.  
An annual 
multi-trip policy is usually cheaper than several single-trip 
policies even for just 2 or 3 trips 
a year, I have an annual policy with
Staysure.co.uk 
myself.  Here are some suggested insurers.  
Seat61 gets a small commission if you buy through these 
links.

  
www.staysure.co.uk 
offers enhanced Covid-19 protection & gets 4.7 out of 5 on

Trustpilot.

  www.columbusdirect.com 
is also a well-know brand.

  
If you live in the USA try

Travel Guard USA.


 







Get an eSIM 
with mobile data package

Don't rely on WiFi, download an eSIM with a mobile data package for the country 
you're visiting and stay connected.  Most newer mobile phones can download 
a virtual SIM card so you don't need to buy a physical SIM, including iPhone 11 
& later,
see device compatibility list. 
Maya.net 
is a reliable eSIM data retailer with a
4.5 out of 
5 Trustpilot rating and a
range of 
packages including unlimited data.


 









Get a Curve card 
for foreign travel
Most banks give you a poor 
exchange rate, then add a foreign transaction fee on top.  A Curve 
MasterCard means no foreign transaction fees and gives you the mid-market 
exchange rate, at least up to a certain limit, £500 per month at time of 
writing.  The money you spend on your Curve card goes straight onto one of your existing debit or 
credit cards.
How it works:  1.
Download the 
Curve app for 
iPhone or Android.  2. Enter your details & they'll send you a Curve 
MasterCard - they send to the UK and most European addresses.  3. 
Link your existing credit & debit cards to the app, you can link up to two 
cards with the free version of Curve, I link my normal debit card and my normal 
credit card.  4. Now use the Curve 
MasterCard to buy things online or in person or take cash from ATMs, exactly like a 
normal MasterCard. Curve does the currency conversion and puts the balance in 
your own currency onto 
whichever debit or credit card is currently selected in the Curve app.  You can even change 
your mind about which card it goes onto, within 14 days of the transaction.
I have a Curve Blue card myself, 
it means I can buy a coffee on a foreign station on a card without being stung 
by fees and lousy exchange rates, just by tapping the Curve card on their card 
reader.  The money goes through Curve to my normal debit card and is taken 
directly from my account (in fact I have the Curve card set up as payment card 
on Apple Pay on my iPhone, so can double-click my phone, let it do Face ID then 
tap the reader with the phone - even easier than digging a card out).  I get a little commission if you sign up to Curve, but I recommend it 
here because I think it's great. 
See details, download 
the app and get a Curve card, they'll give you £5 cashback through that 
link.


 







Get a VPN for safe browsing.  
Why you need 
a VPN

When you're travelling you often use free WiFi in public places which may not be 
secure.  A VPN encrypts your connection so it's always 
secure, even on unsecured WiFi.  It also means you can select the geographic location of the IP address you browse 
with, to get around geoblocking which a surprising number of websites apply. 
See VPNs & why you need one explained. 
ExpressVPN 
is a best buy with a
4.7 
out of 5 Trustpilot ranking which I use myself - I've signed up as an ExpressVPN affiliate, 
and if you go with
expressvpn.com using the links on this page, you should see a special deal, 
3 months free with an annual subscription.  I get a small commission to help 
support this site.


 







Carry an Anker powerbank
Tickets, reservations, vaccination records and Interrail or Eurail passes 
are often held digitally on your mobile phone, so it's vital to keep it charged.  
I always carry an
Anker 
powerbank which can recharge my phone several times over if I can't get to a 
power outlet. 

Buy from Amazon.co.uk or from
buy from Amazon.com.

 




Back to home 
page

 Tip:  The board also tells you which cars are unreserved.  
If you want to use Sakura 557 without a reservation, you can see that cars 1-3 are 
the non-reserved ones. Platform indicator at 
Tokyo.  
The train now at platform 16 is Hikari 507 departing 09:33.  
The next train at this platform will be Kodama 645, followed by Nozomi 319. Car 10.  Platform markings tell you 
where to stand for the doors to each car.  The 
'clover' indicates a green car. Hikari 507.  Signs on 
the side of a shinkansen train confirm which train it is.  This is bound 
for Shin-Osaka, this is a green car, and it's reserved. Luggage is no real problem on Japanese 
trains.  Within reason, you can take what you like, nobody weighs it, measures it or argues about it.  You 
simply take it with you onto the train 
and stick it on any suitable luggage rack.  The overhead racks on shinkansen trains take anything up to backpack size.  If you 
have a huge 
suitcase or don't want to lift heavy bags to the overhead rack, go to the back 
of your car and put your bags in the gap 
between the wall and the rearmost seats, as in the photo 
below right. Extra large 
luggage rules have applied to the Tokaido, Kyushu & Sanyo shinkansen lines 
since May 2020.  
Passengers with very large suitcases over 160 linear centimetres (linear cm = 
length + width + depth) will have to reserve a place for their suitcase at the 
same time they reserve their shinkansen seat, it's free of charge.  
But if they don't reserve, they face a ¥1,000 fine (about $8) on the train.  
It will no longer be possible to travel in an unreserved seats car with very 
large suitcases.  The suitcases will go in behind the rear row of seats, or 
(when modifications are completed) in a new lockable luggage area which will 
replace some of the washbasins in designated cars.  Obviously, the 160cm 
cut-off means this won't affect backpacks or normal-sized luggage, just 
over-sized cases.  For more details see

www.tsunagujapan.com/large-suitcases-shinkansen-policy. Most items fit on the overhead 
racks. Room for large items at the 
rear of the car. All principal stations have luggage lockers in various sizes in various locations.  
Expect a small locker to start at around ¥300 or ¥400, and you'll 
need coins.  It's not usually difficult to find vacant lockers at 
any time of day.  Below right, arriving in 
Himeji at lunchtime it was no problem to find a vacant large locker which 
took two backpacks and a holdall for ¥700.  There's also a small staffed left 
luggage office at Tokyo station, inside the Marunouchi central entrance inside the 
JR Lines gated area. Luggage lockers in Himeji, 
useful when stopping there to visit the famous castle. First the bad news.  
Japanese trains don't have restaurant cars or even a bar car, just vending 
machines and in some cases a refreshment trolley.  The trolley on premier 
shinkansen trains such as Nozomi, Hikari, Mizuho or Sakura services sells tea, 
coffee, soft drinks, wine, beer, sake, snacks, small tubs of ice cream.  
The trolley accepts both cash and credit cards. Now the good news.  You can 
of course take your own food and drink onto Japanese trains, and one of the joys 
of Japanese train travel is the ekiben - eki meaning station,
ben short for bento, meaning traditional Japanese packed lunch.  
Ekiben is sold at ekiben shops found at all main stations, and also from the 
refreshment trolley on principal shinkansen services.  Ekiben comes in all 
sizes, shapes and qualities, but expect a decent large box to cost perhaps 
¥800 bought at the station or ¥1,000 bought from the trolley on board a 
train.  The ekiben boxes include chopsticks and finger wipes. If you want to buy ekiben from 
the shinkansen refreshment trolley, just ask the trolley lady - she'll show you 
pictures of the what she has available in a little laminated menu booklet, just 
point to the one you want.  You'll soon be a Black Belt in the ancient and 
honourable Japanese martial art of Eki-ben... One of many ekiben shops at Tokyo 
station. Ekiben & sake bought from 
the shinkansen trolley. An ekiben with octopus. A selection of 
mouthwatering ekiben at a station. You can reckon on finding power 
sockets for standard Japanese plugs at seats on almost all shinkansen and most 
limited expresses.  Free WiFi is now available on 
most shinkansen routes including the Tokaido, Sanyo & Tohoku lines.  
Check your mobile provider for a data package for Japan, 
there is good mobile data reception along most shinkansen routes.  You'll 
also find JR Free WiFi at a key stations including Tokyo, 
Shinagawa, Nagoya, Kyoto & Shin-Osaka. 
Back to top Tokyo's main central station is 
shown as plain Tokyo in timetables.  Unlike most main stations 
worldwide, Tokyo station lacks a main entrance and main concourse.  It's 
something of a rabbit warren, but as most visitors end up there sooner or later, 
here are some tips.  You can read more about the station and its history at

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokyo_Station.  It's the busiest station 
in Japan in terms of trains, though not in terms of passenger numbers. The tracks run north-south 
through the city on a raised viaduct.  So most 
platforms are one level up from street level, above the ticket offices, 
passageways and shops.  However, platforms for the Sōbu & Keiyo 
Lines are underground, 
several floors below street level. The west side of the station 
is called the Marunouchi side, and it features the historic station building 
built in 1915 and now beautifully restored, with it's upper floors housing the 
wonderful

Tokyo Station Hotel.  It's the quieter side of the station, close to 
the Imperial Palace. There are Marunouchi North, 
Central & South entrances, each with a row of ticket gates to access the JR lines (classic network) platforms 1-10.  If you are catching a 
shinkansen, you'll need to pass through one of these gatelines and cross the 
JR Lines area to another set of ticket gates at the entrance to either the 
Tokaido/Sanyo shinkansen platforms 14-19 or the Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, 
Hokkaido/Yamagata & Akita shinkansen platforms 20-23.  It's all 
well-signed in English. The east side of the 
station is called the Yaesu side, it's modern and very busy and has what 
passes for a concourse - broad passageways with various JR & shinkansen ticket offices, 
shops & food outlets.  The Yaesu side also has a North, Central and 
South entrance.  On the Yaesu side you'll find a row of ticket gates at 
the entrance to the JR Lines area (platforms 1-10), another set at the entrance 
to the Tokaido/Sanyo shinkansen (platforms 14-19) and another at the 
entrance to the Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, Hokkaido/Yamagata & Akita 
shinkansen (platforms 20-23). The north passage:  A useful passageway connects the 
Marunouchi North entrance with the Yaesu North entrance, without passing through 
any ticket barriers - you'll also find lockers and cheap eateries along this 
passageway.  If you want to get from one side of the station to the other 
without a Japan Rail Pass or other ticket, you'll need to use this North Passage. The platforms are numbered 1 
to 23, with platform 1 on the Marunouchi side of the station, platform 23 on 
the Yaesu side. Platforms 1-10:  JR 
Lines, the classic network.  The useful Yamanote loop line 
around Tokyo leaves from platform 4 northbound to Ueno & Ikebukuro and 
platform 5 southbound to Shinagawa & Shibuya. Platforms 14-19:  
Tokaido/Sanyo shinkansen to Kyoto, Shin-Osaka, Himeji, Hiroshima, Kobe, Hakata. Platforms 20-23:  
Joetsu, Tohoku, Hokuriku, Hokkaido/Yamagata & Akita shinkansen heading 
north & east from Tokyo. Sōbu Line platforms 1-4, 
several levels underground on the western side of the station.  Narita 
Express & local trains. Keiyo Line platforms 1-4, 
also underground, served by local trains. Tokyo's historic 
station building on the Marunouchi (west) side.  The Marunouchi 
North entrance is beneath the dome on the far left, the Marunouchi South 
entrance is beneath the other dome on the far right.  What appears to be 
the grand central entrance is sealed off, the Marunouchi Central entrance 
is a smaller door to the left.   The 2nd & 3rd floors (meaning the 1st & 2nd floors for a 
European) are occupied by the 5-star

Tokyo Station Hotel. Marunouchi North 
entrance, viewed as you walk in from outside, with the North Passage 
to the Yaesu side ahead, and the row of ticket gates just out of short 
to the right.  
Japan Rail Pass 
Exchange office, Marunouchi North entrance:  The arrow marks the JR East Travel Service Centre, 
interior pictured above right.  This is the most relaxed place at 
Tokyo station to exchange a Japan Rail Pass voucher for the actual pass.  
Open 07:30-20:30 every day Japan Rail Pass 
Exchange office, Marunouchi North entrance:  The arrow marks the JR East Travel Service Centre, 
interior pictured above right.  This is the most relaxed place at 
Tokyo station to exchange a Japan Rail Pass voucher for the actual pass.  
Open 07:30-20:30 every day Tokyo station Yaesu Central entrance 
on the busy east side of the station. Japan Rail Pass 
Exchange office, Yaesu side:  You can also exchange your Japan 
Rail Pass voucher at counter 6 in the JR Central Shinkansen 
ticket office at Yaesu Central, also open 07:30-20:30.  There are 
several Shinkansen ticket offices on the Yaesu side, all looking very 
similar, it's the one nearest the Yaesu Central entrance that has the 
Japan Rail Pass counter. Buying local tickets in 
Tokyo.  There's a row of ticket machines like this near every 
entrance to the platform area. The yellow & green 
machines on the left sell Shinkansen & Limited Express reserved & 
unreserved tickets & reservation changes. The pink or green machines on 
the right can sell local tickets in the Tokyo area.  
The map above the machines shows the price to each station on the local 
network from the station you're at, you simply select that price on the 
machines, see 
the How to buy tickets section above for more details.
One-day metro & local train passes for Tokyo:  There are 
1-day passes you can get to cover either metro trains or metro trains + 
JR local trains in the Tokyo area.  You need to clock up perhaps 5 
or 6 journeys in a day to make one of these worthwhile.  See

www.tokyometro.jp/en/ticket/value/1day.

Back to top

The
Tokyo Station Hotel:
 

Check prices
The lovely 5-star

Tokyo Station Hotel is another unique place to stay that deserves a special 
mention, even if (unlike capsule hotels) it's not a budget option!  The hotel occupies the 2nd & 3rd floors of the 
historic and beautifully-restored 1915 station building on the quieter Marunouchi side of 
Tokyo station.  Given that so many of Tokyo's classic 
hotels have been destroyed by earthquakes or wartime bombing then rebuilt as modern 
tower blocks, this has to be one of the most historically-interesting places to 
stay.  It's a luxurious and well-located choice, too, with a first-rate 
breakfast buffet served in the Atrium located inside the large central pitched 
roof above the 3rd floor.  And it's so handy for the trains.





 







Tokyo Station Hotel, built in 1915.
 

Double room.







 





En suite bathroom.
 

An excellent buffet breakfast in 
the Atrium.



Back to top



Ryokans 
& capsule hotels


Any visit to Japan is a cultural experience.  Don't just stay in western 
hotels and visit the sights.  Make the places you stay part of the 
experience, by staying in a traditional Japanese ryokan, or even a capsule 
hotel.

Ryokans

Ryokans are traditional Japanese inns.  The
rooms don't have beds, the floor is covered with tatami matting on which
you place a bedroll.  You may be offered a hot cup of
green Japanese tea when you first arrive.  You can sometimes find ryokans 
online on hotel booking sites such as 
www.booking.com.  
The very best and most famous ryokans can be fabulously expensive, but cheaper 
ones can be a budget option. 

Search for Ryokans in Tokyo. 

Search for Ryokans in Kyoto.





 




In Kyoto, the excellent

Gion Ryokan Q-Beh (pictured above) is 10-15 minutes walk from the Kyomizu-dera 
temple, 10 minutes walk from the Gion Geisha district.  It has 
budget dorm rooms and private rooms, and free WiFi.  The photos above show a 
family room with shower & toilet.
In Hiroshima, try the

Chizuru Ryokan, 10 minutes walk from the Peace Park.

Capsule hotels
Another
classic Japanese experience
is to spend a night in a capsule hotel - which coincidentally is also a money-saving 
option for staying a night in the heart of Tokyo or another big city.  These are more civilised than you
might think.

The
hotel reception looks like any other hotel reception.  Remember
to take your shoes off before you walk in, and place them in one of
the lockers in the lobby.  Upstairs, there will probably be
several floors of fibreglass sleeping capsules, each floor with its
own locker room and shared showers.  You change in the locker
room and put your clothes and bags into your locker.  Your
capsule has radio, alarm clock and TV, and a screen or curtain pulls
over the capsule entrance for privacy.  The main drawback is that the main 
clientele for these hotels is Japanese businessmen who have missed their last 
train home, so capsule hotels are usually male-only.  But capsule hotels 
for women do exist.  The pictures below show end-entry 
capsules, but some capsule hotels have side-entry types, and you'll now find 
some capsule hotels with larger, more hotel-style capsules too.
You can usually walk into a 
capsule hotel and ask for a bed for the night, but if you want to pre-book this 
unique experience, try the
Capsulevalue Kanda in downtown Tokyo 
near Kanda station, one stop north of Tokyo station, a bed 
in downtown Tokyo for as little as ¥3,400 (about £26 or $32) per night.  Men 
and boys over 10 can stay there, but not women 
or children.





 


 





The
Capsulevalue Kanda 
is 5 minutes walk from Kanda station, one stop north of Tokyo station.



Back to top


Haneda 
Airport to Tokyo


The cheapest & easiest way 
from Haneda Airport into Tokyo is to take the monorail from Haneda Airport 
International Terminal to Hamamatsucho station and change onto the JR 
Yamanote line to Tokyo station.  The monorail and JR local trains run 
every few minutes, total journey time from Haneda Airport to Tokyo station 
is only around 20 minutes.

For fares & info see

www.tokyo-monorail.co.jp.

Emerging into the Haneda 
Airport International Arrivals hall, follow the signs to the Monorail which 
is just a few metres straight ahead of you.  
Buy a ticket from the row of 
machines at the monorail entrance as follows:  First look at the map 
above the machines and locate your destination station, let's say Tokyo 
station.  Note the price shown against that station.  On the touch 
screen, press English then press JR Transfer as you want a 
combined Monorail + JR local train ticket.  Then select the number of 
passengers and the relevant price on the screen.  You'll need coins or 
notes, the machines don't take cards.



Japan Rail Passes cover 
both the Tokyo Monorail and JR local trains, so you can use your pass to 
travel to and from the airport if you like.  But as the journey doesn't 
cost very much, don't waste a valuable pass day on such a short journey 
unless you have pass days spare.  Arriving at Haneda Airport 
International Terminal, you can exchange your voucher for a Japan Rail Pass 
at the JR East Travel Service Centre next to the entrance to the monorail 
platforms, marked by the arrow in the photo below.









Haneda Airport Arrivals 
lobby, monorail entrance.  From left to right in the picture 
above, an ATM (get some cash out!), ticket machines (buy a JR Transfer 
ticket for the monorail+train into Tokyo), the ticket gates onto the 
monorail platforms and (marked by the arrow) the JR East Travel Service 
Centre where you can exchange a voucher for a Japan Rail Pass if you 
like.







 





Step 1, the monorail from Haneda Airport to Hamamatsucho interchange.  
Every few minutes, journey time 14 minutes.  It's driverless, so get a seat 
up front for great forward views as the monorail threads its way at high level 
through Tokyo's docklands.







 





Step 2, JR Yamanote Line 
from Hamamatsucho to Tokyo station.  It's clearly signposted 
JR Yamanote Line and its trains are colour-coded green as shown 
above.  The line is a loop around Tokyo, look for the Tokyo 
direction.  It runs every few minutes.



Back to top


Narita 
Airport to Tokyo

Option1,
Narita Express to Tokyo main station


The Narita Express is 
a dedicated airport train that runs from Narita Airport Terminal 1 & Narita Airport Terminal 2 non-stop to Tokyo station in the heart of 
Tokyo.  It runs every half hour or so through the day taking 59 minutes.  
Just buy a ticket at the station.  The train has ordinary class and green 
car, all seats are reserved and all tickets come with an allocated seat.

For times & prices see

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/ or 
see 
www.jreast.co.jp/e/nex.

Tip:  The Narita Express 
uses the underground Sōbu Line platforms at Tokyo station.  
These are numbered 1-4, but they should not be confused with the regular 
platforms 1-4 above ground.

Japan Rail Passes 
cover the Narita Express, but when arriving by air at Narita you'll first 
need to exchange your voucher for the actual Japan Rail Pass.  There 
are Japan Rail Pass exchange counters at both the ticket office and the 
Travel Service Centre at both the Narita Terminal 1 station and Narita 
Terminal 2 station.






 





Narita express ordinary class.
 

A Narita Express train at Tokyo.







 





Luggage space.
 

Green Car seating.


Option 2, Keisei Skyliner from Narita to Ueno 
station


Alternatively, the Keisei 
Skyliner links Narita Terminal 1 & Terminal 2 with Tokyo's Ueno station.  
This also runs every half hour or so, also non-stop, journey around 45 
minutes to Ueno, it's a fraction cheaper than the Narita Express and also 
all-reserved.  For times & prices see

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/.  
However, the Keisei Railway is a private non-JR railway so Japan Rail Passes 
cannot be used on it.  

You can buy Keisei Skyliner tickets 
online in advance at

www.klook.com.  You get an open-date voucher.

Cheaper options


If you are counting every 
penny, you can more than halve the cost of airport transfers by using local 
or rapid trains between Narita and Tokyo rather then the Narita Express or 
Keisei Skyliner, changing at Chiba.  It'll take 30-45 minutes longer 
than using the Narita Express or Skyliner.  To find train times, use

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/.


Back to top



Europe 
to Japan by Trans-Siberian Railway



You can travel from London to 
Tokyo in just 12-14 days by Trans-Siberian Railway for roughly £800 in round 
figures.
Update 2024:  War 
in Ukraine & sanctions on Russia 
currently make this route impractical.  Moscow-Beijing trains are 
suspended.



Option 1, via Vladivostok
- Travel from London to Moscow, see the London
to Russia  page.  This takes 48 hours using the
Paris-Moscow Express.
- Take the Rossiya from Moscow to 
Vladivostok, this runs every second day taking 7 days,
see the Trans-Siberian 
page.  
- Take the ferry from Vladivostok to Sakaiminato in Japan, 
sailing once a week taking 36 hours,

see the Vladivostok-Japan ferry section.



Option 2, via Beijing & Shanghai
- Travel from London to Moscow, see the London
to Russia  page.  This takes 48 hours using the
Paris-Moscow Express.
-  Travel from 
Moscow to Beijing on one of two weekly Trans-Siberian trains, taking 6 days,
see the Trans-Siberian 
page.  
- Take an overnight or high-speed train 
from Beijing to Shanghai (see 
the Beijing to Shanghai page).
- Take one of the two weekly 
ferries from Shanghai to either Osaka or Kobe in Japan,
see the China to 
Japan ferry section.



Going via Vladivostok is simpler 
to organise as you need fewer visas, but going via Beijing more varied and 
interesting, and the one I'd recommend.


Back to top



Ferries 
between Japan & China, Korea, Vladivostok



For the weekly ferry from Sakaiminato in 
Japan to Vladivostok in Russia,
see the Trans-Siberian page.


For ferries between Japan and Shanghai in 
China, see the China page.


For ferries between Japan and South Korea, 
see the Korea page.



Back to top




Tours 
of Japan by train
If you want a tour agency to 
organise a tour of Japan for you with train travel, transfers & hotels included 
as a package, Railbookers specialise in train-based tours and have several suggested 
tours of Japan by rail, including Best of Japan, Scenic Japan and Golden Route 
of Japan.  These can be adjusted to your specification.

  
UK call 0207 864 4600,

www.railbookers.co.uk.

  
US call free 1-888-829-4775, 
www.railbookers.com.

  Canada call free 1-855-882-2910,

www.railbookers.com.

  
Australia call toll-free 1300 971 526,

www.railbookers.com.au.

  
New Zealand call toll-free 0800 000 554 or 
see 
website.



Guidebooks

Japan 
by Rail & Lonely Planet guides: 
In the age of the internet, a printed guidebook may seem an unnecessary expense, but 
you'll 
see so much more and know so much more about it 
if you have a decent pocket guidebook.  
The
Trailblazer Japan by Rail 
guide is specifically aimed at train travel around Japan, with both 
city and train information - highly recommended!  Other than that, for the serious independent 
traveller, the best guidebooks to take are either the Lonely Planet or 
the Rough Guide.  I personally prefer the layout of the Lonely 
Planet, but others prefer the Rough Guides.  Both guidebooks 
provide excellent levels of both practical information and historical 
background.  

Click the images to buy online at Amazon.co.uk






 


 






Back to top


Flights to Japan
Overland travel around Japan by train is 
an essential part of the experience, so 
once there, don't cheat and fly, stay on 
the ground!  But a long-haul flight might be unavoidable to reach Japan in 
the first place.  

1) 
Check flight prices at Opodo, 

www.opodo.com

2) 
Use  
Skyscanner to compare flight prices & routes 
worldwide across 600 airlines...






Back to top


Travel 
insurance & other tips



 






 







Always take out travel insurance

Never travel overseas without travel insurance from a reliable 
insurer, with at least £1m or preferably £5m medical cover.  It should also cover 
cancellation and loss of cash and belongings, up to a sensible 
limit.  
An annual 
multi-trip policy is usually cheaper than several single-trip 
policies even for just 2 or 3 trips 
a year, I have an annual policy with
Staysure.co.uk 
myself.  Here are some suggested insurers.  
Seat61 gets a small commission if you buy through these 
links.

  
www.staysure.co.uk 
offers enhanced Covid-19 protection & gets 4.7 out of 5 on

Trustpilot.

  www.columbusdirect.com 
is also a well-know brand.

  
If you live in the USA try

Travel Guard USA.


 







Get an eSIM 
with mobile data package

Don't rely on WiFi, download an eSIM with a mobile data package for the country 
you're visiting and stay connected.  Most newer mobile phones can download 
a virtual SIM card so you don't need to buy a physical SIM, including iPhone 11 
& later,
see device compatibility list. 
Maya.net 
is a reliable eSIM data retailer with a
4.5 out of 
5 Trustpilot rating and a
range of 
packages including unlimited data.


 









Get a Curve card 
for foreign travel
Most banks give you a poor 
exchange rate, then add a foreign transaction fee on top.  A Curve 
MasterCard means no foreign transaction fees and gives you the mid-market 
exchange rate, at least up to a certain limit, £500 per month at time of 
writing.  The money you spend on your Curve card goes straight onto one of your existing debit or 
credit cards.
How it works:  1.
Download the 
Curve app for 
iPhone or Android.  2. Enter your details & they'll send you a Curve 
MasterCard - they send to the UK and most European addresses.  3. 
Link your existing credit & debit cards to the app, you can link up to two 
cards with the free version of Curve, I link my normal debit card and my normal 
credit card.  4. Now use the Curve 
MasterCard to buy things online or in person or take cash from ATMs, exactly like a 
normal MasterCard. Curve does the currency conversion and puts the balance in 
your own currency onto 
whichever debit or credit card is currently selected in the Curve app.  You can even change 
your mind about which card it goes onto, within 14 days of the transaction.
I have a Curve Blue card myself, 
it means I can buy a coffee on a foreign station on a card without being stung 
by fees and lousy exchange rates, just by tapping the Curve card on their card 
reader.  The money goes through Curve to my normal debit card and is taken 
directly from my account (in fact I have the Curve card set up as payment card 
on Apple Pay on my iPhone, so can double-click my phone, let it do Face ID then 
tap the reader with the phone - even easier than digging a card out).  I get a little commission if you sign up to Curve, but I recommend it 
here because I think it's great. 
See details, download 
the app and get a Curve card, they'll give you £5 cashback through that 
link.


 







Get a VPN for safe browsing.  
Why you need 
a VPN

When you're travelling you often use free WiFi in public places which may not be 
secure.  A VPN encrypts your connection so it's always 
secure, even on unsecured WiFi.  It also means you can select the geographic location of the IP address you browse 
with, to get around geoblocking which a surprising number of websites apply. 
See VPNs & why you need one explained. 
ExpressVPN 
is a best buy with a
4.7 
out of 5 Trustpilot ranking which I use myself - I've signed up as an ExpressVPN affiliate, 
and if you go with
expressvpn.com using the links on this page, you should see a special deal, 
3 months free with an annual subscription.  I get a small commission to help 
support this site.


 







Carry an Anker powerbank
Tickets, reservations, vaccination records and Interrail or Eurail passes 
are often held digitally on your mobile phone, so it's vital to keep it charged.  
I always carry an
Anker 
powerbank which can recharge my phone several times over if I can't get to a 
power outlet. 

Buy from Amazon.co.uk or from
buy from Amazon.com.

 




Back to home 
page

 
One-day metro & local train passes for Tokyo:  There are 
1-day passes you can get to cover either metro trains or metro trains + 
JR local trains in the Tokyo area.  You need to clock up perhaps 5 
or 6 journeys in a day to make one of these worthwhile.  See

www.tokyometro.jp/en/ticket/value/1day. 
Back to top The lovely 5-star

Tokyo Station Hotel is another unique place to stay that deserves a special 
mention, even if (unlike capsule hotels) it's not a budget option!  The hotel occupies the 2nd & 3rd floors of the 
historic and beautifully-restored 1915 station building on the quieter Marunouchi side of 
Tokyo station.  Given that so many of Tokyo's classic 
hotels have been destroyed by earthquakes or wartime bombing then rebuilt as modern 
tower blocks, this has to be one of the most historically-interesting places to 
stay.  It's a luxurious and well-located choice, too, with a first-rate 
breakfast buffet served in the Atrium located inside the large central pitched 
roof above the 3rd floor.  And it's so handy for the trains. 

Tokyo Station Hotel, built in 1915. Double room. En suite bathroom. An excellent buffet breakfast in 
the Atrium. 
Back to top 
Any visit to Japan is a cultural experience.  Don't just stay in western 
hotels and visit the sights.  Make the places you stay part of the 
experience, by staying in a traditional Japanese ryokan, or even a capsule 
hotel. 
Ryokans are traditional Japanese inns.  The
rooms don't have beds, the floor is covered with tatami matting on which
you place a bedroll.  You may be offered a hot cup of
green Japanese tea when you first arrive.  You can sometimes find ryokans 
online on hotel booking sites such as 
www.booking.com.  
The very best and most famous ryokans can be fabulously expensive, but cheaper 
ones can be a budget option. 

Search for Ryokans in Tokyo. 

Search for Ryokans in Kyoto. In Kyoto, the excellent

Gion Ryokan Q-Beh (pictured above) is 10-15 minutes walk from the Kyomizu-dera 
temple, 10 minutes walk from the Gion Geisha district.  It has 
budget dorm rooms and private rooms, and free WiFi.  The photos above show a 
family room with shower & toilet. In Hiroshima, try the

Chizuru Ryokan, 10 minutes walk from the Peace Park. Another
classic Japanese experience
is to spend a night in a capsule hotel - which coincidentally is also a money-saving 
option for staying a night in the heart of Tokyo or another big city.  These are more civilised than you
might think. 
The
hotel reception looks like any other hotel reception.  Remember
to take your shoes off before you walk in, and place them in one of
the lockers in the lobby.  Upstairs, there will probably be
several floors of fibreglass sleeping capsules, each floor with its
own locker room and shared showers.  You change in the locker
room and put your clothes and bags into your locker.  Your
capsule has radio, alarm clock and TV, and a screen or curtain pulls
over the capsule entrance for privacy.  The main drawback is that the main 
clientele for these hotels is Japanese businessmen who have missed their last 
train home, so capsule hotels are usually male-only.  But capsule hotels 
for women do exist.  The pictures below show end-entry 
capsules, but some capsule hotels have side-entry types, and you'll now find 
some capsule hotels with larger, more hotel-style capsules too. You can usually walk into a 
capsule hotel and ask for a bed for the night, but if you want to pre-book this 
unique experience, try the
Capsulevalue Kanda in downtown Tokyo 
near Kanda station, one stop north of Tokyo station, a bed 
in downtown Tokyo for as little as ¥3,400 (about £26 or $32) per night.  Men 
and boys over 10 can stay there, but not women 
or children. The
Capsulevalue Kanda 
is 5 minutes walk from Kanda station, one stop north of Tokyo station. 
Back to top The cheapest & easiest way 
from Haneda Airport into Tokyo is to take the monorail from Haneda Airport 
International Terminal to Hamamatsucho station and change onto the JR 
Yamanote line to Tokyo station.  The monorail and JR local trains run 
every few minutes, total journey time from Haneda Airport to Tokyo station 
is only around 20 minutes. For fares & info see

www.tokyo-monorail.co.jp. Emerging into the Haneda 
Airport International Arrivals hall, follow the signs to the Monorail which 
is just a few metres straight ahead of you.   Buy a ticket from the row of 
machines at the monorail entrance as follows:  First look at the map 
above the machines and locate your destination station, let's say Tokyo 
station.  Note the price shown against that station.  On the touch 
screen, press English then press JR Transfer as you want a 
combined Monorail + JR local train ticket.  Then select the number of 
passengers and the relevant price on the screen.  You'll need coins or 
notes, the machines don't take cards. Japan Rail Passes cover 
both the Tokyo Monorail and JR local trains, so you can use your pass to 
travel to and from the airport if you like.  But as the journey doesn't 
cost very much, don't waste a valuable pass day on such a short journey 
unless you have pass days spare.  Arriving at Haneda Airport 
International Terminal, you can exchange your voucher for a Japan Rail Pass 
at the JR East Travel Service Centre next to the entrance to the monorail 
platforms, marked by the arrow in the photo below. Haneda Airport Arrivals 
lobby, monorail entrance.  From left to right in the picture 
above, an ATM (get some cash out!), ticket machines (buy a JR Transfer 
ticket for the monorail+train into Tokyo), the ticket gates onto the 
monorail platforms and (marked by the arrow) the JR East Travel Service 
Centre where you can exchange a voucher for a Japan Rail Pass if you 
like. Step 1, the monorail from Haneda Airport to Hamamatsucho interchange.  
Every few minutes, journey time 14 minutes.  It's driverless, so get a seat 
up front for great forward views as the monorail threads its way at high level 
through Tokyo's docklands. Step 2, JR Yamanote Line 
from Hamamatsucho to Tokyo station.  It's clearly signposted 
JR Yamanote Line and its trains are colour-coded green as shown 
above.  The line is a loop around Tokyo, look for the Tokyo 
direction.  It runs every few minutes. 
Back to top The Narita Express is 
a dedicated airport train that runs from Narita Airport Terminal 1 & Narita Airport Terminal 2 non-stop to Tokyo station in the heart of 
Tokyo.  It runs every half hour or so through the day taking 59 minutes.  
Just buy a ticket at the station.  The train has ordinary class and green 
car, all seats are reserved and all tickets come with an allocated seat. For times & prices see

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/ or 
see 
www.jreast.co.jp/e/nex. Tip:  The Narita Express 
uses the underground Sōbu Line platforms at Tokyo station.  
These are numbered 1-4, but they should not be confused with the regular 
platforms 1-4 above ground. Japan Rail Passes 
cover the Narita Express, but when arriving by air at Narita you'll first 
need to exchange your voucher for the actual Japan Rail Pass.  There 
are Japan Rail Pass exchange counters at both the ticket office and the 
Travel Service Centre at both the Narita Terminal 1 station and Narita 
Terminal 2 station. Narita express ordinary class. A Narita Express train at Tokyo. Luggage space. Green Car seating. Alternatively, the Keisei 
Skyliner links Narita Terminal 1 & Terminal 2 with Tokyo's Ueno station.  
This also runs every half hour or so, also non-stop, journey around 45 
minutes to Ueno, it's a fraction cheaper than the Narita Express and also 
all-reserved.  For times & prices see

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/.  
However, the Keisei Railway is a private non-JR railway so Japan Rail Passes 
cannot be used on it.   You can buy Keisei Skyliner tickets 
online in advance at

www.klook.com.  You get an open-date voucher. If you are counting every 
penny, you can more than halve the cost of airport transfers by using local 
or rapid trains between Narita and Tokyo rather then the Narita Express or 
Keisei Skyliner, changing at Chiba.  It'll take 30-45 minutes longer 
than using the Narita Express or Skyliner.  To find train times, use

world.jorudan.co.jp/mln/en/. 
Back to top You can travel from London to 
Tokyo in just 12-14 days by Trans-Siberian Railway for roughly £800 in round 
figures. Update 2024:  War 
in Ukraine & sanctions on Russia 
currently make this route impractical.  Moscow-Beijing trains are 
suspended. Option 1, via Vladivostok - Travel from London to Moscow, see the London
to Russia  page.  This takes 48 hours using the
Paris-Moscow Express. - Take the Rossiya from Moscow to 
Vladivostok, this runs every second day taking 7 days,
see the Trans-Siberian 
page.   - Take the ferry from Vladivostok to Sakaiminato in Japan, 
sailing once a week taking 36 hours,

see the Vladivostok-Japan ferry section. Option 2, via Beijing & Shanghai - Travel from London to Moscow, see the London
to Russia  page.  This takes 48 hours using the
Paris-Moscow Express. -  Travel from 
Moscow to Beijing on one of two weekly Trans-Siberian trains, taking 6 days,
see the Trans-Siberian 
page.   - Take an overnight or high-speed train 
from Beijing to Shanghai (see 
the Beijing to Shanghai page). - Take one of the two weekly 
ferries from Shanghai to either Osaka or Kobe in Japan,
see the China to 
Japan ferry section. Going via Vladivostok is simpler 
to organise as you need fewer visas, but going via Beijing more varied and 
interesting, and the one I'd recommend. 
Back to top For the weekly ferry from Sakaiminato in 
Japan to Vladivostok in Russia,
see the Trans-Siberian page. For ferries between Japan and Shanghai in 
China, see the China page. For ferries between Japan and South Korea, 
see the Korea page. 
Back to top If you want a tour agency to 
organise a tour of Japan for you with train travel, transfers & hotels included 
as a package, Railbookers specialise in train-based tours and have several suggested 
tours of Japan by rail, including Best of Japan, Scenic Japan and Golden Route 
of Japan.  These can be adjusted to your specification. 
Japan 
by Rail & Lonely Planet guides: 
In the age of the internet, a printed guidebook may seem an unnecessary expense, but 
you'll 
see so much more and know so much more about it 
if you have a decent pocket guidebook.  
The
Trailblazer Japan by Rail 
guide is specifically aimed at train travel around Japan, with both 
city and train information - highly recommended!  Other than that, for the serious independent 
traveller, the best guidebooks to take are either the Lonely Planet or 
the Rough Guide.  I personally prefer the layout of the Lonely 
Planet, but others prefer the Rough Guides.  Both guidebooks 
provide excellent levels of both practical information and historical 
background.   
Back to top Overland travel around Japan by train is 
an essential part of the experience, so 
once there, don't cheat and fly, stay on 
the ground!  But a long-haul flight might be unavoidable to reach Japan in 
the first place.   
Back to top 

 

 
Never travel overseas without travel insurance from a reliable 
insurer, with at least £1m or preferably £5m medical cover.  It should also cover 
cancellation and loss of cash and belongings, up to a sensible 
limit.  
An annual 
multi-trip policy is usually cheaper than several single-trip 
policies even for just 2 or 3 trips 
a year, I have an annual policy with
Staysure.co.uk 
myself.  Here are some suggested insurers.  
Seat61 gets a small commission if you buy through these 
links. 
  
www.staysure.co.uk 
offers enhanced Covid-19 protection & gets 4.7 out of 5 on

Trustpilot. 
  www.columbusdirect.com 
is also a well-know brand. 
  
If you live in the USA try

Travel Guard USA. 

 
Don't rely on WiFi, download an eSIM with a mobile data package for the country 
you're visiting and stay connected.  Most newer mobile phones can download 
a virtual SIM card so you don't need to buy a physical SIM, including iPhone 11 
& later,
see device compatibility list. 
Maya.net 
is a reliable eSIM data retailer with a
4.5 out of 
5 Trustpilot rating and a
range of 
packages including unlimited data. 



 

 Most banks give you a poor 
exchange rate, then add a foreign transaction fee on top.  A Curve 
MasterCard means no foreign transaction fees and gives you the mid-market 
exchange rate, at least up to a certain limit, £500 per month at time of 
writing.  The money you spend on your Curve card goes straight onto one of your existing debit or 
credit cards. How it works:  1.
Download the 
Curve app for 
iPhone or Android.  2. Enter your details & they'll send you a Curve 
MasterCard - they send to the UK and most European addresses.  3. 
Link your existing credit & debit cards to the app, you can link up to two 
cards with the free version of Curve, I link my normal debit card and my normal 
credit card.  4. Now use the Curve 
MasterCard to buy things online or in person or take cash from ATMs, exactly like a 
normal MasterCard. Curve does the currency conversion and puts the balance in 
your own currency onto 
whichever debit or credit card is currently selected in the Curve app.  You can even change 
your mind about which card it goes onto, within 14 days of the transaction. I have a Curve Blue card myself, 
it means I can buy a coffee on a foreign station on a card without being stung 
by fees and lousy exchange rates, just by tapping the Curve card on their card 
reader.  The money goes through Curve to my normal debit card and is taken 
directly from my account (in fact I have the Curve card set up as payment card 
on Apple Pay on my iPhone, so can double-click my phone, let it do Face ID then 
tap the reader with the phone - even easier than digging a card out).  I get a little commission if you sign up to Curve, but I recommend it 
here because I think it's great. 
See details, download 
the app and get a Curve card, they'll give you £5 cashback through that 
link. 

 
When you're travelling you often use free WiFi in public places which may not be 
secure.  A VPN encrypts your connection so it's always 
secure, even on unsecured WiFi.  It also means you can select the geographic location of the IP address you browse 
with, to get around geoblocking which a surprising number of websites apply. 
See VPNs & why you need one explained. 
ExpressVPN 
is a best buy with a
4.7 
out of 5 Trustpilot ranking which I use myself - I've signed up as an ExpressVPN affiliate, 
and if you go with
expressvpn.com using the links on this page, you should see a special deal, 
3 months free with an annual subscription.  I get a small commission to help 
support this site. 

 Tickets, reservations, vaccination records and Interrail or Eurail passes 
are often held digitally on your mobile phone, so it's vital to keep it charged.  
I always carry an
Anker 
powerbank which can recharge my phone several times over if I can't get to a 
power outlet. 

Buy from Amazon.co.uk or from
buy from Amazon.com. 
  

Back to home 
page