E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition Prior to the running of last Saturday’s Saudi Cup, the consensus was that Country Grammer might find the mile-and-an-eighth race a furlong too short. As it turned out, he only needed another six feet. That’s the distance Country Grammer trailed Japan-based  winner Panthalassa at the wire after his furious late rally fell short. The official margin was three-quarters of a length.Panthalassa won the race in just his second start on dirt – he finished 11th in the first – going gate to wire in 1:50.80. With a quarter-mile to run, Japanese runners looked as though they might be the first five horses across the finish line. Country Grammer spoiled the sweep, but Café Pharoah, Geoglyph and Crown Pride filled the next three spots to give Japan four of the first five finishers in the $20 million race.Taiba, sent off as the overwhelming favorite at 2-1, failed to fire and eventually checked in eighth of thirteen runners. “He just didn’t feel like running today,” Bob Baffert explained.  The trainer added that Taiba and Havnameltdown would be returning to California, while Country Grammer would remain in the Middle East to defend his title in the Dubai World Cup on Mar. 25.Japanese horses also won two of the other four Group races on Saturday’s card. Bathrat Leon edged U.S. multiple G1 winner Casa Creed in the 1351 Turf Sprint (G3), while Silver Sonic was much the best in the Red Sea Turf (G3).Champion sprinter Elite Power gave the U.S. its only Group win with a 3 ¼-length scorein the Riyadh Dirt Sprint (G3). The previously unbeaten American three-year-old Havnameltdown was out-finished in the Saudi Derby (G3) by Commissioner King, a son of the A.P. Indy-line stallion Commissioner, a winner of three graded races before being sold to Saudi interests in 2020.Forte goes in Fountain of YouthOne of each year’s most anticipated early races is the first start of the previous year’s  juvenile champion at three. The recent record is mixed. On the one hand, there was American Pharoah, who led off with a blowout win in the Rebel Stakes and went on to win the Triple Crown in 2015. Essential Quality won five graded stakes, including the Belmont, on his way to a three-year-old championship in 2021.At the other end of the spectrum, 2021 juvenile champ Corniche made it to the races only once as a three-year-old, finishing up the track in the Amsterdam Stakes before being retired. Storm the Court, two-year-old champ in 2019, failed to win in eight tries at three.

Forte, last year’s juvenile champ, won four of five starts as a two-year-old, coming up short only in the Sanford Stakes, where he finished fourth. He won his next three starts – the Hopeful, Breeders’ Futurity and BC Juvenile – and was an easy winner of the Eclipse Award with 243 of 246 votes cast. It’s worth noting that he wasn’t favored in any of those three G1s, where his post-time odds ranged between 4-1 and 6-1.As Forte attempts to compete at longer distances, he may not get much help from the top line of his pedigree. His sire, Violence, has an average winning distance of only 6.65 furlongs and has yet to sire the winner of a graded stakes beyond 1 1/16 miles.Forte is the 7-5 choice on the morning line in the Fountain of Youth. Champagne winner Blazing Sevens is next at 7-2. Three-year-old graded winners General Jim (Swale Stakes) and Rocket Can (Holy Bull) are listed at 6-1 and 8-1, respectively. Panthalassa won the race in just his second start on dirt – he finished 11th in the first – going gate to wire in 1:50.80. With a quarter-mile to run, Japanese runners looked as though they might be the first five horses across the finish line. Country Grammer spoiled the sweep, but Café Pharoah, Geoglyph and Crown Pride filled the next three spots to give Japan four of the first five finishers in the $20 million race. Taiba, sent off as the overwhelming favorite at 2-1, failed to fire and eventually checked in eighth of thirteen runners. “He just didn’t feel like running today,” Bob Baffert explained.  The trainer added that Taiba and Havnameltdown would be returning to California, while Country Grammer would remain in the Middle East to defend his title in the Dubai World Cup on Mar. 25. Japanese horses also won two of the other four Group races on Saturday’s card. Bathrat Leon edged U.S. multiple G1 winner Casa Creed in the 1351 Turf Sprint (G3), while Silver Sonic was much the best in the Red Sea Turf (G3). Champion sprinter Elite Power gave the U.S. its only Group win with a 3 ¼-length score in the Riyadh Dirt Sprint (G3). The previously unbeaten American three-year-old Havnameltdown was out-finished in the Saudi Derby (G3) by Commissioner King, a son of the A.P. Indy-line stallion Commissioner, a winner of three graded races before being sold to Saudi interests in 2020. One of each year’s most anticipated early races is the first start of the previous year’s  juvenile champion at three. The recent record is mixed. On the one hand, there was American Pharoah, who led off with a blowout win in the Rebel Stakes and went on to win the Triple Crown in 2015. Essential Quality won five graded stakes, including the Belmont, on his way to a three-year-old championship in 2021. At the other end of the spectrum, 2021 juvenile champ Corniche made it to the races only once as a three-year-old, finishing up the track in the Amsterdam Stakes before being retired. Storm the Court, two-year-old champ in 2019, failed to win in eight tries at three. Forte, last year’s juvenile champ, won four of five starts as a two-year-old, coming up short only in the Sanford Stakes, where he finished fourth. He won his next three starts – the Hopeful, Breeders’ Futurity and BC Juvenile – and was an easy winner of the Eclipse Award with 243 of 246 votes cast. It’s worth noting that he wasn’t favored in any of those three G1s, where his post-time odds ranged between 4-1 and 6-1. As Forte attempts to compete at longer distances, he may not get much help from the top line of his pedigree. His sire, Violence, has an average winning distance of only 6.65 furlongs and has yet to sire the winner of a graded stakes beyond 1 1/16 miles. Forte is the 7-5 choice on the morning line in the Fountain of Youth. Champagne winner Blazing Sevens is next at 7-2. Three-year-old graded winners General Jim (Swale Stakes) and Rocket Can (Holy Bull) are listed at 6-1 and 8-1, respectively. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group