
			The daughter of Sir Rocco Forte is ready to step out of his shadow with her beauty brand – but getting kudos has not been easy
		 She may not have the notoriety of Paris Hilton, but Irene Forte has still worked hard to throw off her hotel heiress associations.  The middle child of Sir Rocco Forte – the 78-year-old famous for his string of five-star European and British properties – launched an eponymous beauty brand five years ago. Now, it has received funding from L Catterton, the prestigious private equity firm, and Irene (pronounced Ee-ren-eh) is finally being treated as a serious entrepreneur in her own right. For the Oxford graduate, having a surname associated with privilege has been complicated.  “The advantages are that it opens a lot of doors. I launched across the spas in my father’s hotels and there was a network I was introduced to,” she said.  “The disadvantage is that you’re not taken seriously. The hotel heiress thing has always come up a lot and people think my brand is a hobby or ask, ‘Do you just sell products in your dad’s hotels?’” The Forte associations do still loom large, and Irene, 34, doesn’t attempt to side-step them, despite no longer working for the company.  We are sitting in the beautiful £5,850 per-night Sir Paul Smith suite at Brown’s, her father’s Mayfair hotel, and while she is immediately very friendly and likeable, her sleek ponytail, silk shirt, platform heels and glowing skin do distinguish her from the average woman with a three-month-old baby.  “We still have a maternity nurse, which helps,” she said, in reference to her daughter Alisea, who was born in early May. “She helps us at night because I just felt so foggy without sleep.” And this was not the time to be foggy. The documents from L Catterton came through the day before Irene gave birth. In the weeks afterwards, she and her team had to work out how this major injection of cash would transform her company, from growing the brand in the US to giving an upcoming product launch some real oomph.  “I had so much to do,” she recalled. “But at the same time, I discovered I could just stare at Alisea for 40 minutes.” Irene Forte Skincare, the brand, was initially dreamt up as a way of unifying the disparate spas across the Rocco Forte portfolio. But to the surprise of Sir Rocco – and even, it seemed, of Irene – the skincare line has already spread its wings far beyond the confines of the family company.  Available in more than 100 department stores and boutiques worldwide, it is particularly popular in the US, where the Fortes do not own any hotels and are not part of the upper-crust social circuit. The products themselves, with their green, red and gold packaging and fragrant, creamy formulations, are undeniably sumptuous and Irene believed her success comes down to the fact that everything is naturally sourced – mostly from plants found on their estate in Sicily – but sold in a luxurious way. The prices reflect this: her Lavender Face Cream is £130 while her Olive Eye Cream is £140.  As Irene rattled through the list of ingredients – olive, sweet almond and aniseed oil from the gardens of her father’s property at Verdura in Sicily; pistachio oil, lemons and prickly pear from elsewhere on the island; and hibiscus seeds and apples from northern Italy – she stressed that for all its natural roots, her brand was firmly rooted in science.  “I think we can get so much from the ground, but it has to be smart as not everything in nature is kind on the skin,” she said. “Ingredients need to be extracted and combined in the right way, and formulas need to be scientifically balanced.” Irene Forte also has the one thing all fledgling brands dream of: a hero product. The Hibiscus Night Cream makes up nearly a quarter of sales and its rich formula has become something of a cult beauty buy. It is also part of the reason why the brand has 50 per cent repeat customers, when the industry standard is 25 per cent.  “It honestly does work,” said Irene. “When I was breastfeeding, I would apply it every time I woke up in the night and despite being completely sleep deprived, my skin had never looked better.” Like most children of the very successful, Irene cut her entrepreneurial teeth from within the family stable. She spent her year out from university as communications manager at the five-star Verdura hotel in Sicily – and laughs when I ask if it was similar to The White Lotus.  “The White Lotus is a great show,” she replied. “I absolutely loved it, but that’s all I’m saying.” That year in Sicily gave her an abiding love of the island – despite having Italian ancestry, she and her siblings grew up entirely in England. In 2021, she married her French husband Felix Winckler in a spectacular three-day event attended by Princess Eugenie and Cressida Bonas.  The ceremony took place in a Norman cathedral in the medieval mountaintop town of Caltabellotta. Sicilian horses and carriages carried the guests to the clifftop dinner and Irene wore her great-grandmother’s lace veil.  Society weddings aside, the year in Italy also gave Irene a love of hotels (“You turn into one very tight-knit family”) and after graduating, she returned to the fold to work at Brown’s.  “I can see now that it was one of the most useful experiences of my life,” she said. “But at the time I had just finished Oxford, I was a bit arrogant and thought I should be doing something serious. But Dad correctly made me do the standard development course, which meant working on reception, marketing, housekeeping, everything.” Guests at the time may have been surprised to know that the woman cleaning their bathroom was in fact the owner’s daughter, but Irene insists that reception was the hardest work: “You’re just standing there at all hours of the day dealing with people complaining – and the guest is always right.” From there, Sir Rocco gave Irene quite a bit of freedom to flex what she described as her entrepreneurial spirit. Over the next few years, she launched a families programme, a spas programme and created a careers app. “I was allowed to do loads,” she said. “This got me fired up – the skincare was just another one of my many projects and I’m aware that I would never have gotten that freedom anywhere else. Dad saw I was quite entrepreneurial and so long as there was a return on investment, he just let me figure it out.” Amid this, Sir Rocco may later have felt a few twinges of regret. “Initially he didn’t want me to leave the family business, so that was difficult,” Irene recalled.  “It took time and whilst he doesn’t exactly praise me, he does talk a lot to other people about my brand. He gives me tough love because he thinks he drives me, and to be honest, it probably does.” After the investment from L Catterton was confirmed, it took Sir Rocco a few weeks to phone and congratulate Irene. But when he eventually did, he was fulsome in his praise.  “He has definitely forgiven me. And anyway, he has two other brilliant kids working in the business. I think he liked the idea of having us all inside – but practically it makes more sense that one of us left.” I ask if there is a Succession-like battle coming down the line and she shakes her head: “We’ve always stayed in our own lanes: my brother runs development, and my sister runs food and beverage.  “With three of us, it was very easy at the beginning, but I wonder if it might have become more challenging later. So not quite Succession, but I definitely relate to elements of it.” And like certain members of the extended Roy family, Irene has a year of expansion, investments and balance sheets ahead of her. Does she feel like people are finally taking her seriously?  “Well, I was working on the financial modelling for a project recently and someone asked if my brother was going to do it for me,” she said.  “Bear in mind, my brother has nothing to do with my brand and doesn’t have a financial background. But I guess that’s just what being a female entrepreneur is.”