The smart lock screen product offers users personalised content, without the need to unlock their phones or download an app. But to conquer Japan is a tall order  
Initially, Glance consumers in Japan will be able to discover news, trending content, and gaming on their lock screens.  Piyush Shah, Co-founder of InMobi Group and COO & President of Glance (right) When we first meet, InMobi and Glance co-founders Piyush Shah and Abhay Singhal have just flown into town, from Singapore and Silicon Valley respectively. We’re at the JW Marriott in Mumbai’s Juhu, trying to find a quiet corner at the bustling café, and their eyes dart around.
Related stories






Content, creators and commerce: How Glance wants to lead India's next big online opportunity









India's seeing a flurry of new unicorn startups. What's going on, and what's next?









Park+, building a super app for car owners






“This brings back so many memories,” Singhal, who is also CEO of InMobi Ads, says. InMobi started out of Mumbai, and 15 years ago, back when they didn’t have a nice enough office to call clients in to, they would park themselves right here, Singhal recalls, nostalgically.And now, all these years later, the duo is part of the co-founding team that built India’s first unicorn, InMobi, an advertising technology company. InMobi was also India’s first profitable unicorn, and the first Indian company that Softbank invested in, back in 2011. Today, the team also runs another unicorn, called Glance, which now has its sights set on Softbank’s home turf, and one of the toughest markets in the world: Japan. An eye above the spectacle: Photography at the Olympics 2024
 Photo of the day: Raksha Bandhan 2024
 Argentine lithium a boon for some, doom for others
 Greeks try tropical crops in climate change experiment
 Bajaj Electricals: Sailing the winds of change
 The CMO Survey: Marketers spend on new technologies as they battle usage and impact challenges
 Photo of the day: Calm before the storm
 Photo of the day: Consequences
 Climate change fuelled deadly Kerala landslides, say scientists
 From Parth Jindal's Olympics efforts to a new chapter of IndiGo vs Air India, our top stories of the week
 Students want more environmental health taught in medical schools
 DBS Bank India launches 'India-Singapore Connect' In 30th year in India,in association With CNBC-TV18
 L&T Semiconductor has a pipeline of 20 automotive clients so far: CEO Sandeep Kumar
 AI may reproduce gender, ethnicity biases in mental health tools
 Photo of the day: Speak now
