STORY: The U.N.'s nuclear watchdog approved Japan's plan to release treated radioactive water from the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima plant into the ocean on Tuesday (July 4). International Atomic Energy Agency chief Rafael Grossi called it "a very special night," as he handed Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida the final report after a two-year review. It said Japan's plans were consistent with global safety standards and that they'd have a, quote, "negligible radiological impact to people and the environment." Grossi later told reporters at the Japan National Press Club, where he was met by a small group of protesters, that he'd seek to allay lingering concerns. "The IAEA will have a continued presence at the site, we will continue the review if the plan moves forward because as you know this is a decision by the government." Japan's government maintains the process is safe, insisting it will act with transparency, and saying it has treated the water used to cool the fuel rods of the Fukushima plant after it was damaged by the 2011 earthquake and resulting tsunami. Japan hasn't specified a date to start the release of the water - enough to fill 500 Olympic-sized swimming pools. Japanese fishing unions have long opposed the plan. They say it would undo work to repair reputations after several countries banned some Japanese food products after the disaster. Some neighboring countries have also complained over the years about the threat to the marine environment and public health, with Beijing emerging as the biggest critic, calling for the suspension of the plan. Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen Often revered as an astute judge of character, Queen Elizabeth II told friends that she found Donald Trump “very rude,” and mused that he must have “some sort of arrangement” with his wife, Melania.The stunning claims are made in a new biography of the late queen which is being serialized in the Daily Mail. It also says that the late monarch “particularly disliked” Trump’s habit of looking over her shoulder, as if “in search of others more interesting.”Elizabeth hosted Trump twice during her rei Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. When Marlon realised his daughter was being groomed and sexually exploited by grown men, he engaged with police, doing everything he could to keep his 14-year-old child safe.  "For a child who has been groomed and then taken to a police station to be strip searched is just massively inappropriate, its appalling," says Marlon.  The search was conducted by female officers in front of a glass door, says Marlon, meaning she was also visible to male officers. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok "We joked that it wasn't April 1st," a Ukrainian soldier identified only by his first name, Serhiy, told The Economist. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. A former Soviet aircraft carrier burned in a waterway near Shanghai over the weekend, the latest setback for the decommissioned warship since its conversion into a Chinese tourist attraction. All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window Keep up to date as Arsenal look set to complete £30m swoop while Chelsea continue their new striker search A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. The post 15 best “clucking good” chicken rice stalls in Singapore [2024] appeared first on SETHLUI.com. The post Baba Ho Liao Restaurant: Peranakan eatery serving ayam pong teh, Nyonya laksa & chap chai appeared first on SETHLUI.com.