Who’s your Kentucky Derby horse? Saturday’s Lexington Stakes at Keeneland marked the end of the prep-race season, and now the field is essentially set for the 149th running of the Kentucky Derby on May 6 at Churchill Downs. History shows there likely will be a couple of defections over the next couple of weeks — more on that later — but we know the top story lines for this year’s race. Forte is the likely favorite. Japan could have three contenders. Bob Baffert is out once again. Several contenders already have arrived at Churchill Downs to prepare for the Kentucky Derby, and others will make their way over the next two weeks. Nothing about the field is official until the post-position draw on Monday, May 1, but here’s what we know right now about the top 20 horses on the Kentucky Derby points list. Kentucky Derby 2023: Here's your complete guide to this year's race at Churchill Downs Run for the Roses field: Which horses are in and on bubble for the 2023 Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs? Todd Pletcher has won the Kentucky Derby twice — Super Saver in 2010 and Always Dreaming in 2017 — and may have the top two choices in this year’s race. Florida Derby winner Forte is expected to be the Kentucky Derby favorite. He’s looking to become just the fourth 2-year-old champion since 1980 to go on and win the Kentucky Derby, joining Street Sense (2006-07), American Pharoah (2014-15) and Nyquist (2015-16). Blue Grass winner Tapit Trice has won four straight races and could be the second choice in the Kentucky Derby morning line. Louisiana Derby winner Kingsbarns, who’s undefeated in three races, is Pletcher’s third Kentucky Derby contender. “We feel great about the hand we have right now,” Pletcher said. Pletcher is one of three trainers in the Derby field with multiple horses, joining Louisville’s Brad Cox (Angel of Empire, Hit Show, Verifying) and Tim Yakteen (Practical Move, Reincarnate). Cox could have a fourth contender in Jace’s Road, who currently ranks No. 21 on the points leaderboard. Five trainers are set to make their first Kentucky Derby start — Larry Rivelli (Two Phil’s), Hidetaki Otonashi (Derma Sotogake), Ben Colebrook (Raise Cain), Joel Marr (Wild On Ice) and Yoshito Yahagi (Continuar). 'We feel great': Tapit Trice takes Blue Grass, strengthening Todd Pletcher's hand for Kentucky Derby 2023 How many horses have won Triple Crown?: Meet winners of the Derby, Preakness and Belmont Only two horses bred in Japan have competed in the Kentucky Derby — Master Fencer (sixth in 2019) and Crown Pride (13th in 2022) — but that number will increase this year. Derma Sotogake and Continuar are safely in the field, and Mandarin Hero could join them with a few defections. Derma Sotogake, a son of Mind Your Biscuits, won the UAE Derby on March 25 to clinch his spot in the Run for the Roses. Continuar, a son of Drefong, earned his spot via the Japan Road to the Kentucky Derby. He finished third in the UAE Derby. Mandarin Hero currently ranks No. 25 on the points leaderboard and would need five defections to make the Derby field. The son of Shanghai Bobby was the runner-up in the Santa Anita Derby. Sixteen of the horses in the current Derby field were bred in Kentucky. Angel of Empire will try to become the third Pennsylvania-bred to win the Derby, joining Lil E. Tee (1992) and Smarty Jones (2004). Wild On Ice will try to become the third Texas-bred to win the Derby, joining Assault (1946) and Middleground (1950). In Case You Missed It: Derma Sotogake wins UAE Derby Wild On Ice’s Ken Tohill, 60, is set to become the oldest jockey in Kentucky Derby history. Tohill will get the chance after guiding Wild On Ice, a 35-1 long shot, to victory in the Grade 3 Sunland Park Derby on March 26. According to Equibase.com, Tohill has won 4,099 races since 1979 with career earnings of $71.1 million. The Sunland Park Derby victory was his first in a graded-stakes race. Jon Court became the oldest jockey in Derby history in 2019 when the 58-year-old guided Long Range Toddy to a 16th-place finish. Happy Birthday?: Why are Kentucky Derby thoroughbred horses born January 1? The history behind the practice While most of the top 20 are committed to running as long as they’re healthy, at least two trainers have expressed at least some doubt. Trainer Chad Brown told the Daily Racing Form he wants to see Blazing Sevens work at least once before committing to the Kentucky Derby. Blazing Sevens finished third in the Blue Grass and is expected to work Saturday or Sunday at Keeneland. Brown chose to skip last year’s Kentucky Derby with Early Voting, who went on to win the Preakness. Sun Thunder trainer Kenny McPeek told the DRF he’s still on the fence about his horse’s status for the Derby, adding, “I do believe the partnership’s inclination is to run.” Sun Thunder finished fourth in the Blue Grass. The top three horses on the bubble for the Derby are No. 21 Jace’s Road (third in Louisiana Derby), No. 22 Skinner (third in Santa Anita Derby) and No. 23 Cyclone Mischief (third in Florida Derby). Kentucky Derby 2023: What to look for in the horses in the Churchill Downs paddock Good Magic, who was the runner-up to Justify in the 2018 Kentucky Derby, has three progeny in this year’s field — Mage, Blazing Sevens and Reincarnate. Violence (Forte, Raise Cain), Into Mischief (Rocket Can, Sun Thunder) and Candy Ride (Hit Show, Confidence Game) have two sons in the field. Violence, trained by Pletcher, finished second behind Orb in the 2013 Fountain of Youth but never raced again. Into Mischief, trained by Richard Mandella, was 3-3-0 in six career starts. His best win came in the Grade 1 CashCall Futurity in 2007 at Hollywood Park. Candy Ride, bred in Argentina and trained by Ron McAnally, won all six of his career races, capped by a victory in the Grade 1 Pacific Classic in 2003 at Del Mar. Jason Frakes: 502-582-4046; jfrakes@courier-journal.com; Twitter: @KentuckyDerbyCJ. This article originally appeared on Louisville Courier Journal: Horses in the 2023 Kentucky Derby: Everything to know ahead of draw Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if there will be a 100-game winner in MLB this season, take a look at the panic meter for teams in baseball and discuss the Rays recalling top prospect Junior Caminero. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL.