Ruby Sharma [Source photo: ATI] Dallas-based manufacturing company ATI Inc. announced that global business leader Ruby Sharma has been appointed to its board of directors. Sharma has cross-sector financial and audit committee expertise, and she has a track record of strengthening regulator and investor relationships, and incorporating diversity, equity and inclusion with Fortune 500 multi-national corporations. “Ruby is a renowned financial expert in the field of audit and risk,” ATI Board Chair, President, and CEO Robert S. Wetherbee said in a statement. “Her expertise in financial oversight and transformational change and work as a change enabler will be invaluable to ATI and our Board. Ruby’s broad global perspective – developed across multiple cultures, geographies, and business experiences – will help us continue to accelerate in our transformation to an aerospace and defense leader.” Sharma was managing partner of RNB Strategic Advisors from 2018 to 2022, where she guided public and private companies in executing organizational strategies and optimizing profitable growth, ATI said. Before that, she was senior partner at Ernst & Young for 15 years until her retirement in 2017. Sharma was a principal for The Center for Board Matters at EY, having developed and built EY’s global strategy and execution infrastructure for governance services to boards and C-suites. “ATI is an innovation powerhouse with a history of transformational change,” Sharma said in a statement. “It’s strong in high-performing industries, and I look forward to sharing my expertise to help ATI continue to sustainably grow.” ATI is a $3.8 billion global producer of high-performance materials and solutions for the global aerospace and defense markets and critical applications in electronics, medical, and specialty energy.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Girls Inc. of Metropolitan Dallas is expanding its impact in helping girls dream big and learn skills for life-long success with help from Capital One. Want to map your innovation-to-market commercialization path or apply for federal money through the $4 billion America's Seed Fund program? Or maybe you're an entrepreneur seeking to validate your customer's needs. The Texas SBDC Technology Commercialization Center wants to help. United Way's Jennifer Sampson will serve as a member of the board's Enterprise Risk Committee, and American Airlines' Derek Kerr will serve as a member of the board's Audit Committee. McKinney-based Globe Life Inc. announced that Alice S. Cho, senior adviser to the Boston Consulting Group, and David A. Rodriguez, former EVP and global chief human resources officer of Marriott International Inc., were appointed to its board of directors. Cho brings extensive board experience in financial services, risk management, regulatory compliance, corporate governance, and digital technology issues via her advisory and management positions at Boston Consulting Group, Promontory Financial Group, BITS (Bank Policy Institute), the Federal Reserve Board, and the U.S. Executive Office of the President. She also serves on the board of First Interstate BancSystem. Rodriguez brings to the… “It’s thrilling to see the Proto M step out into the real world.” David Nussbaum Inventor and Founder Proto Inc. .…on bringing the first public activation of Proto's new hologram device to Dallas Proto Inc. is the creator of technology that makes hologram-based communication a reality. With awards from CES, SXSW, and Fast Company, the Tim Draper-backed startup is the innovator of a plug-and-play, self-contained holoportation device. Nussbaum's original holoportation device, a human-sized Epic (above) has grabbed headlines for beaming people around the world in 3D, lifesize form. Now it's launched a mini-me version of the Epic called the Proto… North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.