The leading voice on life, politics, culture and social activism direct to your inbox.   The Growth Impact Fund (GIF) was launched to provide investment and support to social enterprises that are dedicated to creating social impact and tackling inequity. The fund recently announced their first two investees – Neuropool and Doing What Really Matters (DWRM). Jack from Neuropool, Lord Bird founder of the Big Issue, Ruth from DWRM. Image: Sophie Okonkwo. Weds, 21st June – The Bank of America and Greater Manchester Combined Authority-backed Growth Impact Fund, developed by Big Issue Invest and UnLtd, hosted a conference today to celebrate the first round of investees of the £25 million fund. The Growth Impact Fund (GIF) was launched to provide investment and support to social enterprises that are dedicated to creating social impact and tackling inequity. The fund recently announced their first two investees – Neuropool and Doing What Really Matters (DWRM). DWRM is a social enterprise that works with universities to offer degree courses to facilitate prisoner rehabilitation and has received £150,000 in investment from the Fund. Neuropool is a neurodivergent talent platform which aims to get more than 10,000 neurodivergent people into employment by 2030 and has received £300,000 in funding from the Growth Impact Fund. The conference took place in Manchester today, and brought together a plethora of social enterprises from the North West to connect with peers, funders, and partners, who all had a chance to learn more about the Growth Impact Fund, and how they can access similar support. Lord Bird, the founder of The Big Issue, was the keynote speaker. He shared his experience of building a successful social enterprise – from starting the Big Issue to starting Big Issue Invest, the importance of the Growth Impact Fund and what it can do for social enterprises across the North West and UK. The speakers also included the founders of Neuropool and DWRM, who spoke about their work and the support GIF has provided them. The conference included panel discussions, workshops, and networking opportunities, as well as showcasing success stories from social enterprises that have received support from the Growth Impact Fund. Attendees also had the opportunity to connect with funders and partners who are committed to supporting social enterprises that drive social change. Sarah Faber, Investment Director at Big Issue Invest, said: “We are thrilled to celebrate the successes of the Growth Impact Fund and the social enterprises that have benefited from it. Through this fund, we are able to support some of the most innovative and impactful social enterprises in the UK, and we look forward to continuing to drive positive change across the UK.” Lord Bird, founder of the Big Issue and crossbench peer, said: “I am so pleased to have been a part of today’s event, celebrating the Growth Impact Fund with fellow social entrepreneurs from across the North West. The Fund is committed to supporting social enterprises that prioritise creating a positive social impact by promoting social equity. It is inspiring to witness the tremendous impact these organizations are having on their communities.” Mathu Jeyaloganathan, Head of Investments at UnLtd, said: “We’re thrilled to clelebrate the Fund and the thriving business sector in Manchester. This event is a testament to our dedication to supporting social purpose organisations in the Northwest and our belief in the untapped potential and impact of businesses throughout the UK.” Social enterprises interested in the Growth Impact Fund can visit growthimpactfund.org.uk to learn more and register their interest or email enquiriesGIF@bigissueinvest.com. Subscribe to your local Big Issue vendor  By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive
										messages from the Big Issue and our partners.