James Beecham is the CTO and cofounder of ALTR. James holds multiple software patents and a degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering.    In the first century, Greek professor Heron of Alexandria created a coin-operated machine to dispense holy water. Back then, visitors to the city temples took more holy water than they paid for. His vending machine applied levers and countermeasures to give people only what they had permission to get. This arguably was the introduction to self-service governance. Since then, many industries have grown self-service models—often focused on enabling nontechnical users, including information technology and data analytics. The popularity of self-service analytics has exposed a need for better data and access security. As you open up sensitive information like customer personally identifiable information (PII) for self-service research and BI projects, you need to make governance easy to implement in order to prevent misuse or breaches of that data. As most of us aren't Greek professors, I'm sharing four steps to ensure your journey toward self-service governance is successful. Many organizations, especially midsized and large enterprises, collect sensitive data and need to gain insight from it. These organizations are constantly creating and storing data. As pools of confidential data grow, more users will want access. Data owners don't want users to take more from the pool than authorized, especially in tightly regulated industries. Companies with only a few admins and data specialists must scale their ability to oversee and control access to confidential information. The first step to scale is to add automation to your governance process. Automation and scale can help resource-constrained teams avoid accidental or malicious data leakage and regulatory violations. Proper automation should allow you to apply policies by groups or roles for organizations of any size, including those with thousands of users. Even companies with advanced technical capabilities and large budgets could benefit from self-service techniques. For example, distributed teams that manage information workflows can apply meta tags automatically to new confidential data as it moves to a centralized cloud data warehouse. They can then automate access controls for each new user based on their roles. Every organization, regardless of size, needs to identify regulated data in its systems and apply access controls. Data governance can help teams oversee and control access to confidential information. You could unlock automation for data security faster with a no-code/low-code approach. A no-code approach could make self-service data governance easier by handling all of the complicated things behind a simple interface. Your data teams won't have to write hundreds of lines of code to handle complex, repetitive procedures like applying granular access policies to many users simultaneously. To simplify your transition to no-code, start with a pilot. Look for no-code/low-code technology that lets you move quickly into implementation. Prioritize options that let you sign on to the service in minutes without requiring long-term contracts. Then, connect your cloud database and control access with classification-based policies that don't require your team to write code to allow only approved users to view the data. When the situation calls for more customization, like trying to see who has access to your cloud database, test the low-code capability. For example, by making a small configuration change to the data visualization software, you could allow a large group of analysts to connect securely through a single cloud database service account to their data stored on the database while maintaining visibility into the data accessed by each individual data visualization software user. A few lines of code could let you avoid the manual creation of individual user profiles in the database, which is a huge time sink if you're supporting thousands of analysts in a typical distributed enterprise. A no-code/low-code capability could make the job of managing data governance infinitely easier. In this era of infamous data breaches and financial penalties for noncompliance, time is your enemy. You could burn up valuable energy implementing governance instead of focusing on other important initiatives. Do-it-yourself or build-it-yourself solutions can increase the chance of mistakes and take more time to correct them. It means increasing expenses by hiring multiple developers to reconfigure security for cloud databases. Instead, admins and owners can focus on applying self-service governance for hundreds of new users or thousands of rows of information flowing into your infrastructure daily. They can focus on eliminating breaches by automating "row-level" security for customer data tables. They can quickly apply access by location to stay in compliance with international privacy laws. With self-service governance techniques, data owners can reduce risk by working smarter, not harder. Some self-governance solutions carry hidden costs and obstacles. These would hamstring data owners based on the types of tags or classifications they can use on the database. Look for offerings with enterprise-class access controls and third-party integrations with unlimited data classification and access controls for free as well as simple terms for leveling up in cost and capabilities. By clicking a few on-screen boxes, you should be able to find, classify, mask and tag your sensitive data within an hour. You should also be able to view analytics on data usage and provide an easy audit trail. This should be a far better approach to controlling data access than hoping you aren't breaking laws or hoping hackers will skip past your door to other targets. Some business leaders may believe their companies don't have the skills, time or resources to adopt self-service governance, but the opposite is true. The feature set, policy customization and delivery models have progressed to where it should be easy to get off the ground. In the end, you don't need to trade security efficacy or business opportunities to manage data governance. You don't even need code or cash. By pulling on the right levers for automation, you can get more information faster into the hands of more users who can take advantage of the data. It's never too soon to start. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 