Last night, California Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law Senate Bill 54, which will require venture capital firms in the state to annually report the diversity of the founders they are backing. This is the United States’ first piece of legislation that aims to increase diversity within the venture capital landscape. The law will go into effect on March 1, 2025. Once the law goes into effect, any venture capital firm operating in the state (that includes VC firms headquartered in California, have operations in the state, have invested in companies that operate in or are based in the state, or have received investments from California residents) must report, for example, the race of the people they back, as well as their disability status and whether they're a member of the LGBTQ+ community. It notes that disclosing information is voluntary and founding teams won't be penalized for not answering. The bill also requires firms to collect and release their diversity data to the public. The information collected will be aggregated before being publicly released, similar to how the state handles information about wages. Those who fail to comply with the new law may face a penalty as decided by the courts. “This bill resonates deeply with my commitment to advance equity and provide for greater economic empowerment of historically underrepresented communities,” Gov. Newsom wrote in his letter signing the bill. New California law would force firms to report diversity metrics SB 54 will be added to the existing Business and Professional Code as “Chapter 40. Fair Investment Practices by Investment Advisers,” and will also amend part of the Government Code in relation to professions. Tech policy advocates are thrilled that the bill has been passed. Funding to startups led by women, Black founders, or Latinx founders has never risen more than 5% in any given year, and there is hope that this bill will provide more transparency into how venture capital dollars are allocated, especially given that California is one of the biggest markets for venture capital investments. “With Governor Newsom’s signing of SB 54, California is extending its nation-leading efforts to expand equity by bringing transparency to venture capital investment decisions with the goal of helping more women and minority-owned startups access the VC lifeline upon which entrepreneurs depend,” said Sen. Nancy Skinner, who sponsored the bill. Allison Byers, a tech policy advocate who helped ideate the bill, told TechCrunch that she wants this law to encourage funds to allocate more venture dollars to women and people of color. She also hopes that this law increases awareness of funding discrepancies and reveals the funds that are supporting diverse founders and those that do not. “This transparency will empower women and people of color to make informed decisions about where to invest their valuable time,” she added. “Often, we dedicated a significant portion of our time pitching to fund managers who express interest in our opportunities but whose firms do not ultimately provide funding to individuals in our demographic groups.” Before the bill was passed in the Senate, its critics, including the National Venture Capital Association and TechNet, a trade association that hails itself as “a bipartisan network of technology CEOs and senior executives," worried the bill could harm VCs. The NVCA wrote in a letter to Skinner that the bill could produce “misleading and counterproductive data that would hurt the cause of diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts while creating unnecessary costs and risk for California venture capitalists.” TechNet, meanwhile, worried that VC firms would face potential liabilities resulting from the release of sensitive information to the state’s civil rights department. TechNet and NVCA did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Both organizations, however, had said they supported the notion of boosting diversity within venture capital. In Newsom’s signing letter, he said the bill’s language needed to be cleaned up, saying that there were a few “problematic provisions and unrealistic timelines” currently outlined. The cleanup will be part of the 2024-2025 Governor’s Budget to “ensure this important policy to improve the diversity of venture capital investments can be implemented properly,” he wrote. Byers said the next goal is to help push forth matching bills throughout the nation. “We are already in discussions with leaders in other states and countries who are interested in enacting similar policies,” she said. Update: This story was updated to clarify who the funding disparities are impacting. This story was updated again on Oct. 11 to clarify that teams will be asked whether anyone is a member of the LGBTQ+ community and not just their sexual orientation. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.