Fractal Software, a venture studio that creates startups by hatching its own ideas and hiring founders to execute, has laid off staff and will stop starting new companies, Insider has learned. After forming about 130 companies in the span of three years, Fractal now wants to throw its resources behind its existing portfolio, according to four people with knowledge of the matter. This change in focus means the company has no further need for recruiters, who work to enlist potential founders, or investors and research analysts, who are responsible for coming up with the ideas for those founders to pursue. At least 28 employees, about 25% of staff, have left Fractal in the past six months, according to LinkedIn. Fractal confirmed layoffs occurred starting in December, but would not specify the number of employees affected. A person close to the company said it has added new hires to a portfolio support team that gives founders assistance with product, sales, recruiting, and fundraising. The people recently notified of layoffs are staying on until September 1, a spokesperson confirmed. The job cuts follow a round of layoffs in December, which mostly affected the venture studio's recruiters. Fractal has a few more startups in the pipeline, with a goal of launching 145 companies, two people familiar with the company's strategy said. Fractal is still hiring for roles to start those new companies. In a job posting seen by Insider, the venture studio said it was still seeking engineers and operators to fill its "last few spots."  "This may be your last opportunity to start a company through Fractal as this will be the last cohort of companies we launch before we shift 100% of our focus to our portfolio companies," the posting said. Fractal appears to be regrouping at a difficult time for startups. The market downturn has made funding for startups harder to come by, particularly for late-stage companies. So as Fractal's startups go out to raise new funds, some are struggling to shore up cash, according to several founders in the portfolio. Fractal's pullback from creating new startups suggests it needs to put time and money into helping its existing companies prosper, before it takes on any additional risk. "Naturally, having launched so many companies, and having seen the initial success those companies have had, we're eager to ensure they continue to grow for years to come," Omri Bloch, chief executive officer of Fractal, told Insider in an email. "That's why we are moving to our next chapter and focusing our time and resources on the companies we have created and the small business customers they serve." 
                                Related stories
                               Founded in 2020, Fractal had been aiming to make it easier for founders to create software firms that target specific industries, a category known as vertical SaaS. Investors had long ignored such startups because they felt their markets were too small to produce an outsized outcome. That's now changed as companies like Procore, Toast, and ServiceTitan show that industry-specific software providers can become multibillion-dollar juggernauts, and changes in buyer behavior give way to new opportunities. Fractal's pitch to founders was to give them a made-to-order business idea and a cofounder to work with. According to founders and former employees, each startup received $1 million through a financial instrument called a simple agreement for future equity or SAFE note, which gave Fractal the right to own certain shares of a startup at the next financing event. It assigned a standard post-money valuation cap of $4 million, which was later raised to $6 million. In recent years, Fractal has produced vertical SaaS startups like scrap recycler software company GreenSpark, which received a Series A investment from Tiger Global in 2021, and behavioral healthcare software startup Ritten, which landed a seed check from 8VC in 2022. Regulatory filings show Fractal had raised $40 million in funding to cover costs like payroll and office space, from backers including Bienville Capital, an asset management firm in New York, and Joe Lonsdale's 8VC. A person familiar with Fractal's finances said it closed an additional $25 million this year. Though, Fractal doesn't use its own money for deals, multiple sources said. Before it had launched the first startup, it entered an agreement with Bienville, one of its investors, that the asset management firm would raise the funds to invest in Fractal's companies, for a slug of equity in each. Bienville had raised two funds to write initial checks into startups and to participate in future financings, growing its stake in those companies that performed well, according to two people with knowledge of the partnership. Regulatory filings show Bienville raised $25.6 million for the first fund and $209 million for the second, though a source familiar with the firm's fundraising efforts said those funds closed higher at $50 million and about $285 million, respectively. Now, Bienville is raising a third fund with a target size of $325 million, the source said. Bienville declined to comment on the fundraise citing rules by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Fractal's pivot came as a surprise to some, but not those at the top. The three people familiar with Fractal's strategy said the venture studio never intended to launch an infinite number of startups, and that it made this clear to its investors and staff. Fractal has a narrow set of parameters for companies it's interested in building, which include the market size, competition, and use of software, one source explained. Fractal now says it's exhausted those opportunities in vertical software, according to sources. The company had spun up more than a hundred companies that now employ a combined 720 people. The layoffs, said one source, is "representative in many ways of a job well done." Yet, several former employees told Insider that they weren't aware of the plan to stop forming new startups, with one adding that they would not have joined the company had they known. "You could never tell people that and expect them to stay," one former employee said. Fractal employees received equity in the portfolio, which vests on a four-year schedule, and those affected by the layoffs will continue to vest all of their equity beyond their employment, a company spokesperson confirmed. Fractal is cutting costs as other venture studios and accelerators face the music. Newchip, an accelerator that helps start companies for a fee, is closing after filing for bankruptcy in March. On Deck, which bills itself as a community for founders, has slimmed down after mass layoffs last year. And Y Combinator, the Coke Classic of accelerators because it takes equity in startups instead of charging a fee for its services, has pulled back from growth investing and laid off 17 employees as capital dries up. Even as Fractal sloughs off the part of the business that creates new startups, a person close to the company insisted that the decision had "nothing to do with the market environment." And it might reverse its decision yet. Two people familiar with Fractal's strategy said the company may decide to launch new startups in the future. Are you a Fractal founder or employee with insight to share? Contact Melia Russell at mrussell@businessinsider.com, on secure messaging app Signal at 603-913-3085, or through Twitter DM at @meliarobin. Reach out to reporter Stephanie Palazzolo via email  at spalazzolo@businessinsider.com or on Signal at 979-599-8091.Correction: June 1, 2023 — An earlier version of this story misstated how Fractal employees being laid off will vest their equity. They will continue to vest their equity after employment, it does not vest immediately. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to