June, 20 2023                                     Corporate partner at BCLP Jeff Haidet
                                                                 By 

                            Maura O’Malley
 

                                The Global Legal Post
                            
 YOUR PRIVACY - PLEASE READ CAREFULLY DATA PROTECTION STATEMENT Below we explain how we will communicate with you. We set out how we use your data in our Privacy
                    Policy. Global City Media, and its associated brands will use the lawful basis of legitimate interests to use
                    the
                    contact details you have supplied to contact you regarding our publications, events, training,
                    reader
                    research, and other relevant information. We will always give you the option to opt out of our
                    marketing.
 By clicking submit, you confirm that you understand and accept the Terms &
                        Conditions and Privacy Policy
  By clicking submit, you confirm that you understand and accept the Terms &
                        Conditions and Privacy Policy BCLP has hired a 15-person group from Dentons in the US including former US chair Jeff Haidet and leading IP lawyer Song Jung.  Jung brings five new IP partners and eight counsel and patent professionals from Dentons, where he founded and chaired the global intellectual property and technology group. He is now the new global chair of patents at BCLP; the firm noted that additional team members will be joining in the coming weeks. Haidet will be based in Atlanta, while Jung and the IP group will be resident in Washington DC. Jung’s practice covers all aspects of patent law, including patent prosecution, litigation, validity and infringement opinions, licensing, technology transfer, patent acquisitions and settlement negotiations. He has counselled clients through numerous IP litigation matters and was involved in the the LG Chem vs. SKI trade secrets case over lithium-ion battery cells, which settled for $1.8bn. “Complex IP matters and disputes are the heart of our practice,” Jung noted, which he said “complements BCLP’s willingness and desire to expand its top-tier litigation and IP capabilities for clients around the globe.” Haidet joins alongside the IP team as a partner in BCLP’s corporate and finance transactions department, advising global and domestic businesses on complex transactions, financial structuring, M&A, joint ventures, strategic alliances and industry consolidation.  The IP partners joining with Jung are Mark Kresloff, Bumrae Cho, Yong Choi, Tyler Goodwyn and Bruce Vance. They specialise in patent work in the telecommunications, wireless technologies, chemical and biotechnology and finance sectors. BCLP said they would strengthen its global patent prosecution, transactional and International Trade Commission (ITC) Section 337 proceeding capabilities. Section 337 orders given by the ITC prohibit the import of foreign goods into the US that infringe patents. BCLP co-chairs Lisa Mayhew and Steve Baumer said the new appointments amplified the firm’s growth strategy, and the depth of IP experience and technical expertise the group brings was a “game-changer”. Last month, BCLP hired litigators Jennifer Campbell and Allison Krashan from Portland-based firm Schwabe Williamson & Wyatt to open an office in Seattle. The departures from Dentons, meanwhile, follow the loss in March of a 30-strong West Coast team of patent lawyers to DLA Piper.  Commenting on the BCLP hires, a Dentons spokesperson said: “Our focus remains on building and investing in strategic and profitable practices, including our exceptional intellectual property and technology team. We will soon welcome several high profile new partners to this team as we continue our momentum towards a record year. We wish our colleagues well.” Email your news and story ideas to:
        [email protected] 1  6d 2  5d 3  5d 4  4d 5  3d 6  3d  11h  2d  3d  3d  4d Copyright 2024 © The Global Legal Post. All Rights Reserved