Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     During the 2023 Tokyo Game Show, Final Fantasy 14 producer and director Naoki Yoshida revealed that the Growing Light content update would go live on Tuesday, October 3. The 6.5 patch series will bring the current story arc in Final Fantasy 14 to a conclusion and will host different forms of content for players to enjoy.
      WARNING: This post contains MAJOR story spoilers for Final Fantasy 14.
                     At the 2023 Las Vegas Fanfest, Yoshida revealed a few initial details about the Growing Light update, including the patch's name and a few main story elements that Final Fantasy 4 fans quickly pointed out. From the Lunar Subterrane dungeon to the climactic Abyssal Fracture Trial against Zeromus, the current main story arc blends nostalgia with Final Fantasy 14's cast of characters. However, with the Dawntrail expansion looming in Summer 2024, the trip down memory lane will soon draw to a close. But, players will soon experience the first half of the Growing Light update.
      RELATED: Final Fantasy 14 Director Talks About How Long He Plans to Support the Game
                     On Tuesday, October 3, Final Fantasy 14's Patch 6.5 update will go live. On the day before the update's launch, Final Fantasy 14 will undergo a 24-hour maintenance period, which will take the game temporarily offline on October 2. During the Tokyo Game Show on September 24, Yoshida was joined by global community producer Toshio Murouchi for the 79th episode of Letter From The Producer Live. During the panel, Yoshida and Murouchi shared a brief overview of what players will see in the Patch 6.5 series. Yoshida also showed some gameplay from the Abyssal Fracture trial, the Thaleia alliance raid, and a new Crystalline Conflict map called The Red Sands. During the end of the broadcast, Yoshida briefly brought up the Final Fantasy 14 Tabletop RPG and stated that preorders are available online.
                         Plus, Yoshida officially revealed that KFC would cross over with Final Fantasy 14 in a promotion that will be exclusive to Japan. Starting October 4, KFC Japan customers who purchase a combo meal worth at least ¥1,240 will get some stickers and the "Eat Chicken" emote to use in Final Fantasy 14. The emote will give players a bucket of chicken in their left hand, and a drumstick in their right hand. While this offer remains exclusive to Japan at the time of writing, only time will tell if it will make its way overseas.
                         However, FF14 players will not have much time to finish The Rising seasonal quests, as both the Final Fantasy 14 10th Anniversary event, and the associated Moogle Tomestone campaign will end once the game goes into maintenance ahead of Patch 6.5. All in all, a busy time awaits Final Fantasy 14 players.
      Final Fantasy 14 is available now for PC, PS4, and PS5, with an Xbox Series X/S version launching in Spring 2024.
      MORE: Final Fantasy 14 Fans Should Keep An Eye on These Two Dates
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Want to get an adorable back bling in Fortnite without spending any V-Bucks? Here's how! The upcoming adult take on the classic Jackbox party game formula, Jackbox Naughty Pack, gets a release date. Silent Hill 2 releases a new video which shows off portions of the story, along with several familiar characters, including Eddie. Players who are looking for the three bells in Black Myth: Wukong's Black Wind Mountain can find their locations detailed here. The developers of Black Myth: Wukong advise streamers who want to cover the game to avoid talking about 'feminist propaganda,' China, and COVID-19. Dragon Age: The Veilguard seems primed and ready to benefit from a Dragon's Dogma 2 pre-release tactic that became a huge hit among fans. One No Man's Sky player discovers a uniquely designed planet known as a Crimson Planet while exploring the various star systems.