click this icon for latest updates 














  

















Published: May 9, 2023 5:45 PM IST  


 

              By India.com Business Desk 





 Bengaluru: Taiwan-based Foxconn, the largest supplier of Apple Inc., has bought a huge amount of land on the outskirts of Bengaluru, also known as the “Silicon Valley of India”. In a statement to the London Stock Exchange, the company mentioned about the 1.2 million square metre acquisition in Devanahalli. 

 This is significant as it comes at a time when Apple is looking to diversify its production away from China.  Foxconn, also known as, Hon Hai Precision Industry, is the world’s biggest contract electronics manufacturer and a principal assembler of Apple iPhones. Its subsidiary Foxconn Hon Hai Technology India Mega Development was paying three billion rupees ($37 million) for the site, it said.

 The company statement also added that another Foxconn unit was acquiring land use rights to a 480,000-square-metre site in Vietnam’s Nghe An province. 

Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj S. Bommai had in March said that Apple would “soon” manufacture iPhones at a new plant in the state, creating “about 100,000 jobs”. As per a Bloomberg News report in March earlier this year, Foxconn was planning to invest $700 million in a new factory in Karnataka, said a Bloomberg report in March this year citing unnamed sources. Foxconn chairman Young Liu visited the state then to “deepen partnerships… and seek cooperation in new areas such as semiconductor development and electric vehicles”, he said in a statement. He also met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who said the pair’s “discussions covered various topics aimed at enhancing India’s tech and innovation eco-system”. Foxconn started manufacturing Apple handsets in India in 2019 at its plant in the southern state of Tamil Nadu. Two other Taiwanese suppliers, Wistron and Pegatron, also manufacture and assemble Apple devices in India. 

Apple has been making its own push into India. Last month, Apple CEO Tim Cook opened the company’s first two retail stores in India. In 2022, India accounted for seven per cent of Apple’s iPhone production, according to Bloomberg, lagging behind the United States, China, Japan and other countries.







Also Read:  


  


MEA Advises Indian Nationals To Exercise 'Extreme Caution' After Fresh Anti-Hasina Protests Leave 97 Dead In Bangladesh


 
 


  


Novak Djokovic Wins First Olympic Gold In Paris, Beats Carlos Alcaraz In Men’s Tennis Final


 
 


  


Nipah Virus Detected In Bat Samples From Malappuram District, Kerala


 
  
For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Business News on India.com.
                


Topics
Foxconn Technology 




More Stories













   Foxconn, also known as, Hon Hai Precision Industry, is the world’s biggest contract electronics manufacturer and a principal assembler of Apple iPhones. Its subsidiary Foxconn Hon Hai Technology India Mega Development was paying three billion rupees ($37 million) for the site, it said.  The company statement also added that another Foxconn unit was acquiring land use rights to a 480,000-square-metre site in Vietnam’s Nghe An province. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj S. Bommai had in March said that Apple would “soon” manufacture iPhones at a new plant in the state, creating “about 100,000 jobs”. As per a Bloomberg News report in March earlier this year, Foxconn was planning to invest $700 million in a new factory in Karnataka, said a Bloomberg report in March this year citing unnamed sources. Foxconn chairman Young Liu visited the state then to “deepen partnerships… and seek cooperation in new areas such as semiconductor development and electric vehicles”, he said in a statement. He also met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who said the pair’s “discussions covered various topics aimed at enhancing India’s tech and innovation eco-system”. Foxconn started manufacturing Apple handsets in India in 2019 at its plant in the southern state of Tamil Nadu. Two other Taiwanese suppliers, Wistron and Pegatron, also manufacture and assemble Apple devices in India. Apple has been making its own push into India. Last month, Apple CEO Tim Cook opened the company’s first two retail stores in India. In 2022, India accounted for seven per cent of Apple’s iPhone production, according to Bloomberg, lagging behind the United States, China, Japan and other countries. For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Business News on India.com.
                 Government Issues Warning to SBI Customers About Fake Bank Messages, Details Here When Will 8th Pay Commission Be Formed? Central Government Shares Clue On Date Is Indian Railways Going To Cancel Baby Berth Project? Ashwini Vaishnaw Says THIS 'OTT Is Killing Industry': Cable Operators Seek TRAI Action Against Jio TV For Live Streaming Cricket Matches TRAI Enforces New Rules For Service Outages: Here's What Telecom Giants Like Jio And Airtel Are Required To Pay By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts Cookies Policy. 