Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 MADISON, Wis. — Microsoft has agreed to buy a $50 million parcel of land in southeastern Wisconsin meant for Foxconn after the world’s largest electronics manufacturer failed to fulfill grandiose promises to build a massive facility that would employ thousands of workers.Microsoft plans to build a $1 billion data center on the 315-acre parcel in Mount Pleasant, a village of about 27,000 people in Racine County, about 30 miles south of Milwaukee. It’s unclear how many people the center might employ. Paul Englis, Microsoft’s director of global community research and engagement, told the Racine County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday that such centers typically employ 300 to 400 people.The village already is home to a Foxconn Technology Group manufacturing facility. The Taiwan-based company is best known for making Apple iPhones. The company announced plans in 2017 to build a $10 billion facility in Mount Pleasant that would employ 13,000 people.Wisconsin’s governor at the time, Republican Scott Walker, and then-President Donald Trump praised the decision, with Trump boasting the plant would be the “eighth wonder of the world.”The state agreed to provide Foxconn with nearly $3 billion in tax breaks. The company never delivered on its promises and Democratic Gov. Tony Evers scaled back the tax breaks to $80 million contingent on the number of jobs created and investments. The company qualified for just $8.6 million in tax credits last year after creating 768 eligible jobs and making a $77.4 million capital investment by the end of 2021.According to a fact sheet describing the Microsoft project compiled by southeastern Wisconsin economic development groups, the parcel of land is part of a tax-increment financing district that includes the Foxconn campus. Property taxes collected in such districts can be used to subsidize development.Foxconn spent $60 million to help Mount Pleasant officials buy the property to create the district, said Mia Tripi, a spokesperson for the village and Racine County.Foxconn would receive the proceeds from the land sale to Microsoft as partial reimbursement of what Foxconn spent to acquire land for the district in 2017, according to the fact sheet. Microsoft would be eligible to recoup 42% of property taxes paid on new construction, up to $5 million annually.

Microsoft must begin the first phase of construction by July 2026 and begin the second phase by July 2033.The tech sector has been contracting after pandemic-era expansions brought on a boom in demand for workplace software. Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., hasn’t been immune to the trend, announcing in January that it planned to cut 10,000 workers and consolidate leased office locations. Company officials said then that the layoffs amounted to less than 5% of their total employee base.Related Articles
Business |  

			Michael McGuire, ‘the most influential architect in the St. Croix Valley,’ dies at 95		


Business |  

			Dave Beal: Twin Cities socialists, take note of lessons from Milwaukee		


Business |  

			Behind-the-scenes with Minnesota’s first electric firetruck: Designed to be more maneuverable, safer for firefighters		


Business |  

			Contenders in key Wisconsin Senate race come out swinging after primaries		


Business |  

			Wisconsin voters reject ballot questions that would limit governor’s power to spend federal money		

 Microsoft plans to build a $1 billion data center on the 315-acre parcel in Mount Pleasant, a village of about 27,000 people in Racine County, about 30 miles south of Milwaukee. It’s unclear how many people the center might employ. Paul Englis, Microsoft’s director of global community research and engagement, told the Racine County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday that such centers typically employ 300 to 400 people. The village already is home to a Foxconn Technology Group manufacturing facility. The Taiwan-based company is best known for making Apple iPhones. The company announced plans in 2017 to build a $10 billion facility in Mount Pleasant that would employ 13,000 people. Wisconsin’s governor at the time, Republican Scott Walker, and then-President Donald Trump praised the decision, with Trump boasting the plant would be the “eighth wonder of the world.” The state agreed to provide Foxconn with nearly $3 billion in tax breaks. The company never delivered on its promises and Democratic Gov. Tony Evers scaled back the tax breaks to $80 million contingent on the number of jobs created and investments. The company qualified for just $8.6 million in tax credits last year after creating 768 eligible jobs and making a $77.4 million capital investment by the end of 2021. According to a fact sheet describing the Microsoft project compiled by southeastern Wisconsin economic development groups, the parcel of land is part of a tax-increment financing district that includes the Foxconn campus. Property taxes collected in such districts can be used to subsidize development. Foxconn spent $60 million to help Mount Pleasant officials buy the property to create the district, said Mia Tripi, a spokesperson for the village and Racine County. Foxconn would receive the proceeds from the land sale to Microsoft as partial reimbursement of what Foxconn spent to acquire land for the district in 2017, according to the fact sheet. Microsoft would be eligible to recoup 42% of property taxes paid on new construction, up to $5 million annually. Microsoft must begin the first phase of construction by July 2026 and begin the second phase by July 2033. The tech sector has been contracting after pandemic-era expansions brought on a boom in demand for workplace software. Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., hasn’t been immune to the trend, announcing in January that it planned to cut 10,000 workers and consolidate leased office locations. Company officials said then that the layoffs amounted to less than 5% of their total employee base. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group