What if Queen Elizabeth never became the monarch?  The late royal died last year at the age of 96 and served on the British throne for seven decades.  Now, one year after the Queen’s death, her longtime pal Gyles Brandreth divulged what job the sovereign would have wanted to do if she didn’t hold the crown. Brandreth, 74, revealed to Times Radio that the Queen would have liked to be a comic impressionist in a different life, according to express.co.uk. Her dream career was inspired by actor and comedian George Formby, who visited Windsor Castle during World War II. The “Elizabeth: An Intimate Portrait” author hilariously claimed that she would often sing his tune “When I’m Cleaning Windows” and would impersonate him.  “The Queen told me that if she hadn’t been Queen, she might quite have liked to have been an impressionist. I said, ‘Really? What can you do?’,” he went in. “And she said, ‘I can do George Formby’. And there and then, the Queen picked up an imaginary ukelele and she sand to me, ‘When I’m Cleaning Windows,'” the writer said. Other figures that she would imitate included animals and regional accents. He recalled: “She’d do Frankie Dettori jumping off a horse, Concorde over Windsor Castle. All in one conversation. It was a heck of a conversation…” The first-year anniversary of the Queen’s passing is on Friday, Sept. 8.  The royal family will be commemorating her as they lounge at their summer vacation house at Balmoral Castle in Scotland.  King Charles is residing at the Scottish abode alongside his wife Queen Camilla, brother Prince Andrew, son Prince William, Kate Middleton, Prince Edward and more members of the Firm. Royal expert Pelham Turner revealed to Fox News recently that Charles, 74, extended an invitation to the disgraced Duke of York, 63, following the release of the bombshell A&E doc, “Secrets of Prince Andrew.”  “The royal clans are descending on Balmoral,” Turner divulged. “It will be interesting to see how many olive branches grow on royal trees.” Turner went on to note that the King could be going easy on his brother due to the breast cancer battle Andrew’s ex-wife, Sarah Ferguson, is constantly facing. Ferguson, 63, was diagnosed with the illness earlier this year and underwent a mastectomy. However, exiled royals Prince Harry and Meghan Markle were reportedly not invited to Scotland for the memorial. Advertisement