Home > Gaming News Kabam, a world leader in developing highly social multiplayer games, has announced the release of King Arthur: Legends Rise, an all-new squad-based RPG set in a stunning, reimagined Arthurian world. The game features an immersive story and expansive exploration, offering players a variety of exciting features to enjoy. In King Arthur: Legends Rise, players will venture through Camelot and beyond with an ever-growing roster of knights, mages, and rogues. They will battle epic bosses and mythical monsters in visually stunning combat, collecting an ever-expanding roster of powerful iconic characters of Arthurian Legend. Some of the game’s standout features will include: King Arthur: Legends Rise was first revealed during the State of Unreal keynote at the Game Developers Conference, where it showcased its visually stunning 3D characters, animations, visual effects, and environments, all powered by Unreal Engine 5. Players can experience King Arthur: Legends Rise at home or take it on the go with seamless crossplay and cross-progression between mobile and PC platforms. “Kabam has a rich history and proven track record of launching fun and enduring games on mobile – including Marvel Contest of Champions, Disney Mirrorverse, and Shop Titans – but as we look to the future, enabling our players to experience cross-platform progression and play is an essential part of what we want to offer our players. King Arthur: Legends Rise represents the first game for this new direction,” said SeungWon Lee, Chief Executive Officer at Kabam. Players can add King Arthur: Legends Rise to their wishlist on Steam and stay up to date on the latest news by signing up. A release date for the game will be announced later this year. Kabam has a rich history of launching fun and enduring games on mobile, including Marvel Contest of Champions, Disney Mirrorverse, and Shop Titans. The company’s games have generated hundreds of millions of downloads and have received multiple awards, including Apple’s Editor’s Choice and Google Play’s Best Game of the Year. As a subsidiary of Netmarble Corporation, Kabam continues to strive to elevate the gaming experience and entertain audiences globally. Shaun Savage is the founder and editor-in-chief of Try Hard Guides. He has been covering and writing about video games for over 9 years. He is a 2013 graduate of the Academy of Art University with an A.A. in Web Design and New Media. In his off-time, he enjoys playing video games, watching bad movies, and spending time with his family. All comments go through a moderation process, and should be approved in a timely manner. To see why your comment might not have been approved, check out our Comment Rules page! This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Comment Nickname (Required)  Email (Required)   Save my nickname and email in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ