talkSPORT have you covered for the horse racing with tips and free bets for the day's fixtures at Newbury, Ripon and the Curragh. Tom Lunn has gone through the racecards, form, going and much more to help guide your horse racing betting choices. talkSPORT BET - Bet £20 Get £20 In Free Bets - CLAIM HERE* Kemari is the early favourite with the in-form Charlie Appleby and William Buick for the Godolphin owners, but could be worth siding against for one of the younger horses of the field, and this Dubawi colt has run here twice to no avail. Arrest is a Frankel colt and has to be taken seriously with Frankie Dettori on board, for the trainers John & Thady Gosden. He may have come tenth and fifth in his last two races but that was a step up into the Derby in Group 1 company at Epsom before taking on King Of Steel in the King Edward VII Stakes at Royal Ascot later that month. A step up in trip to close to 1m6f may suit him more and prompt the response he made on seasonal debut when winning well by over six lengths at Chester ahead of Adelaide River. That form of course was boosted when that runner placed just behind Auguste Rodin in the Irish Derby and second again in the Grand Prix de Paris, both in July. That form certainly sets a big standard and with him claiming 6lb from the likes of Kemari while potentially improving upped in trip, is great value at 7/2. Versatile enough ground wise and wasn't disgraced in seventh last time out behind Jm Jungle. Was close at Yarmouth in July beaten by just a head so remains of interest up only 1lb at a nice each-way price in hope that improvement can come on the only jockey that has got this horse to win this season. This is an incredibly open Group 2 Hungerford Stakes here, but one that really stands out is the favourite for a few reasons. The favourite should be getting the conditions that suit, good ground, provided it dries enough after a fair bit of rain on the Friday. Chindit placed just over a length behind the great Modern Games over course and distance in May and regularly brings a big run in Group 1 company. He notably placed behind Baaeed at Goodwood last year and although was beaten by Jumby in this last year has a good record over 7f, despite mostly racing over a mile - with four wins from just seven attempts at this distance. As a five-year-old there's still a lot that can change and it could be that he's going to favour this kind of trip and he won't made either being prominent or held up behind throughout. This is the Alpha Centauri Debutante Stakes, a Group 2 fillies contest over 7f that sees Pearls And Rubies the narrow favourite ahead of Snellen. The former is trained by the Irish master Aidan O'Brien and has Ryan Moore on board for what is just one of four rides of the day, but with two big favourites. Pearls And Rubies actually finished a head behind Snellen at Royal Ascot - and that was Snellen's last race, so comes into this a bit fresher too. She could be much better after that run and improvement shouldn't be ruled out for trainer Gavin Cromwell. It's set to be a testing race though with rain forecast over the Curragh all of Friday and up until the off. Snellen hasn't taken on soft yet but her Dam Illumined handled it nicely enough so should be fine with a lot of cut in the ground. Vespertilio ran on nicely in second behind Ylang Ylang after a troubled start and could be worth backing to nab second place from the favourite. This Michael Bell-trained horse placed just a neck behind Rednblue Sovereign last time out on soft ground at Epsom. That was a solid race considering the grey was giving away 3lb in weight to the now 83-rated horse. He will suit the Ripon track based on that Epsom run and can make the most of the 2lb given away by Bits And Bobs who also has good form. This is the second time tipping a Shakespeare play this week with King Lear winning well with James Doyle on board. This time this is a horse who absolutely loves it here and even just this season has won once and come a close second or third three times. At this price and off the same weight as last time out and on first start for new trainer Paul Midgley, has to be backed each-way for a potentially lovely payout. It's set to be a rainy weekend in Perth meaning it should be a nice ground for jumps racing, even in the middle of Summer. Notably, Too Friendly beat Castel Gandolfo last time out on soft ground and looks to still be improving over hurdles. But Liverpool Knight under Sean Bowen for trainer Olly Murphy looks very dangerous and unexposed, off a potentially low mark for his handicap debut. He won on heavy ground at Uttoxeter on return from a break before winning by a huge 14 lengths at the same course 17 days later. 120 could be a low low mark for him to make the most of here as he's given plenty of weight from rivals. P+L since 10/07/23: +45.47pts All odds correct at time of writing Get up to £40 in free bets - CLAIM HERE 18+ New customers only. Opt in, bet up to £40 (min. £20) on selected events at odds of 2.00+, in 7 days. Get up to £40 in free bets on selected events. Bonuses expire in 7 days. Card payments only. T&Cs apply, see below. begambleaware.org | Please gamble responsibly SEE ALL FREE BETS HERE talkSPORT BET - Bet £20 Get £20 In Free Bets - CLAIM HERE* Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to talkSPORT. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org A responsible gambler is someone who: For help with a gambling problem, call the National Gambling Helpline on 0808 8020 133 or go to www.gamstop.co.uk to be excluded from all UK-regulated gambling websites. *18+ New customers only. Opt in & bet £20 on any sport at 2.00+ odds within 7 days. No Cash out. Get 2x £10 Free Bets on any sports market. Free bets expire in 7 days. Card payments only. T&Cs apply. begambleaware.org | Please gamble responsibly This service is provided on talkSPORT Ltd's Terms of Use in accordance with our Privacy Policy.