
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2022/11/14/fhfa-cuts-freddie-mac-and-fannie-mae-loan-caps/   The government expects the multifamily originations market to contract in 2023. Anyone in multifamily who hoped that conditions would turn and that 2023 would be a replay of previous years was just hit in the face with a bucket of cold water tossed by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The FHFA announced the multifamily loan purchase caps for both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: $75 billion for each, $150 billion total. That's down from the $78 billion each had in 2022 because the FHFA expects multifamily family originations to contract this year. Given uncertainty about a potential recession and Federal Reserve policy, questions of whether markets will support continued rent increases to offset higher property prices and continued pressure on cap rates, inflation, and higher financing costs, the take isn't surprising. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Kristen Smithberg |  August 20, 2024 High-earning households are heading out of New York and California. By Erika Morphy |  August 20, 2024 They are located in Pennsylvania and Tennessee. By Erika Morphy |  August 20, 2024 The firm's total warehouse acquisitions have reached nearly six million square feet. 
Trend Report
 
Sponsored by Placer.ai
 Emerging Trends for CRE in 2024 This snapshot examines the evolution of key industries and sectors impacting CRE across the United States in 2024. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
