May 9—High interest rates continue to subdue Oahu's housing market where prices pushed down this year could remain flat in 2024, according to a University of Hawaii analysis. High interest rates continue to subdue Oahu's housing market where prices pushed down this year could remain flat in 2024, according to a University of Hawaii analysis. On Saturday, transaction data from April showed that sales and prices for previously owned homes in Hawaii's biggest residential real estate market fell from the same month in 2022. The Honolulu Board of Realtors reported that the median sale price for single-family homes declined 10 % to $999, 995 in April from $1, 105, 000 in the same month a year ago while the condominium median sale price slipped 2 % to $500, 000 from $510, 000 in the same period. The trade association also said in its report that the number of sales in April sank 43 % to 208 for single-family homes from 365 a year earlier, and dropped 38 % for condos to 420 from 672 in the same period. "We continue to see the market settle following the spike in interest rates and rising inflation, " Fran Villarmia-Kahawai, president of the Honolulu Board of Realtors and an agent at Properties International Ltd., said in the report. Villarmia-Kahawai also said relatively low inventory has been keeping median sale prices fairly steady from month to month recently. Single-family home median sale prices had been at or a little above $1 million from July 2021 until January, when the figure receded to $970, 000. In February the figure edged up to $987, 000 and then $1, 083, 750 in March before drifting lower in April to $999, 995. For condos the median sale price has hovered around $500, 000 since mid-2021, and set a record in March at $536, 000. The record, according to a report from local real estate brokerage firm Locations, was in part due to more prospective homebuyers focusing on the condo market because they had been priced out of single-family homes by high interest rates. The average 30-year mortgage rate has been between 6 % and 7 % since mid-September, about double what it was for much of the prior two years, according to mortgage buyer Freddie Mac. The rate last week was 6.39 %. Inventory of homes available for sale on Oahu in April was lower than in recent months but higher than a year ago. There were 1, 679 single-family homes and condos listed for sale in April, and the level has been falling for five straight months since being at 1, 926 in November. In April 2022 there were 1, 312 single-family homes and condos on the market. Chad Takesue, chief operating officer at Locations, said in a report released Saturday that he expects to see a less competitive environment with more options for buyers this summer in segments of the market where inventory grows. "Sellers in those markets will need to price accordingly to ensure a successful sale, " he said in the company's report. Takesue also said that neighborhoods with low supply are still experiencing competitive market conditions, while neighborhoods with growing inventory are exhibiting fewer price bid-ups and more significant tapering off in median sale prices. The University of Hawaii Economic Research Organization said in a March report that contraction in home sale volume, which began in 2022, has been dramatic by historical standards and will contribute to additional resale price declines. "The current contraction in sales volume is already larger than what was experienced during the subprime mortgage crisis that began in 2007, " the report noted. UHERO forecast that for all of this year the median sale price for single-family homes will be down 7 % from 2022 at close to $1 million and then remain flat in 2024. According to the Honolulu Board of Realtors, this median sale price figure is down 8 % over the first four months of the year compared with the same period in 2022. For condos, UHERO forecast a 6 % decline in the median sale price this year to around $475, 000 and then almost no change in 2024. Data from the Honolulu Board of Realtors put the condo median price this year through April down 2 %. HOME SALES The number of homes sold on Oahu in April with the median price and percentage change from the same month in 2022 : HOMES SALES MEDIAN PRICE April 2023 208 $999, 995 April 2022 365 $1, 105, 000 Change-43.0 %-9.5 % CONDOS SALES MEDIAN PRICE April 2023 420 $500, 000 April 2022 672 $510, 000 Change-37.5 %-2 % Source : Honolulu Board of Realtors New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Who will take over Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.