Advertisement Advertisement As the cryptocurrency market continues to grow and more coins enter the market, it is easy to lose track of which coins you should invest in due to the many options available. But in 2023, you don’t need to worry about where to put your money for the best returns. Filecoin, Toncoin, and DigiToads are some of the best coins to buy right now. In this post, we will dig deeper into each coin to see why you should consider adding it to your portfolio. Meme cryptocurrencies have been around for a while now. Since Dogecoin was launched, new meme coins have been coming up every few weeks, most of them causing a major scene in the crypto sphere, only to die out a few weeks later. Even Dogecoin, the top meme coin by market cap, has failed to reach the $1 mark despite being so popular. One reason for the quick decline of meme coins is that investors are moving towards coins that have enough utility to sustain their value for the long term. This is why DigiToads (TOADS) was launched. DigiToads took the best from the world of meme coins and combined it with the utility of mainstream cryptos; to create a project that every investor wants to be part of. DigiToads offers an exciting play-to-earn web3 game, NFTs, NFTs staking, trading school, and a metaverse known as the swamp. The coin also puts efforts into conserving the rainforests, a move that has endeared it to environmentally-conscious individuals. TOADs token holders can stake their NFTS in exchange for more TOADS tokens. Those who own more than 4 TOADs NFTS also get additional benefits. For example, they get free access to the Toad school, where they can learn valuable lessons on becoming better traders, among other skills. The swamp, DigiToads metaverse, will give investors a place where they can exist as a digital community, helping each other out while learning from each other. It will be like a real-life swamp where Toads co-exist in their natural habitat. Advertisement >> Buy DigiToads Now << Filecoin (FIL) is a decentralized protocol that allows users to rent out their extra storage space on their computer devices. Similarly, Filecoin allows anyone needing storage space to find storage on the platform. By using a decentralized system, storage providers and those in need of storage can cut down on costs, economy, and safety. Since the information stored on Filecoin is spread across different users, the risk of your data being exposed due to a malicious user or a security breach is drastically reduced. On May 12, 2023, Filecoin made a major announcement about its latest introduction: Lassie. Lassie allows for effortless information retrieval from both Filecoin and IPFS. Lassie users will no longer have to run a separate blockchain node to get content from Filecoin.  Lassie’s introduction has sparked interest in Filecoin, causing the crypto coin’s value to spike. Toncoin (TON) is a cryptocurrency network that has received much attention in past years due to its revolutionary sharding features. Developed in 2018 by the developer of Telegram, Toncoin first came into the market as Gram. Gram was quick to win over the hearts of investors all over the US, and in 2020, at the height of the Platform’s popularity, the SEC caught wind of the network and quickly ruled it security. Following the ruling, Telegram CEO Pavel Durove handed over the blockchain to crypto enthusiasts and separated them from the blockchain. The network’s name was then changed to The Open Network (TON) and was developed by the Ton Foundation. Despite the early challenges, Toncoin has become a top 25 cryptocurrency by market cap. Since TON uses smart contracts, users can use them for as many use cases as they can dream of. Today, the common use cases include non-NFTs like TON Diamonds, non-custodial wallets like Tonkeeper, and decentralized exchanges like Tonswap. Advertisement When you are just starting in the cryptocurrency investment space, you might be tempted to only consider the well-established coins, especially those you will see in the top 100 list of digital currencies. While this is, without a doubt, a smart move, as it allows you to invest in the more stable coins, you might be surprised by how much more you could earn by investing in new coins like DigiToads, which are still in their presale stage. For more information on DigiToads, visit the website, join the presale, or join the community for regular updates. Advertisement 