


It may not get the publicity of some better-known vitamins like D, but vitamin K -- found in leafy green vegetables -- may boost lung health.
A new, large study -- published Thursday in ERJ Open Research -- suggests that people who have low levels of this vitamin also have less healthy lungs. They are more likely to report having asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and wheezing.
Advertisement
"Our results suggest that vitamin K could play a part in keeping our lungs healthy," said researcher Dr. Torkil Jespersen of Copenhagen University Hospital and the University of Copenhagen in Denmark.
"On their own, our findings do not alter current recommendations for vitamin K intake, but they do suggest that we need more research on whether some people, such as those with lung disease, could benefit from vitamin K supplementation," Jespersen said in a journal news release.
Related
Double-lung transplants help two Illinois patients born with lungs reversed
Study shows gap in care for millions of smokers with lung disease
Omega-3 fatty acids from fish linked to sustaining good lung health
In addition to leafy greens, vitamin K is found in vegetable oils and cereal grains. It has a role in blood clotting, helping the body heal wounds, but researchers know very little about its role in lung health.
To study this, the Danish researchers recruited more than 4,000 Copenhagen residents, ages 24 to 77.
Advertisement
Study participants underwent lung function testing, called spirometry, which measures the amount of air a person can breathe out in one second (forced expiratory volume or FEV1) and the total volume of air they can breathe in one forced breath (forced vital capacity or FVC).
Participants also gave blood samples and answered questionnaires on their health and lifestyle. The blood tests included a marker of low levels of vitamin K in the body.
People with markers of low vitamin K levels had lower FEV1 and lower FVC on average. Those with lower levels of vitamin K were also more likely to say they had COPD, asthma or wheezing. The study only found an association between vitamin levels and lung function; it couldn't prove cause and effect.
"This study suggests that people with low levels of vitamin K in their blood may have poorer lung function. Further research will help us understand more about this link and see whether increasing vitamin K can improve lung function or not," said Dr. Apostolos Bossios, from Sweden's Karolinska Institute and secretary of the European Respiratory Society assembly on airway diseases, asthma, COPD, and chronic cough. He was not involved in this research.
Advertisement
"In the meantime, we can all try to eat a healthy, balanced diet to support our overall health, and we can protect our lungs by not smoking, taking part in exercise and doing all we can to cut air pollution," Bossios said in the release.
More information
The U.S. National Institutes of Health has more on vitamin K.
Copyright © 2023 HealthDay. All rights reserved.






Latest Headlines







Health News // 4 hours ago
HHS launches awareness campaign on viruses, vaccines
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Health and Human Services announced a national campaign on Monday to increase public awareness of common respiratory viruses and available vaccines.










Health News // 6 hours ago
Study: Brain implant helps manage Parkinson's symptoms
  A brain implant guided by AI could provide around-the-clock personalized care for people with Parkinson's disease, a new study suggests.










Health News // 6 hours ago
Human gut might be source of powerful new antibiotics
  The crowded microbial space of the human gut is revealing potential routes to new antibiotics, scientists report.










Health News // 6 hours ago
Study: Scrolling through online videos increases boredom
  Watching short snippets of videos or fast-forwarding through them makes people more bored rather than less, a new study shows.










Health News // 10 hours ago
Back-to-school prep should include dental checkup
  As kids head back to school this fall, there is probably one item many parents haven't thought to put on the to-do list: dental checkups.










Health News // 2 days ago
Gaza war elevates danger of a polio outbreak
 Aug. 17 (UPI) -- The war in Gaza has prevented Hamas from vaccinating local children against the disease as displaced Palestinians crowd into tent encampments 10 months after Hamas attacked Israel on Oct. 7.










Health News // 2 days ago
Perdue Foods recalls over 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken
 Aug. 17 (UPI) -- Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken products over fears of contamination.










Health News // 2 days ago
High consumption of coffee could put your heart at risk, study finds
 NEW YORK, Aug. 17 (UPI) -- An Indian study indicates that drinking more than 400 milligrams of caffeine daily on most days of the week could raise otherwise healthy people's risk for cardiovascular disease.










Health News // 3 days ago
FDA approves first at-home, over-the-counter test for syphilis
 Aug. 16 (UPI) -- The Food and Drug Administration on Friday approved the first over-the-counter, at-home test for syphilis in response to surging levels of the sexually transmitted disease nationwide.










Health News // 3 days ago
HHS urges blood culture vial conservation amid shortage
 Aug. 16 (UPI) -- U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra Friday urged health care providers to conserve blood culture media bottles and said HHS is taking action to resolve the vial shortage as quickly as possible.






 It may not get the publicity of some better-known vitamins like D, but vitamin K -- found in leafy green vegetables -- may boost lung health. A new, large study -- published Thursday in ERJ Open Research -- suggests that people who have low levels of this vitamin also have less healthy lungs. They are more likely to report having asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and wheezing.
Advertisement "Our results suggest that vitamin K could play a part in keeping our lungs healthy," said researcher Dr. Torkil Jespersen of Copenhagen University Hospital and the University of Copenhagen in Denmark. "On their own, our findings do not alter current recommendations for vitamin K intake, but they do suggest that we need more research on whether some people, such as those with lung disease, could benefit from vitamin K supplementation," Jespersen said in a journal news release.
Related
Double-lung transplants help two Illinois patients born with lungs reversed
Study shows gap in care for millions of smokers with lung disease
Omega-3 fatty acids from fish linked to sustaining good lung health In addition to leafy greens, vitamin K is found in vegetable oils and cereal grains. It has a role in blood clotting, helping the body heal wounds, but researchers know very little about its role in lung health. To study this, the Danish researchers recruited more than 4,000 Copenhagen residents, ages 24 to 77.
Advertisement Study participants underwent lung function testing, called spirometry, which measures the amount of air a person can breathe out in one second (forced expiratory volume or FEV1) and the total volume of air they can breathe in one forced breath (forced vital capacity or FVC). Participants also gave blood samples and answered questionnaires on their health and lifestyle. The blood tests included a marker of low levels of vitamin K in the body. People with markers of low vitamin K levels had lower FEV1 and lower FVC on average. Those with lower levels of vitamin K were also more likely to say they had COPD, asthma or wheezing. The study only found an association between vitamin levels and lung function; it couldn't prove cause and effect. "This study suggests that people with low levels of vitamin K in their blood may have poorer lung function. Further research will help us understand more about this link and see whether increasing vitamin K can improve lung function or not," said Dr. Apostolos Bossios, from Sweden's Karolinska Institute and secretary of the European Respiratory Society assembly on airway diseases, asthma, COPD, and chronic cough. He was not involved in this research.
Advertisement "In the meantime, we can all try to eat a healthy, balanced diet to support our overall health, and we can protect our lungs by not smoking, taking part in exercise and doing all we can to cut air pollution," Bossios said in the release. More information The U.S. National Institutes of Health has more on vitamin K. Copyright © 2023 HealthDay. All rights reserved. 