Roads and Transport CS Kipchumba Murkomen signs the visitors' book when he paid a courtesy call to the KeRRA headquarters on August 3, 2023. PHOTO | COURTESY The Ministry of Roads and Transport is set to
employ geospatial technology in monitoring the construction and maintenance of
roads in rural parts of Kenya. Roads and Transport Cabinet Secretary
Kipchumba Murkomen made the revelation after holding a strategic meeting with
the management of Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KeRRA) on Thursday. The CS said there is an urgent need to track road
construction works in rural Kenya to curb corruption and ensure timely delivery
of the projects. “I have today directed KeRRA to begin the
deployment of geospatial technology that will enable us to monitor road
construction works in rural parts of the country, including murram and tarmac
roads and bridges,” Murkomen told the Daily Nation in an interview. The CS said the move is aimed at tackling
corruption in the road construction sector where rogue contractors have been
preparing falsified reports to indicate the completion of projects that have not
even begun. “I have received information that in some constituencies
where insecurity is rampant, some rogue contractors prepare false reports to
show that the roads assigned had been completed even when they have not,
knowing that there will be no inspection conducted on site,” he said. “I will be working collaboratively with my
colleague in the Ministry of Interior and the Provincial Administration in
monitoring road projects to ensure taxpayers' money is used prudently to
deliver high-quality infrastructure that will be beneficial in spurring
economic growth by facilitating trade, investment, tourism, agriculture in line
with our bottom-up economic agenda.” Murkomen further stated that the country will,
in the coming months, witness the resumption of construction works across the
country following extensive consultative engagements with road contractors. “Our efforts to speed up the completion of
road construction works have been hampered by the huge pending bill that was
left behind by the previous administration,” he stated. 
 “We have however worked on several
interventions and engaged contractors with the hope of ensuring they go back to
site. Once money has been disbursed by the National Treasury, we will be settling
part of the amounts owed to contractors to allow them to resume work.” 
                Want to send us a story? SMS to 25170 or WhatsApp
                0743570000
                or Submit on
                Citizen Digital
                or email
                wananchi@royalmedia.co.ke   No comments yet. © 2024 Citizen Digital. All rights reserved.