We all know that having friends is an incredibly important part of life. A good friend can lift us when we are feeling down, offer us support when we are struggling, and make us laugh when we are feeling low. But just as having the right friends can make our lives better, being around the wrong type of people can drag us down or even lead to danger. Here are five types of friends that we should stay away from.  



 A liar is someone who is constantly telling fibs and untruths. This type of friend may fib to save face, to cover up another lie, or to make themselves look better than they are. It can be difficult to trust a liar, especially if it is the same person who keeps lying all the time. The best thing you can do in this case is to keep your distance and find a more honest friend. The gossiper is someone who loves to talk about other people’s business and spread rumours. Not only is this type of friend generally annoying, but their behaviour is also dangerous because it can hurt people’s feelings and create unnecessary drama. Steer clear of this person and find someone who will be a better listener instead. The moocher is the kind of friend who always takes from you and never gives anything back. This type of friend will constantly ask for favours, expecting something in return but rarely offering anything in return. They often take advantage of people and expect them to do all the work. It’s best to avoid this type of friend altogether as they will only bring you down in the long run. Negative Nancy is always looking on the dark side of things and always has something negative to say about everything. Even if they are trying to offer helpful advice, it usually comes out as criticism or judgmental comments. Being around someone like this all the time can be draining and can eventually take a toll on your mental health. It’s best to stay away from this type of friend and instead surround yourself with more positive people. The user is someone who only looks out for themselves and doesn’t care about anyone else. They often take advantage of people or use them for their gain without caring about how it might affect those around them. This type of friend may also manipulate people or try to push them into doing things they don’t want to do. It’s best to stay away from users as they can be dangerous and get you into trouble if you let them stick around for too long. Top News CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea Related Relationships News What is Relationship Shopping? Watch out for these 5 signs What is Grey Divorce? Know 5 reasons why older couples are separating more often National Girlfriend Day 2024: 5 thoughtful gift ideas to surprise your lady love Losing friends after marriage? 5 ways to keep up, strengthen the everlasting bond Going through hard time in relationship? 5 tips to resolve conflicts between each other Latest News Horoscope Today, August 20: Gemini will get an opportunity to serve an elder  Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea  Kolkata rape-murder case: CBI appoints top officer ASP Seema Pahuja to probe matter, who is she?   Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Coffee Par Kurukshetra: What is the terrifying truth of Kolkata incident?    Aaj Ki Baat: Accused to undergo polygraph test. Will truth surface?    Haqiqat Kya Hai: What happened that night... Has the CBI uncovered every detail?    Muqabla: What evidence did CBI find... Who is now feeling scared?    Snipers from India and Sri Lanka take centre stage at Joint Military Exercise 'Mitra Shakti'    CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why   ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash   'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry   NIA arrests key arms supplier from Punjab in VHP leader Vikas Bagga murder case   Centre issues order to increase security by 25% in all govt hospitals, Marshals to be deployed    Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same   PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country    Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage   New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations   Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...'   The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    IC 814 The Kandahar Hijack trailer: Netflix series to tell story of India's longest plane hijack   Rajinikanth's Vettaiyan locks release date, film to clash with Suriya's Kanguva | Deets inside   Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Highlights: North Delhi successfully chase down 176 to register maiden win   Naseem Shah returns as Pakistan announce playing XI for first Test against Bangladesh   England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain    GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns   Champai Soren likely to join BJP | How this may affect Jharkhand political landscape ahead of polls   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    DDA launches housing schemes: 40,000 discounted flats on offer, prices start at Rs 11.5 lakh    Domestic air traffic increases to 7.3 per cent to 1.29 crore on annual basis in July   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore   Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study  