After a night spent tossing and turning, you wake up feeling annoyed and grumpy. Restless nights and weary mornings can become more frequent as we get older, and our sleep patterns change. Later in life, there tends to be a decrease in the number of hours slept. There are also some changes in the way the body regulates circadian rhythms. This internal clock helps your body respond to changes in light and dark. When it undergoes a shift with age, it can be harder to fall asleep and stay asleep through the night.  



 We all have trouble sleeping from time to time, but when insomnia persists day after day, it can become a real problem. Beyond making us tired and moody, a lack of sleep can have serious effects on our health, increasing our propensity for obesity, heart disease, and type 2 diabetes. You don’t have to avoid sleep aids if you absolutely need them, but before you turn to pills, try these tips to help you get a better night’s sleep: Going for a daily brisk walk won’t just trim you down, it will also keep you up less often at night. Exercise boosts the effect of natural sleep hormones such as melatonin. Exercising too close to bedtime can be stimulating. Morning workouts that expose you to bright daylight will help the natural circadian rhythm. Image Source : FREEPIKBoosts the effect of natural sleep. Stress is a stimulus. It activates the fight-or-flight hormones that work against sleep. Give yourself time to wind down before bed. Learning some form of relaxation response can promote good sleep and can also reduce daytime anxiety. To relax, try deep breathing exercises. Inhale slowly and deeply and then exhale. Image Source : FREEPIKDe-stress can promote good sleep and can also reduce daytime anxiety. A set of bedtime rituals can help signal the body and mind that it's coming to be time for sleep. Drink a glass of warm milk. Take a bath or listen to calming music to unwind before bed. Image Source : FREEPIKYou can make your brain feel like it's time to shut down and avoid gadgets. If you do have a snack before bed, wine and chocolate shouldn't be part of it. Chocolate contains caffeine, which is a stimulant. Surprisingly, alcohol has a similar effect. It makes you a little sleepy, but it's a stimulant and it disrupts sleep during the night. Also stay away from anything acidic (such as citrus fruits and juices) or spicy, which can give you heartburn.  Image Source : FREEPIKYou can make your brain feel like it's time to shut down and avoid gadgets. An urge to move your legs, snoring, and a burning pain in your stomach, chest, or throat are symptoms of three common sleep disrupters including restless leg syndrome, sleep apnea, and gastroesophageal reflux disease. If these symptoms are keeping you up at night or making you sleepy during the day, see your doctor for an evaluation. Image Source : FREEPIKIf any symptoms are keeping you up at night see your doctor for an evaluation. Top News 'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Live Score: Central Delhi Kings put into bat by North Delhi Strikers  Related Health News Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study Latest News GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent  TMC gets embroiled in internal rift amid public outrage over RG Kar doctor's rape-murder  Haryana Assembly Elections 2024: BJP forms 15-member manifesto committee, check full list here  Vinesh Phogat celebrates Raksha Bandhan with brother Harvinder Phogat, video goes viral | WATCH  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Snipers from India and Sri Lanka take centre stage at Joint Military Exercise 'Mitra Shakti'    Kamala Harris implies Trump a 'coward' during Pennsylvania campaign appearance     Vedang Raina Says His Dating Life Has Taken A 'Back Seat’     Kolkata Rape Murder Case: Union Min Suresh Gopi says "Let's end this draconian life system"    US Election 2024: Trump hurls 'socialist lunatic' jibe at Kamala Harris, calls her 'easy opponent’    Centre files affidavit in Supreme Court, defends criminalising instant triple talaq law   Rahul Gandhi targets govt again on lateral entry issue, says it is attack on Dalits, OBCs, adivasis   Congress targets govt, says 500 per cent jump in food complaints in trains, IRCTC responds   Rainfall forecast: IMD issues orange alert for THESE states, predicts very light rainfall in Delhi   Shivraj Singh Chouhan shares PM Modi's roadmap to empower farmers, bring revolution in agriculture    PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country    Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage   New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations   Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...'   Snipers take part in 'Mitra Shakti' joint exercise between militaries of India, Sri Lanka | VIDEO    The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    IC 814 The Kandahar Hijack trailer: Netflix series to tell story of India's longest plane hijack   Rajinikanth's Vettaiyan locks release date, film to clash with Suriya's Kanguva | Deets inside   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Live Score: Central Delhi Kings put into bat by North Delhi Strikers    GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent   Vinesh Phogat celebrates Raksha Bandhan with brother Harvinder Phogat, video goes viral | WATCH   PAK vs BAN Live Streaming: When and where to watch Pakistan vs Bangladesh Test series on TV and onli   ENG vs SL Live Streaming: When and where to watch England vs Sri Lanka Test series on TV and online?   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns   Champai Soren likely to join BJP | How this may affect Jharkhand political landscape ahead of polls   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore   Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study  