A team of US researchers has found in a recent study that a type of gene therapy can someday help treat people with hepatocellular carcinoma, which is the most common form of liver cancer, and metabolic diseases like diabetes.  



 The team led by the University of California-Davis discovered a gene therapy that induces the body to create microRNA-22 (miR-22), a naturally occurring molecule, aided in treating mice with hepatocellular carcinoma.  The miR-22 treatment also reduced liver inflammation and produced better survival outcomes with no observable toxicity compared to the US FDA-approved liver cancer treatment lenvatinib. Also Read: Paper cups as toxic as plastic ones when they end up in nature, finds study “This research introduces miR-22 gene therapy as a promising and innovative approach for treating hepatocellular carcinoma,” said Yu-Jui Yvonne Wan, Professor from the UC Davis Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine. “The study's findings suggest that miR-22 therapy could provide better survival outcomes, enhance anti-tumour immunity, improve metabolism, and reduce inflammation.” In the study published in the journal Molecular Therapy, the researchers explained that the miR-22 acts like a brake, stopping the production of certain proteins, including cyclin A, protein deacetylases, and hypoxia-inducible factors all that can fuel liver cancer growth.  Wan’s previous research shows that metabolites produced by the gut microbiome help create miR-22 and have anti-cancer benefits. These metabolites include retinoic acid, short-chain fatty acids, bile acids, and vitamin D3. Also Read: Smokers who start below age 20 find it difficult to quit, finds study When people have colon or liver cancer, signaling from these metabolites is reduced, which in turn reduces miR-22. This was a clue for Wan that returning miR-22 to a higher level might act as a treatment for liver cancer.  For the study, Wan used an inactivated adenovirus and introduced miR-22 into mice with a single intravenous injection. The mice treated with the gene therapy were compared with mice treated with the current US FDA-approved drug lenvatinib (administered orally once a day), untreated mice, and healthy mice. Both miR-22 and lenvatinib inhibited the progression of liver cancer compared to untreated mice. However, the miR-22-treated mice had longer survival times without toxicity compared with lenvatinib-treated mice.  MiR-22 and lenvatinib reduced serum alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and cholesterol levels, indicating improved liver function. MiR-22-treated mice showed no blood or organ toxicity. At five weeks, untreated mice had enlarged livers, making up 33.5 percent of their body weight. The treated mice had smaller, less diseased livers, with ratios of 10.9 percent (miR-22) and 12.0 percent (lenvatinib) of body weight. The median survival rate was 46 days for the lenvatinib group and 50 days for the miR-22 group. Two mice treated with miR-22 remained alive for 60 days. In contrast, the survival time for the untreated mice was about 40 days. “The positive findings from this preclinical study give us hope that miR-22 could be a promising alternative to treat hepatocellular carcinoma,” Hu said.  Top News ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Live Score: North Delhi Strikers in pursuit of 176 to register maiden win Related Health News Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study Latest News Aaj Ki Baat: Full episode, August 19, 2024  WATCH: Local Cong leader suffers heart attack, collapses on stage while briefing media in Karnataka  Fact Check: No, viral video is not of Kolkata rape-murder victim's final moments | Know its truth  England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain   © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Snipers from India and Sri Lanka take centre stage at Joint Military Exercise 'Mitra Shakti'    Kamala Harris implies Trump a 'coward' during Pennsylvania campaign appearance     Vedang Raina Says His Dating Life Has Taken A 'Back Seat’     Kolkata Rape Murder Case: Union Min Suresh Gopi says "Let's end this draconian life system"    US Election 2024: Trump hurls 'socialist lunatic' jibe at Kamala Harris, calls her 'easy opponent’    ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash   'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry   NIA arrests key arms supplier from Punjab in VHP leader Vikas Bagga murder case   Centre issues order to increase security by 25% in all govt hospitals, Marshals to be deployed     3 children dead, 37 admitted to hospital after suspected food poisoning in Andhra Pradesh   PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country    Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage   New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations   Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...'   Snipers take part in 'Mitra Shakti' joint exercise between militaries of India, Sri Lanka | VIDEO    The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    IC 814 The Kandahar Hijack trailer: Netflix series to tell story of India's longest plane hijack   Rajinikanth's Vettaiyan locks release date, film to clash with Suriya's Kanguva | Deets inside   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Live Score: North Delhi Strikers in pursuit of 176 to register maiden win   England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain    GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent   Vinesh Phogat celebrates Raksha Bandhan with brother Harvinder Phogat, video goes viral | WATCH   PAK vs BAN Live Streaming: When and where to watch Pakistan vs Bangladesh Test series on TV and onli   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns   Champai Soren likely to join BJP | How this may affect Jharkhand political landscape ahead of polls   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    DDA launches housing schemes: 40,000 discounted flats on offer, prices start at Rs 11.5 lakh    Domestic air traffic increases to 7.3 per cent to 1.29 crore on annual basis in July   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore   Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study  