   Morgan Stanley Online      Morgan Stanley at Work      Research Portal      Matrix    At Morgan Stanley, we lead with exceptional ideas. Across all our businesses, we offer keen insight on today's most critical issues.  Personal Finance  Learn from our industry leaders about how to manage your wealth and help meet your personal financial goals.  At Morgan Stanley, we lead with exceptional ideas. Across all our businesses, we offer keen insight on today's most critical issues.  Market Trends  From volatility and geopolitics to economic trends and investment outlooks, stay informed on the key developments shaping today's markets.  At Morgan Stanley, we lead with exceptional ideas. Across all our businesses, we offer keen insight on today's most critical issues.  Technology & Disruption  Whether it’s hardware, software or age-old businesses, everything today is ripe for disruption. Stay abreast of the latest trends and developments.  At Morgan Stanley, we lead with exceptional ideas. Across all our businesses, we offer keen insight on today's most critical issues.  Sustainability  Our insightful research, advisory and investing capabilities give us unique and broad perspective on sustainability topics.  At Morgan Stanley, we lead with exceptional ideas. Across all our businesses, we offer keen insight on today's most critical issues.  Diversity & Inclusion  Multicultural and women entrepreneurs are the cutting-edge leaders of businesses that power markets. Hear their stories and learn about how they are redefining the terms of success.  Morgan Stanley helps people, institutions and governments raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals.  Wealth Management  We help people, businesses and institutions build, preserve and manage wealth so they can pursue their financial goals.  Morgan Stanley helps people, institutions and governments raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals.  Investment Banking & Capital Markets  We have global expertise in market analysis and in advisory and capital-raising services for corporations, institutions and governments.  Morgan Stanley helps people, institutions and governments raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals.  Sales & Trading  Global institutions, leading hedge funds and industry innovators turn to Morgan Stanley for sales, trading and market-making services.  Morgan Stanley helps people, institutions and governments raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals.  Research  We offer timely, integrated analysis of companies, sectors, markets and economies, helping clients with their most critical decisions.  Morgan Stanley helps people, institutions and governments raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals.  Investment Management  We deliver active investment strategies across public and private markets and custom solutions to institutional and individual investors.  Morgan Stanley helps people, institutions and governments raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals.  Morgan Stanley at Work  We provide comprehensive workplace financial solutions for organizations and their employees, combining personalized advice with modern technology.  Morgan Stanley helps people, institutions and governments raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals.  Sustainable Investing  We offer scalable investment products, foster innovative solutions and provide actionable insights across sustainability issues.  Morgan Stanley helps people, institutions and governments raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals.  Inclusive Ventures Group  From our startup lab to our cutting-edge research, we broaden access to capital for diverse entrepreneurs and spotlight their success.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  Core Values  Everything we do at Morgan Stanley is guided by our five core values: Do the right thing, put clients first, lead with exceptional ideas, commit to diversity and inclusion, and give back.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  Leadership  Morgan Stanley leadership is dedicated to conducting first-class business in a first-class way. Our board of directors and senior executives hold the belief that capital can and should benefit all of society.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  History  From our origins as a small Wall Street partnership to becoming a global firm of more than 80,000 employees today, Morgan Stanley has been committed to clients and communities for 87 years.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  Locations  The global presence that Morgan Stanley maintains is key to our clients' success, giving us keen insight across regions and markets, and allowing us to make a difference around the world.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  Diversity  Morgan Stanley is differentiated by the caliber of our diverse team. Our culture of access and inclusion has built our legacy and shapes our future, helping to strengthen our business and bring value to clients.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  Sustainability  Our firm's commitment to sustainability informs our operations, governance, risk management, diversity efforts, philanthropy and research.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  Giving Back  At Morgan Stanley, giving back is a core value—a central part of our culture globally. We live that commitment through long-lasting partnerships, community-based delivery and engaging our best asset—Morgan Stanley employees.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  Technology  As a global financial services firm, Morgan Stanley is committed to technological innovation. We rely on our technologists around the world to create leading-edge, secure platforms for all our businesses.  Since our founding in 1935, Morgan Stanley has consistently delivered first-class business in a first-class way. Underpinning all that we do are five core values.  Sponsorships  At Morgan Stanley, we believe creating a more equitable society begins with investing in access, knowledge and resources to foster potential for all. We are committed to supporting the next generation of leaders and ensuring that they reflect the diversity of the world they inherit.  For 88 years, we’ve had a passion for what’s possible. We leverage the full resources of our firm to help individuals, families and institutions reach their financial goals.  Why Morgan Stanley  At Morgan Stanley, we focus the expertise of the entire firm—our advice, data, strategies and insights—on creating solutions for our clients, large and small.  For 88 years, we’ve had a passion for what’s possible. We leverage the full resources of our firm to help individuals, families and institutions reach their financial goals.  How We Can Help  We have the experience and agility to partner with clients from individual investors to global CEOs. See how we can help you work toward your goals—even as they evolve over years or generations.  For 88 years, we’ve had a passion for what’s possible. We leverage the full resources of our firm to help individuals, families and institutions reach their financial goals.  Building a Future We Believe In  At Morgan Stanley, we put our beliefs to work. We lead with exceptional ideas, prioritize diversity and inclusion and find meaningful ways to give back—all to contribute to a future that benefits our clients and communities.  For 88 years, we’ve had a passion for what’s possible. We leverage the full resources of our firm to help individuals, families and institutions reach their financial goals.  Get Started  Meet one of our Financial Advisors and see how we can help you.  For 88 years, we’ve had a passion for what’s possible. We leverage the full resources of our firm to help individuals, families and institutions reach their financial goals.  Stay in the Know  Get the latest insights, analyses and market trends in our newsletter, podcasts and videos.  We believe our greatest asset is our people. We value our commitment to diverse perspectives and a culture of inclusion across the firm. Discover who we are and the right opportunity for you.  Students & Graduates  A career at Morgan Stanley means belonging to an ideas-driven culture that embraces new perspectives to solve complex problems. See how you can make meaningful contributions as a student or recent graduate at Morgan Stanley.  We believe our greatest asset is our people. We value our commitment to diverse perspectives and a culture of inclusion across the firm. Discover who we are and the right opportunity for you.  Experienced Professionals  At Morgan Stanley, you’ll find trusted colleagues, committed mentors and a culture that values diverse perspectives, individual intellect and cross-collaboration. See how you can continue your career journey at Morgan Stanley.  We believe our greatest asset is our people. We value our commitment to diverse perspectives and a culture of inclusion across the firm. Discover who we are and the right opportunity for you.  Experienced Financial Advisors  At Morgan Stanley, our premier brand, robust resources and market leadership can offer you a new opportunity to grow your practice and continue to fulfill on your commitment to deliver tailored wealth management advice that helps your clients reach their financial goals. 
    		Morgan Stanley, un employeur de choix en technologie à Montréal, a contribué à faire de la ville un centre de haute technologie
            
          Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) célèbre le 15e anniversaire de son centre technologique à Montréal. Fondé en 2008, Morgan Stanley Montréal est l'un des plus grands centres technologiques de la firme, offrant des solutions et des infrastructures essentielles aux opérations globales de Morgan Stanley. En investissant dans des carrières enrichissantes, dans l'excellence technique et dans l'innovation continue, Morgan Stanley est devenu un contributeur important au bassin de talents de grande qualité en technologie à Montréal. Morgan Stanley a été l'un des premiers à soutenir la mission de la ville de devenir un pôle technologique prospère. Le centre compte maintenant plus de 2 700 personnes. « Morgan Stanley Montréal s'est positionné comme un employeur de choix dans le paysage technologique dynamique de la ville », a déclaré Sophia Bennaceur, responsable régionale de Morgan Stanley Montréal. « Nos experts stimulent l'innovation et produisent des résultats exceptionnels pour nos clients et pour l'entreprise, et ce, tout en contribuant activement à nos diverses communautés locales. Nous sommes heureux de nous investir dans la croissance de notre équipe et dans l'avenir de notre ville. » Le centre technologique livre des solutions technologiques de pointe et des services de soutien aux activités de titres et produits financiers de Morgan Stanley, et offre des fonctions d'infrastructure essentielles assurant la sécurité, la résilience et la stabilité des plateformes de la firme. Ses experts collaborent avec des équipes du monde entier afin de résoudre des défis complexes dans les domaines du développement d'applications et de logiciels, de l'ingénierie infonuagique, de la cybersécurité, de l'intelligence artificielle et de l'apprentissage automatique. « Montréal est un emplacement stratégiquement idéal en raison de son bassin de talents de calibre mondial, de ses investissements dans l'innovation technologique et de sa proximité avec New York permettant un dialogue direct et immédiat avec notre siège social », a déclaré Mike Pizzi, chef des Banques américaines et chef de la technologie chez Morgan Stanley. « Nous sommes ravis de célébrer notre 15e anniversaire à Montréal. » L'investissement continu de Morgan Stanley auprès des talents et communautés de la région montréalaise va au-delà de l'engagement de l'entreprise à demeurer un employeur de choix pour les professionnels en technologie; la firme a établi des partenariats avec le milieu universitaire, des groupes de l'industrie et des organismes locaux pour alimenter l'éducation en STIM (sciences, technologies, ingénierie et mathématiques). Elle a ouvert et renforcé l'accès aux talents divers, favorisant également l'innovation technologique à Montréal. « L'équipe de Morgan Stanley à Montréal est devenue un joueur important de l'écosystème local des technologies de l'information, notamment grâce à ses collaborations fructueuses et à son dévouement pour attirer des talents internationaux hautement qualifiés. Ses technologies développées ici au cours des 15 dernières années ont fait rayonner notre métropole auprès des investisseurs et talents de partout dans le monde, tout en mettant de l'avant les avantages d'être situé à proximité de la ville de New York, une capitale mondiale de la finance », a déclaré Stéphane Paquet, président-directeur général de Montréal International. » À propos de Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley (NYSE : MS) est une société de services financiers de premier plan offrant un large éventail de services d'investissements bancaires, de valeurs mobilières, de gestion de patrimoine et de gestion de placements. Avec des bureaux dans 42 pays, les employés de la Société servent des clients dans le monde entier, notamment des entreprises, des gouvernements, des institutions et des particuliers. Pour de plus amples renseignements sur Morgan Stanley, veuillez consulter le site www.morganstanley.com.  Contact de relations médias: mediainquiries@morganstanley.com 
		For media inquiries, send an email to Media Inquiries
 © 2024 Morgan Stanley. All rights reserved.