Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Comparing two high-profile stocks that have outperformed over the last year. These two companies are known for having cyclical earnings and two stocks that have both had excellent years and trounced the S&P 500 index. But between copper miner Freeport-McMoRan (FCX 1.86%) and heavy equipment company Caterpillar (CAT 0.34%), which is the better buy now? Let's take a closer look.  The equipment company is probably harder to understand, so I'll start with it and its recent barnstorming set of second-quarter earnings. The earnings exceeded analyst expectations, and management's full-year outlook impressed. For example, adjusted operating profit is expected to come in at the top end of management's targeted range, and more importantly, its machinery, energy, and transportation free cash flow (FCF) is expected to be around the top of its target range of $4 billion to $8 billion range.  In case you are wondering, management's $4 billion to $8 billion range reflects the cyclical nature of its business and is supposed to frame the low and high end of FCF performance through the cycle. I'll come back to this point in a moment, but let's focus on where Caterpillar is outperforming and what to expect in the future.  The following chart shows Caterpillar's retail sales growth. The company makes most of its sales through independent dealers, so the retail sales data reflects its end-market demand. Indeed, the retail sales data reflected Caterpillar's sales data in the period with broad-based strength in resource industries (mining and aggregate machinery) sales (up 20%), leading to a $385 million increase in the segment's profit. Energy and transportation had an excellent quarter, with a 27% sales increase leading to a $610 million profit increase, and finally, a 19% sales increase in construction industries leading to an $814 million increase in profit. Data source: Caterpillar presentations.   While the uptick in retail sales and Caterpillar's earnings are impressive, it's important to note a few things: As such, to buy into Caterpillar stock, you should be confident in the long-run outlook for commodities because it's unlikely that North American nonresidential construction spending can continue to grow at the torrid pace it's set this year.  Turning to valuation, if you accept the $4 billion to $8 billion FCF range and take the midpoint of $6 billion, the average through the cycle, and put a 20 times FCF multiple on the stock, the target market cap comes to $120 billion. Caterpillar stock currently stands at a 23% premium to that value.  Investing in the copper miner also manifests a belief in a commodity and management's ability to keep producing it. As previously discussed, the argument for rising copper prices doesn't just rely on the electrification-of-everything trend -- the growing use of copper in electric vehicles, renewable energy, smart buildings/infrastructure, etc. It's also driven by the increasing difficulty of obtaining mining permits and, in some countries, dealing with political instability.  Freeport-McMoRan stands relatively well placed here, with most of its copper coming from the U.S. and Indonesia. Moreover, Freeport-McMoran is working on leaching technology that management believes could lead to 800 million pounds of copper per annum recovered from stockpiles -- a figure equivalent to around 20% of its expected 4 billion pounds' worth of copper sales in 2023.  Based on a copper price of $4 per pound (Freeport-McMoRan realized a price of $4.11 in the first quarter and $3.84 in the second quarter) management expects $11 billion in earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) in 2024 through 2025 -- a figure that would put Freeport-McMoRan on an enterprise value-to-EBITDA multiple of less than 6 times in that period.  Image source: Getty Images. On balance, Freeport-McMoRan looks better right now. Granted, Freeport-McMoRan has more downside potential for commodity prices (including copper) to collapse. On the other hand, it has more upside if its key commodity price continues to rise.  However, in the base case scenario where commodity prices stay (roughly) flat from here, Freeport-McMoRan will still look like a good value. Caterpillar is a good value based on the current FCF generation. Still, there's no guarantee it will continue at this level, mainly due to its reliance on North American construction spending.  Lee Samaha has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.