We’ve all been there. Trying to get a hold of customer support and falling down a rabbit hole of clicks while attempting to navigate the website and figuring out ‘how’ to even find support. Or sifting through manually-pulled excel sheet ‘data’ to try and determine which customers to send an email to, wondering if your email is too long and – by the way – what should the subject line be? Too many clicks and too few conversations. Freshworks is changing the way its customers interact with its products – by enabling them to have more conversations, with less clicking around on screens. This comes at a critical time, as economic uncertainty looms and businesses hustle to find ways to reduce costs and work more efficiently. With new ChatGPT-based conversational enhancements to Freshworks’ natively-built AI-powered assistant, Freddy, businesses can now experience the true value of generative AI and how it can drive efficiency at work and ensure better quality of customer responses and customer targeting. The result? Stronger everyday conversations with their customers and their employees. Using OpenAI’s ChatGPT and underlying large language models, the latest generative AI capabilities of Freddy help a wide range of customer-facing professionals work faster and smarter. Customer service agents respond quickly to customers and employees in the right tone and with flawless grammar, marketers compose more compelling copy in a fraction of the time, and sellers craft powerful emails that hook in a prospect.  Delightful Customer Experiences with Real Time Support Take Tim, an airline passenger, for example. He takes a flight from JFK to LAX. Tim has a great flight and is ready to enjoy his trip. However, upon landing, he finds that his luggage has not made it. Frustrated, Tim reaches out to support via chat. The agent who receives his contact is immediately provided with the proper response to his circumstance, thanks to GPT technology and an integration with back-end systems, including their baggage management system. Freddy AI with GPT analyzes data and generates personalized responses. The agent is ready with a quickly crafted response that acknowledges the customer’s issue, provides an update on his baggage and includes an appropriate accommodation based on the customer’s segmentation type — rather than the agent having to ask unnecessary questions or put the customer on hold. The notification can be sent via text, email, or push notification through the airline’s mobile app, depending on Tim’s preferred method of communication. This is all happening in real-time, Tim doesn’t need to wait and can head to his hotel. So, even though Tim feels frustrated that his luggage is lost, the speedy, personalized, and detailed response from support helps alleviate his frustrations and gives him the info he needs to reunite with his luggage.  Need for follow-up? No problem. Support agents using Freshchat™ can view an automatic summary of customer conversations to gain context, rather than reading through an entire conversation before responding. Increasing Conversion Rates, Engagement in Marketing Marketers using Freshmarketer™, Freshworks’ marketing automation suite, can write better email copy in less time to improve open rates and engagement. Generative AI can analyze a customer’s demographic data, purchase history, browsing behavior and more to determine their interests and preferences, to create personalized product recommendations for individual customers, as well as personalized marketing content such as email campaigns, social media posts, or advertisements. For example, let’s say Tim’s airline is offering bonus points to frequent fliers for a limited time. Tim happens to be a frequent flier, so he receives a personalized email encouraging him to take a trip and earn double the points if he books within the week. Travel addict Tim, books his trip and earns more bonus points to use towards his next adventure.  Increasing Seller Win Rates and Productivity In sales, prioritizing efforts and focusing on prospects with the best potential for success doesn’t always come easy. However, with generative AI, sellers can easily identify high-opportunity prospects. Freddy’s AI proactively provides recommendations on which opportunities to focus on and which tasks to perform to increase win rates, focus on prospects with the highest potential for success, and improve seller productivity. For Freshworks users, this means using Freshsales™ to identify usage and behavior data of prospects to determine which are more likely to convert into customers. This information can help sellers make personalized recommendations since generative AI can analyze a prospect’s behavior, preferences, and past interactions with a company to generate personalized recommendations for products or services that are most likely to meet their needs. Sellers can then tailor their pitches and increase the chances of closing a deal. Or can help keep a loyal customer happy and drive them to buy more -– think Tim’s frequent flier bonus points email! Sales automation with AI can also automate mundane, routine tasks such as scheduling follow-up calls and sending personalized emails on a regular cadence to prospects. This frees up sellers to work more efficiently and effectively by focusing on building relationships and closing deals with high opportunity prospects. At Freshworks, our fundamental ethos is that we’re building our product for the end users and generative AI is another tool in the toolkit we offer to our customers. More conversations, fewer clicks. Learn more about Freshworks’ Freddy and sign up for the new Freshchat beta program here, and Freshmarketer beta program here. This article is presented by TC Brand Studio. This is paid content, TechCrunch editorial was not involved in the development of this article. Reach out to learn more about partnering with TC Brand Studio. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP