Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. “These containers are amazing” Don't settle for dumping rotten produce into the trash every week. If you're looking for an effective way to keep your fruits and vegetables fresh and vibrant ahead of the summer, keep reading. The Rubbermaid FreshWorks Produce Containers use a nifty filtration system to keep contents fresher for longer. They've racked up 3,500 perfect ratings at Amazon and if you act fast, you can snag a set of four on sale for just $23 — that's $6 apiece! Each lid features Rubbermaid's signature FreshVent technology, which is a built-in filtration system that regulates the flow of oxygen and carbon dioxide to create the optimal environment for your produce to flourish. What's more, the filters are completely low-maintenance, since they don't require replacements or refills; simply snap the lid into place and let science do its thing. Related: This Best-Selling Portable Grill That's Great for 'Camping' and 'Beach Trips' Is on Sale for Only $21 Right Now The base of each container is elevated to keep moisture off of produce in a way the drawers of your refrigerator never could. Another perk? The FreshWorks containers are super easy to store since their modular design can nestle into pantries and refrigerators without sacrificing too much space. Plus, they can easily be stacked or nested on top of each other, and are dishwasher-safe. The set of four includes one large, one medium, and two small containers — and boasts the steepest discount at 32 percent off. You can also score savings on other varieties, like this set of two large containers for 16 percent off, or a large and small pair for 21 percent off. Buy It! Rubbermaid FreshWorks Produce Containers, Set of 4, $22.99 (orig. $33.99); amazon.com It's easy to see why these functional containers have been crowned a winner by so many Amazon shoppers. One reviewer raved that the containers prevent fruits like "berries [and] melon chunks" from getting "soggy," while another user said they do an "amazing job" at keeping iceberg lettuce "fresh and crunchy for weeks." A third person even shared that they use the containers for bakery items and found that "bagels [can] last a week." A final shopper said simply: "I eat a lot of fresh vegetables and fruits, and was wasting money because they would go bad so quickly. These containers are amazing." Grab the FreshWorks containers by Rubbermaid while they're on sale at Amazon, then fill up your basket at the farmer's market with the freshest finds of the season. Do you love a good deal? Sign up for PEOPLE's Shopping newsletter to stay up to date on the latest sales, plus celebrity fashion, home decor and more. For more People news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on People. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.