Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Saturday December 17, 2022 , 5 min Read Hello,  Payment companies ﻿﻿Razorpay﻿﻿ and ﻿Cashfree Payments﻿ have received notices from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to withhold onboarding any new online merchants to their platforms, pending their audit for the payment aggregator/payment gateway licenses (PA/PG), sources told YourStory.  The embargo will be in effect only until the companies submit an audit report to the RBI showing they have complied with its rules and regulations for the PA/PG licences.   Meanwhile, trading volumes at digital-asset exchanges are being halved amid a loss of confidence in the crypto sector following FTX’s fall into bankruptcy.   Daily average trading volume slid to $13.1 billion in the week through December 11 versus $26.7 billion in the seven days to October 30, according to Bloomberg calculations on data from research firm Kaiko.   Moreover, Bitcoin fell below $17,000 on December 16 as traders warned of overreaction to “FUD” involving exchange Binance and others.  In other news, the "AquaDom"—which contained 1,500 tropical fish in a million litres of water in the lobby of the Radisson Blu in Berlin—has burst, flooding the hotel and nearby streets. The giant aquarium was described as the largest free-standing cylindrical aquarium in the world.  ICYMI: Do you know which was the worst food trend of 2022? Here’s a hint: It’s related to one of the global K-pop band BTS’ songs!  In today’s newsletter, we will talk about    Here’s your trivia for today: When was the first issue of Vogue published?  Avatar: The Way of Water  If Avatar was all about Pandora’s sweeping mountains and lush forests, its sequel–Avatar: The Way of Water–drowns you in stunning visuals of the sea and its beautiful flora and fauna as James Cameron continues to build a fascinating and rich world.   Cinematic sorcery:    Startup: ﻿Bumble Bee Flights﻿ Amount: Rs 300 Cr Round: Undisclosed  Startup: ﻿Virgio﻿  Amount: $37M Round: Series A  Startup: ﻿NeoGrowth Credit﻿ Amount: Rs 300 Cr Round: Series D  Freshworks’ product reorg  ﻿Freshworks﻿ is bringing one of its newer products Freshteam, an HR software suite, under Freshservice, its fast-growing IT service management (ITSM) tool, Girish Mathrubootham, Co-founder and CEO of Freshworks, has said in an email to employees.  Key takeaways:    Homegrown liquor brands to try in 2023  The year 2022 was an interesting one for the Indian alcohol industry, with local brands stepping up their game to produce interesting intoxicants like Prohibition Era-inspired gin and pure cane juice rum.   Bottoms up:     Answer: December 17, 1892. Initially, a weekly high-society journal, Vogue became a hugely influential American fashion and lifestyle magazine.   We would love to hear from you! To let us know what you liked and disliked about our newsletter, please mail [email protected].   If you don’t already get this newsletter in your inbox, sign up here. For past editions of the YourStory Buzz, you can check our Daily Capsule page here.  1 2 Quick commerce chaos: Food safety at Blinkit's dark stores 3 7 inspiring rags to riches stories of entrepreneurs 4 Speak Less, Show Less: Shakespeare's Path to Unconventional Success 5 This Mumbai-based D2C brand wants to be a one-stop-shop for ergonomic furniture The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.