San Francisco, Feb 15 (IANS) US-based software company Sprinklr has laid off about 4 per cent of its global workforce — or more than 100 employees — amid the ongoing economic slowdown. The company started the layoff drive last week and is cutting its workforce in India, the US and other regions, reports TechCrunch, citing sources. “While these decisions are extremely hard to make, it is the right decision for our long-term success as we shift from a capacity-driven to productivity-driven business model,” the spokesperson was quoted as saying. “Our first priority is to support our employees with the greatest care and respect, show appreciation for their contributions to Sprinklr, and to assist them in their transition. We then will realign with a focus on making it easier to sell, and to deliver profitable growth to the business,” the spokesperson added. Moreover, the report said that the US-based firm notified the initial batch of its affected employees on February 7. Sprinklr did not disclose the exact number of employees being laid off due to the decision, the report added. According to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing, the firm had 3,245 employees as of January 31, 2022. Of the total headcount at the time, 933 were based in the US, and 2,312 were based internationally, including 1,580 in India, according to the report. Meanwhile, US-based cloud communications company Twilio has announced to lay off about 17 per cent of its global workforce amid cost-cutting measures. –IANS shs/vd The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired John Abraham’s latest film, Vedaa, has been receiving positive feedback since its release on August The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) is proud to announce that renowned Indian actor Pankaj The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired Award winning composer and music maestro A.R. Rahman was felicitated with the prestigious ‘Excellence in Song Rote Rote Movie Ghudchadi Singer Jubin Nautiyal Featuring Sanjay Dutt, Raveena Tondon, Parth Samthaan Song Name – New Woman Featuring – LISA and Rosalia Check out New Woman Song Taylor Swift’s final series of shows for the European leg of her Eras tour at Ankita Lokhande recently shared a fun moment on her Instagram Stories, revealing that her husband, Devoleena Bhattacharjee, a beloved figure in Indian television, has thrilled her fans with the heartwarming Shaheer Sheikh recently returned from his vacation and made a heartfelt visit to his best Actress Disha Parmar recently shared an adorable moment with her daughter, Navya, on Instagram, capturing “Kota Factory,” once hailed for its relatable depiction of student life in Kota, has unfortunately “The Legend of Hanuman” Season 4 continues to impress with its blend of stunning animation, “Gullak” Season 4, much anticipated by fans of the charming Mishra family, unfortunately fails to “Blackout,” starring Vikrant Massey, is a thriller that strives to keep viewers on the edge glamsham.com® (since 1999) is an English language news / information platform with an aim to connect with people with information about the  entertainment industry.