 Now  85  Sun  89  Mon  90 by Troy Myers TOPICS: TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (CBS12) — The State of Florida is set to receive over $3 million from a nearly $50 million, multistate action over a data breach into an international software company that potentially exposed millions. According to the office of Attorney General Ashley Moody news release, the "massive" ransomware attack on Blackbaud happened in 2020, compromising the personal information of consumers across the country, like Social Security numbers, driver's license numbers, financial information, employment information, donation history and health information. Due to the action led by the Florida AG with 48 other states and the District of Columbia, the company must overhaul its data security. "We are holding Blackbaud, an international software company, accountable for a massive ransomware attack that compromised the personal information of potentially millions of consumers across the country, including those donating to charities, health care organizations and other nonprofits," Moody said in the news release. See also:Massive cargo ship ran aground in the U.S. Virgin Islands, officials say no pollution threat yet Thursday's action resolves the allegation against the software company of its violation of multiple laws. Those allegations included violating state consumer protection laws, breach-notification laws and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. Blackbaud is ordered to implement additional changes along with a complete overhaul of its data security. The software company must implement personal information safeguards, incident and breach response plans, breach-notification provisions requiring Blackbaud to offer assistance to customers, enhanced employee training, and security-incident reporting to the company's CEO and Board. Blackbaud is a South Carolina-based company providing software internationally. Its primary consumers are nonprofit organizations, charities, higher education institutions, K-12 schools, health care organizations and religious organizations.