Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate banking products to write unbiased product reviews. Ready to get a better understanding of your finances? Personal finance software can be a great tool for building better money habits and learning how to budget in the long term. If you'd like more guidance when making a budget, consider also downloading a budgeting app. Offers a 7-day free trial Premium Plan with a 7-day free-trial, then $14.99 per month or $99.99 annually Monarch Money is an overall solid option if you prioritize creating monthly budgets and saving for individual savings goals. The main downside of the app is that it doesn't offer a free plan. You'll have to a monthly or annual subscription fee. Here are four excellent options you might consider if you're searching for personal finance software. We've included the best free personal finance software for people on a budget. 50% off for new customers $3.99 monthly subscription or $47.88 annual subscription N/A N/A 50% off for new customers Quicken Simplifi is a great budgeting tool if you want to create a detailed monthly spending and savings plan and don't mind paying for a subscription. If you would rather get a budgeting app that doesn't have a subscription fee, you'll have to consider other options. Cost: Regular pricing is $5.99 per month Why it stands out: Quicken Deluxe is a desktop software program. It's available for download for Mac and Windows computers.  With this top personal finance software for budgeting, you'll be able to connect and keep track of bank accounts, investment accounts, loans, and credit cards. You'll also be able to create a 12-month budget. Usually personal finance software programs only have monthly budget plans. Quicken Deluxe also has a "what-if" tool that lets you see potential scenarios when you make certain investments or loan decisions to help you build a financial plan. What to look out for: Quicken Deluxe primarily focuses on basic finances and investments. If you have a business or prefer more robust features, like priority customer support, you may fare better with Quicken Premier or Quicken Home & Business. Regular pricing for Quicken software plans varies from $3.99 per month to $10.99 per month. $100,000 0.49% to 0.89% Cost: Free Why it stands out: The Empower Personal Dashboard is another software tool that's available through a mobile app or website. You might find the Empower Personal Dashboard appealing if you want to use a well-rounded platform that also helps monitor investment accounts and retirement plans. Keep in mind that there may be fees involved when investing with Empower. With the Investment Checkup feature, you can check your current portfolio allocation alongside an ideal target allocation to minimize risk and reduce volatility. It also has a fee analyzer tool that reviews hidden fees for mutual funds, investment accounts, and retirement accounts. What to look out for: Some tools are exclusively for Empower advisory clients. For example, clients will have access to a financial roadmap tool that can help them stick with major financial goals. $0.00 - $99.99 (+$39.99 or $59.99 for state return, depending on package) TaxAct gets the job done with fewer bells and whistles than H&R Block or TurboTax, though costs can still add up. It's best for someone who appreciates a simple, streamlined interface. Cost: $0.00 - $99.99 (+$39.99 or $59.99 for state return, depending on package) Why it stands out: TaxAct is one of our best tax software picks. TaxAct has four DIY online options: Free, Deluxe, Premier, and Self-Employed plans. You'll pay one price for a federal tax return, and if you have to file a state tax return you'll pay an additional fee.  TaxAct stands out from other tax software companies because it offers free expert support, regardless of which DIY plan you have. If you have questions while filing your tax returns, all you'll need to do is submit questions, and an expert will reach out to you over the phone. What to look out for: Other tax software companies do not charge a fee for state returns, and they have lower fees for filing federal tax returns (although, their features may not be as robust).  Cost: Free Why it stands out: Perhaps you don't want to link all of your bank accounts or credit cards, and you don't mind taking a more active approach to money management. Then, you might consider using Google Sheets for a straightforward way of analyzing your spending and savings goals.  Even those who aren't as tech-savvy will find that Google Sheets has a simple, no-fuss setup process. All you need to do is set up a Google account and open the Google Spreadsheets tab. Then, you can select a general template for budgets or investment tracking and follow the steps listed on the spreadsheet. Keep in mind that you'll have to update your spreadsheet regularly to have an effective spreadsheet. What to look out for: Creating and maintaining your budget fully depends on whether you're willing to manually input all your data. Some may like having a closer, more hands-on approach to tallying expenses or tracking changes. But if you're worried that it might become too overwhelming to make updates every month, consider one of our other options.  Personal finance software is a tool you can access on your computer or phone that might help you make a budget, set savings goals, track your investments, monitor your spending, or some combination of all four. It can help you with anything from retirement plans, investments, tax payments, or just general budget planning, such as building an emergency fund. It's hard to build toward savings goals you can't visualize, and limiting your spending is difficult when you're not sure where your money is going. The best software for managing personal finances helps you visualize your goals, whether they be short-term goals like saving for a vacation or long-term goals like retirement. It can also help you break down what you're earning and spending per paycheck, letting you spot if there's anything you're overspending on. Exactly what features you should look for in personal finance software will depend on your individual needs, and it's unlikely that one personal finance software will have every possible feature you could want. That being said, some form of budgeting help will be included in a majority of personal finance software. If you have a savings account with buckets, budgeting tools might even be worked into your bank account already, so that's an alternative option to consider as well. Many pieces of personal finance software will also provide some form of express tracking, whether by manually entering your purchases or linking to your checking account. Express tracking will help you get a sense of what you're spending your money on each month, which makes it easier to reduce spending. Investment management is less common in personal finance software, so if you want personal finance software with investment tracking, check ahead of time whether the software you want to use offers it. You might also find what you need with an investment app if none of the personal finance software you've researched has what you're looking for. You might be able to handle bill payment or tax payments through your personal finance software. The best personal finance software with bill pay features will let you set up bill- or spending-based alerts. These can let you know if you've missed a bill, if you're overspending, or if your checking account balance is going under a certain amount. Some of these features might also be offered in your bank's mobile banking app, though. No matter what personal finance software you're interested in, you should make sure you're choosing software that handles your personal information safely and appropriately, especially if you'll be entering in your bank information. Make sure to read your software's terms of service, privacy statements, and security policies thoroughly so you know exactly how your information will be used and protected. Also consider researching the company's past lawsuits and controversies to see if it's had issues with data breaches or improperly using customer's private information before. Make sure you have a solid financial grasp on what your financial goals are and what you need to do to accomplish them. For example, if you don't have experience planning your finances, you might want to look for personal finance software for beginners. Depending on your computer's operating system, you might also want to look for personal finance software for Windows or personal finance software for Macs. And if you're a freelancer, you might want to consider personal finance software which helps you plan how to pay your quarterly taxes. The more features your personal finance software has, the more likely you'll have to pay monthly fees to use it. Decide how much you want to spend on personal finance software, consider what features you need versus what features you want, and compare the prices of each piece of personal finance software with those features to determine which software is best for you. If the information in your personal finance software isn't accurate, it won't be able to help you with your finances. If your software is hooked up to one of your bank accounts, it may update automatically, but if it isn't, then make sure to periodically update your information to make sure the help your software gives you is accurate. It's easier to save for goals you know you can reach. For example, if you make $50,000 a year, you can probably eliminate $30 of extra spending a month using personal finance software, but it's unlikely you'll be able to eliminate $1,000 of extra spending each month. Another example is that it's easier to save for a down payment on a house if you look for homes squarely in your budget rather than a more expensive, aspirational home. It's important to use all of the features your personal finance software offers, especially if you're paying for it. If you find yourself struggling to use all of its features, consider switching to a less expensive personal finance software that has the features you want without the features you're not using. Personal finance software is a tool you can access on your computer or phone that helps you keep track of and plan your finances. This can take the form of budget building and tracking, investment help, and more. Personal finance software varies greatly depending on what you use, so there isn't just one way personal finance software works. Generally, though, you'll access your software from your phone or computer, and you'll connect or enter your financial information into it so you can budget, plan, and/or invest. Whether your personal finance software is secure will depend on what personal finance software you use. If you're concerned about security, make sure to carefully read over the software's terms of service and security policies to see what it does with your financial information and how it protects it. Yes, some personal finance software can help with investment tracking. An example of this is the Empower Personal Dashboard, which lets you monitor and analyze your investment and retirement accounts. There are free personal finance tools that you may use online. For example, Empower, GNU Cash, and Google Spreadsheets are free. Rocket Money is a budgeting app and it also also has a free option. Research is an important part of choosing a personal finance software program that fits your needs. First, we compiled a list of 13 personal finance software programs. Then, we compared each program by analyzing the following criteria: platform accessibility, pricing, money management features, and user experience. With tax software programs, we only considered the DIY online filing options. We did not consider full-service packages where an expert helps with taxes. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards.Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available.**Enrollment required. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards. Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available. **Enrollment required. Jump to