$7 billion unicorn Carta is officially retreating from its equity management software for public companies, according to multiple sources Insider has spoken to. The company's departure from public markets represents a major strategic reversal for CEO Henry Ward who as late as 2020 was telling the Financial Times that he intended to put the New York Stock Exchange out of business.    Carta, a Silicon Valley darling that has raised more than $1 billion from VC heavyweights such as Andreessen Horowitz and Lightspeed Venture Partners, has become a popular software service to manage employee equity for much of the startup ecosystem. Thousands of private companies use the platform to track company and employee ownership, process venture investments, and administer employee stock programs, among a slew of other services. But while Carta has a commanding presence among venture-backed startups, it has long harbored ambitions of conquering the much more complex public markets as well, promising companies that they can "seamlessly transition from private to public" using its platform.  Carta didn't respond to multiple requests for comment for this article. As of Monday night, the company's website was still promoting its public market offerings.  In late February of 2023, Jon Prideaux, CEO of mobile payments processor Boku, got a call from an account executive at Carta. Prideaux had been using Carta's platform for years to keep track of Boku's employee stock plan. Carta had seen the company through its 2017 public listing on the London Stock Exchange, helping its employees and shareholders navigate the complex world of public stock markets. 
                                Related stories
                               Now, all of sudden, the person on the other end of the phone was telling Prideaux he needed to look elsewhere.  "They just said that they were changing their strategy and consequently, that we needed to migrate off their system," Prideaux told Insider. He was told that Carta would no longer be offering equity management for public companies, choosing instead to double down on serving its private market clients. After a brief negotiation over timeline, Prideaux was told that his company needed to be off the Carta's platform by June.  Carta announced its entry into public markets in early 2018. At the time Ward called it "a risky bet," acknowledging that it was a crowded, competitive market. But thousands of private companies were already using Carta's platform, so it made sense for the company to offer its services to the startups that eventually went public.  That same year the company acquired transfer agent Philadelphia Stock Transfer. Transfer agents are regulated entities that all public companies are required to use to track stock ownership. The acquisition of PST gave Carta an important foothold in public markets. Around the same time the company hired Scott Harrigan, a veteran of Computershare, one of the largest transfer agents in the industry, to build out its new public markets division. Ultimately neither investment panned out. In July, 2021 Carta quietly sold off PST to a group led by its founder Robert Winterle, according to two people familiar with the deal. Harrigan left Carta in 2019, less than two years after he was hired, and went on to work for a competing transfer agent called Securitize, which itself acquired PST in June, 2022.  Though it's unclear why Carta made the decision to withdraw from public markets, multiple sources both inside and outside the company told Insider that the company struggled to service the needs of publicly traded companies. "They don't have the infrastructure to support publicly traded companies," said one consultant who in 2019 was hired by a multi-billion dollar tech unicorn that was debating whether to stay on Carta's platform after its planned IPO. The consultant said that Carta didn't seem to understand the unique challenges of managing public company stock, which trades at a speed and scale unheard of in private markets.  "I would talk to them and say, well, my client's about to go public, they're very high profile, thousands of employees, they're gonna want to exercise their options and they're gonna wanna talk to someone and that has to happen very quickly. And Carta's response was, well, they can Slack us, and I'm like no, that's not gonna be acceptable," the consultant said. Ultimately, the person said, the company opted not to use Carta's platform to manage its public shares. Doordash, another high-profile customer of Carta's, switched to Charles Schwab for equity management when it went public in 2020, according to a company spokesperson.  For his part, Boku CEO Jon Prideaux said he was happy with Carta's platform and would have been happy to keep his company there but that he understands why the company would choose to focus on its core business of serving private startups. "I guess getting into the public markets is something that they sort of dipped their toe in and now want to withdraw," he said. Meanwhile an executive at a company that competes with Carta and who asked not to be named said he's received over a dozen calls from public companies in recent weeks, all of whom were told they have to be off Carta's platform by this Spring. "It is a seismic shift," the executive said, "because their CEO, his whole vision was we want to be the the one-stop shop for everything." 
                                Read next
                               Jump to