EPL The walk from Seven Sisters tube station along Tottenham High Road to their second home is a familiar pilgrimage for thousands. For fans of one of the biggest, richest and most ambitious clubs in English football, it should elicit sensations of hope, expectancy and positivity. Their team play home games in one of the best stadiums in Europe, are managed by one of the most successful managers in Europe in recent years and have players including Harry Kane, Son Heung-min and Cristian Romero whose quality is the envy of some of the best sides in Europe. Advertisement But before a Champions League knockout game against a name as prestigious as AC Milan — and with the tie still in the balance — the mood is muted. It is hard to imagine a more damning indictment of where Spurs are at right now. Tottenham are just not what they should be: great stadium, average team, confusing direction. The stage is grand and palatial, but that is no use if the actors keep fluffing their lines and the director seems clueless. The Milan game last night will see a tired and familiar storyline played out — and the reviews will be awful. This is not just about one game, though. Even if they had won the Milan tie and reached the quarter-finals of the Champions League, it would have merely offered a temporary distraction from the wider issues engulfing the club, issues which are generating not just anger from their success-hungry fanbase, but passivity, indifference and apathy. The foundations — not just the stadium, the training ground, the revenues, the commercial gains — are extremely strong. In the past 10 seasons, Spurs’ average league position has been fourth/fifth. They have only finished outside the top six once in that time. They qualify for Europe pretty much every year (only once missing out on playing in one European competition or another since 2006). And yet despite those impressively consistent league finishes, Spurs somehow find themselves directionless and without an identity. Unless that identity is to bore the arse off the tens of thousands who pay top whack to watch them week after week. You can count on one hand the number of truly memorable moments or games from this season. The last-gasp win in Marseille in November… Kane breaking Jimmy Greaves’ goalscoring record in a 1-0 win over Manchester City last month… and that’s about it. Even beating Chelsea the other week, for the first time at the new stadium, still managed to feel slightly underwhelming. Advertisement Why? Because it is not clear to the only people who really matter, the fans, where Spurs are going, or what they are trying to achieve. The wins mean less. The defeats draw out more frustration than they otherwise would, because a mantra of, ‘OK, we lost today but we can see the progression of the team and things will be better next season’, or words to that effect, do not work when the manager is out of contract at the end of the season and sometimes speaks/looks like he would rather be anywhere else. Plus the football has, on the whole, been flaccid. Tidy, organised, functional and effective at its best; soulless, passive, bland and uninteresting at its worst. And 3-4-3, it’s always 3-4-3. Some of the first halves have been truly painful. Which is why when Spurs won 10 games in a row at home in all competitions and then went 2-0 down in their next home match (against Newcastle United in October) the boos were ringing out before half-time. Patience has been worn thin. On the face of it a team in fourth place and, until last night, 90 minutes away from the Champions League’s last eight? What is there to moan about? The reality is different. Ditto the ownership. ENIC Group and club chairman Daniel Levy are consistent owners who have grown Spurs’ status and finances exponentially, turning them into a consistent top-six team. Yet for some in January it was ‘ENIC and Levy out’. Whatever your stance, there is at least likely to be general agreement that strategies have come across as confused, in the transfer market, in managerial appointments, in the placing of priorities. Are they desperately trying, as Levy says, to end an embarrassing trophy drought that dates back to 2008? Resting Kane, their most creative player (Dejan Kulusevski) and their best defender (Cristian Romero) for an FA Cup fifth-round tie against Championship opposition suggested not. But that is the culture of this club. Hiring three pragmatic/defence-minded managers in a row in Jose Mourinho, Nuno Espirito Santo and Conte has not worked. Two of them were ‘serial winners’, but have won nothing at Tottenham. No wonder the yearning for Mauricio Pochettino’s return grows warmer by the day.  “No one knows how long he’ll be the manager for… no wonder we’re inconsistent,” Spurs diehard Lee, with a ‘Kane 10’ shirt on his back, says in between chomps of his burger before the Milan second leg. “Sheffield United (that FA Cup defeat) felt like a tipping point on quite a few levels, it was miserable. The lack of a trophy is what it is, but if we’re not going to win anything we want to at least enjoy the football on offer. At the moment we’re not really heading anywhere and the football just isn’t very entertaining.“ Advertisement Season-ticket holder Peter adds: “We’ll turn up tonight. It’ll be a great atmosphere. We need a big night or it’s season over. “Regardless of who the manager is, we need more investment if we’re going to keep up with the rest of the ‘Big Six’ and Newcastle. Without Levy, we wouldn’t have this (points to the stadium) but on the other side they’ve got to put more money into the team. Recruitment has been poor, a lot of money has been wasted. We need players who’ve been there and done it. Everything’s here, we just need that boost to go to the next level. Can these owners do that? I’m not convinced. “I know we’re fourth and I understand the argument that we should be grateful for that, but there’s a feeling we’re drifting and if we don’t get the next manager right and don’t have a good summer window, we could slide next year.” ‘The next manager’. People are talking like Conte’s already gone. At the start of the season last summer, it felt like Spurs were lucky to have a manager of his pedigree and calibre (and he has not been shy in letting them know it) but now there will be no tears shed if/when the two parties decide on divorce rather than a renewal of their vows. The Italian does not look like he wants to stay either, unsurprisingly so after a hugely difficult season for him personally. Conte looks jaded. It has been a swift switch in public opinion. Fans were loudly and proudly chanting their manager’s name two months ago and he was the clear winner of the Levy v Conte popularity contest. But when he returned to the stadium last night for the first time in two months, not once did the crowd sing for Conte. A Twitter poll by a Spurs fan account asking whether fans were Conte in or Conte out had more than 15,000 votes last night, and almost 90 per cent were against him.  You suspect even those who think he should be retained as head coach and backed in the transfer market would concede that if neither party is committed, to the arrangement it is best to move on. And move on to what? Does it have to be a big name? A trophy winner? A young buck with fresh ideas? Or would a progressive, energetic, ambitious, tactically flexible/astute manager who can deliver front-foot football be a good start? Someone aligned with the director of football and the ownership on a recruitment strategy to fit his methods. Advertisement It sounds simple. Maybe Spurs have been overcomplicating things. Whether it is Conte, Pochettino, Thomas Tuchel or Ryan Mason, Tottenham fans just want a club and a team to believe in again. Nevermore has this been more evident than on what should have been a memorable European night against Milan. They gave Conte the big-game atmosphere he requested, the loudest of the season. And then, after 30 minutes, silence. Apathy. And ‘meh’. The pre-match noise was incredible…then the game kicked off and everyone remembered what it has been like to watch Spurs this season. Then audible frustration at over-hit crosses, at misplaced passes, at the fact Spurs just weren’t doing anything. I’ve been at EFL Trophy ties that carried more urgency. Boos at half-time, angst, frustration. They were watching a huge European game and it may as well have been Southampton at home in the league. GO DEEPER Any sense Conte could drag Spurs to a place they had never been before has gone The second half is better, as usual, but not enough. More boos — at Conte replacing his most creative player, Kulusevski, with centre-back Davinson Sanchez when needing a goal to keep their season alive. The substitution feels like a piss-take. And the whole thing encapsulates and embodies everything about Spurs. Joyless, a missed opportunity and a forgettable tie in a forgettable season. Going out of the Champions League probably increases the likelihood — given how Spurs are better when they do not have to worry about annoying things like midweek matches or rotating their squad — of them finishing fourth again. The fact most of their supporters probably do not really care about that says all you need to know. Apathy with the Champions League now, too. Something needs to change. Conte predictably tried to deflect attention by pointing to things such as Milan’s history. He said Spurs finishing fourth last season was a miracle (it should be pointed out the dictionary defines a miracle as an extraordinary and welcome event that is not explicable by natural or scientific laws and is therefore attributed to a divine agency). Advertisement This was public relations for dummies and came across as desperate. His team produced an expected goals (xG) figure of 1.0 over the two legs. Out with a whimper. So approaching three-and-a-half years on from Pochettino’s sacking, Spurs have not really done much other than waste time and money. A long-term outlook off the pitch and with signings (the average age of their new additions is now 23), a short-term fix in the dugout which has not fixed anything in the short term and has done nothing for the long term.  As the crowd headed out into the freezing north London night after seeing the season and perhaps an era all but end it was, appropriately, pissing it down. Some sang Pochettino’s name, one bloke moaned about having to come back here again on Saturday for Nottingham Forest at home. This is about more than one game, or one competition, or one head coach. It’s about a fanbase needing something to believe in again. GO DEEPER Richarlison: 'This season has been shit' (Top photo: Clive Rose/Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Tim Spiers  is a football journalist for The Athletic, based in London. He joined in 2019 having previously worked at the Express & Star in Wolverhampton. Follow Tim on Twitter @TimSpiers