Achieving safe, cost-effective, and scalable hydrogen fuel technology has long been considered a kind of Holy Grail in the renewable energy field. Burning hydrogen produces nothing worse than water vapour — the definition of net-zero — and the molecule is plentiful in nature. Hydrogen has the potential to sidestep the two greatest challenges of fuel production: sourcing and extraction on the one end, and harmful emissions on the other. Enticed by these possibilities, and a raft of global energy subsidies, start-ups and industry giants alike have been pouring research and development hours into hydrogen projects in hopes of finding their foothold in this budding alt-fuel niche. “When it comes to hydrogen, there is a tendency to see it as a miracle fuel, because it’s a fuel that can be used without emitting greenhouse gases,” Raphael Hanoteaux, senior policy advisor of Gas Politics for E3G, told The Weather Network. “At the moment, hydrogen is a fuel of the future — we use it mainly for industry,” he added. Concept rendering of a hydrogen fueling station. (Getty) In recent months, however, that has been changing. Several companies have unveiled prototypes or plans for hydrogen-powered planes, trains, race cars, and hauling trucks — to name just a few examples. In January, the aviation company ZeroAvia, which is at the forefront of developing hydrogen fuel cell technology for use in planes, safely completed a test-flight of a small aircraft partly powered by hydrogen. Last summer, Germany — which has signed an agreement to produce and transport hydrogen in partnership with Canada — announced the launch of 14 passenger trains that also run on the emissions-free fuel. And earlier in 2022, the carbon reduction company First Mode unveiled a heavy-duty hauling truck powered by a hydrogen fuel cell engine in operation at the Mogalakwena mine in South Africa. These advancements are notable. While hydrogen fuel cell technology has been around for decades, it has never before been used in sectors like aviation — which produces three per cent of worldwide greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) — or mining, which accounts for seven per cent of global GHGs, with nearly half of that resulting from haulage trucks themselves. Bolstering these new ventures are international subsidies and incentives aimed at spurring the energy transition, like the American Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) — a nearly US$400-billion bill — and similar legislation in the EU, which just last week proposed its “Green Deal Industrial Plan.” Collectively, such plans mark the first time global investment in decarbonization hit the US$1 trillion mark, and they include sizeable investments in hydrogen technology — as does last quarter’s budget update from the Canadian government. This investment is key to bringing down the cost of hydrogen production, which remains a significant obstacle in the sector because, unlike fossil fuels that require far less processing, the burnable form of hydrogen must be produced through highly energy-intensive processes. Click here to view the video The first step in that direction is expanding hydrogen production capacity, and that is well underway here in Canada. Hydrogen production facilities are planned in Alberta, Newfoundland, and Nova Scotia in the coming few years. But there is another obstacle to producing hydrogen for use as a fuel in industry and transportation. The energy used to isolate burnable hydrogen is often the very fossil fuels that, in a net-zero world, hydrogen would replace. “The production of hydrogen entails a lot of electricity. That’s where greenhouse gases can occur,” Murray Thomson, professor in the department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at the University of Toronto, told The Weather Network. For example, the plant to be built in Alberta, through an agreement with the company Air Products Inc., would produce hydrogen using a primary energy source of natural gas (aka methane gas). The project is billed as “net-zero,” because the plant would capture and store GHG emissions, but some green energy advocates argue that making “clean” hydrogen from “dirty” fossil fuels — known as “blue hydrogen” — defeats the purpose, from a climate perspective. 'Green hydrogen' is hydrogen produced from emissions-free renewable sources like wind and solar power. (Getty) Critics contend that the fossil fuel industry, losing its market share to renewables, is pushing blue hydrogen for financial reasons, not to better the climate. Research has revealed that fossil fuel lobby groups spent more than US$70 million boosting blue hydrogen in the EU. By contrast, some studies are wary of the push to use hydrogen in transportation or home heating, arguing that such a push will only undercut the electrification of transport or the shift to heating homes with heat pumps, which are six times more efficient than hydrogen boilers. Or they make the case for “green hydrogen,” or hydrogen produced from emissions-free renewable sources like wind and solar power. “The idea is to produce hydrogen from renewable electricity, made by electrolysis,” Hanoteaux explained. The plants in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland would both produce hydrogen entirely from wind power — in the latter case, a three-gigawatt wind farm near Stephenville. With the rise of these sources of green production, hydrogen may begin to play a larger role in sectors where batteries are less useful — like high-heat industry and high-power transport. “Replacing coal in steel-making, replacing jet fuel for airplanes, replacing diesel fuel for trucks,” said Thomson. “There are lots of applications where electricity and electric batteries don’t really work, and hydrogen is a way of replacing these fossil fuels with something that doesn’t produce greenhouse gases,” he added. And easier and cheaper methods to produce hydrogen may be on the horizon. Just last week, researchers from the University of Adelaide, in Australia, announced that they have produced hydrogen fuel straight from seawater. “We have split natural seawater into oxygen and hydrogen with nearly 100 per cent efficiency, to produce green hydrogen by electrolysis, using a non-precious and cheap catalyst in a commercial electrolyser,” explained co-lead of the research, professor Shizhang Qiao. The work could provide a path to affordable green hydrogen and mark the beginning of a boom for the industry. Thumbnail image: A hydrogen-powered truck on the highway. (Getty) Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. The former president can't seem to get over Democrats calling him and his running mate "weird" Melania Trump has largely been absent from Donald Trump's campaign, appearing only sporadically in public. Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death After nearly a year of challenges on and off the ice, Patrik Laine is ready for a fresh start.