AN expert mechanic has revealed a little-known fuel hack that could save you hundreds while filling up. Jeremy from Gasholes Garage took to YouTube to share the handy tip to help look after a critical part of your motor.  He advised viewers against driving until the tank is completely empty, as the fuel actually performs a special role beyond just powering the engine. Jeremy explained: "Don't always run the fuel all the way to empty on your car. "If you constantly do that, you're going to burn out your fuel pump. "The reason why is that the fuel in your tank actually cools the fuel pump. "So if it's running on empty constantly, it's going to overheat a lot more and it's going to go out on you way too soon." Given that the average cost of replacing a fuel pump is £500 and can even jump as high as £900, just making sure to pop to the petrol station before you run out could save you a substantial amount. Jeremy recommended keeping the tank at least a quarter full as much as possible. He added: "If there's a quarter tank in there, if you ever have a problem, you can just hop in the car and go." The only exception to this is if you plan to leave your car parked for an extended period of time. The RAC recommends draining the tank if your vehicle will be standing idle for longer than six months, especially if it's a diesel. This is because fuel can actually go off if left standing for a long period. However, for regularly driven cars, it's perfectly safe to keep the tank filled to around a quarter as the older fuel will mix with fresh and be burnt off just the same. It comes after another mechanic busted an unnecessary engine myth that costs motorists thousands. Meanwhile, a ULEZ rebellion is brewing on the outskirts of London as councils refuse to put up new enforcement signs. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)