 German carrier Deutsche Telekom said that over 9,000 of its 5G antennas are already transmitting on the 3.6 GHz band. In a release, the European operator said it has expanded its mobile service offering at 820 locations nationwide in the last six weeks. Some 143 locations were newly built and are now broadcasting with LTE and 5G frequencies, Deutsche Telekom said. In addition, 4G and 5G  capacity was increased at 677 locations already in operation, the telco added. Around 95% of households can already access Deutsche Telekom’s 5G network, while LTE coverage currently reaches 99% of households across Germany. “We are increasing the pace of mobile communications expansion,” said Abdu Mudesir, managing director of technology at Telekom Deutschland. “More than 95% of the population can already use 5G from Deutsche Telekom, and by 2025 we will reach 99% of the population,” the executive said. In June of last year, Deutsche Telekom announced it was for the first time using spectrum in the 700 MHz range to provide 5G service. The European operator said that the use of the 700 MHz band improve mobile communications coverage in rural areas across Germany. In addition to the 700 MHz frequency, there are two other radio bands: 2.1 GHz and 3.6 GHz. The telco said that 5G Standalone (SA) is technically available in the 2.1 GHz frequency band, adding that commercial use of 5G SA for residential customers will start as soon as applications are available. Deutsche Telekom kicked off the rollout of its 5G network in a limited number of cities across Germany at the beginning of July 2019. Earlier this year, Deutsche Telekom announced a partnership with Nokia, Fujitsu and Mavenir for the initial phase of its commercial Open RAN (O-RAN) deployments across its European footprint. The German telco noted that Nokia and Fujitsu have been chosen as partners for an initial commercial O-RAN introduction in Germany from 2023 onwards. Customers in the Neubrandenburg area will receive 2G, 4G and 5G services from the deployment in the ‘brownfield’ network environment of Telekom Deutschland. In addition, Mavenir was chosen as partner for an initial multi-vendor deployment in Deutsche Telekom’s European footprint starting this year. Deutsche Telekom also highlighted that the sites at Neubrandenburg are built on a multi-vendor O-RAN architecture with open fronthaul support and equipment from Nokia and Fujitsu. Nokia will deliver the baseband units, while the O-RAN compliant remote Radio Units (O-RUs) will be provided by Nokia and Fujitsu. Deutsche Telekom also said that it plans to announce additional partners for O-RAN deployments. In April, Deutsche Telekom confirmed it had finally surpassed a 50% stake in T-Mobile US after years of steadily increasing its ownership in the American carrier. During a recent company’s general meeting, Deutsche Telekom’s CEO Timotheus Hoettges shared that the company has been going after a majority stake in T-Mobile US since 2021. It now can claim a 50.2% stake. ABOUT AUTHOR 

 Yes No Depends   Since 1982, RCR Wireless News has been providing wireless and mobile industry news, insights, and analysis to mobile and wireless industry professionals, decision makers, policy makers, analysts and investors. © 2024 RCR Wireless News

Powered by Eight Hats