Come explore with us!   
	The programs ID skin conditions, warn of dangerous driving and translate sign language What’s behind that persistent skin itch? We normally go to a doctor for a diagnosis. But what if a doctor won’t be available for months? A teen’s new phone app may help. Trained on AI, it already reliably recognizes 18 different skin conditions, including eczema and psoriasis.  AntonioGuillem/iStock/Getty Images Plus By McKenzie Prillaman July 6, 2023 at 6:30 am DALLAS, Texas — When looking for a science fair project, many kids scratch their heads — then ask for help. Mesk Abdalsalam found her inspiration while watching her brother scratch at the itchy dry skin in the creases of his elbows. A young computer scientist, Mesk realized software might help her brother and others find medical relief when a doctor is not readily available. A rising 11th grader, Mesk was among several high-school students who unveiled software solutions to vexing problems in May. All were finalists at the Regeneron International Science and Engineering Fair (ISEF). This teen competition is a program of Society for Science (which also publishes this magazine). Wait times for medical appointments can be long in Palestine, where Mesk lives. It took nearly six months for her brother to see a doctor. Those dry patches on his arms turned out to be eczema. A chronic disease, it can cause itchy, scaly rashes. Frustrated by the long delay in her brother’s diagnosis, Mesk decided to use artificial intelligence, or AI, to speed up the process. The 16-year-old at Talae’ Al-Amal Secondary School in Nablus trained her novel software to quickly determine skin conditions based on photos. Called Derma X, her smartphone app can identify 18 skin conditions. Besides eczema, these also include psoriasis and acne. Training the software required using more than 50,000 publicly available photos. Derma X now correctly diagnoses skin conditions 83 percent of the time. “It’s really easy, simple, not costly,” she notes. She adds that it’s also “really fast.” The app spits out an answer in seconds. Mesk has shown her app to many people, including a doctor who “wanted to use it more and more.” Everyone has been shocked, she says. They’re grateful that there could soon be a way to diagnose skin conditions in the blink of an eye. Derma X earned Mesk fourth place in the systems-software division at ISEF and a $500 prize. She also won a Mawhiba Universal Enrichment Program award and $200 from the King Abdulaziz & his Companions Foundation for Giftedness and Creativity. That last group is an educational foundation in Saudi Arabia that cultivates creativity. Weekly updates to help you use Science News Explores in the learning environment Thank you for signing up! There was a problem signing you up. Dangerous drivers can be anywhere. Drunk, sleepy and distracted driving can sometimes end tragically, notes Jeesung Lee, 17. This rising high-school junior in South Korea attends St. Johnsbury Academy Jeju. He wondered whether AI could help alert people to such drivers. A system he’s designed can now warn drivers when others near them are acting erratically. Jeesung’s algorithm scans video feeds for cars traveling at dangerous speeds or suddenly switching lanes. His computer program then sends a message to cellphones in the area. It can text drivers to watch out. Live video surveys many major roads around the globe, often for traffic reports. This footage will usually be scanned after an accident occurs to assess what happened, Jeesung notes. His AI-based program instead aims to head off accidents. It monitors streaming video in real time. Jeesung trained his algorithm with publicly available videos showing car accidents. He then tested his system using video it hadn’t seen. It correctly identified dangerous driving some 80 percent of the time, the teen now reports. It also sends out warnings less than two seconds after spotting risky driving. You can’t get those warnings just yet. To do so, Jeesung wants to use GPS to pinpoint the locations of phone users. That would require permission from South Korea’s government, he notes. But the system should prove quick and reliable, Jeesung says. And it should cost little, he adds. It needs no additional hardware. And his algorithm can be used with existing cameras. Car accidents are a leading cause of death and injuries. Jeesung hopes a system like his can limit these. He aims to continue tweaking and testing the system in Jeju and eventually go global. While working at his part-time job in a hardware store, Liam Sweeney met a deaf customer with a question. But “he had a very complex problem,” recalls this 18-year-old. Liam just graduated from Centaurus High School in Lafayette, Colo. That encounter prompted him to think about how to create a program that can translate American Sign Language, or ASL, into English on the spot. Liam’s translator works by having a computer program match the finger and hand motions of ASL against a list of the letters, words or phrases they represent. He’s used a camera to record signs. His system then reports back the equivalent English text. Right now, it recognizes only 15 signs — such as the one for “I love you.” But it’s about 98 percent accurate for those signs when viewed by a camera under ideal conditions, Liam says. Good conditions include bright lighting and strong color contrast between the user’s hands and the background. The teen aims to continue refining this translator by working with a friend who knows ASL and then switching over to AI. While the current software only requires 20 examples per sign, training an AI program will need way more. But it also will result in a system that’s much better at recognizing signs in images and videos, Liam says. Mesk, Jeesung and Liam were among more than 1,600 high school finalists from 64 countries, regions and territories. Regeneron ISEF doled out nearly $9 million in prizes this year. This program has been run by Society for Science since it launched the annual event in 1950. acne: A skin condition that results in red, inflamed skin, commonly called pimples or zits. algorithm: A group of rules or procedures for solving a problem in a series of steps. Algorithms are used in mathematics and in computer programs for figuring out solutions. American Sign Language: A way of communicating using hand shapes and body movements. annual: Adjective for something that happens every year. (in botany) A plant that lives only one year, so it usually has a showy flower and produces many seeds. app: Short for application, or a computer program designed for a specific task. artificial intelligence: A type of knowledge-based decision-making exhibited by machines or computers. The term also refers to the field of study in which scientists try to create machines or computer software capable of intelligent behavior. broadcast: To cast — or send out — something over a relatively large distance. A farmer may broadcast seeds by flinging them by hand over a large area. A loudspeaker may send sounds out over a great distance. An electronic transmitter may emit electromagnetic signals over the air to a distant radio, television or other receiving device. And a newscaster can broadcast details of events to listeners across a large area, even the world. chronic: A condition, such as an illness (or its symptoms, including pain), that lasts for a long time. computer program: A set of instructions that a computer uses to perform some analysis or computation. The writing of these instructions is known as computer programming. diagnose: To analyze clues or symptoms in the search for their cause. The conclusion usually results in a diagnosis — identification of the causal problem or disease. eczema: An allergic disease that causes an itchy red rash — or inflammation — on the skin. The term comes from a Greek word, which means to bubble up or boil over. engineering: The field of research that uses math and science to solve practical problems. Someone who works in this field is known as an engineer. erratic: A pattern that appears irregular and unpredictable. footage: (in movies and videos) A term for the uncut or unprocessed motion pictures or video imagery taken by a camera. It takes its name from the fact that it took several feet of film to capture a few seconds of motion-picture photography. high school: A designation for grades nine through 12 in the U.S. system of compulsory public education. High-school graduates may apply to colleges for further, advanced education. monitor: To test, sample or watch something, especially on a regular or ongoing basis. psoriasis: A skin disorder that causes cells on the surface of the skin to grow too quickly. The extra cells build up in thick scales or dry, red patches. real time: A term that connotes immediacy; something is being studied, recorded and/or reported at the very time it is happening. recall: To remember. Regeneron International Science and Engineering Fair: (Regeneron ISEF) Initially launched in 1950, this competition is one of three created (and still run) by the Society for Science. Each year now, approximately 1,600 high school students from more than 60 countries, regions, and territories are awarded the opportunity to showcase their independent research at Regeneron ISEF and to compete for an average of almost $9 million in prizes. smartphone: A cell (or mobile) phone that can perform a host of functions, including search for information on the internet. Society for Science: A nonprofit organization created in 1921 and based in Washington, D.C. Since its founding, the Society has been promoting not only public engagement in scientific research but also the public understanding of science. It created and continues to run three renowned science competitions: the Regeneron Science Talent Search (begun in 1942), the Regeneron International Science and Engineering Fair (initially launched in 1950) and MASTERS (from 2010 to 2022) and the Thermo Fisher Scientific Junior Innovators Challenge (launched in 2023). The Society also publishes award-winning journalism: in Science News (launched in 1922) and Science News Explores (created in 2003). software: The mathematical instructions that direct a computer’s hardware, including its processor, to perform certain operations. survey: To view, examine, measure or evaluate something, often land or broad aspects of a landscape. system: A network of parts that together work to achieve some function. For instance, the blood, vessels and heart are primary components of the human body's circulatory system. Similarly, trains, platforms, tracks, roadway signals and overpasses are among the potential components of a nation's railway system. System can even be applied to the processes or ideas that are part of some method or ordered set of procedures for getting a task done. Report:​ ​​M. Abdalsalam. An app that diagnosis dermatology diseases. Systems software project #047. Regeneron International Science & Engineering Fair. May 15-19, 2023, Dallas, Texas. Report:​ ​​J. Lee. Zero cost AI-CCTV for detecting vehicular danger. Systems software project #025. Regeneron International Science & Engineering Fair. May 15-19, 2023, Dallas, Texas. Report:​ ​​L. Sweeney. American Sign Language translator. Systems software project #012. Regeneron International Science & Engineering Fair. May 15-19, 2023, Dallas, Texas. McKenzie Prillaman is the Spring 2023 science writing intern at Science News. She holds a bachelor’s degree in neuroscience with a minor in bioethics from the University of Virginia and a master’s degree in science communication from the University of California, Santa Cruz. 
				Free educator resources are available for this article. Register to access:			 
Already Registered?
			Enter your e-mail address above.		 
						Readability Score: 8.1					 
HS-ETS1-4, MS-ETS1-4  Founded in 2003, Science News Explores is a free, award-winning online publication dedicated to providing age-appropriate science news to learners, parents and educators. The publication, as well as Science News magazine, are published by the Society for Science, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) membership organization dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and education.  
				© Society for Science & the Public 2000–2024. All rights reserved.			