Look mum, it works on your computer 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Is it ironic that Look Mum No Computer (Sam Battle) has worked with Spitfire Audio to pack sounds from some of his finest hand-built and modified machines into a free plugin that runs in your… computer? We’re not sure we care, to be honest.  Look Mum No Computer: “My 1,000 oscillator megadrone was challenging“ The main thing is that Obsolete Machines, the latest addition to the LABS range, is here, complete with presets derived from the likes of the GAMEBOY Megamachine, Sega MegaDrive Synth, and the monstrous 1000 oscillator Megadrone. Battle’s hand-restored vintage Univox also gets a look-in, as does his Formant Bass. The instrument was recorded on location at Battle’s This Museum is (Not) Obsolete facility in Kent, a place where his collection of electronic craziness is allowed to live and breathe. “It was just inside me - the idea of being in a dark museum,” he says. “I haven’t got a hoarding problem, now I’m a curator.”  The presets in the LABS instrument can be tweaked with Expression, Unison/Warp/Dynamics, LP/HPF Filter and Reverb controls, so you can dive in and start tweaking these (not) obsolete machines to taste. Obsolete Machines runs on PC and Mac in VST/AU/AAX formats. Download it for free on the Spitfire Audio website. Revisit our guide to Spitfire Audio's LABS. Want all the hottest music and gear news, reviews, deals, features and more, direct to your inbox? Sign up here.  I’m the Deputy Editor of MusicRadar, having worked on the site since its launch in 2007. I previously spent eight years working on our sister magazine, Computer Music. I’ve been playing the piano, gigging in bands and failing to finish tracks at home for more than 30 years, 24 of which I’ve also spent writing about music and the ever-changing technology used to make it.  “Great value, great features and a very slick workflow”: Tracktion Waveform Pro 13 review "All that time you were throwing punches, I was building something / And I can’t forgive the way you made me feel": Taylor Swift gets in another dig at Kanye West “An almost overwhelming synth in terms of its scope”: Tone2 Icarus 3 review MusicRadar is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 