To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. Products are independently selected by our editors. We may earn an affiliate commission from links. ​​The best lab-grown diamonds may not have been your first choice when shopping for fine jewelry like an engagement ring or everyday pieces from earrings to necklaces and bracelets in years past—particularly when shopping for a luxurious gift. However, the diamond jewelry industry has vastly changed over the years. Lab-created diamonds are as coveted as natural diamonds mined from the earth, resulting in choices aplenty. In fact, when you start to research these sparkly creations, including the best places to buy lab-grown diamonds, you’ll learn that lab diamonds are real diamonds made of pure carbon. A common mistake is misinterpreting lab diamonds for simulated diamonds, like cubic zirconia and moissanite crafted from different chemical compositions, which they are not. Lab diamonds are chemically identical to natural diamonds, but as the name indicates, they’re created in a lab rather than through the earth’s resources. While this makes them less rare, they’re undoubtedly valuable and often more affordable than natural diamonds. With engagement season on the horizon and Mother’s Day around the corner— lab-grown diamond jewelry is a desirable choice in the market. And yes, the four Cs: color, cut, clarity, and carat, still apply. Whether shopping for yourself or looking to treat a loved one to one of the best jewelry gifts, you can choose from all the different diamond cuts, from rounds to oval and emerald, set in yellow gold, white gold, and rose gold. Similarly, when determining where to shop for a lab-grown diamond, especially one as the focal point of the best engagement rings, you’ll find all the ring settings you could ever wish for, including traditional, modern, and vintage-inspired designs. And since lab-grown diamonds are created in a controlled environment, flawlessness is much easier to achieve at a friendly price, as is a bigger stone. To the naked eye, it’s virtually impossible to tell if a diamond is natural or lab-grown. Environmentally speaking, there are pros and cons to each. Ultimately, it’s whatever you value most and how you weigh things—compare the energy and water usage required for your chosen lab-grown diamond and compare that to the power and labor necessary for mining. In the end, like the best vintage jewelry, a diamond piece already in existence is the most sustainable option, though plenty of consciously made new designs are out there. Whether you’re looking to shop for a special someone or to simply treat yourself, (after all, every girl deserves diamonds, once in her life), ahead, peruse an edit of scintillating necklaces, bracelets, earrings, and rings from 14 of the best places to buy lab-grown diamonds. If you’re shopping for loose lab diamonds, turn to Grown Brilliance for some of the best—the retailer proudly works with lab-grown diamonds only. Shop by shape, carat size, clarity, or cut and purchase the stone solo or exercise your fine jewelry eye by creating your dream custom engagement ring. Or, shop the brand’s assortment of ready-to-ship pieces, ranging from wedding and anniversary bands to everyday pieces like round-brilliant stud earrings, tennis bracelets and bangles, and bezel-set pendant necklaces. Whatever you choose, a commitment to ethics ensures Grown Brilliance’s quality, from the controlled environment with strict labor laws to offering a lifetime manufacturing warranty. In addition, the brand certifies all of the lab-grown loose diamonds acquired through its Design Your Ring program—shoppers will receive a certification card from one of the world’s most reputable independent certification organizations, such as IGI (Independent Gemological Institute) or GIA (Gemological Institute of America)—while certification cards are provided for all other jewelry with a center stone (or matched pairs) that weigh half a carat or more. Grown Brilliance double hoop earrings GROWN BRILLIANCE Grown Brilliance East West fashion bracelet GROWN BRILLIANCE Grown Brilliance Riviera fashion necklace GROWN BRILLIANCE Grown Brilliance huggie hoop earrings GROWN BRILLIANCE Being in the family tree of an iconic jeweler instantly earns you credit in the fine jewelry space. For Jean Dousset, great grand-son of Louis Cartier, impeccable taste and passion for jewelry was par for the course. It led him through a lustrous career that started in 1992 with a prestigious Chaumet position in Paris, followed by an apprenticeship with the renowned French jewelry designer Boucheron (with Alain Boucheron himself as a mentor), and later landed him the role of International Director of High Jewelry Exhibitions with Van Cleef & Arpels. In 2010, Dousset opened his namesake Los Angeles showroom, carving out a name all his own through his contemporary and innovative fine jewelry designs. As of April 2023, Dousset pivoted to 100% lab diamonds, pairing the mastery of heritage fine jewelers with the revolutionary category of luxury lab diamonds so that everyone can acquire the jewelry they desire without compromise. Every piece within this collection is made with high-quality colorless or nearly colorless lab diamonds from a D-H color range that is exclusively GIA-certified. Jean Dousset Dousset moveable wrap ring JEAN DOUSSET Jean Dousset Olivia diamond tennis necklace JEAN DOUSSET Jean Dousset Olivia diamond ear climbers JEAN DOUSSET Jean Dousset Chelsea pavé bangle JEAN DOUSSET Brilliant Earth is a company of many firsts in the lab-grown diamond realm, and sustainability is at the forefront of the business. The online jewelry destination was one of the first to offer lab-grown diamonds, beginning in 2012, and in 2021, it became one of the first authorized retailers to introduce the independently certified Sustainability Rated Diamond collection. Every diamond within this assortment comes with a certificate to provide assurance of origin, responsible production practices, ethical stewardship, and climate neutrality with each lab-grown diamond. By 2025, Brilliant Earth’s goal is for 50% of lab-grown diamonds to be certified to an environmental product standard. Additionally, Brilliant Earth is third-party certified as a climate-neutral company (including the company’s footprint from both present and past emissions), partnering with Carbonfund.org to offset carbon emissions by contributing to tropical rainforest conservation in Brazil.  Whether you’re shopping for a custom engagement ring, loose stone, or modern piece of everyday fine jewelry, you can feel confident in Brilliant Earth’s ethically-focused lab-grown diamond designs, including fancy colored stones—another unique offering from the label.  Brilliant Earth Pear diamond tennis bracelet BRILLIANT EARTH Brilliant Earth tube ring BRILLIANT EARTH Brilliant Earth tube hoop earrings BRILLIANT EARTH Brilliant Earth pear diamond solitaire necklace BRILLIANT EARTH Blue Nile is one of the most popular online retailers synonymous with lab-grown diamonds and fine jewelry, offering ready-to-ship pieces and customizable creations. They’ve been around since 1999, launching with a customer-first model that prioritizes transparent jewelry education and pricing. In other words, one of the most informative and best deals you can get without sacrificing quality. In addition, Blue Nile works with the world’s most respected suppliers who adhere to and enforce the standards established by the Kimberley Process to source their ethically-sourced natural diamonds. So, to ensure their lab diamonds live up to an equally esteemed standard, they ensure quality by having stones graded by the independent experts at GIA (which is not a uniform practice with lab-grown diamonds) to provide a grading sheet with every purchase.  Blue Nile eternity ring BLUE NILE Blue Nile Asscher cut solitaire pendant BLUE NILE Blue Nile oval cut stud earrings BLUE NILE Blue Nile princess-cut tennis bracelet BLUE NILE Vrai exclusively works with lab-grown diamonds in their fine jewelry and engagement rings through their Diamond Foundry. (Fun fact: Sustainability-champion Leonardo DiCaprio is an investor). It’s located by the Columbia River in the Pacific North West and is zero-emissions—a feat not all lab-diamond companies achieve. The brand’s direct-to-consumer model means no middlemen are involved and no mark-ups to offer the best prices on high-quality-cut lab diamonds, whether you shop their ready-made pieces or utilize the custom engagement rings service. Vrai maintains precise cutting, faceting, and polishing standards, working with renowned Belgian master diamond experts to craft each brilliant piece. Vrai also offers a full warranty and certificate that guarantees the grades of each lab-created diamond. Vrai V linked earrings VRAI Vrai solitaire bracelet VRAI Vrai multi row pavé ring VRAI Vrai reversed V studs VRAI Dorsey is an independent fashion jewelry brand based in Los Angeles, offering accessible heirloom-inspired jewelry with a modern feel inspired by founder Meg Strachan's grandmother. The direct-to-consumer label, launched in 2020, exclusively offers lab-grown stones in every well-crafted jewelry design, prominently white sapphires. Dorsey lab-engineered gemstones have the same physical and chemical properties as mined stones, sparkling ever-so-brightly with a timeless feel. This means pieces are priced very affordably in terms of fine jewelry but with craftsmanship deserving of generations-long wear. The selection is what we consider It girl pieces. Since its inception, the brand has garnered a strong celebrity fanbase, including Hailey and Justin Bieber, Bella Hadid, Taylor Swift, Emily Ratajkowski, and Lily James. So, expect to discover tennis and strand necklaces made to layer, gold chain links with an achingly modern feel, and chunky event-worthy pieces that'll catch every eye in the room. Dorsey Moss diamond necklace DORSEY Dorsey Kate diamond bracelet DORSEY Dorsey diamond studs DORSEY Dorsey Theodora double trillion ring DORSEY Noémie is a direct-to-consumer jewelry brand combining a legacy of craftsmanship with modern materials, including lab-grown diamonds. The higher-quality materials with which the brand works allow for long-lasting fine jewelry pieces that stand out from many popular designs. This includes the precious yet sturdy solid 18-karat gold to the certified VS clarity and F-G color diamonds. Additionally, Noémie offers custom design services that go beyond engagement rings and wedding jewelry (though both are included). Whatever you have your heart set on, the brand’s skilled team will help you turn it into a reality. They work with you to create sketches based on inspiration photos so you can visualize things throughout the process and offer an array of stone options and setting styles that work within your budget. While you may assume this service comes at an extra cost, think again—there are no design or consultation fees. Plus, free returns at a full refund if you’re not satisfied.  Noémie 5-row diamond band NOÉMIE Noémie 5 diamond necklace NOÉMIE Noémie multiple diamond hoops NOÉMIE Noémie pear diamond sprial ring NOÉMIE You know and love Pandora for well-priced jewelry that’s often a go-to for gifting. As of August 2022, the label has offered a scintillating lab-grown diamond assortment featuring stones that are cut and polished using only renewable energy. What’s more, pieces are hand-set in metal crafted from 100% recycled silver and all stones at 0.50 ct. and above are IGI-certified and accompanied by a certificate. Discover sleek, high-polished, and modern designs in white gold, yellow gold, and sterling silver, from asymmetric rings and bangles to timeless studs, pendants, tennis bracelets, and more. Pandora Nova stud earrings PANDORA Pandora Infinite diamond drop necklace PANDORA Pandora Infinite double chain bracelet PANDORA Pandora Nova diamond ring PANDORA Stone and Strand’s Rathe collection offers a selection of lab-grown diamond jewelry that emphasizes both sustainability and style. Crafted with recycled gold, these pieces range from playfully trendy designs to timeless pieces such as eternity bands, stud earrings, and pendant necklaces, combining quality and modern production—the ideal choice for those who appreciate everyday fine jewelry they can mix and match with their entire collection. Stone & Strand Bubble Up swell ring STONE AND STRAND Stone & Strand Looking Glass necklace STONE AND STRAND Stone & Strand Bonbon charm STONE AND STRAND Stone & Strand Jubilee studs STONE AND STRAND With a hefty celebrity following, from Taylor Swift to Gigi Hadid, Mejuri is one of the most-beloved jewelry labels for crafting irresistible, everyday jewelry. Vogue’s Jewelry Director, Daisy Shaw-Ellis sums its appeal up perfectly: “Its pieces are egalitarian and versatile—two things we value greatly.” And while the brand may be best known for its huggie earrings and simple stacking rings, Mejuri recently expanded its offerings to include lab-grown diamonds. “[Mejuri’s] expansion into lab-grown diamonds is a way to make high quality diamonds (especially the larger sized stones) more accessible to our customers,” Nour Sakkijha, co-founder of Mejuri shares with Vogue, “without compromising our sustainability efforts.” The collection includes the classics, from tennis bracelets and pavé rings to simple pendant necklaces that make an excellent gift for a special someone, or yourself. Mejuri set of 3 round-cut studs MEJURI Mejuri prong tennis bracelet MEJURI Mejuri prong tennis necklace MEJURI Mejuri set of 3 round-cut studs MEJURI Idyl offers a modular approach to jewelry design, encouraging you to mix and match its designs with ease. The collection offers elegant, minimalist jewelry that you can wear as earrings during the day and then switch to a necklace at night. All Idyl pieces are handcrafted in Antwerp where its lab-grown diamonds are expertly reviewed and inspected across cut, color, clarity, and carat before they land on your doorstep. All Idyl jewelry is ethically crafted using traceable gold sourced from conflict free regions. Take a peek at Idyl’s gorgeous assortment of dainty earrings and necklaces—a go-to for A-listers like Eva Longoria, Mila Kunis, and Kaia Gerber—these are the jewels you’ll want to layer forever with your white tee and a crisp blazer. Idyl Glow bracelet IDYL Idyl Kaia earring IDYL Idyl Sena earring IDYL Idyl Grace necklace IDYL The allure of Unsaid lies in its ethereal designs. Whether it’s as delicate as a teardrop or as fiery a phoenix, the diamond cuts Unsaid produces are fresh and forward-thinking. Founded in 2019 by Ankit Mehta, Unsaid’s artisanal, yet thoughtful design approach with respect to environmental impact has made the brand a mainstay around the globe. Currently, 90% of Unsaid’s lab-grown diamonds are crafted using renewable energy, with the aim of hitting 100% this year. While Unsaid crafts jewels for the modern-day woman, they continue to push the envelope in innovation. In 2022, Unsaid was awarded the Red Dot Design Award for its design process of the largest lab grown diamond in the world at 35.9 carats. Unsaid Valley ring SAKS FIFTH AVENUE Unsaid Phoenix wing stud earrings SAKS FIFTH AVENUE Unsaid Meta mini hoop earrings SAKS FIFTH AVENUE Unsaid curve necklace SAKS FIFTH AVENUE For heirloom worthy jewels, look no further than Kinn. Jennie Yoon founded Kinn in 2017 after several of her family’s antique jewels were stolen. Kinn’s jewels are designed to look and feel timeless, with the intent of passing them on to future generations. At Kinn, you’ll discover classic engagement rings and wedding bands, as well as a plethora of everyday fine jewels for the modern minimalist. Take the Solis ring, which is a bestseller, featuring an elegant ribbed design with a single center stone and inspired by Yoon’s mother’s own vintage pleated ring. Kinn’s studio is based in L.A. and practices a responsible manufacturing process. They use recycled 14k gold and ethically sourced gemstones, while offering both lab-grown diamonds and natural diamonds that adhere to the Kimberley Process (KP) in their collections. Kinn Solis ribbed ring KINN Kinn Provence diamond crown ring KINN Kinn June round stud earrings KINN Kinn Elizabeth oval diamond ring KINN To help guide your shopping journey, we enlisted two experts to help answer the most commonly asked questions around lab-grown diamonds. “Lab-grown diamonds are molecularly exactly the same as mined diamonds. In 2018, the FTC updated their definition of what a diamond is, reflecting that lab-grown diamonds are indeed “real” diamonds,” Strachan says. “The only difference between a lab-grown diamond and a mined diamond is the setting in which it’s created–under heat and pressure in a controlled lab setting versus under heat and pressure in the earth.” In the end, “The only difference between a lab-grown diamond and a mined diamond is the conditions in which they are created,” says Mehta. To put it simply, “A lab-grown diamond is made of carbon, created under heat and pressure in a controlled lab setting, says Strachan. “The ability to create diamonds in the lab means growers can control for the desired color, cut, clarity, and size.” Mehta adds that at Unsaid, diamonds are created through “a process called chemical vapor deposition (CVD), a diamond seed made of pure carbon is placed in a sealed chamber. Heated to approximately 800 degrees Celsius in a reactor, the seed grows, powered by renewable energy sources. [In] over 600 hours, the process of nature is accelerated. Natural gasses, extracted from the environment, fill the chamber and pure carbon adheres to the seed and crystallizes to create a unique diamond with an identical crystal structure to one extracted from the Earth.” There is not a clear-cut answer to this question, but ultimately relying on the design and prestige of the jeweler is where it will matter most. For Unsaid, Mehta says, “Leveraging the possibilities of lab-grown technology, each Unsaid jewel derives its value from the high level of creativity, innovation and meaning attributed to the product. Each year, Unsaid and its team of scientists, artisans and diamond experts explore new realms of design and creation with innovative and patented techniques, one-of-a-kind diamond cuts and artistic styles that reflect each collection's symbols.” The question of whether lab-grown diamonds are more ethical than mined diamonds comes down to each company's ability to trace and monitor each step, and the ethics lie within this process. “Today's conscious consumers are increasingly seeking products from brands that are able to deliver high quality without compromising on key values such as transparency, sustainability and ethical practice,” says Mehta. “Growing diamonds in a lab, cutting and polishing the diamonds in our own atelier, and eventually handcrafting our jewels inherently allows Unsaid to gain a high degree of control and transparency within the production and creation process of our jewels.” With the naked eye, “it’s nearly impossible to tell the difference between mined and lab-grown diamonds,” says Strachan. “Only a gemologist with the most trained eye is able to tell the difference, and even this is currently under scrutiny,” she adds. “I hear from many Dorsey customers that they layer a Dorsey lab-grown necklace next to a mined diamond necklace, and no one can tell the difference.” Shop the Perfect Hoop Earrings—No Jewelry Box Is Complete Without a Pair Need to Know Now: The Vogue Jewelry Team’s Favorite Jewelry Brands Shop the jewelry trend for those who don't want to play favorites—Mixed Metal Jewelry Pile ’Em On! These Are the Fashion Bracelets Everyone’s Wearing Now From Chokers to Rivières, Shop Vogue’s Fine Jewelry Necklace Edit 10 Jewelry Essentials Every Wardrobe Needs All That Shimmers and Sparkles! Shop the Dazzling, Timeless Jewelry Pieces Vogue Editors Love More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty