We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Information on the £15 million fund to help tackle the barriers of international recruitment, while upholding ethical recruitment and employment practices. This page has been withdrawn because it’s out of date. See International recruitment fund for the adult social care sector 2024 to 2025 for current guidance. HTML Ref: GD31/6549 HTML HTML MS Word Document, 51.8 KB ODT, 32.8 KB 
          This file is in an OpenDocument format
 This guidance is for local authorities and adult social care providers. In February 2022 care workers were added to the Health and Care Worker visa shortage occupation list, enabling these roles to be recruited from overseas. Government can confirm that it is making £15 million available over 2023 to 2024 to help support international recruitment within the adult social care sector. The aim of this fund is to promote collaborative arrangements which reduce administrative complexity and burden, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) providers. For example, the local support arrangements may offer providers help with: See also: Added attachments: 'Annex A: grant determination letter' and 'Annex B: grant allocations'. Added to the Conditions' section: 'Partnerships should engage Ukrainian, Afghan and other foreign nationals with a right to work in the region and employers to ensure that opportunities to work in the adult social care sector are promoted'. First published. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      