We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Updated 30 June 2023 

 
  © Crown copyright 2023
 
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
 
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
 
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/company-names-tribunal-decision-wavex-information-technology-ltd/decision-on-wavex-information-technology-ltd
 In the matter of application No. 4112 For a change of company name of registration No. 14413263 The company name WAVEX INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY LTD has been registered since 12 October 2022 under number 14413263. By an application filed on 21 October 2022, WAVEX TECHNOLOGY LTD applied for a change of name of this registration under the provisions of section 69(1) of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act). A copy of this application was sent to the primary respondent’s registered office on 13 December 2022, in accordance with rule 3(2) of the Company Names Adjudicator Rules 2008. The copy of the application was sent by Royal Mail “Signed For” service and also by standard mail. On 24 February 2023, the parties were advised that no defence had been received to the application and so the adjudicator may treat the application as not being opposed. The parties were granted a period of 14 days to request a hearing in relation to this matter, if they so wished. No request for a hearing was made. The primary respondent did not file a defence within the two month period specified by the adjudicator under rule 3(3). Rule 3(4) states: The primary respondent, before the end of that period, shall file a counter-statement on the appropriate form, otherwise the adjudicator may treat it as not opposing the application and may make an order under section 73(1). Under the provisions of this rule, the adjudicator may exercise discretion so as to treat the respondent as opposing the application. In this case I can see no reason to exercise such discretion and, therefore, decline to do so. As the primary respondent has not responded to the allegations made, it is treated as not opposing the application. Therefore, in accordance with section 73(1) of the Act I make the following order:(a) WAVEX INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY LTD shall change its name within one month of the date of this order to one that is not an offending name; [footnote 1](b) WAVEX INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY LTD shall:(i) take such steps as are within their power to make, or facilitate the making, of that change;(ii) not cause or permit any steps to be taken calculated to result in another company being registered with a name that is an offending name. In accordance with s.73(3) of the Act, this order may be enforced in the same way as an order of the High Court or, in Scotland, the Court of Session. In any event, if no such change is made within one month of the date of this order, I will determine a new company name as per section 73(4) of the Act and will give notice of that change under section 73(5) of the Act. WAVEX TECHNOLOGY LTD, having been successful, would normally be entitled to a contribution towards its costs. However, the applicant has confirmed that it did not contact the respondent prior to making the application. In accordance with 10.4.1 of the Company Names Tribunal: Practice Direction 2014, an award of costs will not be made in this case. Any notice of appeal against this decision to order a change of name must be given within one month of the date of this order. Appeal is to the High Court in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and to the Court of Session in Scotland. The company adjudicator must be advised if an appeal is lodged, so that implementation of the order is suspended. Dated 26th April 2023 Susan Eaves
Company Names Adjudicator An “offending name” means a name that, by reason of its similarity to the name associated with the applicant in which he claims goodwill, would be likely to be the subject of a direction under section 67 (power of Secretary of State to direct change of name), or to give rise to a further application under section 69. ↩ Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      