The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. People in Northern California and other states across the country reported seeing the Northern Lights on Sunday night.  A strong geomagnetic storm increased auroral activity, making the lights visible. At night, rays from the aurora borealis can create an arc that stretches from horizon to horizon.  Viewer Cameron Lee sent a photo of the lights from Chico.  We also received photos from Jackson and near Lovelock, Nevada.  
	This content is imported from Twitter.
	You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.



Whoa, viewer Dale Ahlers captured these photos of the Northern Lights as seen from Jackson, California. Full story >> https://t.co/o7Qkr5BxfD pic.twitter.com/pD1u5Ki7UW— kcranews (@kcranews) April 25, 2023


 Whoa, viewer Dale Ahlers captured these photos of the Northern Lights as seen from Jackson, California. Full story >> https://t.co/o7Qkr5BxfD pic.twitter.com/pD1u5Ki7UW The National Weather Service shared another photo west of Orland in Glenn County.  Northern Lights are cooking in Wyoming! https://t.co/AKomZ3nQW0 Lt. Bryan R. Brasher, a project manager with NOAA's Space Weather Prediction Center, said they don't track aurora sightings but that he had seen reports that the Northern Lights were also spotted in Auburn and near Mammoth Lakes.  "Our primary mission is limited to observing and forecasting the space environment with a particular emphasis on mitigating effects to critical infrastructure," he said.  According to EarthSky.org, auroral displays were also seen in Utah, Colorado, Salt Lake City, and Arizona. A Pacific Gas and Electric Co. camera previously captured the Northern Lights near Mount Shasta a month ago.  Meteorologist Heather Waldman reported then that as rare as it is to see the Northern Lights in Northern California, what produces an aurora happens frequently.  “The aurora come when particles from the sun are snared by the Earth’s magnetic field and funneled toward the North Pole and the South Pole. And that’s why you see them mostly in the extreme north and extreme south,” Christopher Taylor, a professor of physics and astronomy at Sacramento State, said last month. In general, the more particles the sun sends into space, the more likely you are to see an aurora at lower latitudes. Those particles can be ejected in large numbers by solar storms. NOAA's Space Weather Prediction Center uses a rating system to forecast and track the strength of different geomagnetic solar storms. The scale ranges from G1 to G5, with G1 being the weakest. The scale is based on powers of 10, meaning a G2 storm is 10 times stronger than a G1 storm and so on. A severe G4 geomagnetic storm was observed on Friday, leading to G3 geomagnetic storm conditions through Sunday night, according to NOAA.   pic.twitter.com/eAZdtJY6g1 The forecast for Monday was minor.  "Given our current forecasts, aurorae are unlikely to be visible so low in latitude as last night," Brasher with NOAA said on Monday.  He added that "solar maximum will probably occur sometime in the next 1-3 years which means that we can expect to see additional storms of this magnitude again in the near future." --KCRA 3's Heather Waldman contributed to this story.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.