At the University of Oklahoma, we strive for excellence in the classroom, on the field, and beyond. As an OU Online student at a top–tier research university, you will rise to a new level in your career, all with the flexibility of an online degree. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Our programs were developed to help working adults succeed. The flexible online format allows you to study on your own schedule, freeing up time for what matters to you most.   Our courses are led by instructors who have a proven track record of success in some of today’s most in-demand fields. You’ll take their real-world knowledge with you into your own career. Expand your career through OU Connection, our community-based career development and mentoring platform. When you graduate, you’ll be part of our 25,000-strong OU Alumni network. A generous transfer credit policy allows you to get credit for what you’ve already done. You can transfer up to 90 credit hours, allowing you to graduate in as little as 12 months. Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate & Graduate
 Degrees & Certificates Online, Accessible
 Wherever Life Takes You   Online Alumni Find Employment Within 6 Months After Graduation* *Source: OU Online Graduate Outcomes Survey, 2023 When you earn a graduate degree from OU Online, you’ll be linked with industry experts teaching from the most advanced curriculum available. The academic rigor and real-world experience will prepare you for the career advancement you seek. Graduate Programs “To come back and finish what I started has shown me that I can do anything that I put my mind to. It’s been a long road, but to finally graduate from the University of Oklahoma is a dream come true for me.”
  —Kimberly Warner The Federal Application for Free Student Aid (FAFSA) provides more than $120 billion in grants, loans, and work-study funds to help students pay for college each year. Filling out a FAFSA is free and usually takes less than an hour to complete. FAFSA opens in December 2023 for the 2024–2025 academic year. Fill Out the FAFSA At OU Online, we never want finances to get in the way of your success. That’s why we offer affordable tuition rates along with ways to calculate, manage, and reduce the cost of your education. There are many avenues to help pay for your education, including federal and state loans, scholarships, and more. Cost & Aid Research University
in Oklahoma *Source: U.S. News & World Report Start Dates Per Year Application Fees 
August 02, 2024
 New programs in aerospace and defense management, construction management and learning and education studies are accepting applications now.  
 Read more
OU Online Launches Three New Undergraduate Degrees 

 
July 16, 2024
 Online graduate program gives star pitcher Kelly Maxwell the flexibility she needs to excel both on and off the field. 
 Read more
Online Degree a Perfect Fit for Star Transfer Pitcher Kelly Maxwell

 We are a top-tier public institution offering high-quality, affordable, professional undergraduate and graduate programs committed to maintaining academic excellence online. Every OU Online program is built on the foundation of world-class faculty mixed with professors of practice providing valuable instruction. By linking industry experts with our online programs, we offer the most advanced curriculum and prepare students for future career success. When you graduate from an OU Online program, you’ll join the network of 250,000 OU alumni and be forever part of the OU family. Become part of the tradition of excellence that OU has established in its 130–year history. Choose Your Path          