Login The tournament begins on February 1. Updated on March 18, 9:20 a.m. (GMT+8): Updated results. The North American Tier 2 scene is officially underway. The Valorant Challengers NA Split 1 group stage will be the start off point for teams looking to advance into the partnered leagues next year. A total of 12 teams will compete for playoff seeding at the upcoming Mid Season Invitational. Headlining the group stage are The Guard, TSM, G2 Esports, FaZe Clan, and Shopify Rebellion — teams that were left out of the VCT Americas league. The group stage also features Disguised, the Valorant team started and independently funded by popular streamer Jeremy “Disguised Toast” Wang. All teams will compete in group stage matches for the next five weeks. Here’s a look at the complete schedule, teams, results, and where to watch the action unfold. The Valorant Challengers NA league is the official Tier 2 competition hosted by Riot Games and Knights Arena. The group stage is the first leg of Challengers NA Split 1. The tournament features six teams that were directly invited to the tournament and another six squads that made it through the open and last chance qualifier. The tournament begins on February 1, and at the end of the split, teams will be awarded challengers points depending on their standing. These challengers points will determine which teams qualify for the Ascension tournament at the end of the season. Group A Group B February 1 February 2 February 3 February 8 February 9 February 10 February 27 February 28 March 1 March 8 March 9 March 10 March 15 March 16 March 17 The 12 teams were split into two groups of six squads via a group draw conducted by Knights General Manager Garett Bambrough. Teams were split into pools based on how they qualified, so teams like G2 Esports who received direct invites took priority, followed by those who qualified through the open and last chance qualifiers. All teams will compete in round-robin best-of-three group stage matches. The top four teams from each group will advance to the upper bracket of the playoffs. The bottom two teams from each group will continue their run in the lower bracket of the playoffs. Valorant fans can watch the matches live on Riot Games’ official Twitch and YouTube channels: READ MORE: Step-by-step guide on how to reach Radiant in Valorant, according to AI tool ChatGPT Sign up for a free ONE Esports account and start engaging with other fans! You'll also receive a monthly newsletter and other goodies!