Guests of The Peninsula Beverly Hills hotel can now purchase rare and in-demand fashion finds on-site — primarily new and vintage luxury handbags curated by personal shopper Gab Waller. Via a partnership with online reseller Fashionphile, a selection of 10 items will be on display and available at all times.  More from WWD Chanel Resort 2024 Inside Chanel's LA Boutique The Seventh Annual Fashion Los Angeles Awards “As items do sell, I will replenish it as the partnership is from mid-May to the end of July,” said Waller, who’s originally from Australia and is now based in Los Angeles. “For me, I’m really focusing on pieces that very much represent exactly what my brand is about, which is hard-to-find, sold-out pieces,” she said. Priced between $1,500 and $10,000, brands showcased include Chanel, Saint Laurent, Louis Vuitton, Hermès, Dior and Valentino. Hotel guests will have direct access to Waller during their stay. And purchases are able to be made directly via QR codes at the hotel and the Fashionphile website. “We’re always looking at unique ways to partner with either art, fashion, beauty, because it really speaks to our guests,” said hotel manager Rebecca Goldberg. “And so, Gab Waller felt like a really good fit. We share a lot of the same audience.…It’s sort of an extension of concierge. ‘What else can I get access to just by way of staying here?’” “People love buying something that they found on an occasion that they didn’t expect.…People are coming from, whether it’s the U.S., Texas, Santa Barbara, New York, or Europe, Middle East, so many times when I meet women who are staying here, I say ‘What are your plans?’ And they’re like, ‘Well, we came here to shop.’ Our guests are asking for it. So, if we can give them the opportunity to do that within the hotel, I think it just makes it so much more meaningful,” Goldberg said. The Peninsula Beverly Hills hotel is working on offering more curated and unexpected guest experiences. “Right now, we’re looking at transforming our mini bars into beauty bars,” said Goldberg. Best of WWD The Best Quotes From Karl Lagerfeld  A Timeline of Karl Lagerfeld's Iconic Career in Fashion Kim Kardashian's Best Fashion Moments Through the Years Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.