Amicoson Pickleball Paddles Pickleball has been around a long time - since 1965 to be exact. But the sport has recently made a comeback and people everywhere are picking up a racket. The popular sport is a mix of tennis, badminton and ping-pong. But pickleball is a bit easier on the knees and hips than tennis because the court size is much smaller. It’s fairly easy to play and most pick it up in just a few lessons, which makes it an incredibly sociable sport to play for people of all ages. Everything you’ll need to play Pickleball Pickleball can be played indoors or outside on a court that is one-quarter of the size of a tennis court. And while you can set up a pickleball court on any open, flat area, it’s best on asphalt or concrete. Many use neighborhood tennis courts to play. You’ll need paddles that are larger than ping-pong paddles and plastic balls with holes in them. The net is similar to a tennis net, but a bit shorter. If you’re wondering where to start, below is a list of all the gear you will need to get started and become a Pickleball pro. 1. Amicoson Pickleball Paddles $39.99 The Amicoson pickleball paddle set with 4 durable paddles, 8 high-performing pickleballs, 1 carrying bag for convenient carry and storage, 1 premium box which is perfect for storage. 2. Franklin Sports Outdoor Pickleballs - X-40 Pickleball Balls $28.09 Franklin’s X-40 outdoor pickleballs are meticulously crafted and rigorously tested to uphold our standard of premium performance and durability that has made this ball a favorite among pro and amateur players. Franklin Sports Outdoor Pickleballs 3. ANYTHING SPORTS Deluxe Heavy Duty Pickleball Net with Wheels 2.0 $237.25 Heavy duty regulation sized pickleball net with lockable wheels. Perfect for recreational through tournament play. 4. AboveGenius Pickleball Set with Net, Pickleball Paddles Set of 4 $83.99 This pickleball paddle set includes four durable pickleball paddles, four 40 holes pickleball balls, a pickleball storage bag, a carry bag, a portable net(17 FT), a pole system and a court marker. 5. VINSGUIR Pickleball Paddle Set $42.99 The Vinsguir Pickleball Set has been inspected by USA Pickleball and deemed acceptable for official tournament play.  ANYTHING SPORTS Deluxe Heavy Duty Pickleball Net with Wheels 2.0 6. Onix Fuse G2 Outdoor Pickleball - Official Ball of PPA and APP Tours $21.99 Pickleball Balls are ready to play immediately out of box. Fuse G2 ball creates consistency between the indoor and outdoor game 7. SGSPORT Portable Pickleball Net Set with 4 Pickleball Paddles, Official Size Pickleball Net, 4 Outdoor Pickleballs and Carry Bag, Weather Resistance Strong Steel Frame $118.99 This pickleball set with net has steel frame features wide post bases and a center stabilizer to ensure that it does not tip or fall over. Also, velcro straps on the top of two side helps maintain the net in tension even after a long time use. 8. Pickleball Paddles Set Of 2 $44.98 Whether you’re a beginner or an expert, this pickleball set offers amazing value for the price. Two durable lightweight pickle ball paddles, four balls (2 indoor and 2 outdoor), two “back-saver” ball retriever accessories, and a stylish and well-appointed pickleball bag to comfortably carry your equipment, wallet, and keys. Ashley Dill covers the online shopping industry, writing about commerce. She can be reached at adill@pennlive.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices