Today's e-Edition Get Morning Report and other email newsletters  Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Today's e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Content oversight and quality assurance provided by Bay Area News Group. Bay Area News Group advertising leadership oversees sponsored, native, and paid content on this platform, ensuring its quality, relevance, and helpfulness for our audience. Articles attributed to this byline are authored by paying advertisers. The editorial team did not contribute to these pieces, and the opinions expressed do not necessarily represent those of the editorial staff. Refer to our partner statement to better understand the nature of the relationship. The sponsor retains responsibility for the content and holds the copyright to their material. The debate surrounding the best online casino real money sites has raged on – but today, we’re here to put an end to it. We’ve updated our list of the top 10 real money casino sites, focusing on the best games, bonuses, and much more. Ignition is still our top real money online casino following our latest update, many thanks to its great selection of games and welcome bonus with low wagering requirements. But don’t worry if Ignition doesn’t tick all your boxes – we’ve got many other fantastic options for you to explore. So, are you ready to discover the ultimate online casino real money experience? Let’s dive in! Keep reading to find out what makes these best real money casinos stand out from their competition.  Pros Cons Ignition opened its doors in 2016 and has been shaking the online gambling scene ever since. With a solid reputation, quality casino game selection to rival Las Vegas or Atlantic City, and year-round poker tournaments, making them our #1 casino for real money gambling was a no-brainer. Cap that off with one of our favorite welcome bonuses available, and you’ll be sure to agree. Scroll down to see what we mean. Bonuses: 5 / 5 Ignition Casino offers a fantastic 2-part (casino and poker) welcome promotion that could score you up to $3,000. When you make your first deposit up to $1,000, Ignition will give you a 100% match to play casino games, plus a 100% match for their poker section. That’s effectively a 200% match bonus for fiat users. If you use crypto, however, you’ll see an additional 50% on your match bonus. This means that the same $1,000 deposit will see a $1,500 bonus at both the casino and poker tables. The casino bonus has a reasonable 25x playthrough requirement, while the poker bonus amount is unlocked by playing poker and earning Ignition Miles at a rate of $1 per 30 miles earned. Both sides of this bonus are great on their own, but the fact that Ignition has brought them together makes it especially rewarding. >> Latest Ignition Casino bonus codes Real Money Game Selection:  4.7 / 5 Ignition has partnered with some of our favorite game providers, so we’re more than satisfied with the quality of their offer. Fans of progressive jackpots will be happy to see hot drop jackpot titles like A Night With Cleo. This popular 5-reel jackpot slot gets enough play that you can expect a solid pot shortly after a major win. It’s impossible not to talk about their poker as well. While Ignition made our #1 pick by being an overall excellent choice, we feel its selection of poker is unmatched. Whether you’re interested in their Monthly Milly tournament, giving you a shot at their $1,000,000 prize pool, the regular big-money tournaments they hose throughout the year, or their Knockout Tournament which rewards you with a bounty every time you knock out another player, Ignition has a ton of ways to play and potentially win real money. Fold all that in with a robust set of poker features – truly anonymous tables, a slick gaming interface, and a downloadable app – gambling online has never felt better. > Read our in-depth Ignition Casino review Reputation: 5 / 5 We already touched on Ignition Casino’s anonymous tables, which protect you from predatory players using HUDs to track your playstyle and exploit your weaknesses, but that’s just one of many ways in which this casino makes it safe for us to play real money games. They’ve also got industry-leading SSL encryption, are fully licensed, and their 24/7 support means help is just a live chat message away. >> Get your 300% match bonus up to $3,000 [Ignition] <<  Pros Cons BitStarz is one of the few casinos we’ve found with a large number of awards displayed right on their front page. They make it easy to see from the get-go that they are a top real money casino site. If you’re looking for a casino with a huge selection of your favorite casino games, solid deposit bonuses, and a reputation for amazing customer support, this might be the casino for you. Bonuses: 4.5 / 5 Bitstarz gets off on the right foot by offering a 100% match on your first deposit up to 1BTC. This comes with 180 free spins. The spins are broken up 20 a day over the course of 9 days, so you’ll have plenty to do for that week. This welcome bonus doesn’t stop there, either. You’ll get a 50% match bonus on your next 2 deposits and another 100% match on the 4th one – so the total welcome package could score you up to 5 BTC. Couple that with their exciting loyalty program and their Slot Wars and Table Wars tournaments, all with chances at real money winnings, and it’s clear that BitStarz wants you to stick around a while. >> Latest Bistarz bonus codes Real Money Game Selection: 4.8 / 5 With over 3,000 games to choose from and a library that’s constantly expanding, there’s always something to do at BitStarz casino. Whether you like to play multi-hand blackjack, Sic Bo, Bitcoin roulette, or Texas Hold ‘em, their selection of table games is robust and filled to the brim with solid titles. And if you’re a mobile casino fan, we’re happy to announce that every game we tried runs beautifully on mobile devices. BitStarz slots selection is also monstrous, containing everything – from classic fruits titles to a handsome wealth of progressive jackpot slots titles like the BitStarz exclusive Master of Stars. Master of Stars is a quirky 5 reel title with a slew of bonuses, scatter symbols, and wilds, and, at the time of writing this, a jackpot of over 200k. Honestly, our biggest (and only) beef with BitStarz is their lack of live games in some countries. Reputation: 5 / 5 We have to give BitStarz top marks for reputation, given their large list of awards for support. They originally opened in 2014 and for almost a decade now have been absolutely knocking it out of the park. >> Get up to 5 BTC + 180 free spins [BitStarz] << >> Read an honest Bitstarz Casino review   Pros Cons Bovada’s rather simple web design hides a feature-rich real money online casino with solid crypto bonuses, a stellar loyalty program, and probably the best online live casino section we have seen. Read on to see why Bovada beat out the other online casinos for our #2 spot. Rewards and Bonuses: 4.8 / 5 Bovada offers two solid welcome bonuses, and which one you get to choose depends on whether you want to start in on their real money casino games – or save the first deposit bonus for their feature-rich sportsbook. Players who use their first deposit on the crypto casino welcome bonus will get a 125% match up to $1,250 with a solid 25x playthrough requirement when they use the “BTCCWB1250” online casino promo code. Additionally, you can get a 125% match on your next two deposits up to $1,250 each with a secondary promo code. In total, there’s a potential bonus of $3,750 over those 3 deposits. If sports is your pick, you can take a 50% match bonus up to $250 with a rollover of 5x for their sportsbook or racebook. This is a fantastic way to get started with Bovada’s bet slip. Bovada also has a great loyalty program where you earn rewards points simply by wagering. Whether you use their sportsbook, poker tables, or casino games, you’re racking up points that can be redeemed for real money bonuses. >> More Bovada bonus codes Real Money Game Selection:  4.5 / 5 Bovada’s selection is not very broad in scope – they sport a well-rounded 200ish casino games – but they still manage to have some of our favorite real money games. If you’re a fan of classic fruit-and-7’s slots, we recommend checking out their 777 deluxe jackpot title. The neon wireframes, thumping soundtrack and broad bet sizes ($0.20 – $100 per spin) take everything we love about classic slots and give it a juicy 80’s retro-wave vibe. The sizable jackpots don’t hurt either. If slots are not your thing, Bovada’s casino sports a poker section that is a close second to Ignition’s own, a great live dealer room with several blackjack tables, baccarat, and both American and European roulette. They also offer odds on a huge range of sports, eSports betting options, and horses. And if you can’t find the odds on something, you can tweet Bovada with the #whatsyawager hashtag and they’ll build odds just for you. Reputation: 5 / 5 Bovada has built a sterling reputation for itself as one of the best online casinos for real money games. Solid encryption, responsive customer support, and top-tier game providers make this an excellent choice for any gambler. If we had one complaint, it would be the dual lines set up to protect them from sharp bettors, but this is an understandable step that many casinos are forced to make. > Get up to $3,750 welcome bonus at [Bovada] <<  Pros Cons If you’re looking for an online casino that’s big on jackpots and bonuses, Buzzluck should be on your radar. This real cash casino does an impressive job of combining the fun of online slots and live casino games with a crypto-friendly environment. Bonuses: 4.7 / 5 When it comes to bonuses, Buzzluck doesn’t hold back. New players can enjoy a 250% match bonus up to $2,500. And if you’re a cryptocurrency user, you’re in for an even better deal: make your first deposit with a cryptocurrency to receive a bonus $75 free-play chip. The best part? There’s no maximum limit to how much you can win from your bonus. Real Money Game Selection: 4.5 / 5 Buzzluck is a solid pick if you’re looking to play online casino games for real money. Buzzluck’s partnership with RealTime Gaming ensures a diverse selection of games for its players. The game library, of course, includes all the classic table games and entertaining online slots such as 5 Wishes, Asgard, Bonus Wheel Jungle, and Builder Beaver, among many others. We found some of the best progressive jackpots here, so if hitting it big at a real money casino is on your bucket list, make sure to check Buzlluck out. You’ll want to check out Aztec’s Millions slot, which offers up to a $1 million jackpot. Reputation: 5 / 5 Buzzluck has earned a solid reputation among online casino sites. It’s known for being transparent, delivering speedy payouts, and providing round-the-clock customer support. Plus, Buzzluck’s mobile-friendly approach ensures you can enjoy your favorite games whenever and wherever you want. With its big progressive jackpots and generous bonuses, Buzzluck is a top choice for those seeking the thrill of online gambling at one of the best online casinos. >> Get your 250% match bonus up to $2,500 [Buzzluck] << Pros Cons A relative newcomer to the real money gaming scene, Red Dog has quickly become one of everyone’s favorite online casinos thanks to its well-curated selection of online slots, top-tier customer support, and extremely generous bonuses. The fact that their website design looks great and their mascot is gosh-darn-adorable doesn’t hurt either. Bonuses: 5 / 5 Red Dog Casino regularly sports some of the best bonuses in the industry. Their current offering consists of a 260% bonus with the “MOMMARED” promo code. Even better is the fact that, unlike most welcome bonuses, you can use this promo code up to five times, giving you plenty of house funds with which to play games. Red Dog is known to change their welcome promo often, so be sure to check out this link for the latest available bonuses. If you’ve used up all your welcome bonus opportunities, Red Dog has a 24/7 bonus that will net you 120%, 135%, or 160% on deposits of $30, $75, and $150, respectively. There are no limits on how many times you can take advantage of the 24/7 bonus and Neosurf and BTC deposits see an extra 25% match. >> Latest Red Dog Casino bonus codes Real Money Game Selection:  4.4 / 5 While their selection of games is thinner than some of our other choices, they are well worth playing, especially given Red Dog’s exciting online casino bonus. Additionally, if you’re a fan of free casino games, every game on their site has a “practice” mode, letting you take the title for a spin without committing to throwing real money at it. With 150 games to choose from, you’ll find everything from Suit ‘Em Up Blackjack, Double Double Jackpot, and 3 Card Poker online, to the absurdly cartoonish Meerkat Misfits slot title. We actually really liked this slot. Its unique art style and classic 5-reel play features 30 paylines and a chance to win up to 50,000x your bet per round. It’s a perfect addition to provider Real Time Gaming’s already solid game library. Reputation: 5 / 5 Established in 2019, Red Dog might seem young, but in dog years, they’ve got seniority over many real money casinos. Their end-to-end SSL encryption keeps you and your information safe while their license and regularly tested game library ensure they’re well regulated and as fair as any of the top online gambling sites are. >> Grab a 260% match bonus [Red Dog] <<  Pros Cons We feel that sometimes it’s nice to combine casino games with betting. We suspect that BetUS feels the same way, as they’ve gone out of their way to create one of the best sportsbooks & racebooks for real money gaming. Bonuses: 4.4 / 5 Using BetUS’s promo code “JOIN125” will net you a solid 125% match up to $3,125 on your first deposit. This match bonus is divided into a 100% sports bonus and a 25% casino bonus. The bonuses come with solid playthrough requirements as well, with the sports playthrough being an exciting 10x and the casino seeing a reasonable 30x. On top of that, BetUS is offering a 300% match referral bonus, which is not quite as exciting as it sounds, but is still pretty great. When you refer a friend to BetUS through their invitation program, you will get a 100% match on their first 3 deposits up to $2,000. This bonus will be split 50/50 between sportsbook and casino bonuses with a 3x requirement on the sportsbook and 30x on the casino. Real Money Game Selection:  4.3/ 5 BetUS has a fairly solid casino offering, on par with most of the real money online casinos in our top 5. Their slot game selection is pretty strong with almost 250 titles from top publishers, including several anime-inspired slots that we have not seen elsewhere. While their live casino games are tucked away from prying eyes – at least until you create an account – their virtual table game selection is actually pretty solid. With a nice selection of single and multi-hand blackjack, quite a few video poker games, and a couple of solid American and European roulette games, you’re sure to find something to play for real money here. What they do really well on, however, is their sports and horse race wagering. It’s simple and straightforward, giving you plenty of options for when you decide to take a break from real money casino games. Reputation: 5 / 5 Fully licensed out of Curacao and around since 1994, BetUS’s reputation is long-standing. Their customer service is friendly and fast and they use the sort of top-notch SSL encryption that we’ve come to expect from the best real money online casinos. >> Enjoy a 125% up to $3,125 bonus [BetUS] <<  Honorable Mentions: When trying to win real money, we like to get an extra boost in the form of a casino bonus (and who doesn’t?). That’s why all of the best casino sites on our list offer welcome bonus offers, deposit bonuses, free spins, and other weekly promos. Game selection is also one of the most important factors. It doesn’t matter how good your welcome bonus is if the only real money game available is “Uncle Joey’s Sock Drawer.” Actually, while that isn’t a real title, it sounds like it would probably be a fun one. We take it back, Uncle Joey. When you think about it, having withdrawal options that allow you to process your withdrawals fast is one of the most important things in an online casino. This is why we made sure that each casino features trustworthy payout options that allow you to get your winnings quickly. The most common payout options at the online casinos on our list are: We take real money casinos very seriously and that’s why we go through every casino with a fine-toothed comb to make sure that they’re taking all precautions to ensure that you, your money, and your information are all safe and that their games are reliable. In addition to making sure that the casino has a great reputation, we also check whether it has an actual license to operate. You can be sure that all of the casinos on our list hold a valid license from a reputable gambling commission such as Curacao eGaming.  After meticulously evaluating various online real money casinos, Ignition emerges as the top choice across all categories. Let’s delve into what makes Ignition truly exceptional. Combined Welcome Bonus: In line with its forte – poker, Ignition presents an attractive welcome bonus. New users can claim up to $3,000 in welcome bonuses with a low 25x wagering requirement. Half of this exciting package can be used for the finest online poker games, while the remaining half can be applied to other thrilling casino games. Diverse Game Library: Ignition takes pride in its vast game library, which distinguishes it from other online real money casinos. With over 250 games from more than 10 acclaimed developers, players can enjoy a wide array of high-quality titles. The selection includes popular casino games, such as premium slots, exclusive poker offerings, and much more. Speedy Crypto Banking Options: Ignition accommodates both fiat and cryptocurrency payments, including BTC, ETH, and other prominent cryptos. Notably, crypto deposits enable swifter and more secure transactions, along with an extra deposit match bonus for new users. Poker Tournaments: Renowned for its outstanding array of poker games and frequent tournaments, Ignition is a prime destination for poker enthusiasts seeking online casino real money excitement. If you’re still not playing at online casinos, you’re definitely missing out. You will find everything you’d expect from traditional casinos but with a significant extra layer of comfort and convenience. Let’s discuss some of the reasons why online casinos are superior.  Whether you’re a newbie or a seasoned gamer, online casinos offer a diverse selection of real money games to fit all preferences and skill levels. Let’s go over some of the most popular options. Blackjack, also known as 21, is a favorite among many online gamblers. With a low house edge, it’s one of the best games to play if you’re aiming to maximize your chances. Slots are the backbone of any online casino. With a multitude of themes, designs, and bonus features, they offer endless entertainment. Roulette is a classic casino game that has found equal success among online gamblers. You can find various real money online roulette options in online casinos, including American and European versions. Poker has always been a popular choice for players. Online casinos offer different poker variations, including Texas Hold’em, Omaha, Tri Card, and many others. Baccarat is another table game that’s popular with high rollers due to its low house edge. In online casinos, you can also find variations with lower betting limits suitable for all types of players. When you’re playing at a real money casino, the banking methods should be diverse, secure, and convenient. Here’s a list of some commonly used banking methods at the best online casino sites: Remember to check the deposit and withdrawal times, as well as any potential fees associated with each method at your chosen online casino for real money. Related: Best Sweepstakes Casinos Each real money casino site comes with a different set of bonuses, and it’s important to understand them to make the most of your deposits. Below, we’ve listed the most common bonuses you can expect to find at these real money casinos and how they work: We consider Ignition to be the most trusted online casino and gave them top marks in the category thanks to their security, customer support, and the use of proven game providers and provably fair titles. Yes, you can gamble online for real money, but it’s important that you only use legitimate and licensed online casinos like the ones on our list. We encourage responsible gambling, which is why we only feature casinos that allow real cash gamblers to set deposit and spending limits and take advantage of other safe gambling tools. The best online casino that pays real money is Ignition Casino, thanks to their great selection of slots and table games, large welcome bonus, and cemented reputation as a safe casino. Blackjack has the best winning odds of all real money casino games, featuring a very low 1% house edge when you play the game with a strategy. Of course, ultimately, it all comes down to luck. Related Article: Online Casinos with Best Payouts No, online casinos are not rigged. At least not if you’re playing on a reputable real money casino site, like any of the ones on our list. While there might be some casinos out there that do not follow the rules, every casino listed here is regulated by some form of fair gaming enforcement. The answer to which are the best casino games to win real money depends on your preferences. If you’re looking to win big on the back of small stakes, then progressive jackpot slots are the games you’re looking for. However, keep in mind that these are high-risk, high-reward types of games. If you’re looking to play for as long as possible with smaller winnings, we suggest games like blackjack, roulette, and baccarat – all of which have a low house edge. Yes, if you choose any of the online gambling real money sites from our list, then you can rest assured that your money is kept safe and that you will be paid out in the event that you win. Fully licensed online casinos like Ignition have advanced encryptions in place to protect all of the transactions you make. Ignition: Our pick for the overall best of the real money online casinos, Ignition has it all. Great welcome bonuses, amazing poker tournaments, and a solid game selection. If you want to have fun and try to win real money, you can’t go wrong here. Overall score: 99% BitStarz: With one of the largest collections of games on all the real money casino sites, BitStarz battles boredom beautifully. With several of the most popular real money online slots titles, a welcome package that can net you up to 5 Bitcoin in bonuses, and award-winning customer support, there’s no reason not to check it out. Overall score: 94% Bovada: Bovada’s solid game selection, sign-up bonus, and the best live casino selection make them a solid choice for any player. Overall score: 97% Buzzluck: If you’re hunting for the biggest jackpots and generous bonuses, Buzzluck should be your go-to. You can find hundreds of awesome titles and large jackpots. Overall score: 95% Red Dog: If you’re looking for a casino with a smart design focused on a well-curated selection of real money casino games and regular bonuses, look no further than Red Dog. Overall score: 93% BitStarz: With one of the largest collections of games on all the real money casino sites, BitStarz battles boredom beautifully. With several of the most popular slots titles, a welcome package that can net you up to 5 Bitcoin in bonuses, and award-winning customer support, there’s no reason not to check it out. Overall score: 94% BetUS: BetUS is another top real money casino that does a little bit of everything. With roughly 200 slots, a solid selection of table games, and one of the top racebooks we’ve used, they absolutely earn their top-5 spot. Overall score: 92% Related Reading: Real Money Online Casinos in Canada  Getting started with real money online casinos is a breeze. Here are a few simple steps you should take to start enjoying your favorite games. Decide where you want to play: Setting up your player account is a breeze: Ensure the safety and integrity of your account: Getting your bonus is simple: You’re now all set to enjoy real cash games: Now that you’ve had a chance to look at what really goes into top-rated online casinos, you’ll be able to make the decision for yourself. If you’re still up in the air, however, we strongly recommend Ignition Casino to play real money games. They’re a proven casino with a strong selection of games and one of the best welcome bonuses you’re likely to find. Don’t feel you have to limit yourself, though. There are plenty of reasons for signing up to any site on our list. Just remember to have fun and always gamble responsibly.     IMPORTANT: Gambling can be addictive. If you have a gambling problem or somebody you know does, then we strongly advise calling the National Gambling Helpline at 1-800-522-4700 to talk with a certified advisor. All gambling sites are 18+ only. Some of the sites listed on our site may not be available in your region. Check your local laws to ensure online gambling is available and legal where you live. Our reviews are independent and reader-supported and we may receive commissions for recommendations made in our website’s guides. Please, visit these organizations for free gambling addiction resources: http://www.gamblersanonymous.org/
http://www.ncpgambling.org/
http://www.gamblingtherapy.org/     Article paid for by: PlayTogga, partners@playtogga.com
The news and editorial staff of the Bay Area News Group had no role in this post’s preparation. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group