Early this month, former three-division world boxing champion John Riel Casimero was robbed of a clear win by a second-round technical knockout over Japan’s Ryo Akaho at the Paradise City Plaza in Incheon, South Korea when referee Michiyaki Someya ruled a no-contest. Someya saved his countryman from an imminent loss with the outrageous decision to end the fight because Akaho claimed he couldn’t continue because of an alleged rabbit punch. Both Akaho and Someya should be banned from ever participating in a boxing event for this farce. Someya must be censured for two things. First, he called a knockdown when Casimero fell to the canvas off-balanced in the fury of an attack. Casimero got up, clearly unhurt and resumed his assault, pounding Akaho mercilessly. Akaho looked ready to drop when a few seconds after Casimero landed a glancing blow at the back of the head, the Japanese complained of a rabbit punch. Someya stepped in and allowed Akaho the maximum five minutes to recover from the supposed foul. Sitting on his stool and probably realizing he couldn’t hold off Casimero, Akaho said he was done. Lo and behold, Someya declared a no-contest. That was the referee’s second joke. A few days after the bout, GAB officer-in-charge and legal division chief Atty. Ermar Benitez and boxing/contact sports division chief Jackie Lou Cacho-Ornido protested the outcome in a letter to Korea Boxing Members Commission president John Hwang with copies to Japan Boxing Commission executive director Tsuyoshi Yasukochi and A-Sign Promotions’ Ishii Ichitaro. “The (no-contest) decision was seriously marred by controversy,” wrote the GAB officials. “It is clear that Casimero’s alleged rabbit punch was accidental or unintentional as both boxers were in motion and the flow of combination punches was continuous and it only barely grazed Akaho. The footages show Casimero did not hit Akaho’s back squarely and Casimero’s arm merely grazed the area of Akaho’s shoulder/upper trapezius. Earlier in the second round, Casimero was fighting effectively and putting on the pressure. When Akaho’s counterpunch only grazed the back of Casimero’s head which pushed and outbalanced him and making him trip to the canvas, the referee ruled a knockdown. Footages unmistakenly show that Casimero’s back was squarely hit by an illegal blow. With due respect, the different actuations of the referee in these two instances cast doubt on the fairness and soundness of the resulting decision. We are constrained to formally lodge this protest and request a thorough review by the Korean Boxing Members Commission of the referee’s decision and to affirm, reverse or modify the same based on what really happened.” Ornido said last week, Hwang responded to GAB’s letter and said the issue will be considered. “They will review the result according to our request,” said Ornido. “They will convene a committee to examine the matter and discuss it. They will let us know the result. At the moment, wala pa update from them.” GAB’s immediate action is noteworthy. Casimero was unfairly treated and the injustice must be corrected. Akaho should be ashamed of himself for compromising the integrity of the sport by feigning injury just to escape a loss and Someya should be exposed for gross incompetence and conniving with a countryman to steal a victory from a deserving winner. GAB should notify the four major governing bodies – WBC, WBA, IBF and WBO – of what happened in Incheon so the Korean officials are put on notice that shenanigans cannot be tolerated in sports. Philstar.com is one of the most vibrant, opinionated, discerning communities of readers on cyberspace. With your meaningful insights, help shape the stories that can shape the country. Sign up now! Signup for the News Round now