Your digital subscription includes access to content from all our websites in your region.
Access unlimited news content and The Canberra Times app. Premium subscribers also enjoy interactive puzzles and access to the digital version of our print edition - Today's Paper. The people have spoken and Australia's favourite craft beer is Mountain Culture Beer Company's Status Quo pale ale from Katoomba, NSW. Login or signup to continue reading The 15th annual Great Australasian Beer Spec-tap-ular (GABS) Hottest 100 people's choice poll ranks the nation's favourite craft beer releases from 2022. The people's choice award registered 50,000 votes, including Prime Minister Anthony Albanese who, unsurprisingly, voted for Willie the Boatman's "Albo pale ale".  The countdown on Saturday January 28 was celebrated around the country in 80 bars and breweries, with beer makers throwing open their doors to the public. DJ McCready, from Katoomba's winning brewery, said the Mountain Culture team was grateful to the "awesome fans" for taking time to vote.  IN OTHER NEWS: "It doesn't feel real," the brewer told ACM.  "Status Quo encapsulates so much of what we are about," he said. "We've put in so much work to make it the beer it is today," Mr McCready said.  Canberra's Bentspoke Crankshaft IPA and Gold Coast's Balter XPA, both two time previous winners, round out the winner's podium.  Favourites Stone and Wood's pacific ale and Better Beer's zero carb lager ranked in the top ten.  "We've been so embraced by the craft beer community and it's an industry we're so proud to be a part of." Mountain Culture's Mr McCready said.  "[It's] a great opportunity to reflect on how exciting the Australian craft beer market is right now," he said.  "When I first came to Australia eight or so years ago, we didn't have even nearly the range of beers on offer we do today," he said.  The GABS Hottest 100 is a great opportunity for the industry to come together and celebrate our hard work, he said.  Punters keen to try Mountain Culture's award-winning Status Quo pale ale can find their closest stockists on the brewery's website.  Anna Houlahan reports on crime and social issues affecting regional and remote Australia in her role as national crime reporter at Australian Community Media (ACM). 
She was ACM’s Trainee of the Year in 2023 and, aside from reporting on crime, has travelled the country as a journalist for Explore Travel Magazine. 

Reach out with news or updates to anna.houlahan@austcommunitymedia.com.au Anna Houlahan reports on crime and social issues affecting regional and remote Australia in her role as national crime reporter at Australian Community Media (ACM). 
She was ACM’s Trainee of the Year in 2023 and, aside from reporting on crime, has travelled the country as a journalist for Explore Travel Magazine. 

Reach out with news or updates to anna.houlahan@austcommunitymedia.com.au DAILY Today's top stories curated by our news team. Also includes evening update. DAILY The latest news, results & expert analysis. WEEKLY Get the editor's insights: what's happening & why it matters. WEEKLY Love footy? We've got all the action covered. DAILY Your exclusive preview of David Pope's latest cartoon. AS IT HAPPENS Don't miss updates on news about the Public Service. WEEKLY Every Sunday explore destinations, deals, tips & travel writing to transport you around Australia and the globe. WEEKLY Get the latest property and development news here. WEEKLY Going out or staying in? Find out what's on. WEEKLY We've selected the best reading for your weekend. WEEKLY Join our weekly poll for Canberra Times readers. WEEKDAYS Sharp. Close to the ground. Digging deep. Your weekday morning newsletter on national affairs, politics and more. TWICE WEEKLY Your essential national news digest: all the big issues on Wednesday and great reading every Saturday. WEEKLY Get news, reviews and expert insights every Thursday from CarExpert, ACM's exclusive motoring partner. TWICE WEEKLY Get real, Australia! Let  the ACM network's editors and journalists bring you news and views from all over. AS IT HAPPENS Be the first to know when news breaks. DAILY Your digital replica of Today's Paper. Ready to read from 5am! DAILY Test your skills with interactive crosswords, sudoku & trivia. Fresh daily! Advertisement Advertisement