If you want to know what songs are on the Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 tracklist, you've come to the right place as we've got the details here. 

Anthony McGlynn 
 
Published: Apr 30, 2023  What songs are on the Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 tracklist? After James Gunn revealed the music from his upcoming movie was available on Spotify, fans have been desperately plugging in to the latest tunes from the Guardians playlist.
 The Guardians films have always brought the best music to the MCU. Astute viewers will remember Peter Quill was given a Sony Zune MP3 player during the second of the Guardians Marvel movies. This fundamentally changes how Gunn put together the soundtrack because suddenly anything could be on there, not just whatever could be put on tape.
 With the Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 release date around the corner, arguably we are all most excited about what songs will be in the superhero movie rather than what will actually happen to the MCU characters on screen. If you’re curious, here are all the songs on the Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 tracklist.
 The Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 tracklist includes songs from all kinds of eras of music. The soundtrack includes hits from Radiohead, Alice Cooper, Florence and the Machine, and Bruce Springsteen, plus many more.
 Here’s the complete Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 tracklist:
 When discussing his selection process, James Gunn told Rolling Stone: “I felt very uncomfortable picking out songs and making sure that this was the right soundtrack. Do I move on to just all ’80s songs? Do I use all ’90s songs? Or do I do what a Zune would actually have – songs from different eras, which is what I ended up doing.”
 You’ll have to wait for the release of the MCU movie to hear the tracks in all their glory on a big screen, so here’s the answer to is Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 streaming? You can also see what we thought of them in our Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 review. Until then, find out more about what’s going on in the MCU with our guide to Marvel’s Phase 5 or get better acquainted with the Guardians of the Galaxy cast.
 Our new movies list will let you know what else is coming out. Don’t forget about our best movies list, either.
 

Anthony McGlynn  












Anthony is The Digital Fix’s News Editor and resident Irishman. He joined the team after nearly a decade of freelancing, appearing in such publications as Variety, Playboy, IGN, and many more. Though he loves Star Wars, Alien, and zombie movies, you’ll just as quickly find him watching Studio Ghibli or The Muppets. Speaking of which, he’s interviewed Animal, who might just edge out Gerard Way, Ray Liotta, and Neil Gaiman as the coolest moment of his career. Dublin International Film Festival, Glasgow Film Festival, and FrightFest are among the events he’s covered, and he believes Blade Runner 2049 is almost as good as the first.












 