You'd think that tech firms would manage not to leak their own products by now, but apparently not: Samsung seemingly just leaked its more affordable Fan Edition (FE) Galaxy phone, earbuds and tablet on its own website. Whether down to an employee mistake or as part of a deliberate marketing strategy, we now have lots of details about the Samsung Galaxy Buds FE as well as photos of the Galaxy Tab S9 FE and Galaxy S23 FE. Here's what just leaked [via SamMobile]. Assuming the information displayed was genuine, the Samsung Galaxy Buds FE have a single driver and three mics in each earbud, active noise cancellation and up to 30 hours of play time with ANC turned off; that drops to a still-decent 21 hours with ANC enabled. They have Bluetooth 5.2 and a larger, tipped design, and as before there's the familiar compact charging case with USB-C on the back. They're SmartThings Find-compatible and feature an ambient mode, auto device switching and Samsung's Bixby digital assistant. The price of the Samsung Galaxy Buds FE hasn't been announced - or accidentally published - yet, but previous rumors suggested $99 in the US, which is likely to be £99 in the UK. In addition to the leaked photos, Samsung has also been publishing teaser images of the forthcoming Samsung Galaxy S23 FE – the first FE phone since the Galaxy S21 FE. They show the rear camera assembly with three lenses arranged vertically and the headline, "The New Epic". That would appear to corroborate previous rumors that the S23 FE would be getting a camera upgrade this year. According to the rumor mill, the SE will have a 6.4-inch Dynamic AMOLED with full HD+, 120Hz refresh rate and HDR10+. The selfie shooter is reportedly 10MP, and the main camera is 50MP alongside a 12MP ultrawide and an 8MP telephoto with 3x optical zoom. The Samsung Galaxy S23 FE is believed to have the Exynos 2200 and Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips from last year's Galaxy S22 series, although leaked benchmarks indicate that Samsung has optimized it to deliver better performance than before. The Galaxy Tab S9 FE has leaked elsewhere too: it's appeared on the Google Play Console database alongside its budget sibling, the Galaxy Tab A9. Alongside renders of the new tablet there are some specifications: it appears to have a 1440 x 2304px display, an Exynos 1380 chip and 6GB of RAM. As expected, it's running Android 13. We don't know when these devices will actually launch, but one of the leaked images of the Galaxy S23 FE shows a date of 4 October, which seems like a likely date for a Fall product launch: much later and you're leaving it dangerously late for the holiday season. And given the fact that Samsung is teasing while also deliberately or accidentally leaking complete product pages, it's clear that the Fan Edition devices are ready to roll. The Google Graveyard revisited: 9 scrapped Google ideas we still miss The first Android is 15 years old, and it is the opposite of everything we want in a smartphone today The Samsung Galaxy S24 could be even more powerful than the iPhone 15 Pro Max New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.