The latest books for Traveller offer new places to explore, new allies or enemies and new ways to ... [+] get around. Traveller offers tabletop role playing gamers a chance to explore a new galaxy. Whether emulating the space opera of Star Wars, the found family of Guardians of the Galaxy or the intrigue of The Expanse, Traveller offers a simple rules set to let players build their own science fiction setting or use the classic Third Imperium setting in which to set their tales. Mongoose Publishing’s version began in 2008 with a second edition coming in 2016. In 2022, the company updated the core rulebook to bring it inline with the look of the mainline while also introducing some errata to the game. Now the company is updating one of the most popular books for the game, along with bringing in two new relelases that offer more ways for tables to customize their futuristic world. Throughout the five decade history of Traveller, there have been many iconic ships. Many players launched on grand adventures with their humble Type-S Scout or Subsidized Merchant vessels. Just as many players have sat down and designed their own mobile home in space with the spaceship construction rules. The Core Rule Book 2022 Update offered a taste of this experience for all the budding Geordi LaForges and Kaylee Fryes out there. High Guard Update 2022 offers a feast of options for players to squeeze every last bit of utility out of their tonnage.What’s a space smugglers ship without a few special modifications? The book also expands rules for things like faster than light technology and different types of shipboard weaponry. There’s also the ability to build everything from massive space destroyers to looming space stations. Then, once everything it built up, players can use the massive space battle rules to smash it all up again. Chances are, in the future, there will be robots. Will they be obviously mechanical servants, life-like androids barely indistriguishable from humans or a culture that broke away from their creators to violently rebel against biological life? The Referee gets to decide with the new Robot Handbook. The book includes robots as equipment, robots as player characters and rules for cybernetics. The examples include purpose built bots for things like labor or military duty, nanobots for medical assistance and even alien automotons for players to puzzle over. Not only does the book include rules for design it also has discussions on the implications of different technologies. Traveller is perhaps best known for its lifepath character creation that offers a small minigame to play before the real game begins. Right behind that game are the sector construction charts that give Referees the resources to randomly create whole star sectors with a few rolls of the dice. Exploration remains a key component of the play experience whether its to discover new planets or to find new cargos to sell back at the space station. Sector Contruction Guide expands this fascinating part of the game into its own boxed set. The main book discusses themes and other elements that can guide creation of a star sector along with expanded options for more detail. There’s also a map of a brand new sector included along with blank hex pagers for players and Referees to use when exploring new areas of the galaxy. These books are available directly from Mongoose, through local gaming stores or digitally from partners dusch as DriveThruRPG.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.