Hi, what are you looking for? Jonathan Louis chatted about his new studio album, the spiritual “Hope,” and being a part of the digital age. By Published Jonathan Louis chatted about his new studio album, the spiritual “Hope,” and being a part of the digital age. On the song selection approach for “Hope,” Louis said, “After two decades of working with my clients as a psychic, I saw a very prevalent theme emerge; despair. This project started a few years before the pandemic, but it became amplified due to the reality of mass loss. The grief seemed deeper, a collective grief was felt and there was more division in families.” “This theme became my muse while writing the songs on ‘Hope’,” he said. “As an artist I want people to enjoy just listening to the music, but my goal was to get them to feel something as well. Each song is derived from an affirmation I wrote to help shift a person’s energy while listening,” he explained. “So the  song selection process for ‘Hope’ was driven by my needing to make sure the songs have a purpose. Each track tells a story, and one with a specific intent to inspire and empower someone based on where they are at in their lives,” he said. On his personal favorite song on the album, he revealed, “Angels.” “Angels. Hands down. Whenever I am working with clients, the first thing I do is connect with my own spirit guides. My process when working psychically is the same whether I am doing a reading, a seminar, or channeling music,” he said. “The goal is to get people to use this track as a way to invoke that energy for themselves. and to know that they are never alone,” he added. When asked if he was going for a certain theme, he responded, “Hope in all areas is the theme, while navigating fear, loss, and the challenges we face daily. Confronting fear in all areas of the listeners life and helping to vanquish that fear, leaving them with a sense of empowerment became a musical mantra… To give power back to those who may have lost it along the way.” On being an artist in the digital age, now with streaming and technology being so prevalent, he said, “Streaming and modern technology has given me an amazing opportunity to get my music out to the world at the touch of a button.”  “There is something very cool about knowing someone in Germany or England  is listening to your music the day it is released,” he added. On his music and songwriting inspirations, he remarked, “My clients are definitely the inspiration for my music. I am blessed to be very busy with my readings and I know it’s not always easy to get an appointment with me, so this is an extension of my sessions, another form of reading for people and empowering them with the tools they need to help shift the energy around them. To enhance their lives, giving them Hope and removing blockages.” Regarding his definition of success, Louis shared, “Living a life that is in balance, while learning the lessons I came into this life to learn. To teach  others to create balance and harmony in their lives. To help them confront all their fears and worries with confidence and empowerment. That is definitely what  I would consider success.” “Hope” is available on digital service providers by clicking here. “Seriously, I want this to be like a reading for them each time they listen, he said about “Hope.”  I want them to see, hear, and feel each note, chord, and melody and allowing  their energy to align with the vibration of the music. Ultimately helping to promote the healing it was designed to create,” he concluded about the album. Markos Papadatos is Digital Journal's Editor-at-Large for Music News.
Papadatos is a Greek-American journalist and educator that has authored over 21,000 original articles over the past 18 years. He has interviewed some of the biggest names in music, entertainment, lifestyle, magic, and sports. He is a 16-time "Best of Long Island" winner, where for three consecutive years (2020, 2021, and 2022), he was honored as the "Best Long Island Personality" in Arts & Entertainment, an honor that has gone to Billy Joel six times. Screen legend Alain Delon, one of the last stars of the 1960s golden era for French cinema, was 88 - Copyright AFP/File Valery HACHEFrancois... This offensive is a bear slap in the face for Russia Colorado and Florida are both the second best states with Colorado offering less sales for more money, and Florida more sales for less money. Russia's prosecutor general said it had banned a foundation started by US film star George Clooney and his human rights lawyer wife Amal. COPYRIGHT © 1998 - 2024 DIGITAL JOURNAL INC. Sitemaps: XML / News .
Digital Journal is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more about our external linking.
