Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter The first series, hosted by the designer Isaac Mizrahi, debuted on Monday. 
							By 

	J. Clara Chan
 Digital Media Writer 
Imagine Entertainment on Monday unveiled a slate of six podcasts created by talent like the designer Isaac Mizrahi, producer Alan Sacks and Imagine co-chair Ron Howard that will release this year. 
	The six shows are being released as part of a deal that Imagine’s podcast division, Imagine Audio, struck with iHeartMedia in December 2021 for a slate of co-produced, unscripted shows to be distributed on the iHeartPodcast Network within two years.

 
	The first series, Hello Isaac, is an interview show hosted by Mizrahi that premiered on Monday with featured guest Carson Kressley, who serves as a judge on RuPaul’s Drag Race. Upcoming guests will include the drag queen BenDeLaCreme and presenter Andy Cohen.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	












	
	Business
			



	
		
					Bowen Yang, Charlamagne Tha God, Rachel Maddow and More Reveal Their Podcasting Secrets		
			














	
	Business
			



	
		
					Glen Powell, Nicholas Braun, Taraji P. Henson, Tracee Ellis Ross Lead New Audible Comedy Podcasts		
			






 
	And beginning this month until October, Imagine Audio will release one new series each month, with topics including the sugar industry (Big Sugar, June 20), climate change and urgent solutions from climate scientist Chris Turney (Unf**king the Future, August 8), the Los Angeles punk scene in the ’80s from Sacks and narrated by historian Penelope Spheeris, and an adaptation of Davis Miller’s book The Tao of Muhammad Ali (Oct. 3).

 
	On July 17, Imagine Audio will also release an improv workplace comedy created by Howard, Employees Only, following a group of employees working at a big box store. 
	The slate is executive produced by Imagine co-chairs Howard and Brian Grazer, as well as Imagine Entertainment President Justin Wilkes. Kara Welker oversees Imagine Audio, with audio producer Nathan Kloke co-producing the slate with iHeartMedia. 
	“Imagine Entertainment has an outstanding, decades-long reputation for bringing award-winning tv shows, features and documentaries to our screens, and we can’t wait to bring Imagine’s bespoke content to even more audiences in the audio space through iHeartPodcasts,” Conal Byrne, CEO of the iHeartMedia Digital Audio Group, said in a statement. Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Send us a tip using our anonymous form.