As Gudi Padwa heralds the traditional new year for Marathi and Konkani Hindus, it ignites a wave of fervent celebrations in Maharashtra, Goa, and Madhya Pradesh at the onset of Chaitra. Amidst this auspicious festivity, we exclusively had actors from Watcho Exclusives' recently released mystery thriller series, ‘Flash’ - Anshul Pandey, Sagar Kapoor, and Khawahish sharing their celebration plans, memories, favourite food, and wishes to celebrate the festive spirit
Actor Anshul Pandey, who plays the titular role of Vansh in Flash, opened up about his memories and shared, “Gudi Pa | Click Here... Talented actress, Priya Rore, who made her acting debut on the small screen with the Star Plus show Kabhi Kabhie Ittefaq Sey, has bagged a new web show. As per a credible source, the diva will join the cast of WatchO’s upcoming web series Jaal. The series is directed by Humayunn and produced by Rudrakshnam Films.
We at IWMBuzz.com earlier exclusively reported about Rajveer Singh Rajput, Yajur Marwah, Enakshi Ganguly, and Anurag Vyas being part of the project.
WatchO is churning out amazing stories and web shows that keep the audience glued to their content. We at IWMBuzz.com | Click Here... Young actor Anurag Vyas, who began his acting career with Aap Ke Aa Jane Se and was later seen in popular projects like Bhakharwadi, Dil Ye Ziddi Hai, Rakshabandhana Rasal Apne Bhai Ki Dhal, Aashiqana, among others, is all set to entertain masses in a new web show.
As per a credible source, the actor will be seen in WatchO’s upcoming web series Jaal. The series is directed by Humayunn. We at IWMBuzz.com earlier exclusively reported about Rajveer Singh Rajput being part of the project.
WatchO is churning out amazing stories and web shows that keep the audience glued to their  | Click Here... Rajveer Singh Rajput, who is known for the series Sacred Games, The Test Case, Macchli, has bagged a new web series. IWMBuzz.com has exclusively learnt that the actor will be seen in WatchO’s upcoming web series Jaal. The series is directed by Humayunn.
We at IWMBuzz.com earlier exclusively reported about the talented actor Ashmit Patel playing the lead in another WatchO series State Vs. Ahuja. WatchO is churning out amazing stories and web shows which keep the audience glued to their content.
We also buzzed the actor but could not get through to him.
We also buzzed t | Click Here... WatchO has been working on interesting content. The platform is churning out amazing stories and web shows which kept the audience glued to their content. IWMBuzz.com has exclusively learnt about the app is working on an interesting series.
The series is named State Vs. Ahuja is produced by Crescendo Music and Films. Coming to the cast, we hear the talented actor Ashmit Patel will be seen playing the lead. The actor appeared alongside Mallika Sherawat and Emraan Hashmi in the thriller Murder, a Bollywood inspiration of Unfaithful. The film was his first commercial success.
We  | Click Here... Watcho app the OTT platform is busy gearing up for many new launches and shoots. The shoot of a brand new web series to be directed by Shaurya Singh has kickstarted.
News that we have received at IWMBuzz.com about the series is that it will be a high-paced series with good elements of suspense and drama along with an underlying terrorist backdrop. The series will be titled 'Explosive'.
We have the exclusive news of actors Manmohan Tiwari and Nibedita Pal playing the leads in the series.
Manmohan Tiwari has been part of popular TV shows like Jamunia, Mann Ki Awaaz Pratig | Click Here...