My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Shares of Saregama India rallied 6 percent to hit the day’s high of Rs 393 apiece on September 29 on the BSE after it acquired a majority stake in digital entertainment company Pocket Aces. The S&P BSE Sensex was up 109 points or 0.1 percent to 65,618 levels, as of 9:35am. So far this year, this midcap music label has jumped 5 percent, as against 7 percent rise in the Sensex. The stock touched a 52-week high of Rs 476 per share on July 27. Follow live blog for constant market updates In an exchange filing on September 28, the company said that it will purchase 52 percent shares of Pocket Aces for Rs 174 crore, with a clear path to further acquire another 41 percent stake in the next 15 months at pre-agreed multiples. The transaction is an all-cash deal. “This acquisition will further strengthen Saregama’s strategic ambition to take leadership position in new music across all Indian languages,” the company management said in a press release. Saregama owns the largest music archives in India, nearly 50 percent of all the music ever recorded in the country. The company has also expanded into other branches of entertainment like publishing, film production, and digital content. On the other hand, Pocket Aces is a youth-focused digital content creator and publisher, boasts of an IP catalog of over 3,000 content pieces ranging across web series, sketches, music videos and reels on its channels FilterCopy, Nutshell, and Gobble. “This partnership with Pocket Aces will add new dimensions to our business as we tap into the burgeoning young digital audiences,” Avarna Jain, vice-chairperson of Saregama, said. Over the last four years, Pocket Aces saw revenues record a 34 percent compounded annual growth rate (CAGR). In FY23, its revenue from operations stood at Rs 104 crore. Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts on Moneycontrol.com are their own and not those of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.   Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.