"Fashion doesn’t have to be static, it can be dynamic and even interactive," researcher Christine Dierk said while modeling the dress at Adobe MAX 2023 Adobe/ YouTube  Adobe is changing the future of fashion!
  The software company demoed a digital, interactive dress, titled Project Primrose, at Adobe MAX 2023 in Los Angeles during the “Sneaks” portion of the conference on Wednesday.
  Christine Dierk, the research scientist behind the dress, both introduced and modeled the garment on stage, calling it a “digital dress that brings fabric to life.”
  “Unlike traditional clothing, which is static, Primrose allows me to refresh my look in a moment,” Dierk said while wearing the interactive garment, a strapless, knee-length dress comprising lots of small, scale-like screens.
  As she said “moment,” the scientist triggered a change in the dress, switching the dress’s color from cream to metallic silver, a transformation that was met with gasps and cheers from the conference crowd.
  After the initial color change, the dress went through more iterations, its scales changing to form several different patterns, from a chevron-like stripe to a diamond design.
  Adam Devine, who co-hosted the segment, joked, “Red carpets are going to be way sassy.”
  Dierk — who stitched the dress together herself — then revealed that its design can also be animated, activating a moving pattern, which was once again met with awe from the crowd.
  The Adobe researcher showed that in addition to a button, which activates changes in the dress, it also has a buttonless mode that relies on embedded sensors.
  “Fashion doesn’t have to be static, it can be dynamic and even interactive,” Dierk said. “And we’re excited for a future where there’s more ways to express yourself.”
 Adobe/YouTube  A clip of the presentation shared by CNET on TikTok garnered over 10 million views. In the comments section, users reacted to the futuristic clothing item.
  One commenter pointed out its similarity to the fashion of the Hunger Games franchise — and that it shares a name with one of its characters — writing, “Hunger Games Capitol vibes. Literally named Primrose.”
  Other users expressed desires for the dress to look and perform differently, maybe with a splash of color.
  Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories.
  The technology behind the interactive dress, “reflective light-diffuser modules for non-emissive flexible display systems,” was previewed on a smaller scale — on a canvas and a handbag — by Adobe last year, but it is still in its early stages.
