The latest film, “Dumb Money,” recounting the infamous January 2021 GameStop Corp GME stock frenzy and the consequential downfall of Melvin Capital, has been greeted with enthusiasm and is seen as a classic underdog tale. However, a deeper examination reveals a contrasting narrative.  The film romanticizes a horde of retail investors gleefully watching Melvin Capital’s Gabe Plotkin lose, but overlooks the likely financial loss endured by those who jumped on the GameStop bandwagon during its peak. While the crowd of retail investors was seen as the victor against Wall Street, there’s a darker reality.  Related: GameStop’s New CEO Seeks ‘Extreme Frugality’ To Keep Boat Afloat: ‘Treat Company Money Like Their Own’ Misleading social media personalities maneuvered them into investing in overvalued meme stocks like GameStop and others like the struggling AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc AMC.  The GameStop saga highlighted warped principles, such as the “HODL” mantra – hold on for dear life, Wall Street Journal noted.  While steadfastness is commendable in adhering to a sound long-term strategy, blind adherence, especially to overvalued investments, is a recipe for financial disaster, WSJ writes. Bias, too, is a significant obstacle. Investors driven by animosity towards a specific class risk financial detriment. The “wisdom of crowds” is often lauded but is effective only when crowd members think independently. The internet, particularly social media, has morphed this crowd into a more monolithic entity, often leading to mob-like behavior.  The GameStop episode underscored this transformation, demonstrating the power of an aggrieved and ill-informed crowd to destabilize seasoned investors momentarily. Price Action: GME shares are down 0.91% at $15.25 during the premarket session on the last check Tuesday. Disclaimer: This content was partially produced with the help of AI tools and was reviewed and published by Benzinga editors. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.