
GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links.
 Tears of the Kingdom is finally here, and we've rounded up all of the officially licensed products along with the best deals for the game. By 
    Steven Petite
   on May 12, 2023 at 8:17AM PDT  The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom   $70   The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Switch OLED   $360   The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Strategy Guide   $30-$45   Link Amiibo   $16   The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Switch OLED Carrying Case   $25   The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Collector's Edition   $130   The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Switch Pro Controller   $75  The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is now available on Nintendo Switch. If you're looking to snag a copy, we've rounded up all of the details you need to know, from retailer-specific bonuses to even an exclusive discount for GameSpot readers. And there's plenty more than just the game up for grabs. You can also grab the gorgeous special-edition Switch OLED console right now along with other Tears of the Kingdom-themed products, including a new Link Amiibo, the official strategy guide, a carrying case, and more. Many of these products have been going in and out of stock since they were announced, so keep checking back in the coming days if you want to add them to your collection. The console has remained in stock far longer than the $130 Collector's Edition and Switch Pro controller, both of which sold out very quickly. But if you're interested in the special-edition console, we'd recommend making a purchase ASAP. We'd also suggest grabbing the Link Amiibo, as it only recently became available again after being out of stock for weeks. Additionally, we expect the hardcover version of the strategy guide to sell out, just like the Breath of the Wild hardcover did. Back to the game: All major retailers had been taking preorders at the original $60 price point, so if you happened to order a copy before the change to $70, you lucked out. You can actually still get Tears of the Kingdom for $60 if you buy from Super Shop using promo code GMSPTZLDA. The only downside here is that Super Shop doesn't offer release-date delivery. Alternatively, Nintendo Switch Online subscribers can use the Switch eShop's voucher promotion to get digital copies of Tears of the Kingdom and another game for $100. The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom's standard edition is available for $70 in both physical and digital formats. The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom's special-edition Switch OLED has a gorgeous design featuring unique Joy-Con controllers, a white and gold dock, and a swirling circular pattern on the back panel of the console. It costs $360, but please note it doesn't come with a copy of the game. The console is available now, but it has sold out at multiple retailers. If you're interested, you should order as soon as possible.   The official Tears of the Kingdom strategy guide clocks in at 496 pages. It contains everything you'll need to get your save file to 100% completion, including a full walkthrough, all puzzle solutions, an atlas, and more. It's available in two different editions, a hardcover Collector's Edition and a paperback standard edition. The hardcover, shown above, has unique art, whereas the paperback uses the game cover art. Both editions are slated to release on June 16, and we wouldn't be surprised to see the Collector's Edition sell out prior to launch. A new Link Amiibo themed for Tears of the Kingdom is now available, and it'll likely sell out fast. Along with making a cool companion for your game room, the amiibo also offers a bit of additional content when paired with the game. The special-edition carrying case launched on May 12 and costs $25. Though it's designed for the Switch OLED, like other Nintendo-branded carrying cases of this type, you can also use it for the base model Switch. The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Collector's Edition is available at most major retailers, including Best Buy, GameStop, Walmart, and Target. Sadly yet predictably, the Collector's Edition sold out extremely fast and has yet to return to online shelves. However, we wouldn't be surprised to see it come back in stock over the next few weeks. The special-edition Pro controller is black with gold accenting and a white handle on the right side of the controller. It was released on May 12 and costs $75. At this time, the controller is harder to find than the console. Every time it becomes available to order, it sells out very quickly. Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Use your keyboard! Log in to comment 