The journalists on the editorial team at Forbes Advisor Australia base their research and opinions on objective, independent information-gathering. When covering investment and personal finance stories, we aim to inform our readers rather than recommend specific financial product or asset classes. While we may highlight certain positives of a financial product or asset class, there is no guarantee that readers will benefit from the product or investment approach and may, in fact, make a loss if they acquire the product or adopt the approach. To the extent any recommendations or statements of opinion or fact made in a story may constitute financial advice, they constitute general information and not personal financial advice in any form. As such, any recommendations or statements do not take into account the financial circumstances, investment objectives, tax implications, or any specific requirements of readers. Readers of our stories should not act on any recommendation without first taking
    appropriate steps to verify the information in the stories consulting their independent financial adviser in order to ascertain whether the recommendation (if any) is appropriate, having regard to their investment objectives, financial situation and particular needs. Providing access to our stories should not be construed as investment advice or a solicitation to buy or sell any security or product, or to engage in or refrain from engaging in any transaction by Forbes Advisor Australia. In comparing various financial products and services, we are unable to compare every provider in the market so our rankings do not constitute a comprehensive review of a particular sector. While we do go to great lengths to ensure our ranking criteria matches the concerns of consumers, we cannot guarantee that every relevant feature of a financial product will be reviewed. We make every effort to provide accurate and up-to-date information. However, Forbes Advisor Australia cannot guarantee the accuracy, completeness or timeliness of this website. Forbes Advisor Australia accepts no responsibility to update any person regarding any inaccuracy, omission or change in information in our stories or any other information made available to a person, nor any obligation to furnish the person with any further information. 
                Published: Jun 4, 2024, 9:00am 
             Edited By Edited By  Editorial note: Forbes Advisor Australia may earn revenue from this story in the manner disclosed here. Read our advice disclaimer here. GameStop (GME) stock experienced a surprising resurgence in value in 2021 as the result of a shocking short squeeze. Retail investors snapping up GameStop shares forced many Wall Street funds to liquidate their short positions, which dramatically inflated the price of GameStop shares, caused a stir across global financial markets, and invited regulatory scrutiny. GameStop is now considered the original ‘meme stock’—stocks favoured by everyday investors spurred on by social media sentiment rather than a company’s underlying value. In May they surged to almost $US50 share on the back of a social media post on X by influencer ‘Roaring Kitty’ but quickly lost their value due to volatile trading. By May 23, GameStop shares were worth $US18.32, but the price shot up again days later, following further posts from Roaring Kitty on Sunday, June 2, appearing to show his significant holding of the stock. When markets opened the following day, GME shares peaked at $US40.19 before declining to $US28.81 over the course of the day. In late March of 2023, the company released its Q4 2022 earnings report that revealed the a net income of $US48.2 million. Net sales amounted to $US2.226 billion, compared to $US2.254 billion in the prior year’s fourth quarter. As the company noted, selling, general and administrative expenses were 20.4% of sales, compared to  23.9% of sales, in the fourth quarter. In its most recent fourth-quarter results for 2023, released in March: Whether these figures make GME more—or less—of a target for short-sellers is anyone’s guess. With the popularity of meme stocks continuing to impact markets, and GameStop’s focus on reinventing itself as a digitally savvy retailer, GME shares may be on your radar as an investment option. Here’s what you need to know. Related: How to Invest in the ASX Featured Partner 1 eToro On eToro’s Website Get millions of investment ideas on eToro with the power of social investing 
 Explore over 6,000 stocks. Buy in bulk, or invest in fractional shares 
 eToro Service ARSN 637 489 466 promoted by eToro AUS Capital Limited ACN 612 791 803 AFSL 491139. Capital at risk. Other fees apply. See PDS and TMD. American gaming and electronics retailer GameStop Corp. is a publicly listed company that operates across the United States, Canada, Australia and a number of European countries. The company’s market capitalisation is $US3.37 billion with revenue generated by both bricks-and-mortar stores and e-commerce websites that sell physical console games, gaming accessories and merchandise. GameStop stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and is represented by the ticker symbol GME. GameStop rose to prominence in the collective consciousness in 2021 when it became the subject of a spectacular short squeeze. A GME trading frenzy was sparked by retail investors in January 2021 that saw the stock’s value skyrocket by more than 1,500% inside a month. Ordinary investors were spurred on—primarily through social platforms including the now infamous subreddit WallStreetBets—to buy and hold GameStop shares and drive up the stock price, which had been heavily shorted by many Wall Street firms. The social-media-driven rush to purchase GME was variously characterised as a ‘pump and dump’ scheme, and an intentional protest against the power of Wall Street hedge funds. A controversial decision by US share trading app Robinhood to restrict retail trading in GME stocks during the frenzy led to a congressional investigation in the US. GameStop’s rise in prominence can also partly be attributed to well-known ‘investor activist’ Ryan Cohen, who’s widely admired on social media. Cohen fuelled interest in GME in the lead-up to its spectacular price surge by buying a stake in the company and publicly advocating for GameStop to transform its operations. Cohen was subsequently elected the company’s board chair in June of 2021. Before the unusual surge in its share prices in 2021, GameStop the company was struggling. It was closing physical stores, laying off workers and losing market share to online gaming. In 2020, the company’s share price went as low as $US2.80. Many of GameStop’s challenges have yet to be overcome but the company has signalled its intent to embrace technological change and improve its e-commerce capabilities. The company has made some promising hires with tech company know-how and is exploring emerging markets including the sale of digital collectibles (NFTs). On a downward trend since its meteoric rise in 2021 where share prices reached over $US300, GME stock saw a few brief spikes in 2022. The company implemented a 4-for-1 stock split in July 2022—effectively lowering the price of each single share. In early 2023, the value of GME shares hovered around $US20, before halving in value over the next twelve months. In May 2024, GameStop shares skyrocketed in value following posts on X (formerly Twitter) by influencer Roaring Kitty, who had not posted on the platform since 2021. As The Guardian Australian reports, the posts triggered a surge in GameStop shares: they were trading on the NYSE at an increase of 110% during early trading on Monday, May 13, before quickly losing value again due to volatile trading. By mid-week, being May 15, GameStop shares were worth $US48.75. Related: How to Short Sell Stocks You can buy GME by using any regulated broker or share trading platform available in Australia that provides access to US stock markets. There are three key steps to follow to buy GameStop stock: As a shareholder in GameStop, you essentially own a part of the company. Paying attention to how the company performs over time will help you adjust your investing strategy and whether to buy more or sell. It also helps you remain aware of opportunities to be involved in voting or receive dividends. If you’re investing in US shares it might be worth speaking to someone qualified at tax time, as there are specific tax rules governing income dividends under the Double Tax Agreement between the US and Australia. There’s a general sense that GME is underperforming. At the beginning of last year, 12-month price forecasts show analysts believe GME will drop in value, with an average target price of $US10.10. But the markets have shown just how volatile and unpredictable they can be, with the share value increasing unexpectedly by up to 110% all due to posts on X from influencer Roaring Kitty. Plus, as mentioned above, GameStock returned a net income profit for the first time in Q4 of 2022. The GameStop share price has proven to be volatile since it first started increasing on the back of social media sentiment in 2020. Meme stocks remain in the sights of retail investors, so you can’t discount the potential of future upswings in the GameStop stock value that’s unrelated to the company’s market performance. Perhaps a better question is whether the company can continue its efforts to become profitable through cost cutting and digital innovation in a market where physical video games are becoming obsolete? The company’s third-quarter results released in December 2022 showed a decline in sales compared to the same quarter the previous year, and a net loss of nearly $US95 million, but also a reduction in expenses and a good cash position. The following quarter, however, the company returned a net income of $US48.2 million, shocking many pundits and forecasters. The most recent results for fourth quarter showed a dip in sales on the previous year’s fourth quarter: $US1.794 billion compared to $US2.226 billion, but overall net income was $63.1 million for the fourth quarter. The question, of course, is whether this trajectory can be sustained over successive quarters, and whether GameStop can keep finding savings, lowering expenses and outlays, in a constrained fiscal environment.  To dig a little deeper into GameStop’s recent results, and plans for the future, you can read the company’s forecasts and updates on its investor relations page. The advice and information provided by ForbesAdvisor is general in nature and is not intended to replace independent financial advice. ForbesAdvisor encourages readers to seek expert advice in relation to their own financial decisions and investments. Featured Partner 1 eToro On eToro’s Website Get millions of investment ideas on eToro with the power of social investing 
 Explore over 6,000 stocks. Buy in bulk, or invest in fractional shares 
 eToro Service ARSN 637 489 466 promoted by eToro AUS Capital Limited ACN 612 791 803 AFSL 491139. Capital at risk. Other fees apply. See PDS and TMD. GameStop Corp. has been publicly listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) since 2002. GameStop split its shares in July 2022 in a 4-for-1 split. That means each share was split into four shares. Investors that already held GME shares received three additional shares for each share owned. There’s mixed views about GameStop’s potential upside and the stock has proven to be volatile since its temporary meteoric rise in early 2021. Analysts have an average target of $US9.07 per GME share over the next 12 months. GameStop Corp. has operations in Australia, with stores sitting under the EB Games brand. GameStop acquired EB Games in 2005. In April 2024, it cost $US11.15 to buy a share of GameStop. Only a month later, in mid-May, that price had increased to $US48.75 following an unexpected surge in price thanks to an influencer’s posts on X. As of June 4, 2024, it was at $28.81.  The information provided by Forbes Advisor is general in nature and for educational purposes only. Any information provided does not consider the personal financial circumstances of readers, such as individual objectives, financial situation or needs. Forbes Advisor does not provide financial product advice and the information we provide is not intended to replace or be relied upon as independent financial advice. Your financial situation is unique and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. Forbes Advisor encourages readers to seek independent expert advice from an authorised financial adviser in relation to their own financial circumstances and investments before making any financial decisions.



We do not offer financial advice, advisory or brokerage services, nor do we recommend or advise individuals to buy or sell particular stocks or securities. Performance information may have changed since the time of publication. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Forbes Advisor provides an information service. It is not a product issuer or provider. In giving you information about financial or credit products, Forbes Advisor is not making any suggestion or recommendation to you about a particular product. It is important to check any product information directly with the provider. Consider the Product Disclosure Statement (PDS), Target Market Determination (TMD) and other applicable product documentation before making a decision to purchase, acquire, invest in or apply for a financial or credit product. Contact the product issuer directly for a copy of the PDS, TMD and other documentation. Forbes Advisor adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our partners. For more information, read our Advice Disclaimer here.  
						Jody McDonald is a freelance writer based in Brisbane who specialises in writing about business, technology and the future of work. She’s helped a range of SaaS platforms and tech companies share their stories, and has written for the Mortgage and Finance Association of Australia magazine, MYOB Pulse, Anthill Magazine, Crypto News Australia and The Chainsaw.
					 
						Sophie Venz is an experienced editor and features reporter, and has previously worked in the small business and start-up reporting space. Previously the Associate Editor of SmartCompany, Sophie has worked closely with finance experts and columnists around Australia and internationally.
					