All products featured on Condé Nast Traveler are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. Along with my running shoes and swimsuit, there’s another wardrobe item I pack for almost every single trip: my Gap jean jacket. This trusty travel companion has logged almost as many miles as my frequent flier accounts since I bought it five-ish years ago. It appears in so many of my trip photos that sometimes I think I should change things up a bit. But then again, no other piece of outerwear goes the distance quite like this one. Its versatility, durability, and functionality make it the ideal choice for whatever is on the docket, whether that’s a city center walkabout or a bike ride further afield. And then, there’s the subtle style statement it conveys. I’m by no means a fashionista, but a denim jacket somehow instantly infuses any look with a dose of casual cool. My favorite outfit pairing is a flowy skirt, tank top, and a pair of flat sandals, but since denim is possibly the most versatile fabric on the planet, you can easily dress it up or down. Whenever I slip it on, I feel a slight confidence boost—maybe I do have my act together, even as I’m struggling to figure out a city’s metro system or how much I owe for groceries in local currency. Part of that is because the Gap jean jacket actually does help me keep my act together on often-hectic travel days—largely thanks to its pockets, which, for me, are a clothing non-negotiable while traveling (even more so when I'm with my son). The jacket’s four outer pockets (two at the waist, two buttoned ones at the chest) are standard, but what I really love are the two inner vertical pockets, one on each side. They’re perfect for storing essentials like my phone, hotel key, and small change purse when I don’t feel like hauling around a larger bag, and because they’re plenty deep and have a top opening, I never worry about anything falling out. Those handy pockets also help take the hassle out of in-transit days, especially at the airport. Because I’m team paper, I prefer a printed boarding pass, which I stash into the left inner pocket, along with my phone and passport, for easy access—no more panicked rifling through a purse or backpack wondering where I last put them. Yes, I do have to remove the jacket before clearing security (but I’ve had to remove the flimsiest of wraps as well). As soon as I’m through the scanners, I slip it back on, with everything tucked firmly inside—easy peasy. Of course, it does have its limitations. In rainy weather, a jean jacket isn’t ideal (denim is durable but not waterproof, after all), and when the temperature drops, a heavier coat is essential. But it’s still my go-to for almost any trip (up next for me: Greece). Bottom line: Whether it’s made by Gap or another brand (I've shared a few additional recommendations below), a jean jacket deserves a spot on every savvy traveler’s packing list. Levi Strauss invented blue jeans in 1873, and this sturdy pick by the denim pioneer comes with an oversized silhouette perfect for layering over sweaters or hoodies. For trips when you need to dress things up a bit, this trench-style jacket hits just the right mix of stylish and casual, with an elegant cut, dark wash, and belt tie. This classic style is a fan favorite for its true fit, with slightly roomier arms, a just-right indigo wash, and soft feel—a winner for any travel wardrobe. J.Crew’s popular jacket comes in a new faded wash with roomy sleeves ideal for active itineraries, and a point collar that adds a dressy touch for evenings out. This popular pick by Maurices, a Duluth, Minnesota–based company founded in 1931, is a comfy, lightweight option that packs easily and won’t break the bank. It’s available in three colors: light, medium, and dark sandblast. This best-selling jacket also comes in Resort White and Calla Lily Pink, but we’re partial to the sophisticated Cosmic Wash. With pockets galore, puff sleeves, and a fitted silhouette, it easily goes from daytime excursions to nights out. As the most discerning, up-to-the-minute voice in all things travel, Condé Nast Traveler is the global citizen’s bible and muse, offering both inspiration and vital intel. We understand that time is the greatest luxury, which is why Condé Nast Traveler mines its network of experts and influencers so that you never waste a meal, a drink, or a hotel stay wherever you are in the world. More from Condé Nast Traveler Contact © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Condé Nast Traveler may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices