Hundreds of nurses come from several countries to work at LifeBridge Health Hundreds of nurses come from several countries to work at LifeBridge Health The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Hundreds of nurses come from several countries to work at LifeBridge Health LifeBridge Health launched a major recruitment campaign for experienced nurses to help bridge a gap in staffing. A myriad of issues that include the COVID-19 pandemic, rising patient acuity and early retirement of nurses, among other reasons, contributed to a shortage of nurses. Sinai Hospital will eventually have 200 nurses from countries around the world. The hospital in northwest Baltimore is using its simulation lab to train newly recruited nurses who are coming from Kenya, Taiwan, Jamaica, the Philippines, Korea and Nigeria, to name a few. "Nurses are everywhere. It doesn't matter where you come from. As long as you have the compassion, you can do that job," said Ijeoma Ofoma, a nurse who is from Nigeria. "We learn different stuff, we experience different culture, different religions and we bring something new to the patient, the staff and everyone here as well," said Ruby Lin, a nurse who is from Taiwan. A welcoming committee provides a warm greeting to nurses at the airport. "As soon as COVID hit, we realized that we were going to be in trouble and we needed more nurses. A lot of our nurses that were here either retired or did travel, and so, that was when the idea was presented and we moved forward with the process," said Debra Morton, Sinai's chief nursing officer. | RELATED: Maryland hospitals face critical staffing shortages among nurses Milette Soraino came to Baltimore in 2009 from the Philippines and decided to stay. "I feel like I am indebted to Sinai because I've been asking the lord to come here since I graduated nursing," Soraino said. "They bring a lot of diversity," Morton said. "Baltimore is an area, a diverse city, which is really important. I find them to be incredibly compassionate, smart, highly educated. They all have experience." A total of 300 nurses will come to LifeBridge and will work on several of its campuses. | RELATED: Nurses in Maryland overwhelmed amid shortage, COVID-19 pandemic Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.