Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. DefiningStudios A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. A luxury home, similar to the one pictured, to be built on one-of-a-kind lot at108 Daniel Trace in Burlington, Conn. by Brook View Developers, LLC. A new home, to be built on Daniel Trace in Burlington, represents an once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. It will combine an incredible location with a house that will display the exceptional workmanship and attention to detail for which the builder, Brook View Developers, LLC, is noted.Start with the building site. “It’s one of the best locations in town,” said Cathy McCahill of William Pitt Sotheby’s International Realty. “It’s a secluded four-plus-acre lot located at the end of a cul-de-sac with distant views of Huckleberry Hill in Avon and Collinsville. There is nothing quite like it in town.”Making this land even more attractive is its proximity to outdoor recreational opportunities. “The Farmington River Trail is just minutes away along with hiking, mountain biking, and kayaking,” said McCahill. And, when it is time to go to work, this lot is on the east side of Burlington, which can be a significant advantage for people commuting to Farmington, West Hartford, or Hartford. It is also just five minutes away from a major grocery store and numerous retailers and services, and this building site also has one more advantage. “The sunrises are spectacular from there,” McCahill said.As for the home, it does not currently exist. “We’ve just begun clearing the lot,” said McCahill, “and we plan to break ground in the spring,” which it should be noted is just weeks away.This means that a buyer who acts now will have the opportunity to influence many aspects of the design, including the floor plan, kitchen layout, primary suite amenities, and architectural details.The builder plans on constructing a classic colonial farm house on this land, a style that has been a favorite for years and continues to be in high demand today. “Country farm house colonials sell very quickly,” McCahill said.One home that the builder had previously constructed is close to what is planned for this Daniel Trace location. In this home, the multiple front-facing gables with precisely aligned roof angles and the large wraparound front porch supported by columns please and intrigue the eye. The options for the interior, however, will be numerous, making it easy for buyers to reflect their style.“We are planning a white shaker kitchen,” McCahill said. “However, the buyer can change that and select a cabinet style to suit their individual taste.”

Being able to design their perfect kitchen, and select the appliances with the performance and style to fit their wants and needs, is just the beginning.Elsewhere in the home, “People can also do what they want. If they want coffered ceilings, we’ll do it. If they want a den or home office with French doors, we can do that, too. Matt [referring to Matthew Reale of Brook View Developers] is a custom builder. He uses the best craftsmen in the area and he takes the time to do things right,” McCahill said. She then noted that an increasing number of homebuyers today are seeking not one, but two home offices. That, too, is possible. As for the millwork and trim, “We have a very nice trim package, though people can select other styles, such as shaker,” McCahill said.She then went on to discuss flooring options. A buyer can chose 3 1/4 inch wide oak flooring boards, “but we can also use wider boards and different wood species, if the buyer would like, such as 5-inch oak character grade, 6-inch boards, or hickory, to name a few.”Other options include a primary suite on the first or second floor, design modifications that can accommodate intergenerational living, and features that can deliver a spa-like experience in the primary bedroom’s bath. And if creating the perfect home means moving or eliminating some walls, that, too, can be done.“This home will be approached by a long driveway and will offer a three-car garage. There will be a set of stairs from the garage leading to the basement, which can, as an option, have a 9- or 10-foot ceiling height.” McCahill said.The garage-to-basement stairway is an advantage if the home’s mechanical systems need service. Technicians doing the work will not need to traipse through the home’s living areas to do the work. It is also handy for hobbyists with larger projects planned for a basement workshop. Meanwhile, the stairs to the basement inside the home offer convenient access and the option for lower level expansion. People often add a recreation room, home theater or a gym in this area.“The basements from this builder are dry,” McCahill said, noting the drainage and water handling systems needed to ensure this are installed during construction. In addition, the builder’s homes have the necessary piping for radon abatement, if that should be necessary.Energy efficiency is also a prime concern. This is reflected in the selection of the home’s heating and cooling systems, the insulation used, a buyer’s choice of windows, including optional premium units from Marvin and Andersen, and the final stringent tests for air leakage.It is rare to find a home with the location, the views and the craftsmanship that will be present here once construction is finished. It is rarer yet to be able to combine this with the ability to influence the interior layout and architectural details. As Cathy McCahill noted, this really is a once in a lifetime opportunity.Info box:Year built: Current constructionBuilder: Brook View Developers, LLCPrice: $839,900Style: Colonial Farm HouseRooms: Plan dependentBedrooms: Plan dependent; usually 4Baths: Plan dependent; usually 2 1/2 or 3 1/2Square footage: Plan dependent; usually 3,000 sq. ft. or moreAcreage: 4.22Mill rate: 32.7Best feature: The buyers will get exactly what they want, from floor plan to the architectural detailsContact: Cathy McCahillWilliam Pitt Sotheby’s International Realty860-480-6760cmccahill@wpsir.com Start with the building site. “It’s one of the best locations in town,” said Cathy McCahill of William Pitt Sotheby’s International Realty. “It’s a secluded four-plus-acre lot located at the end of a cul-de-sac with distant views of Huckleberry Hill in Avon and Collinsville. There is nothing quite like it in town.” Making this land even more attractive is its proximity to outdoor recreational opportunities. “The Farmington River Trail is just minutes away along with hiking, mountain biking, and kayaking,” said McCahill. And, when it is time to go to work, this lot is on the east side of Burlington, which can be a significant advantage for people commuting to Farmington, West Hartford, or Hartford. It is also just five minutes away from a major grocery store and numerous retailers and services, and this building site also has one more advantage. “The sunrises are spectacular from there,” McCahill said. As for the home, it does not currently exist. “We’ve just begun clearing the lot,” said McCahill, “and we plan to break ground in the spring,” which it should be noted is just weeks away. This means that a buyer who acts now will have the opportunity to influence many aspects of the design, including the floor plan, kitchen layout, primary suite amenities, and architectural details. The builder plans on constructing a classic colonial farm house on this land, a style that has been a favorite for years and continues to be in high demand today. “Country farm house colonials sell very quickly,” McCahill said. One home that the builder had previously constructed is close to what is planned for this Daniel Trace location. In this home, the multiple front-facing gables with precisely aligned roof angles and the large wraparound front porch supported by columns please and intrigue the eye. The options for the interior, however, will be numerous, making it easy for buyers to reflect their style. “We are planning a white shaker kitchen,” McCahill said. “However, the buyer can change that and select a cabinet style to suit their individual taste.” Being able to design their perfect kitchen, and select the appliances with the performance and style to fit their wants and needs, is just the beginning. Elsewhere in the home, “People can also do what they want. If they want coffered ceilings, we’ll do it. If they want a den or home office with French doors, we can do that, too. Matt [referring to Matthew Reale of Brook View Developers] is a custom builder. He uses the best craftsmen in the area and he takes the time to do things right,” McCahill said. She then noted that an increasing number of homebuyers today are seeking not one, but two home offices. That, too, is possible. As for the millwork and trim, “We have a very nice trim package, though people can select other styles, such as shaker,” McCahill said. She then went on to discuss flooring options. A buyer can chose 3 1/4 inch wide oak flooring boards, “but we can also use wider boards and different wood species, if the buyer would like, such as 5-inch oak character grade, 6-inch boards, or hickory, to name a few.” Other options include a primary suite on the first or second floor, design modifications that can accommodate intergenerational living, and features that can deliver a spa-like experience in the primary bedroom’s bath. And if creating the perfect home means moving or eliminating some walls, that, too, can be done. “This home will be approached by a long driveway and will offer a three-car garage. There will be a set of stairs from the garage leading to the basement, which can, as an option, have a 9- or 10-foot ceiling height.” McCahill said. The garage-to-basement stairway is an advantage if the home’s mechanical systems need service. Technicians doing the work will not need to traipse through the home’s living areas to do the work. It is also handy for hobbyists with larger projects planned for a basement workshop. Meanwhile, the stairs to the basement inside the home offer convenient access and the option for lower level expansion. People often add a recreation room, home theater or a gym in this area. “The basements from this builder are dry,” McCahill said, noting the drainage and water handling systems needed to ensure this are installed during construction. In addition, the builder’s homes have the necessary piping for radon abatement, if that should be necessary. Energy efficiency is also a prime concern. This is reflected in the selection of the home’s heating and cooling systems, the insulation used, a buyer’s choice of windows, including optional premium units from Marvin and Andersen, and the final stringent tests for air leakage. It is rare to find a home with the location, the views and the craftsmanship that will be present here once construction is finished. It is rarer yet to be able to combine this with the ability to influence the interior layout and architectural details. As Cathy McCahill noted, this really is a once in a lifetime opportunity. Info box: Year built: Current construction Builder: Brook View Developers, LLC Price: $839,900 Style: Colonial Farm House Rooms: Plan dependent Bedrooms: Plan dependent; usually 4 Baths: Plan dependent; usually 2 1/2 or 3 1/2 Square footage: Plan dependent; usually 3,000 sq. ft. or more Acreage: 4.22 Mill rate: 32.7 Best feature: The buyers will get exactly what they want, from floor plan to the architectural details Contact: Cathy McCahill William Pitt Sotheby’s International Realty 860-480-6760 cmccahill@wpsir.com Copyright © 2024 Hartford Courant