Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Lily Rose
 
    Edited By
                        
              Lily Rose
 
August 5, 2023 / 8:00 AM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Summer is mosquito season, but your skin doesn't have to be covered in itchy bites. Amazon offers a variety of customer-loved mosquito repellents that help repel bugs and reduce the risk of mosquito-borne diseases. The shopping experts at CBS Essentials have rounded up the top-rated mosquito repellents for summer 2023. These sprays, lotions, candles and more can help protect you during your outdoor summer adventures. Some of our options include DEET, or N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide. Experts say the powerful insect repellent is safe when used as recommended. DEET has been found to be highly effective at repelling mosquitoes and other insects, plus it can be used in combination with sunscreen and other skincare products, making it easy to integrate into a daily routine. We have also found a handful of DEET-free mosquito repellents below.  Top products in this article: Off! Deep Woods insect repellent aerosol, $12 (regularly $13) Ben's 30 tick and insect repellent, $27 3M Ultrathon insect repellent lotion, $9 (regularly $10) Shop our roundup of the best mosquito repellents on Amazon. These products all have a four-star rating or higher and include many positive reviews. Many of these items are even on sale! Off! is one of the most popular mosquito repellent brands on the market. This 4.6-star-rated two-pack of mosquito repellent has over 30,000 reviews praising its effectiveness.  Off! Deep Words is formulated with 25% DEET. The formula sprays on with a powder-dry finish and promises to not leave your skin feeling oily or greasy.  One enthusiastic Amazon reviewer called this product "the best insect repellent in the world."  "It kept mosquitoes or any other bugs away from your body for hours," they shared. Off! Deep Woods insect repellent aerosol, $12 (regularly $13) This sweat-resistant lotion is formulated with 34.34% DEET. The 4.5-star-rated repellent can provide up to 12 hours of protection from mosquitoes, ticks, fleas, gnats and more. Plus, its travel-friendly two-ounce tube can be stored in a carry-on bag during summer travel. "Bought this after my friend said that this was the only thing that kept the mosquitoes of Guam off of them," says an Amazon customer. "Only had one mosquito bite after 2 months of living in the jungle! Note: a little goes A LONG way. Needed less than 1 tube for 2 months (and I shared the tube with another for 3 weeks). Too much will make you sticky. I used approximately 1-2 pea-sized amounts per day."  3M Ultrathon insect repellent lotion, $9 (regularly $10) Ben's 30 tick and insect repellent contains 30% DEET. Ben's 30 is water-based. The brand claims that key ingredient causes less repellent evaporates off your skin. This four-pack from Amazon has a 4.5-star rating and tons of positive reviews.  "I spotted this product on Consumer Reports," says an Amazon reviewer. "It got very high reviews so I thought I would give it a try. I have used it about 4 times in very deep woods and I had no ticks or bites. It seems to work. I would buy it again." Ben's 30 tick and insect repellent, $27 This two-pack of tick and mosquito repellent features the DEET alternatives permethrin and picaridin. According to the brand, permethrin is safe for use on dogs and horses. Picaridin is safe for the whole family. Clothing sprayed with permethrin 0.5% insect repellent can last up to five laundry cycles or 40 days of sun exposure, while body-worn Picaridin 20% insect repellent can provide up to 12 hours of protection from ticks and mosquitoes. "Camping and outdoor activities are difficult for me. I attract bugs (especially mosquitoes) and this gave me relief for the first time in my life. Pair this with the spray you can put on your clothes and I'd say this will make you feel like you camp again," says an Amazon reviewer who also called themselves a "mosquito magnet."  Ranger Ready Permethrin + Picaridin tick and mosquito repellent, $30 This four-star-rated mosquito candle is made with plant-based ingredients, including citronella, peppermint, rosemary, cedarwood and lemongrass oil. It is made without DEET and can burn for up to 25 hours. "Nothing repels mosquitoes at 100% but this candle comes pretty close," says an Amazon reviewer.  Mosquito Guard 12-ounce mosquito-repellent candle, $12 (regularly $20) DEET, or N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide, is a powerful insect repellent. However, people frequently seek out DEET-free insect repellents due to potential skin irritation and chemical concerns. If you're looking for an effective, DEET-free mosquito repellent, the CBS Essentials shopping experts have found some customer-loved options below.  This pack of mosquito repellent bracelets are infused with citronella, geranium and lemongrass essential oils, which might help naturally repel insects without the use of chemicals including DEET or registered pesticides. These accessories are stretchy, fit most sizes and ages and can be worn on your wrist or ankle comfortably. "The fact that these bracelets are DEET-free is a huge plus for me," an Amazon customer says. "The scent is not overpowering, yet it manages to create a protective barrier that keeps mosquitoes at bay. While no repellent can provide 100% protection, I found the bracelets to be highly effective in reducing mosquito bites." Cliganic 10 pack mosquito repellent bracelets, $8 (regularly $10) BuzzPatch is an insect-repelling sticker made with plant-based ingredients. These stickers are non-toxic and are made without DEET. According to the brand, these stickers are most effective in the first eight hours of use but continue to be effective for up to 72 hours. These water-resistant patches have a 4.1-star rating.  "My daughter had one on each arm and one on each leg and the whole time she had these on. She never got bit by a single mosquito or got even harassed by gnats," an Amazon customer says. "They smell pretty good so you don't have to worry about smelling like a citronella candle all the time. We had other adults with us and they tended not to want to have to wear the funny stickers on their clothes and they got bit by mosquitoes unless they were standing right by my daughter." BuzzPatch mosquito patch stickers for kids, $15 This mosquito repeller creates a 20-foot mosquito protection zone by diffusing an unscented, DEET-free liquid repellent. It offers up to 12 hours of protection. "I live in Savannah Georgia. During most of the year, the gnats and mosquitoes are horrendous. I've tried bug zappers, tiki torches, rosemary bushes, and fly strips. Nothing worked, but this did," an Amazon customer says. "I have a ceiling fan directly over the table. I believe the fan helps move whatever's in this thing throughout the gazebo because, like I said, it works. Bug free, finally. I would recommend ordering additional repellent pods because the one that comes with the gizmo didn't last very long. A tad expensive, yes and very effective. And oh, so worth it!" Thermacell mosquito repellent e-series rechargeable repeller, $48 This 4.5-star-rated electronic mosquito repeller is just $35. The brand claims that the device can create a 30-foot mosquito-free space in just 10 minutes using a plant-based, DEET-free formula in conjunction with a fan. The device has a four-hour battery life. "We hang out in our garage and once the sun starts to go down the mosquitoes are fierce! This little guy is amazing," an Amazon customer says. "As soon as we turn it on they disappear!! The battery lasts as long as description states, if the battery dies we plug in the charger and use it while it's charging and haven't had any issues! The smell is strong at first but isn't overwhelming, definitely recommend using in a well ventilated area if you choose to use in your garage as well. Haven't used on our patio yet, however our garage is open so I believe it will be just as effective!! Very pleased with my purchase!!" RibRave electronic mosquito repeller, $35 with coupon (regularly $46) Cutter is known for its insect repelling products. The brand makes a skin spray that can effectively repel mosquitoes for up to six hours without the use of DEET. The product is made with oil from a lemon eucalyptus tree. "This is the only non-DEET product that works well enough to buy a second time," an Amazon customer says. "I highly recommend it. Will it make you mosquito proof? No. But is it an effective mild repellent, worth putting on? YES." Cutter lemon eucalyptus insect repellent, $5 (reduced from $9) Lily Rose is a senior writer for CBS Essentials and the site's expert in home appliances such as washers, dryers, refrigerators and ranges. When she's not writing about how you can upgrade your laundry room, she's writing about home and kitchen essentials that will transform your space. Her favorite appliance is her air fryer. She firmly believes that it can make the crispiest sweet potato fries. 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and first lady Jill Biden are also scheduled to speak.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          What appeared to be just shy of 10,000 people were seen on the march route—and the protest remained peaceful as it reached Park 578.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Day 1 of the Democratic National Convention will feature addresses from President Biden and 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. CBS News political director Fin Gómez has more on Clinton's speech and other notes about the convention, including how it differs from last month's Republican National Convention.
         
          The 2024 Democratic National Convention in Chicago will be the first time the Windy City has hosted the convention since 1996. Adriana Diaz breaks down why Chicago was picked to host this year's DNC.
         
          At least two people have died as a result of flash flooding that hit Connecticut and other parts of the Northeast. Parts of New Jersey and New York's Long Island were also hit hard. Nikki Battiste reports.
         
          Democratic Rep. Katherine Clark, the House minority whip, joined CBS News to discuss the Democratic National Convention, President Biden's decision to step aside and former President Donald Trump's continued attacks against Vice President Kamala Harris.
         
          Six people, including two Americans, are missing after a yacht sank off the southern tip of Italy. At least one person has died.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.