Apply to the Master's in Software Engineering program today at the College of Computing & Informatics. Please refer to the application deadlines below:
For Fall 2024:
Fall classes start on Monday, September 23, 2024.

International Applicants: June 1, 2024
U.S. Applicants (On-campus and Online): August 27, 2024

For Winter 2025:
Winter classes start on Monday, January 6, 2025.

International Applicants: October 15, 2024
U.S. Applicants (On-campus and Online): December 1, 2024
 Apply to the Master's in Software Engineering program today at the College of Computing & Informatics. Please refer to the application deadlines below: For Fall 2024: Fall classes start on Monday, September 23, 2024. For Winter 2025: Winter classes start on Monday, January 6, 2025. Drexel’s College of Computing & Informatics' Master of Science in Software Engineering (MSSE) is designed for students who hold a four-year bachelor's degree or master’s degree from a regionally accredited institution in computer science, software engineering, or related STEM degree. The program is appropriate for students interested in technical and managerial software work across a wide range of application domains, with the objective of transforming from being developers to being designers, architects and technical leaders. Hours Full-time (FT) or Part-time (PT) Time-to-Degree 2-3 years (FT); 2-4 years (PT) Format On campus or online Term Starts Fall, Winter Curriculum Design Traditional Course-by-Course or Modular Certificate Curriculum. For a full explanation of the modular certificate option, please see the Curriculum section below. Hands-on Experience Two-term hands-on, experiential capstone project for all students; Graduate co-op is available for on-campus, full-time students. Technical experience required? Students without a technical background will likely need to complete the Graduate Certificate in Computer Science Foundations. GRE required? No Meets F1 Visa STEM Requirements? Yes The Master of Science in Software Engineering (MSSE) degree program is designed to prepare students to become professional software engineers across a wide variety of industries. Drawing on the strengths of Drexel’s programs spanning the College of Computing & Informatics (CCI), the MSSE degree program will provide you with a blend of theory and practice, forming a solid understanding of the fundamentals of software systems as well as a working knowledge of the many languages, methods and systems used in the field. As a graduate of the program you will leave with the skills necessary to better adapt to rapid changes in the software engineering field and to advance to senior managerial and executive positions or become successful entrepreneurs in the field as professional computer software engineers. Be in touch with us to get answers to all your questions! We can connect you with a Recruitment Specialist, one of our Graduate Dean’s Ambassadors, or a faculty member to help. Contact our graduate recruitment team at cciinfo@drexel.edu and we’ll get back to you soon. IMPORTANT NOTE: Drexel operates on the quarter, not semester, system, offering classes during four, 10-week terms throughout the year. (You are not required to take classes every quarter, but full-time students must complete the degree in 3 years.) Our master’s degrees are 45 credits (15 courses) which is equivalent to 30- to 33-credit degrees at other universities. The benefit of the quarter system is that students receive instruction in more topic areas than through the semester system and have more freedom to personalize their curriculum using electives. This degree is available through a traditional course-by-course curriculum or a modular certificate curriculum. CCI's Master’s Degree in Software Engineering consists of: Full-time, on-campus students who are accepted for fall and winter term admissions can also choose a Graduate Co-op option. Please visit the Steinbright Career Development Center to learn more about cooperative education and its benefits. Please visit Drexel’s Course Catalog for a full description of each required course and elective for this program. You can also find a sample Plan of Study for the degree. This curriculum allows the student to select several certificates in order to 1.) gain a foundation in Software Engineering principles and practice and 2.) focus in-depth on specific skills and knowledge through certificates, customized to your needs and professional goals. Following the modular certificate option enables you to earn marketable credentials — skills set-based certificates — on your way to completing the master’s degree, and it lets you complete a certificate, step away from the program if you need to, and return to seamlessly pick up where you left off. There are a variety of possible certificate combinations, and you will work with your advisor and the faculty to determine the best sequence to pursue for your needs and background. In the modular certificate option, you will select:
 In addition, you may need to take a small number of additional courses in order to complete the course degree requirements. The following certificates can be used to create the MS in Software Engineering:
Core Major Electives Flexible Electives (optionally choose one) A capstone project gives you the opportunity to gain practical, real-world industry experience within your area of interest and to use your new knowledge before graduation. If you are accepted for fall term admissions, you can also choose a Graduate Co-op option. Please visit the Steinbright Career Development Center to learn more about cooperative education and its benefits. Software engineering, like all disciplines within the computer and information sciences, has a very healthy employment outlook. Read more about this field and the places you can go with this master’s degree here. Please visit our Graduate Admissions section for application deadlines. Please visit Drexel’s official Graduate Tuition & Fees webpage. Note that this master’s degree requires 45 quarter credits. There are a variety of sources of financial aid and scholarships to help you fund your master’s degree — explore them here. Our Recruitment Specialists are here to walk you through the sometimes confusing world of financing your graduate education. Get in touch with us now by filling out this form. Learn more about the College of Computing & Informatics experience through an online information session or an in-person visit. Contact our recruitment team to schedule your visit today by contacting us at cciinfo@drexel.edu! Contact us here to get your questions answered about the Software Engineering program's curriculum, our admissions process, student life or anything else CCI-related. Learn more about the College of Computing & Informatics experience through an online information session. Contact our recruitment team to schedule your virtual visit today! Take the next step in your educational journey. Apply today to join CCI's talented and entrepreneurial student body! International computing and information honor society Upsilon Pi Epsilon Global (UPE) has recognized its Drexel University chapter with the 2024 Upsilon Pi Epsilon Outstanding Chapter Award. Drexel University has received a successful renewal of its designation as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense by the National Security Agency (NSA). This renewal extends Drexel's esteemed, 20-year designation through 2029. During his fellowship in Fall 2024, Professor David E. Breen, PhD will pursue his joint research project, titled "3D-Scan to Knit: Digitization for the Creation of Customized Knitted Garments." 10th and 11th Floor Lobby Follow us: Drexel University, 3141 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, 215.895.2000, © All Rights Reserved