For the second year in a row, Rustici Software has earned the No. 1 spot for small companies (those with less than 125 employees) on Middle Tennessee’s Top Workplaces list. With just 48 employees in one office in Franklin, the company is one of the world’s leading eLearning standards experts, providing tools so companies can create and manage eLearning compliance. While same think software development and implementation may be an industry that lacks engagement and interpersonal relationships, the culture at Rustici is just the opposite. The company's staff support each other, working together to find creative solutions to challenges. Employees say they even spend lunchtime together because they enjoy each other’s company. “The people at Rustici are what make this place so special,” says Tammy Rutherford, Rustici’s managing director. “I'm surrounded by smart people that care about the work that they do, the people they work with, and the customers they support,. I learn something new every day from the people that work here, whether it's related to the technical learning standards or a better crokinole technique. The phrase you'll hear around here more than any other is ‘How can I help?’” Rustici says its mission is “to live a life in which we have marked our days with memorable moments rooted in a sense of play and a deep intellectual curiosity. To show up each day with one another’s best interests at heart, actively looking for ways to be of service to one another. To collaboratively create a world in which problems are solved in the simplest, most elegant and most affordable way possible.” If their mission statement isn’t what you’d expect from a software company that works on compliance, there’s another way Rustici fosters their culture of teamwork and camaraderie. They have a unique benefit program called Jenafits that includes both traditional benefits like fully paid health, vision, dental and life insurance, and also uses a point system to help with the burdens of daily household chores and errands. Points can be spent on company-paid-for perks, including house cleaning services, meal kits, spa access, fitness memberships, travel (airline, hotel and rideshare), and phone upgrades. In the office, Jenafits includes concierge services, a fully stocked kitchen, a "magic whiteboard" for requests, and special treats. The goal is to take care of its talented staff in surprising ways — and those efforts are noticed by Rustici’s employees. “I love my job because of the other people that work here,” one staffer says. “I've been here a relatively short time, and have already learned so much from all of my coworkers. A lot of effort is put into creating a team or community environment where we all work together for the betterment of our products, our client's experiences, and one another. I genuinely enjoy being around everyone here and appreciate that everyone's input and perspective are listened to and valued.” Another employee agrees: “The people I work with care about the job they do. This isn't a company for people who just want to sit at their desk moving aimlessly about their day before heading home for the night. This company is composed of people who want to work together to learn and improve upon their skills.” Rustici has earned a top workplaces spot with other publications as well — Nashville Business Journal has awarded the company a Best Places to Work in Nashville award for 13 years in a row. Rutherford credits these accolades to the company's employees. “Hands down it is the people here that make Rustici such a great place to work,” she says. “We are a smart and empathetic bunch that cares deeply about helping our customers and each other. We show up each day with the intent to do great work, be a great teammate, and not be afraid to raise a hand when we need help, or if we have a new idea to share.” Other small sized companies that received Top Employer nods in 2023 include Kia of Murfreesboro, Nashville Swim Academy, and Bauer Entertainment Marketing.