
			The armoured vehicle project has been hampered by severe delays and safety issues
		 The General in charge of the disastrous £5.5bn Ajax armoured vehicle programme has left the project, the Telegraph can reveal. Major General Carew Wilks stepped down from his role overseeing what has been called the “biggest scandal” in British defence procurement in November and a replacement has yet to be announced. Maj Gen Wilks was hired as general manager of General Dynamics UK’s Land Systems business after a career in buying tanks and armoured vehicles for the Ministry of Defence. In the role he oversaw a fixed-price contract worth £5.5bn agreed with the Ministry of Defence in 2014 to build 589 Ajax armoured vehicles. So far just 26 have been delivered and these can only be used for training purposes. Former defence minister Mark Francois last month called Ajax the “biggest scandal” in defence procurement. The public accounts committee has said the programme should be fixed or scrapped after “a litany of failures”. Maj Gen Wilks was seen as a key link between the company and its customer and in September, only two months before leaving his role, he wrote to the Commons defence select committee to promote the company’s “strong progress” on Ajax and invite members to visit the firm’s factory in Merthyr Tydfil. He left the company in November and has been on a career break, travelling, according to his LinkedIn profile. The departure of Maj Gen Wilks, 62, comes after the company filed its accounts more than four weeks late without an explanation. In its accounts for 2021, the company blamed the “significant delays” to the contract on “technical concerns raised by the UK MoD and, to a lesser extent, the residual pressures of Covid-19. In particular, safety notices issued by the customer in 2021 have impeded progress in many areas.” A company spokesman said Maj Gen Wilks retired last year but declined to comment on successorship or the reason the company's accounts were late. Maj Gen Wilks declined to comment. Maj Gen Wilks was hired by General Dynamics in 2018 after stints at BAE Systems and Abu Dhabi-based NIMR, which makes armoured fighting vehicles. Prior to that he was director of Land Equipment at the Ministry of Defence’s Abbey Wood procurement office from 2011 to 2013, responsible for buying armoured vehicles. The Ajax project has been wracked by vibration and noise problems that were so violent operators needed specialist treatment and 17 people needed care for their hearing. In 2021 Maj Gen Wilks appeared in front of the Defence Committee of MPs to answer questions about the programme. Former Labour defence minister Kevan Jones accused Maj Gen Wilks of “not answering the question” after inquiring about the “odd” structure of the contract that saw General Dynamics paid upfront. Last year, the Ministry of Defence commissioned top barrister Clive Sheldon to conduct an independent inquiry into what went wrong with the programme. In December, defence minister Baroness Annabel Goldie told the House of Lords that trials to address the noise and vibration problems on the Ajax had finished and that she could now “see a way forward” for the programme. Ajax is due to replace Scimitar, a smaller, lighter reconnaissance vehicle which entered service in 1971. It is the third attempt to replace Scimitar after 1992’s Tracer – the Tactical Reconnaissance Armoured Combat Equipment Requirement, which was cut after nine years. That was followed by the Future Rapid Effects System, which was in turn cancelled in 2008. Accounts show General Dynamics UK made a profit of £10.3m on £604m of sales for 2021. General Dynamics UK paid its owner General Dynamics Ltd a £80.5m dividend for 2021, according to accounts for the holding company published in November.