The Department of Energy said Friday it signed a tripartite memorandum of agreement with Pilipinas Shell Petroleum Corp. and Shell Energy Philippines, Inc. to conduct a pilot study on electric vehicle charging stations powered by renewable energy such as solar. The agreement is consistent with the goals and targets of the Philippine Energy Plan 2020-2040 for the transition towards clean energy fuels and technologies and to provide the support infrastructure for the 10-percent target penetration rate of EVs for road transport by 2040. Energy Secretary Raphael Lotilla, PSPC president and chief executive Lorelie Osial and SEPH president Bernd Krukenberg signed the agreement. The pilot project’s key components include supply, installation, operation and maintenance of EVCs, monitoring and verification of energy efficiency, performance and savings through the utilization of RE and optimization of the use of cleaner energy. “I commend PSPC and SEPH for collaborating with the DOE for this laudable undertaking — a sound testament of their resoluteness in maximizing value creation while contributing to global climate change mitigation,” Lotilla said. The pilot project outputs will be used as a reference for the DOE to develop programs, policies and regulations for the sustainable and safe adoption and operation of EVCs involving the use of RE. Data generated from the pilot project will serve as a benchmark for PSPC and SEPH to develop and roll out the EVC network in its existing and future Shell-branded mobility sites. The parties expect the rollout of more EVCs in the future. “These alternative opportunities could also position Shell at the forefront of their quest for sustainable and inclusive growth by adding a more compelling long-term vision for clean technologies and renewable energy investment into their portfolio,” the energy chief said. He said the undertaking would reinforce the government’s implementation of the Electric Vehicle Industry Development Act and its implementing rules and regulations signed and adopted in 2022, with an enabling environment for the adoption of EVs and charging station infrastructures and support innovation of clean, sustainable and energy-efficient technologies. Data showed the country had 9,000 registered EVs, including 378 public utility vehicles and 327 EV charging stations as of end-2021. Meanwhile, the national plan for the EV industry through the Comprehensive Roadmap for the Electric Vehicle Industry will be released by the end of the first quarter after nationwide public consultations. © All Rights Reserved, Newspaper Theme.