By Emily Goodin, Senior U.S. Political Reporter   Published:  15:30 EDT, 20 September 2023   |  Updated:  15:52 EDT, 20 September 2023      84 View  comments  The Oil and Gas Workers Association is endorsing Donald Trump, snubbing Ron DeSantis on the day of his energy policy announcement to support the former president. 'Governor DeSantis says a lot of the right things, right, but his track record isn't there,' Oil and Gas Workers Association President Matt Coday told DailyMail.com in an exclusive interview. He cited Trump's withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement, his decision to exit the Iran nuclear deal, and the former president's work to save American oil and gas jobs as the reason for the endorsement. The announcement comes the same day DeSantis announced his energy policy, which includes plans to increase US oil and gas production with the goal of achieving $2 gas in 2025. The Oil and Gas Workers Association is endorsing Donald Trump for president 'I will ensure that this country does not have to rely on hostile nations for its energy needs ever again,' DeSantis said in a speech in Midland, Texas.    DeSantis's announcement comes as he tries to position himself as the policy-focused GOP candidate. His campaign has been trailing in the polls.   Trump remains the frontrunner for the Republican presidential nomination with a 46 point lead over DeSantis, according to the RealClearPolitics polling average. The former president was campaigning in Iowa on Wednesday with two events in the eastern part of the state.  During his remarks, he attacked DeSantis on ethanol, a huge industry in Iowa due to the state's corn crops.  'He wanted to end it,'Trump said, referring to DeSantis' position in Congress. Now DeSantis says he'd support fuels with higher ethanol blends.  The Oil and Gas Association, based 30 minutes away from Midland in Odessa, Texas, has 47,000 members nationwide, including in Texas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Colorado, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Alaska. Energy is a huge concern for voters in the 2024 presidential race. Rising fuel costs have contribute to rising inflation. 'President Trump has been the most pro-American Oil & Gas Workers president ever, with 11.3 million jobs supported by our vital industry in 2019. Under President Trump's leadership, our country became energy dominant. The booming economy of the Trump years benefitted every American,' the Oil and Gas Association will say when it formally announces its endorsement, according to the statement obtained by DailyMail.com.  Republicans also see rising gas prices as a political vulnerability for President Joe Biden, who has championed renewable energy and curtailed oil leasing on federal land. Coday said it was Trump's record as president that led to his organization's endorsement and he slammed Biden's policies.  'Under President Trump's administration, America became a net exporter, became energy dominant,' he said. 'Our economy boomed and benefited every American. We don't have that today with Joe Biden in the White House. His intent and and obviously actions to kill our oil and gas jobs. They hurt our economy and threaten our national security.' He criticized Biden's push for more jobs in the renewable energy sector, arguing that more oil means lower gas prices. 'Joe Biden proves our point every time he releases from the Strategic Petroleum Reserves, that more oil equals lower gas prices. Unfortunately, for every American Joe Biden drained our Strategic Petroleum Reserves,' he said. Announcement came the same day Ron DeSantis was in Texas to announce his energy policy Republicans see energy policy as a winning issue against President Joe Biden Gas prices have fluctuated under Biden, reaching record highs at times in his presidency.  Biden tapped into the country's strategic petroleum reserves to help alleviate high prices. The reserve held 350.6 million barrels of oil as of September 8th, down nearly 300 million barrels since he took office.  Coday founded the Oil and Gas Workers Association, a trade group, in 2015 when he was an oilfield truck driver. The group's past endorsements include Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and Louisiana gubernatorial candidate Jeff Landry. Trump, as president, supported energy development on federal land, including gas and oil drilling in national forests and near national monuments and parks. He implemented his 'America First Energy Plan' and signed executive orders to approve two controversial oil pipelines: the Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipeline. As governor, DeSantis opposed some of Trump's energy policies. He threated he would 'be raising Cain' if then-President Trump opened Florida's coastal waters to drilling, citing concerns about oil spills.  In 2019, he signed an executive order to 'oppose all off-shore oil and gas activities off every coast in Florida and hydraulic fracturing in Florida.' In 2020, his administration purchased 20,000 acres of Everglades wetlands to permanently protect them from oil drilling.   Now DeSantis says he would withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement and roll back subsidies for electric vehicles. Biden, as president, reversed many of Trump's orders, including returning the United States to the Paris Climate Agreement. The president has set an ambitious U.S. goal of achieving a carbon pollution-free power sector by 2035 and net zero emissions economy by no later than 2050.  His Inflation Reduction Act included $370 billion for a clean energy and climate package, which includes incentives for Americans to buy electric vehicles.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group