


July 12 (UPI) -- The Paris-based International Energy Agency said the pace of the energy transition is moving quicker than many realize, though hard-to-abate sectors and developing economies need more help.
The IEA on Wednesday published updates to its clean-energy progress report. Renewable energy capacity reached 340 gigawatts last year, its highest ever, and the 10 million electric vehicles on the road marked a tenfold increase in just five years.
Advertisement
Renewables account for 30% of total global electricity generation and investments in clean energy reached $1.6 trillion last year, a 15% increase from the prior year.
In the U.S. economy, the world's largest, both renewables and cleaner-burning natural gas are on the rise in the power sector and emissions of carbon dioxide, a potent greenhouse gas, are on pace to drop by 3.8% next year, relative to year-ago levels.
Related
International  Energy Agency says peak oil demand in sight by end of decade
OPEC fires back at IEA for suggesting it was trying to prop up oil prices
In a first, IEA-lauded, industrial-scale heat pump coming to Massachusetts
The IEA, however, said the energy transition is uneven, with nearly all of the sales in EVs last year, for example, coming from China, Europe and the United States.
"The clean energy economy is rapidly taking shape, but even faster progress is needed in most areas to meet international energy and climate goals," said IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol.
Advertisement
The IEA in May estimated that $2.8 trillion will be invested globally in the energy sector this year, with around $1.7 trillion of that going to cleaner technologies such as nuclear power, renewable energy and electric vehicles. The rest of that, some $1 trillion, will go toward more traditional forms of energy, such as coal and crude oil.
Those fossil fuel investments are expected to increase to more than double what's expected in the IEA's net-zero scenario to 2050. Elsewhere, the agency said more work is necessary for hard-to-abate industries such as long-distance transport, like airplanes and vessels.
"Stronger policy support and greater investment are needed across a wide range of different technologies, in all regions of the world, to enable a broader and faster shift towards clean energy to keep net zero emissions by 2050 within reach," the agency said.



Topics
EnergyFatih Birol






Latest Headlines







World News // 1 week ago
Hurricane Ernesto continues to strengthen as it heads for Canada
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ernesto continued to gather strength late Sunday after regaining hurricane status, according to forecasters who warn it is setting it sights on Canada after striking Bermuda as a Category 1 storm.










World News // 5 hours ago
One dead in superyacht wreck off Italian coast; British billionaire among six missing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn.










World News // 5 hours ago
Britain to detain suspects in police cells amid a prison overcrowding crisis after riots
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Britain implemented emergency measures to reduce pressure on prisons overflowing from people being sentenced for taking part in, or inciting, riots across England and Northern Ireland in late July and early August.










World News // 7 hours ago
Blinken: Gaza cease-fire talks 'best, maybe last' chance to achieve truce, free hostages
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Talks between Israel and Hamas could be the last chance to agree to a cease-fire in the Gaza conflict and free Israeli hostages, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said ahead of a meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu.










World News // 8 hours ago
U.N.: Record 280 aid workers killed during conflicts in 2023
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United Nations said 280 humanitarian aid workers were killed around the world in 2023, setting a new record for the number of people dying while aiding those in need.










World News // 11 hours ago
U.S., South Korea kick off joint military exercise amid outcry from North Korea
 SEOUL, Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United States and South Korea on Monday kicked off a major joint military exercise meant to deter growing threats from North Korea, which denounced the drills as "offensive and provocative."










World News // 12 hours ago
Russia bans Clooney Foundation as 'undesirable'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Russian prosecutors on Monday designated the U.S.-based Clooney Foundation for Justice as "undesirable" on accusations that it works to discredit the Kremlin under the guise of a humanitarian organization.










World News // 13 hours ago
1 dead, 1 injured in Tel Aviv explosion; police investigating as potential terrorism
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- At least one person is dead and another injured after a bomb exploded Sunday night in Tel Aviv, according to authorities who believe the blast might be terrorism.










World News // 14 hours ago
Libya's central bank suspends operations after employee abducted
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Central Bank of Libya has suspended all operations and said they will not resume until its senior employee abducted on Sunday is returned.










World News // 1 day ago
Ferris wheel catches fire at music festival in Germany; 20 hurt
 Aug. 18 (UPI) -- More than 20 people were hurt when a Ferris wheel caught fire at a music festival in Germany.






 July 12 (UPI) -- The Paris-based International Energy Agency said the pace of the energy transition is moving quicker than many realize, though hard-to-abate sectors and developing economies need more help. The IEA on Wednesday published updates to its clean-energy progress report. Renewable energy capacity reached 340 gigawatts last year, its highest ever, and the 10 million electric vehicles on the road marked a tenfold increase in just five years.
Advertisement Renewables account for 30% of total global electricity generation and investments in clean energy reached $1.6 trillion last year, a 15% increase from the prior year. In the U.S. economy, the world's largest, both renewables and cleaner-burning natural gas are on the rise in the power sector and emissions of carbon dioxide, a potent greenhouse gas, are on pace to drop by 3.8% next year, relative to year-ago levels.
Related
International  Energy Agency says peak oil demand in sight by end of decade
OPEC fires back at IEA for suggesting it was trying to prop up oil prices
In a first, IEA-lauded, industrial-scale heat pump coming to Massachusetts The IEA, however, said the energy transition is uneven, with nearly all of the sales in EVs last year, for example, coming from China, Europe and the United States. "The clean energy economy is rapidly taking shape, but even faster progress is needed in most areas to meet international energy and climate goals," said IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol.
Advertisement The IEA in May estimated that $2.8 trillion will be invested globally in the energy sector this year, with around $1.7 trillion of that going to cleaner technologies such as nuclear power, renewable energy and electric vehicles. The rest of that, some $1 trillion, will go toward more traditional forms of energy, such as coal and crude oil. Those fossil fuel investments are expected to increase to more than double what's expected in the IEA's net-zero scenario to 2050. Elsewhere, the agency said more work is necessary for hard-to-abate industries such as long-distance transport, like airplanes and vessels. "Stronger policy support and greater investment are needed across a wide range of different technologies, in all regions of the world, to enable a broader and faster shift towards clean energy to keep net zero emissions by 2050 within reach," the agency said.