At the forefront of the green hydrogen economy, Germany sees Brazil as a strategic fuel supplier, a big bet to replace oil, gas and coal and meet climate targets.As Brazil seeks to regain its environmental leadership, Germany is racing against time to overcome the current energy crisis and meet its climate ambitions. Given this, President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and German Federal Chancellor Olaf Scholz, leaders of the largest economies in Mercosur and the European Union (EU), met this week to discuss the transformation agenda for their economies, with a focus on in the protection of the Amazon, renewable energies and in the EU-Mercosur trade agreement. During the meeting, Scholz highlighted the Brazilian potential of green hydrogen (H2V), a fuel produced from renewable energies and which is emerging as the main commitment of developed economies to decarbonise CO2-intensive sectors, such as agriculture, transport, industries and electricity generation. energy “You [Brazil] have a lot of experience with renewable energies and enormous potential also through the production and export of green hydrogen and its respective products,” said the German head of government.Germany at the forefront Faced with restrictions on access to Russian energy due to the war in Ukraine and criticism of the expansion of coal burning, Germany is about to jump-start the green hydrogen economy. The first auction of the H2Global policy, which encourages the importation of fuel, identified as a strategic substitute for oil, gas and coal to obtain clean energy, is scheduled for February 7. The first tender will be for contracts for green ammonia, a by-product of H2V.Will Brazil become a world power of green hydrogen?06:48 A new round should be held on the 21st to contract sustainable aviation fuel and methanol, also from H2V. With the initiative, the European country is acting to recover the vanguard of the energy transition process and, above all, to overcome its dependence on Russian oil and gas. At the other extreme is Brazil, which can position itself as one of the main exporters of H2V to Europe and recover its prestige as “green energy” on the international scene. “For being exposed to the crucial issue of energy security and having launched the first tender for the purchase of green H2V inputs in ten-year contracts, Germany has a leading position,” says Nivalde de Castro, professor at the Institute of Economics of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) and coordinator of the Electricity Sector Study Group (Gesel).Why Brazil? A study published in January by the German strategic consultancy Roland Berger projects that green hydrogen will be the main source of energy on the planet, if the world fulfills the commitments of the Paris Agreement. In this scenario, the global H2V market should move more than 1 trillion dollars in direct sales of fuels or derivatives. According to the German consultancy, Brazil will lead this race, becoming a major world exporter. Roland Berger estimates that the Brazilian H2V market will reach an annual value of R$150 billion, of which R$100 billion will come from exports. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), the production cost per kilogram of H2V from the electrolysis of water in the international market, using renewable sources, varies between 3 and 8 dollars. In Brazil, if one considers the use of energy generated in wind or solar plants in the electrolysis process, the cost would be between 2.2 and 5.2 dollars. The low cost of producing H2V in Brazil is justified, above all, by the abundance of renewable sources. Nivalde de Castro recalls that the country has the capacity to produce 1.3 million megawatts (MW) of wind and solar generation. Expanding, renewable sources currently generate less than 200,000 MW. “Brazil has everything to be the Saudi Arabia of hydrogen as of 2030,” says the economist, referring to the weight of the Arab country in oil production. “The challenge is to turn potential into reality,” he says.looking northeast As the Northeast is among the regions of the planet with the highest incidence of sun and wind, in addition to being closer to Europe than the rest of the country, several companies have already shown interest in installing H2V factories in the ports of Suape (PE) and Pecém (CE) – the latter, by the way, has as a partner the port of Rotterdam, the largest in Europe, which may be the gateway for H2V on the continent. In the port of Açu (RJ), in the Southeast, Shell plans to open a unit to produce the fuel in 2025. At the end of 2022, the Portuguese group EDP produced the first H2V molecule in Brazil, in Porto do Pecém. The Pecém H2V pilot project, originated from a technological research initiative, received investments of R$ 42 million. Unigel, one of the largest chemical companies in Latin America and the largest manufacturer of nitrogen fertilizers in the country, invested US$ 120 million to build a factory in Polo Camaçari (BA), which should start operating by the end of 2023. Unigel’s industrial plant, which will have an initial capacity to produce 10,000 tons/year of H2V and 60,000 tons/year of green ammonia, will quadruple production by 2025. For the first phase, the German thyssenkrupp nucera installed three electrolysers, with total of 60 MW, which will be provided by wind power generation sources. Brazil must stand out in a diversified market Even if Brazil meets very favorable conditions to become a large world producer of green hydrogen, it will have to share this market. However, the director of institutional relations of the Brazilian Hydrogen Association (ABH2), Monica Saraiva Panik, explains that competition with other countries, such as Australia and Morocco, helps to reduce the costs of H2V production worldwide, which would benefit all producing countries, including Brazil. “The oil and gas market has always been characterized by highly concentrated production in a few countries, which is negative, as can now be seen in Germany’s dependence on Russian gas. The scenario for H2V is one of much greater diversification. The projects under development in Brazil project the country into a position of great prominence”, analyzes Panik.Brazil-Germany alliance and national strategy In July 2021, the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) launched the National Hydrogen Program (PNH2), whose guidelines have international cooperation as one of the thematic axes. Throughout that year, the MME and the Energy Research Company (EPE), the body responsible for preparing studies to support national energy planning, participated in various technical cooperation initiatives with Germany to develop the H2V market. The two main initiatives consisted of the H2 Brasil program (German/Brazilian Power-to-X Partnership Program) and the H2V Production, Logistics and Application Task Force. While the first allocated 34 million euros to promote the development of a green hydrogen economy in Brazil, the second brought together companies and institutions with experience in H2V-related projects to promote studies and political dialogue between Brazil and Germany. Based on the cooperation efforts between the two countries, the Ministry of Mines and Energy prepared the report Mapping the Brazilian hydrogen sector: current and potential perspectives for green hydrogen. The conclusion of the study is that Brazil must consolidate a national strategy for hydrogen, which contains a concrete action plan so as not to lose the opportunity for sustainable economic development. “The deepening of the technical, regulatory and technological framework is essential for the creation of a favorable business environment,” says the text that, after mapping the industry with the main academic and institutional actors, identified a perception of lag in the country. with respect to H2V.The vision of the Lula government Although it has not yet presented a specific plan for the development of green hydrogen in the country, the new government has indicated that it will pay special attention to the fuel. In a meeting with directors of the Federation of Industries of the State of São Paulo (Fiesp), the Minister of Finance, Fernando Haddad, affirmed that the supply of clean energy could be the way to reindustrialize the country. “Brazil is the country that is best positioned to produce green energy from hydrogen, wind, solar and biomass. In everything that is technologically available, we have a competitive advantage, and this can be a strong component to attract foreign investment to Brazil and reindustrialization”. of national capital, if we take some core steps to think about repositioning industry in our economy,” Haddad said. After meeting this week with the German Minister of Economic Cooperation and Development, Svenja Schulze, the Minister of the Environment, Marina Silva, highlighted that the alliance with Germany in this area can stimulate Brazilian technological development. “Brazil is making a great effort to also expand cooperation based on technology. Technical and scientific cooperation agreement so that we can further accelerate the possibility of Brazil being a great energy supplier for Europe, due to the potential we have to produce green hydrogen, but also the search for alliances with German companies, European companies, to that we can have investments in Brazil in this agenda”, declared the minister.João Pedro Soares | Author of the Brasilianischen Writing – Correspondent in Rio de JaneiroJoão Pedro Soares | Author of Brasilianischen Redaktion – Correspondent in Rio de Janeiro  João Pedro Soares, dw.com  Become a member of AEE  
 
 
 
 
 
 We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings. Aplicación  de la presente Política de Privacidad: El  presente documento regula la Política de Privacidad tanto del  presente sitio web, así como de la totalidad de datos e información  que pudiera manejar ASOCIACIÓN EMPRESARIAL EÓLICA (en lo  sucesivo, "AEE") como Responsable del Tratamiento. Por  ello, para cumplir con el artículo 13 y 14 del Reglamento (UE)  2016/679 del Parlamento Europeo y del Consejo de 27 de abril de 2016  relativo a la protección de las personas físicas en lo que respecta  al tratamiento de datos personales y a la libre circulación de estos  datos (en lo sucesivo "RGPD" o "Reglamento General de  Protección de Datos"), así como el artículo 11 de la Ley  Orgánica 3/2018, de 5 de diciembre, de Protección de Datos  Personales y garantía de los derechos digitales (en lo sucesivo  "LOPDGDD") se ha establecido y desarrollado la presente Política  de Privacidad. Responsable  del Tratamiento: Tus  datos personales son manejados por, nosotros, AEE como  Responsable del Tratamiento. Te detallamos nuestros datos sociales  para que te puedas poner en contacto con nosotros cuando lo desees:  
 Razón social: ASOCIACIÓN EMPRESARIAL EÓLICA   CIF: C83488163    Domicilio: C/  	SOR ÁNGELA DE LA CRUZ, 2, PLANTA 14D – 28020 MADRID   Teléfono: (+34) 917 451 276    Correo  	electrónico: datos@aeeolica.org   Finalidades  y bases legitimadoras: El  presente apartado regula la totalidad de tratamientos llevados a cabo  por AEE, en base a cada una de las finalidades, conforme a las  bases legitimadoras que lo regulan, comprendido éstos en los que se  enumeran a continuación: 
 Consentimiento  	del interesado (artículo 6.1. a) RGPD)   Usuarios página web: atender su solicitud a través del  formulario de contacto.  Procesos de selección de personal: formar parte de los  procesos de selección ofertados. 
 Ejecución  	contractual y medidas precontractuales (artículo 6.1.b) RGPD)   Socios / asociados 
 Gestión  	de alta como socio/asociado de AEE.   Mantenimiento  	y perfeccionamiento de la relación contractual pactada entre AEE y su empresa.   Gestión  	contable y administrativa del servicio entre AEE y su  	empresa.   Gestionar  	las comunicaciones electrónicas entre AEE y su empresa.   Socios / asociados potenciales 
 Atender  	cualquier solicitud de información que nos hagas llegar.   Hacerle  	llegar, en su caso, ofertas comerciales.   
  Empleados  
 Mantenimiento  	y perfeccionamiento de la relación laboral pactada entre AEE y usted.   Gestión  	contable, fiscal y administrativa de la relación laboral.   Gestionar  	y realizar el pago de su nómina pactada contractualmente y exigidas  	por la legislación laboral.   Gestionar  	comunicaciones entre AEE y su usted.   Realizar  	el seguimiento de las acciones formativas de las que sea sujeto.   Gestión  	de bajas por enfermedad. 

 Interés  	legítimo del responsable del tratamiento (artículo 6.1.f) RGPD)   Actividades comerciales: envío de información comercial a  usuarios sobre productos y servicios semejantes a los previamente  contratados, en vinculación con el artículo 21.2 de la LSSICE.  Videovigilancia: gestión de la seguridad de instalaciones,  bienes y personas a través de mecanismos de videovigilancia. Asimismo,  se le informa que todos los datos que AEE le solicite o  pudiera solicitar marcados con un asterisco (*) serán obligatorios.  En el caso de que los datos obligatorios no fueran facilitados AEE no podrá prestarle el servicio contratado o atender su petición o  solicitud. En  cumplimiento del artículo 4.2.a de la LOPDGDD, se garantiza que los  datos de carácter personal facilitados por usted hacia AEE se  considerarán exactos. Sin embargo, AEE podría solicitarle la  actualización de los mismos que sobre usted pudiera conservar. Plazo  de conservación de los datos: En  virtud del artículo 5.1.e) del RGPD, los plazos de conservación de  los datos variarán en función del tratamiento realizado. Por ello,  desde AEE le aconsejamos leer nuestra Política de  conservación de datos para su consulta, la cual la podrá solicitar  en datos@aeeolica.org No  obstante, pese a la existencia de estos plazos generales, le  informamos que de forma periódica revisaremos nuestros sistemas para  proceder a eliminar aquellos datos que no sean legalmente necesarios. Derechos  que le asisten a los interesados: La  normativa de protección de datos le reconoce los siguientes  derechos:  Derecho a solicitar el acceso a sus datos personales.  Derecho a solicitar la rectificación de sus datos personales.  Derecho a solicitar la supresión de sus datos personales.  Derecho a solicitar la limitación del tratamiento.  Derecho a oponerse al tratamiento.  Derecho a la portabilidad.  Derecho a no ser objeto de decisiones individuales automatizadas.  Derecho a retirar su consentimiento. El  ejercicio de tales derechos deberá ser comunicado a ASOCIACIÓN  EMPRESARIAL EÓLICA, con domicilio en C/ SOR ÁNGELA DE LA CRUZ,  2, PLANTA 14D – 28020 MADRID, o la cuenta de correo electrónico datos@aeeolica.org.  Adicionalmente, puede presentar una reclamación ante la  Agencia Española de Protección de Datos (AEPD). Más información  en el Apartado Autoridad de Control de la presente política de  privacidad. Destinatarios  y transferencias internacionales de datos: Sus  datos personales podrían serán comunicados a Autoridades Públicas  o gubernamentales, Fuerzas y Cuerpos de Seguridad del Estado, para  dar cumplimiento a los requisitos legales y normativa aplicable en  cada caso concreto. A su  vez, podrían ser comunicados a terceros proveedores o entidades para  la prestación de algún servicio subcontratado por AEE. A  este aspecto le informamos que se han firmado los correspondientes  contratos de encargado del tratamiento exigidos por el artículo 28 y  29 del RGPD así como el artículo 28 de la LOPDGDD, y siempre éstos  garantizando y siendo comprobado por AEE que cumplen y  garantizan con medidas jurídicas, técnicas y organizativas  suficientes. Le informamos que sus datos no serán comunicados a  terceras personas. Ni se realizarán transferencias internacionales  de datos. Procedencia  de los datos personales: Los  datos de carácter personal que trata AEE proceden de usted  como titular de los mismos. A las  cuales, usted previamente le ha facilitado sus datos de carácter  personal y ha autorizado la comunicación de los mismos a las  diversas empresas que ofrecen sus servicios a través de estas  empresas. Seguridad  de los datos: Desde AEE se han implantado medidas jurídicas, técnicas y  organizativas suficientes para garantizar la protección de los datos  personales. Por ello, revisamos periódicamente nuestros sistemas  para evitar cualquier acceso no lícito, no autorizado, así como  para evitar cualquier tipo de pérdida, destrucción accidental,  divulgación ilegal o no autorizada, así como cualquier otro tipo de  daño, tanto accidental como ilícito. Autoridad  de control: Desde AEE ponemos  el máximo empeño para cumplir con la normativa de protección de  datos dado que es el activo más valioso para nosotros. No obstante,  le informamos que en caso de que usted entienda que sus derechos se  han visto menoscabados, puede presentar una reclamación ante la  Agencia Española de Protección de Datos (AEPD), sita en C/ JORGE  JUAN, 6 - 28001 MADRID. Más información sobre la AEPD en su página  web. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!  From the ASOCIACIÓN EMPRESARIAL EÓLICA (hereinafter, "AEE") we wish to inform you that our web pages use their own and third-party cookies to measure and analyze the navigation of our users. By using our websites you accept our cookies in accordance with the terms of this Policy.   A cookie is a file that is downloaded to your computer when you access certain web pages. Each cookie is unique to your web browser and will contain certain anonymous information, such as an identifier and the name of the website, along with some figures and numbers. The user does not provide this information directly, but it is collected automatically as a means of supporting their visit to the website. Cookies allow a web page, among other things, to store and retrieve information about the browsing habits of a user or their equipment and, depending on the information they contain and the way they use their equipment, they can be used to recognize to user.   You can access in this module the complete list of cookies used by this website. Cookies may be:    These cookies may have different purposes. Depending on these purposes, cookies can be classified into:      Some of these cookies carry with them the processing of personal data. In the event that you do not want your personal data to be collected, you can configure cookies by clicking in "Strictly Necessary Cookies" or "3rd Party Cookies"   In any case and at any time, you can delete the cookies already installed through the browser settings. This configuration can be carried out in:           Depending on the period of time in which cookies remain activated on a terminal equipment, we can distinguish two types:     AEE advises users to periodically visit this website to find out the changes suffered in them, as well as the changes that are carried out in this Cookies Policy. 