Circular Action Alliance (CAA) has announced the addition of six Founding Member companies representing the retail, consumer goods and food and beverage industries, including The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive, SC Johnson, Target, The Kraft Heinz Company, and Walmart.  CAA, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization, recently became the first Producer Responsibility Organization (PRO) approved to administer an Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) program for paper and packaging in the U.S. after being appointed by the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment as the PRO in charge of implementing Colorado’s Producer Responsibility Program for Statewide Recycling Act. The six companies will join CAA’s existing Founding Members: Ferrero; General Mills; Keurig Dr Pepper; L’Oréal; Mars, Incorporated; Nestlé USA; Niagara Bottling, LLC; PepsiCo; Procter & Gamble; The Coca-Cola Company; and Unilever United States. Together, the 17 Founding Members of CAA include several hundred brands utilizing a wide diversity of packaging materials covered under EPR laws. “Circular Action Alliance is thrilled to be gaining the leadership of these new Founding Member companies, who will contribute significant expertise as we continue to work collaboratively with producers, state and local governments, communities, service providers and nongovernmental organizations to implement EPR for paper and packaging in Colorado and beyond” said Charlie Schwarze, CAA Board Chair. 
 Boasting a circulation of more than 95,000 100% qualified subscribers, Waste Advantage Magazine is an independent publisher with staff that has more than 100 years of experience in publishing. Printed 12X annually, Waste Advantage Magazine is solely dedicated to covering the solid waste and recycling industry with one publication and one price.

Our circulation delivers a blanket coverage of the industry, focusing on our key audience that consists of municipal and private sector executives and operations managers in the areas of collection, transfer stations, recycling, landfills, waste conversion and C&D activities throughout North America. Diverse content helps our audience stay informed through the latest news, best practices, equipment and technology, and a dedicated MarketPlace connects buyers and sellers of new and used equipment and services.  Phone
1-800-358-2873 Email
[email protected] Copyright © 2024 Waste Advantage Magazine. All rights reserved. Website designed and programmed by Green Group Studio