As two of the authors and most outspoken champions of the CHIPS and Science Act and members of Congress who represent America’s tech and automotive hubs, our districts felt the semiconductor chip shortage first. We saw plants shut down in Detroit, and parking lots across Michigan full of vehicles that could not be sold. Silicon Valley tech giants faced significant backlogs of personal electronic orders waiting to be filled, unable to meet surging pandemic-fueled consumer demand. Before Americans heard the term “semiconductor chip” regularly on cable news, read about them in their local papers, or heard President Joe Biden speak about this crisis in his State of the Union address, we were sounding the alarm. Make no mistake, the CHIPS and Science Act was a historic legislative achievement, and its positive effects will be felt for years to come. With the help of Congress, the Biden Administration has revitalized this industry by investing in the critical technologies that will power our future. High-paying manufacturing and technology jobs will return to America, where the semiconductor chip was innovated. On Feb. 28, the newly formed bipartisan Select Committee on Strategic Competition with the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), of which we are both members, held its first hearing. The exploitative and predatory policies of the CCP have contributed significantly to the deindustrialization of the United States. Between 1985 and 2000, the U.S. trade deficit with China grew steadily from $6 billion to $83 billion. That deficit ballooned dramatically after China joined the WTO in 2001; it now stands at a stratospheric $309 billion. The United States must restore production in the key industries where we have lost ground to the CCP. China currently has 76% of the world’s lithium battery production capacity and controls 60% of rare-earth metals needed for building, wind turbines, solar energy and most critically, electric vehicles. These are the industries of the future, and the long-term health of our planet depends upon their swift adoption. More: New GM partnership gives automaker long-term supply of semiconductor chips In 1970, U.S. steel made up 20% of global production; today, that figure is down to just 4%. The U.S. is now the 20th-largest steel exporter in the world but the second-largest steel importer. Aluminum is another example of this worrying trend. In 1980, the United States was the world’s top producer of this commodity. Now, the U.S. is ranked number nine in global aluminum production. This leaves us weakened on the global stage and vulnerable to supply chain disruptions. China currently uses coal plants, which they built at a rate of two per week last year, for aluminum production. In fact, the total emissions from aluminum production in China was found to be more than all the 2020 greenhouse gas emissions from Indonesia, the world’s 8th largest emitter. This hurts American workers, and our planet. These statistics are unacceptable and must serve as a wake-up call. So what should Congress do? We must get in front of supply chain, material, and critical mineral needs now. We should strategically utilize the National Defense Stockpile to scale up our store of rare-earth minerals in the event that U.S. supply chains are disrupted. Over the last 70 years, the value of this stockpile has fallen from $42 billion (inflation adjusted) in 1952 to $888 million in 2021. Congress should at least double the value of the stockpile and purchase domestically sourced rare-earth materials. Instead of waiting for the next chips crisis, legislators need to prioritize industrial policy for the 21st century. This depends on harnessing public-private partnerships and crafting trade deals that put American workers first. When Congress appropriated $52 billion federal dollars through the CHIPS and Science Act, $210 billion dollars in investments from private entities followed. The federal government should not subside industry, but strategic, large scale investments have given America the ability to compete on a global scale in unprecedented ways. As Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster wisely said in our first hearing, we must have “peace through power.” Competing with the CCP means adopting a whole-of-government approach and harnessing the power of public-private partnerships to once again make America a manufacturing superpower. Waiting to legislate until our country is facing catastrophe is not acting from a position of strength. We cannot wait for action until the next economic crisis rears its head. Our economic and national security depends upon it. Haley Stevens represents Michigan's 11th District in the U.S. Congress. Ro Khanna represents California's 17th District.  This article originally appeared on Detroit Free Press: Opinion: US must work to make up trade ground lost to China New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.