Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Kaylyn McKenna, 
                              
              Lily Rose
 
    Edited By
                        
              Lily Rose, 
                              
              Gabriele Shacknai
 
October 6, 2023 / 12:38 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           It's the perfect time to invest in a new robot vacuum. Many top-rated iRobot Roombas are on sale now at Amazon ahead of Prime Big Deal Days. iRobot is the most well-known robot vacuum brand and the maker of several of the best robot vacuums of 2023. Because these robot vacuums are so highly rated, they tend to be more expensive than robot vacs from other brands. That's why it's such a big deal that these iRobot models have been majorly marked down.   We've found the best iRobot robot vacuum deals on Amazon to help you keep your home clean with ease. Plus, check out the rest of our selection of customer-loved robot vacuums.  Robot vacuums are a welcome addition to just about any home -- these automated workhorses clean your floors so you don't have to. They can also be a great add-on to your cleaning routine to keep your home free of dust, debris and pet hair without the hassle of manually vacuuming.  iRobot Roomba robot vacuums can be easily controlled via a smartphone app -- so you don't even have to be home while your floors are vacuumed. Plus, some iRobot robot vacuums offer advanced features, like object avoidance and self-emptying for an even better cleaning experience.        Shop the best Amazon deals on iRobot robot vacuums now. The iRobot Roomba j7+ vacuum features a powerful three-stage cleaning system with iRobot's most powerful suction. The home-cleaning device uses an edge-sweeping brush to get into corners. The Roomba j7+ features dual multi-surface rubber brushes that flex to adjust to different floor types. Best of all, they don't get tangled with pet hair.   This vacuum's Imprint Smart Mapping technology allows you to control and schedule which rooms are cleaned and when. It stores multiple maps of your rooms. You can customize Keep Out Zones and Clean Zones so the vacuum knows the exact areas to avoid and clean. This vacuum has a 75-minute runtime.   The iRobot Roomba j7+ is designed with the issue of dog poop in mind. This smart vacuum includes iRobot's P.O.O.P. guarantee, or "Pet Owner Official Promise." Your Roomba j7+ is guaranteed to avoid pet waste or iRobot will replace your vacuum for free.  When it's done cleaning, the device automatically empties into its included clean base for easy dirt disposal with enclosed bags. Just empty the cleaning station once every 60 days.   This vacuum is currently 34% off, at $598, reduced from $800.  What we like about the iRobot Roomba j7+:  The iRobot Roomba 694 uses advanced sensors to move under furniture, around obstacles and along edges. It doesn't map your home but relies on its sensors, including a cliff detect feature, to avoid falling down stairs.  This vacuum is Wi-Fi-enabled. Control the vac with your connected smartphone or device via the iRobot Home app. The Roomba 694 has a 90-minute run time before it automatically docks and recharges. The bestselling robovac is rated 4.3 stars.  On Amazon, one reviewer praised the iRobot device's ability to keep a pet-friendly household clean. "We have two dogs, one that sheds moderately," the customer says. "I purchased in hopes that it at least would help between regular vacuuming. I vacuumed first with my Dyson then set it free. When it was done with the job, I didn't expect much in the dust trap... I was wrong! It was full! Super impressed."   This vacuum is currently 35% off, at $180, reduced from $275.  What we like about the iRobot Roomba 694:  On Amazon, you can buy a 4.4-star-rated combo that pairs the iRobot Roomba j7+ with the Braava Jet M6 robot mop. The iRobot Roomba j7+ uses an edge-sweeping brush to get into corners. It features dual, multi-surface rubber brushes that flex to adjust to different floor types -- and help prevent them from getting tangled with pet hair. Billed as a self-cleaning vac, the Roomba 7+ automatically empties itself into enclosed bags.  The Braava Jet M6 robot mop cleaner with a 150-minute runtime delivers a jet spray that can help you tackle messes on finished hard floors of stone, tile, wood and more. The mop learns the layout of your home and builds a customized smart map to clean in neat rows without missing a spot. The mop can also be used to target small areas for spills or other messes.  This vacuum bundle is currently 12% off at $913 (reduced from $1,039).  What we like about the iRobot Roomba 7+ with the Braava Jet M6 robot mop bundle:  The iRobot Roomba i3+ EVO uses a smart mapping technology to learn your home. Use your connected phone to direct the Wi-Fi-enabled robot vacuum to clean any room you want. The smart appliance learns your cleaning habits and can suggest extra cleanings during peak pollen and pet-shedding seasons. You can even schedule a future clean. This Roomba is compatible with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. And don't worry about dumping out a dustbin daily. The Roomba i3+ EVO features iRobot's Clean Base Automatic Dirt Disposal system and empties your accumulated dirt into an enclosed bag. This vacuum has a 75-minute runtime.  The iRobot Roomba i3+ EVO is currently 27% off, at $399, reduced from $550.   There is also the iRobot Roomba i4+ available for purchase ($650), but our research didn't justify its much higher price.  What we like about the iRobot Roomba i3+ EVO:  If these iRobot Roombas don't suit your needs, we found a variety of robot vacuum models that will. Some of the most reliable brands in the business, including Samsung and Yeedi, are currently offering deep discounts on powerful robot vacuums on Amazon.   The Samsung JetBot AI+ Robot Vacuum is one of the best on the market. It's certainly a splurge, but its distinct features such as remote home monitoring and object recognition help set it apart from the rest of the pack. Plus, you can score it on sale now at a huge discount.   What really sets it apart as a top-notch cleaning tool is its advanced five-layer dust filtration system. While many robot vacuums rely on just one or two layers of filtration, Samsung's robot vacuum goes the extra mile with five. This means your home will be practically dust and debris-free, thanks to this impressive filtration setup.   And then there's the design. This futuristic-looking vacuum features an impressive LiDAR sensor that pops up when it's time to clean. It also comes with a self-emptying Clean Station, which ensures you don't have to empty the vacuum when it's full. Controlling it is simple too, thanks to the SmartThings app that linking seamlessly with other smart devices.     Why we like the Samsung Jet Bot AI+ Robot Vacuum:   Eufy (an Anker brand) makes some of the best-rated budget robot vacuums you can buy on Amazon. The 4.4-star-rated Eufy RoboVac X8 features twin turbines that generate 2,000Pa of suction, LiDAR-based (laser) navigation and AI mapping technology. It's Wi-Fi enabled, too -- you can view and edit maps of your home on your phone, creating no-go zones you want the vacuum to avoid.    "I love this vacuum! I have a golden retriever and an Australian shepherd and this vacuum helps so much with keeping the hair tufts under control," an Amazon reviewer says. "It's not too loud or anything and it runs really well. I love that I can control it from my phone in case I forget to start it before I leave the house."   The robot vacuum is $400 on Amazon. Add the $70 coupon to get it for just $330.   What we like about the Eufy X8 robot vacuum:  Lefant's M210 robot vac features built-in, anti-collision infrared sensors, so it won't bang into its surroundings or knock over your pet's water bowl. The robot vacuum features strong suction power to easily pick up pet hair. The robot vacuum detects "stuck areas," and adjusts its cleaning path automatically. Download the Lefant app to pair the Wi-Fi-enabled vaccum with your smartphone or device to better to control the appliance remotely.       Pet owners, including this verified purchaser, love the Lefant robot vacuum. "I got this for my upstairs to help keep up with the cat litter and pet hair," the reviewer says. "I come home every day to a nice clean floor. It is so quiet and works perfectly for what I need it for."     This best-selling vacuum is currently a whopping 32% off one Amazon, plus add the $70 coupon for extra savings.   What we like about the Lefant M210 robot vacuum:  Need a robot vacuum and a mop? Check out the budget-minded Yeedi Vac 2, available on Amazon. It claims to be pet-friendly.              This multi-purpose cleaning device features 3D object avoidance which allows it to recognize any objects in its path and move around them to avoid getting stuck. It's designed to avoid your dog's food bowl, water bowl and dog toys.     "This vac picks up a ton! It works better than our others," one Amazon reviewer says. "I like how it will also vacuum until the battery is low and then it will go back and charge, then finish the job. It also maps out your house which you can see in the app."     The vacuum is currently on sale for $240, but there's also a $50 Amazon coupon available. Be sure to click the coupon box on the product page before adding the Yeedi Vac 2 to your cart.     What we like about the Yeedi Vac 2:  Kaylyn McKenna is an expert on deals, travel, luggage, home and more for CBS Essentials. When she's not scouring the internet for the best deals on new luggage or robot vacuums, she spends time with her goldendoodle, Harley, 
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Outdoor grilling season is still in full swing. Check out the top propane grills of 2024 to keep the flavor going all year long.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and first lady Jill Biden are also scheduled to speak.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          What appeared to be just shy of 10,000 people were seen on the march route—and the protest remained peaceful as it reached Park 578.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          Italy's Coast Guard says a boat sank after being hit by a storm off Sicily, leaving U.S. nationals among six people missing.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Joro spiders have hearts that are able to withstand the loud and bustling noises of big cities​, according to a study published on Monday.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          CBS News has a new poll out showing how voters feel about Vice President Kamala Harris compared to President Biden. CBS News executive director of elections and surveys Anthony Salvanto has more on that.
         
          The Democratic National Convention is getting underway in Chicago Monday with President Biden delivering the keynote address. CBS News' Robert Costa and Ed O'Keefe have more on what the Democrats' messaging will be.
         
          In an exclusive TV interview with CBS News political correspondent Caitlin Huey-Burns on Monday, former President Donald Trump defended hurling personal insults at his Democratic opponent, Vice President Kamala Harris, saying he's going to continue to speak his mind because he thinks "she'll destroy our country" if she wins in November.
         
          Images show the first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons. NASA says the moon will be visible and shining brightly through Wednesday. These are videos of the moon from Sydney, Los Angeles and Las Vegas.
         
          In an exclusive TV interview with CBS News' Caitlin Huey-Burns, former President Donald Trump said he supports a child tax credit but didn't specify the amount. Trump also spoke about Vice President Kamala Harris, the economy and more.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.