Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            StackCommerce
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Jason Fell
              


            May 10, 2023
          
 
          Share         
          Disclosure: Our goal is to feature products and services that we think you'll find interesting and useful. If you purchase them, Entrepreneur may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners.
       As the 70M+ baby-boomer population ages, a huge opportunity for medical companies to help repair and preserve their bodies is arising. Enter Monogram Orthopedics, a company reimagining the knee replacement surgery process with robotic surgical assistants and patient-specific implants. With demand rising for more and better knee replacement surgery, the industry is projected to reach $26 billion by 2027, and Monogram is one of the few rising to meet it. Not only have they developed a new way to conduct joint surgery, but they've taken a novel approach to the joints themselves. Here's what makes Monogram such an interesting startup and why investors should consider this opportunity. For about 40 years, joint replacement innovation has been stuck in a holding pattern. Market leaders have kept using the same hacksaws, jigs, and bone cement – not to mention carrying out the same imprecise surgeries with extended recovery times. But they're not keeping the status quo "because it works." As it turns out, 36% of people end up wishing they never went through with the joint surgery. The market has simply not been able to supply them with anything better than generic replacements that wear over time and lead to potentially more joint problems due to a poor fit. That's the problem Monogram came to solve with ultra-precise robotic joint surgery and custom 3D-printed joints. Better tools and knee replacements have the potential to give each patient their own personalized fit to prevent wobble and last longer. The Monogram team and its robots have already performed successful demos in front of thousands of online viewers in Monogram's own state-of-the-art cadaver lab. And the company is working to grab a sizable portion of this market moving forward. To put things into perspective, there are 933,000 knee replacements each year, and 100,000 of them fail. This is in part because 92% of them use cement with generic implants that are not optimized to each patient. Not to mention, the risk of human error. One of the reasons for this is that only four major competitors control 82% of the joint replacement market: Stryker, Zimmer, Smith & Nephew, and DepuySynthes. They will have to adapt at some point, as up to 50% of all joint replacements are predicted to be robotic by 2030. But with 20 patent filings and an aggressive development push, the company believes it may have a considerable first-mover advantage. Here's what's next for Monogram and how you can get involved. The company is intending to expand its reach with a direct NASDAQ listing. They're kicking it off with a Reg A investment opportunity where shares will sell at a fixed price of $7.25 a share before the intended listing, after which they will trade freely on the market. This basically means that Entrepreneur readers have an opportunity to invest in the company at a fixed price while before the intended public listing. This kind of investing used to be restricted to big banks and venture capitalists, but crowdfunding enables retail investors to get in on companies like Monogram before they list on a public exchange. Learn more about becoming a Monogram shareholder before they're publicly-traded. Disclosure: This is a paid advertisement for Monogram Orthopedics' Regulation A+ offering. Learn more at invest.monogramorthopedics.com/disclaimers Entrepreneur may receive monetary compensation by the issuer, or its agency, for publicizing the offering of the issuer's securities. Entrepreneur and the issuer of this offering make no promises, representations, warranties, or guarantees that any of the services will result in a profit or will not result in a loss.    Entrepreneur Leadership Network® Contributor Account Manager 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          Attract more customers to your small retail business with these actionable marketing tips.
         
          Ray Kelly's journey from financial struggle to founding TERSA, a multimillion-dollar wellness brand, offers key lessons in vision and resilience.
         
          Around 600 cut roles are from GM's technology campus in Warren, Michigan.
         
          Christy Dawn, founder of her namesake regenerative fashion brand, says she's always been on a mission "to create beauty in everything I do."
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          The 88-year-old investor is worth over $6 billion. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
