DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The "Targeted Sequencing Market - A Global and Regional Analysis: Focus on Product Type, Target Enrichment Method, Type of Target Capture, Application, End User, and Region Analysis - Analysis and Forecast, 2022-2032" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
 
The global targeted sequencing market is projected to reach $10,976.1 million by 2032 from $3,198.8 million in 2022, growing at a CAGR of 13.12% during the forecast period 2022-2032.
 
The growth in the global targeted sequencing market is expected to be driven by the increased use of targeted sequencing in clinical laboratories and diagnostic applications, especially in cancer research.
 
Targeted sequencing is a cost-effective and rapid way to detect novel and known variants in selected genetic or genomic regions. There are several different methods of DNA/RNA sequencing depending on the scale of the region being sequenced.
 
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is the most used method for targeted sequencing, which offers good scalability, speed, and resolution to evaluate the targeted regions of interest. Other methods include sanger sequencing and CRISPR.
 
The major advantage of targeted sequencing as compared to whole genome sequencing is the smaller and more manageable data sets created, which are significantly easier to analyze.
 
Targeted next-generation sequencing focuses on specific genomic areas of interest, which is ideal for examining specific pathways or targeted resequencing. Furthermore, it is more rapid and cost-effective as compared to whole genome sequencing and allows deeper sequencing. This is a powerful and especially sensitive method of identifying gene mutations and variants, including rare variants.
 
Recent Developments in Global Targeted Sequencing Market
 
Market Dynamics
 
Drivers
 
Challenges
 
Opportunities
 
Companies Mentioned
 
Market Segmentation
 
Segmentation 1: by Product Type
 
Segmentation 2: by Target Enrichment Method
 
Segmentation 3: by Type of Target Capture
 
Segmentation 4: by Application
 
Segmentation 5: by End User
 
Segmentation 6: by Region
 
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/3eo20n
 
About ResearchAndMarkets.com
 
ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.
 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.comFor E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./ CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.