Get alerted any time new stories match your search criteria. Create an alert to follow a developing story, keep current on a competitor, or monitor industry news. 
Overwrite Existing Alert:

 
Sign In
 Thank You! Don’t forget you can visit MyAlerts to manage your alerts at any time. Genworth to Launch Senior Care Provider Network Business Life Health > Long-Term Care Planning 

By Allison Bell
 


News



February 08, 2023 at 10:15 AM



Share & Print
 Genworth Financial is preparing to start a fee-based senior care services business by July 1. The new CareScout business will start by offering clients help with finding nursing homes, assisted living facilities and other resources. CareScout is setting up a “preferred network of quality senior care providers,” Genworth CEO Thomas McInerney told securities analysts Tuesday, during a conference call the company held to go over earnings for the fourth quarter of 2022. McInerney said Genworth could resume writing new long-term care insurance or other types of long-term care funding arrangements by 2024, if the company can increase its ratings to A-. Today, its highest-rated life insurer, Genworth Life and Annuity Insurance Company, has a B- rating. Genworth’s return to the long-term care market could increase clients’ awareness of and interest in long-term care planning. It could also raise questions about the cost and stability of older long-term care insurance policies. Genworth is a Richmond, Virginia-based insurer descended from the GE Capital insurance operations. It was a large life insurance and annuity issuer and one of the major players in the U.S. long-term care insurance market. The company continues to sell some long-term care insurance business, and its Enact affiliate is a major player in the mortgage insurance market. Genworth ran into financial problems because of problems with designing and pricing long-term care insurance policies, and it gives detailed notes about its efforts to increase long-term care insurance premiums when it releases its quarterly earnings. Genworth reported $202 million in net income for the latest quarter on $1.9 billion in revenue, up from $192 million in net income on $1.7 billion in revenue for the fourth quarter of 2021. The long-term care insurance business is reporting $24 million in adjusted operating income on $1.1 billion in revenue, compared with $119 million in net income on $1.3 billion in revenue for the year-earlier quarter. Up Next Listen to free podcasts to get the info you need to solve business challenges! Foundation Planning Guide for Advisors The 4-Step Guide to Creating Holistic Risk Profiles Long-term care insurance premium revenue increased to $648 million, from $644 million, but net investment income fell, and gains from investments sold during the quarter fell. The company filed rate increase requests, for increases on $1.2 billion of in-force long-term care insurance premium revenue, in 37 states in 2022. For Genworth, a decrease in the percentage of long-term care insurance policyholders who keep their policies can improve profits. In the fourth quarter, the percentage of Genworth policyholders keeping their full long-term care insurance policies in place fell to 54.5%, from 68.5%, during the last quarter before COVID-19 surfaced in the United States. Regulators approved $549 million in annual premium rate increase approvals in 2022, Genworth said. Genworth has cut its debt and strengthened its finances, and its board authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $350 million, McInerney said. The company has actually spent $64 million on buying back stock. McInerney said Genworth’s CareScout unit already vetting and recruiting long-term care provider network partners. Genworth will start by having CareScout provide fee-based services for new and existing policyholders through a pilot program to be offered in the Southwest in the first half of this year, McInerney said. Genworth hopes to add a CareScout clinical assessment service. “The third area of focus in our growth strategy is transforming the insurance and other product options available to fund long-term care,” McIerney said. Tom McInerney (Photo: Victor J. Blue/Bloomberg) NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
Request academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to
 [email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing.
 Up Next