Get alerted any time new stories match your search criteria. Create an alert to follow a developing story, keep current on a competitor, or monitor industry news. 
Overwrite Existing Alert:

 
Sign In
 Thank You! Don’t forget you can visit MyAlerts to manage your alerts at any time. Genworth Creates Discounted LTC Provider Network Life Health > Long-Term Care Planning 

By Allison Bell
 


News



May 05, 2023 at 01:26 PM



Share & Print
 Genworth Financial is easing its way back toward selling new long-term care planning products, by using its CareScout care coordination unit to create a preferred long-term care provider network. The new CareScout program will offer employer-sponsored benefit plans, other long-term care insurance providers and Genworth’s own LTCI policyholders access to care providers who have signed a provider network agreement. CareScout has started by setting up a home care provider network in Texas, Tom McInerney, Genworth’s CEO, told securities analysts Thursday during a conference call. Genworth still provides LTCI coverage for 1.1 million people, and dozens of home care providers in Texas seem to be interested in joining the CareScout network, offering discounts of about 10% to 20%, and getting a chance to serve those LTCI insureds, McInerney said. “Our projections indicate future cost savings in the $1 billion to $1.5 billion range on a net present value basis, depending on how quickly the preferred network is available nationwide, how many Genworth long-term care policyholders choose a provider within the network and the level of discounts we are able to achieve,” McInerney added. If the CareScout network succeeds, it could help attract attention and financing to other long-term care access programs, such as The Helper Bees long-term care concierge program, and make life easier for clients who are trying to find affordable, vetted homemaker services providers, home health care providers and care facilities. Genworth is a Richmond, Virginia-based company that helped create the modern U.S. long-term care insurance industry, and then ran into problems when it found that most of its assumptions about the investment markets and how the insured people would behave were wrong. The company stopped marketing new individual long-term care insurance in 2019, and it no longer reports making new group LTCI sales. Up Next Listen to free podcasts to get the info you need to solve business challenges! Foundation Planning Guide for Advisors The 4-Step Guide to Creating Holistic Risk Profiles But the company owns a majority stake in a mortgage insurer, Enact, that’s still an active player in the mortgage insurance market. Genworth held the conference call to go over results for the first quarter with securities analysts. The company now must comply with the new Long Duration Targeted Improvement account rules, which require it to include estimates of changes in the value of promised benefits in quarterly results. In spite of the new accounting rules, Genworth posted a profit for the quarter. The company is reporting $94 million in net income for the quarter on $1.9 billion in revenue, compared with $223 million in net income on $1.9 billion in revenue for the first quarter of 2022. The long-term care insurance business recorded a $37 million adjusted operating loss on $1.1 billion in revenue, compared with $27 million in net income on $1.1 billion in revenue for the year-earlier quarter. Slower-than-expected introduction of LTCI premium increases hurt the performance of the LTCI business, but the investment portfolio supporting Genworth’s products performed well because the investment managers were preparing for inflation to return and interest rates to rise, McInerney said. Tom McInerney (Photo: Victor J. Blue/Bloomberg) NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
Request academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to
 [email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing.
 Up Next