It comes after the company filed a market reduction notice with the state.  It comes after the company filed a market reduction notice with the state.  The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. It comes after the company filed a market reduction notice with the state.  Farmers Insurance is notifying the state they plan to cut about 100,000 policies. Most of them are homeowners' policies. Florida law requires carriers to give a 90-day notice to the state if they're planning on not renewing policies. Farmers submitted that notice Tuesday.  Insurance companies are also required to give a 120-day notice to policyholders, letting them know the date their policy will be canceled or not renewed. The news is leaving some Farmers' policyholders in Central Florida worried their policy could be one getting cut.   "It's really not fun to not know if your home is going to be insured," said Stacey Chale.  At the beginning of 2022, Chale found out the insurance policy for her Clermont home wasn't going to be renewed. The company didn't say why, but she suspected it was the age of their roof.   "Then we started the process of getting quotes to replace the roof, because we now needed to find new insurance and nobody would insure us," she said.  Once it was replaced, they found a new policy.   "We ended up going with Farmers," she said.  So when she saw the news that Farmers was going to be cutting policies in Florida, she thought to herself, "'Oh, we're going to have to go through this again basically.'"  A spokesperson for the company said in a statement, "This business decision was necessary to effectively manage risk exposure. There is no impact to 70% of policies currently in force for customers in the state." James Owens owns an insurance agency with Brightway Insurance, an insurance broker. They shop around for policies for their clients. He got calls from Farmers' customers Tuesday.   "They seemed a bit nervous, just wanting to make sure that they're going to be able to find some coverage," Owens said.  Florida Chief Financial Officer Jimmy Patronis said he wants "additional scrutiny" on Farmers following the news.  He released a statement, saying in part,  “I’ve always said that when big decisions are made on insurance – the policyholder is rarely in the room – and unfortunately, Farmers Insurance proved me right. I have asked my team to put their heads together in holding Farmers Insurance accountable to Florida policyholders. I want additional scrutiny on this company. Therefore, I have directed my Division of Consumer Services to conduct a deeper dive into Farmers Insurance complaints – and if those complaints hit a certain threshold, it will trigger market conduct investigation that could lead to fines being levied against the carrier. It is our expectation that if Farmers cancels any policies, all prorated amounts must be returned to policyholders and we are currently working with the Florida Association of Insurance Agents to explore methods for a bulk transfer of policies. Moreover, I have asked Florida’s Insurance Consumer Advocate Tasha Carter to engage with Farmers Insurance policyholders who may be affected by this action to assess their involvement by the carrier."  As customers start getting notice from Farmers, Owens is expecting he'll be getting more phone calls.   "I think it's going to start a flurry of people reaching out and I think be shifting to going to independent agencies," he said.  Chale is hoping she won't end up being one of them.    Top headlines: Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.