     A database firm hired by Henrico County-based insurance giant Genworth Financial has been hit by hackers, exposing information about some 2.5 million to 2.7 million of its customers. Hackers reportedly linked to Russian gangs accessed databases at several government agencies, companies and schools by breaching a gap in the MOVEit file transfer system. Genworth said the attack on its vendor, PBI Research Services, exposed personal information on life insurance policyholders and other customers, including Social Security numbers. The attack did not reach information about its mortgage insurance customers. The company said it will notify individuals affected by the attack. It will offer credit monitoring and identity theft protection services to them, and additional help and contact information can be found at genworth.com/moveit. Genworth uses PBI’s services to identify the deaths of insured people under its life insurance, annuity and long-term care policies. Henrico County-based Genworth Financial said the key efforts of its strategy to stabilize the long-term care business made progress. Others affected by the attack on the MOVEit software, which is used to share sensitive data, include California’s state pension fund, Johns Hopkins University and Health System, Nova Scotia’s provincial government, British Airways and Shell Oil, according to published reports. Jen Easterly, director of the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, said the hackers’ attack was short-lived and relatively superficial, the British newspaper The Guardian reported. The Associated Press reported that the breach of the file-transfer application also hit the California Public Employees Retirement system, the country’s largest public pension fund. It said the data Russian cybercriminals stole included personal information of about 769,000 retired California employees and other beneficiaries — including Social Security numbers. The AP reported that the breach of the MOVEit file-transfer program, discovered last month, is estimated by cybersecurity experts to have compromised hundreds of organizations globally. Confirmed victims include the U.S. Department of Energy and several other federal agencies, more than 9 million motorists in Oregon and Louisiana, Ernst & Young, and the BBC. Customize your experience so you see the stories most important to you. And sign up for personalized notifications so you don't miss any important news. TO DOWNLOAD For Android users: https://go.richmond.com/googleplay For Apple users: https://go.richmond.com/apple (L-R) Twins Victoria Brewer and Olivia Brewer, age 4 1/2, dressed as butterflies for Labor Day at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden Monday, September 5, 2022. Admission was free today. (L-R) Twins Victoria Brewer and Olivia Brewer, age 4 1/2, dressed as butterflies for Labor Day at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden Monday, September 5, 2022. Admission was free today. (L-R) Twins Victoria Brewer and Olivia Brewer, age 4 1/2, dressed as butterflies for Labor Day at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden Monday, September 5, 2022. Admission was free today. 2-year-old Elijah Mees and his mother, Ivy Newman-Mees, of New York City, watch a butterfly at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden. Admission into the attraction was free Monday. Two-year-old Elijah Mees reaches for a butterfly as his mother Ivy Newman-Mees holds him as they visited Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden on Genworth Free Community Day, Labor Day, Monday, September 5, 2022. Two-year-old Elijah Mees and his mother Ivy Newman-Mees watch a butterfly at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden on Genworth Free Community Day, Labor Day, Monday, September 5, 2022. Three-year-old Marlee Antoinette Thomas poses like a butterfly at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden on Genworth Free Community Day, Labor Day, Monday, September 5, 2022. 3-year-old Marlee Antoinette Thomas poses like a butterfly at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden. Many visitors took advantage of the free admission to see the butterfly exhibit. 
 People wait in line to see th butterfly exhibit in the Conservatory at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden on Genworth Free Community Day, Labor Day, Monday, September 5, 2022. A limited number of people are allowed in the exhibit at a time. Aaron Quarles watches his wife Erika Quarles paint in the Bloemendaal House garden at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden on Genworth Free Community Day, Labor Day, Monday, September 5, 2022. Aaron Quarles watches his wife, Erika Quarles, paint in the Bloemendaal House at Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden. There are over a dozen themed gardens at the attraction.
 Roses are in bloom for Lewis Ginter Botanical Garden’s Genworth Free Community Day on Labor Day, Monday, September 5, 2022. Dave Ress (804) 649-6948 dress@timesdispatch.com @DaveRess1 on Twitter State Politics / Growth and Development Reporter   The Henrico County-based insurance giant's first quarter earnings were down, but it made key progress with its long-term care and mortgage ins… 1871: The Life Insurance Company of Virginia, known as Life of Virginia, was started by two dozen investors in Petersburg and offered its firs… Tough times in financial markets plowed through to the bottom line for Genworth, the Henrico County based insurance giant, as net income for 2…  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.