  Ad Feature by 101 EasyWays   By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  13:52 EDT, 16 December 2022   |  Updated:  08:42 EDT, 1 March 2023      View  comments  We're all feeling the pinch lately, whether that's when getting the weekly shop done or tallying up the monthly bills. The cost of living crisis can take its toll on your finances but taking a few smart steps can help you navigate your way through it. One easy way of avoiding the splurging is to take advantage of the deals and discounts that cross your path. To make this simpler for you, we're bringing MailOnline readers a striking roster of 101 easy ways you can save money over the coming months. In this first part, we're bringing you special discounts on everything from education to entertainment. Helping you and your family cut costs, here are the first 25 of 101EasyWays to save. Fashion for a fiver  If you're looking to save money and still treat yourself and the family then 5poundstuff is the place to be. 5poundstuff.com takes surplus stock like clothing, accessories and household goods, from top high street brands and offers them for a fraction of the price. The info: Click here to revamp your style for just five pounds.  Beat the Cost of Living with CSSC  CSSC is a not-for-profit membership organisation inspiring over 140,000 members to be active and healthy through everyday savings, offers and days out. From reaching fitness goals to maximising leisure time, CSSC members have access to over 4,200 ways to save and these everyday savings really add up. The info: Click here to discover more and get a £10 voucher with your first CSSC purchase. Make money from your empty driveway   Do you have an unused driveway, off-street parking space or garage? Join 80,000+ space owners across the UK and earn £40 to £400 per month by renting out your parking space.  Easy to set up and simple to run, you can start earning by listing your space at yourparkingspace.co.uk.  The info: Click here to list your space or save 10% on parking with code 'YOURSAVING10'. Fast-tracked and flexible courses   Thinking of re-training in the New Year? There's no better place to take your first steps into the trade industry than with Access Training. Offering flexible, accredited courses, and 3 years career support to new and existing tradespeople, Access Training trains students nationwide in all four main areas of trade. The info: Click here to claim a 20% discount on selected courses. Upgrade with a second-hand phone   Looking to replace your old tech? Well, it doesn't have to cost the earth. Save money and the planet at Second-Hand Phones.Com, the UK’s leading experts in quality refurbished smartphones, tablets, and smartwatches. Buy online at Second-handphones.com or call them directly on 01271 553 553 or 0800 270 7201 (lines open Monday to Friday 9am to 5pm).  The info: Click here for an extra £10 off with code ‘SAVE10TODAY’. Save up to 60% on your food and household shop  Motatos is great for your pocket and the planet. You’ll find up to 60% off store cupboard brands because Motatos saves surplus stock with short best-before dates from going to landfill. You get a great price on brands you love, while fighting food waste and needless carbon emissions. That’s a win-win!  The info: Click here to enjoy 15% off with discount code 'EASYWAYS15'. A free ride for your little ones  All kids love rides and until Tuesday, February 28, let your little one journey into adventure with a free go on any Amuse.Me kids' ride around the UK. And why not have every fourth ride on Amuse.Me too? Visit one of their contactless kid’s rides and enjoy a ride for free!* The info: Click here to find your nearest ride and to claim your free ride. *Offer ends Tuesday 28th February 2023. Offer is activated via the Monyx app. Only available on Amuse.Me rides with an Nayax contactless system integrated. This offer does not apply to coin-operated machines under the Amuse.Me/ME Group brand. For additional information, please see www.amuseme.uk.  Get cashback on your groceries   Looking for ways to save money on your groceries this winter? With the free Shopmium app, you can enjoy your favourite products for less and access exclusive offers on everyday products found in the supermarket or online - saving up to £100 on your weekly groceries! The info: Click here to download the app today. Stay cosy for less this winter   Warmies are the perfect gift at any time of the year, for any member of the family. From heatable Soft Toys to Slippers, Neck Wraps and Hot Water Bottles, their lavender-scented wellness gifts provide the ultimate relaxation. Here to keep you cosy when the weather can’t, it’s time for you to join their cosy family.  The info: Click here to get 15% off with discount code 'WINTER15'. Change up insurance and utilities, get savings  The cost-of-living crisis can seem overwhelming, but there are lots of ways you can save money and Comparethemarket wants you to save as much as possible by helping you ensure you're not paying more than you need to for utilities and insurance. The info: Click here to find out how you can enjoy 2-for-1 cinema tickets every Tuesday or Wednesday and tasty savings for dining out, ordering in or grabbing a coffee when you take out a qualifying product through Comparethemarket*. *When you take out a qualifying product. 1 membership per year. Participating outlets & cinemas. Restrictions, exclusions and T&Cs apply.  Rethink the way you cook  When you're feeding an entire family, time is money. And you can save both when cooking with Instant Vortex Air Fryers and Instant Pot Multi Cookers.  Using up to 80% less energy than an electric oven, and getting dinner on the table 70% faster than traditional methods, it's time to reconsider the way you cook.  The info: Click here to get 10% off Vortex Air Fryers and Instant Pots with code 'ENERGY101'. Get salon-quality blonde from home   Jerome Russell Bblonde, the UK's No.1 Blonding brand*, founded by professionals in hair salons, is on a mission to make salon-quality products accessible for everyone to use in the comfort of their own homes.  Created using quality ingredients that protect and condition, Jerome Russell Bblonde is the go-to for 'your salon at home'.  The info: Click here for a how-to home bleaching guide.  *Based on IRA Data Bleach/Lightening/Highlighting Category. 52 weeks value sales data ending August 2022.  Head on holiday for less  Join the British Airways Executive Club and collect Avios when you spend with any of their 125+ partners or with more than 1,500 brands when you shop through British Airways. Then, when you're ready, spend them on flights, hotels, car hire and more so you can save money on your next holiday. The info: Click here to join the Executive Club and start saving today. Save on super-fast shopping   Life is busy, so having your groceries delivered in minutes by Getir is a brilliant way to save time and money. With competitive prices on products - including Co-op’s own-label range available across all stores - and regular promotions such as high value discounts on larger baskets Getir can deliver the best value groceries to your door in minutes. The info: Click here to download the Getir app and enjoy £10 off your first order with code GETIRNEW10* *Code valid until 23:59 31.01.2023. First time users only. Subject to availability. Selected locations only. Min. spend £25. Exclusions & fees apply. T&Cs apply.  Family fun on a budget   Why not treat your family to a fun-filled day or sleepover experience at Gulliver’s Theme Park Resorts? Discover thrilling rides, attractions and shows at four locations across the UK, as well as accommodation including themed dens, lodges and family suites. The info: Click here to save 25% on your 2023 family adventure at Gulliver’s Theme Park Resorts using code FUN2023. *Valid on standard theme park tickets and selected ‘stay & play’ sleepover packages for visit dates February to September 2023. Must be booked online by 31st January 2023. T&Cs apply.  Online discounts made easy   It can be easy to miss out on discounts when we're shopping at different retailers, so let Basket help. This simple app lets you save products from any retailer to one place. It then tracks the price and lets you know when it's cheaper. Genius!  The info: Click here to download Basket for free today and start saving money when you shop online. Cut costs on calls  The info: Click here to switch and save. Affordable estate planning    If you don’t have a valid Will, the rules of intestacy will decide what happens to your estate, and this may not be what you wanted. Whether you need to write or update an existing Will, speak to a trained and insured member of The Society of Will Writers for professional advice. The info: Click here to find a member in your area or contact the office today on 01522 687 888. Make extra money to help with the cost of living  If you want to raise some cash straight away, why not consider selling some of your jewellery? The Diamond Box have over 25 years' experience in buying and selling gold jewellery and watches so you can trust them to give you the best price. The info: Click here to register online or call on 020 4538 0811 Live vegan for less   If you're worried that a plant-based diet is more expensive, The Vegan Society has found that on average, protein sources like baked beans, lentils and kidney beans can be significantly cheaper per portion than meat and animal products*. The info: Click here for cheap and healthy vegan recipes that are costed and for more guidance. *https://www.vegansociety.com/sites/default/files/Methodology%20for%20price%20comparison.pdf  Stylish and savvy  Love brands like Nadine Merabi, Oh Polly and House of CB but don't want to break the bank? Rent these celebrity favourites using the Swished app for as little as £5 a day, instead. Or why not make some extra money by lending your clothes via Swished? The info: Click here to download the Swished app and rent your next outfit. Use exclusive code FREE5 for an extra £5 off your first rental. Heat yourself, not your home  We're all feeling the chill so stay cosy for less by heating yourself with great value buys from B&M. From winter bedding (15 tog duvet from £12) to toasty throws (from £5) and snuggly slippers (from £4), you and your family can stay warm without spending a fortune on heating the house.  The info: Click here to find your nearest B&M store. Cost-effective travel across the UK  Whether it’s a city break, travelling to an event, or visiting friends and family, megabus is an affordable way to get to over 90 destinations around the UK. You can reserve your seat and opt for extra legroom, and with thousands of fares under £10, it's never been more affordable to travel by coach. The info: Click here to book your great value coach travel. Are you paying too much for healthcare?  Medischeme work with all providers in the market to get you the best deal on health insurance. They use their extensive experience and sophisticated software to find a policy that meets your needs. They can also negotiate, on your behalf, with your current insurer, which can lead to lower premiums. You pay nothing for the service – Medischeme receive a standard fee from whichever insurer you choose.  The info: Click here to find out more. Do more laundry - for less!  With winter here and the temperature dropping, we're all used to soggy socks, wet blankets and patchy dries. But use a Revolution machine with 20kg capacity dryer and a 20kg wash, and you'll get 3 loads in 1 wash* - for less cost - in less time. Revolution Laundry's 24 hour outdoor launderette is a game-changer!  The info: Click here to find your nearest machine. *3 Loads in 1 is based on the wash and dry capacity of Revolution Laundry Compact V3 machines with 20kg wash and dry capacity versus average household washing machines with 8kg capacity. For additional information, please see www.megroup.uk/conditions/revolution-laundry-terms-of-use.  If you've enjoyed reading this article and are interested in more inspiration on everything from education and culture to business and family life, why not follow Checklist on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, or sign up to the newsletter? Checklist is dedicated to providing the best free online competitions too - discover amazing new services and products when you visit the website today.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group