


Dec. 17 (UPI) -- The first German floating terminal for liquefied natural gas opened on Saturday in Wilhelmshaven as the country seeks to ween itself from Russian gas before the winter.
At the opening ceremony on the North Sea coast, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said the new terminal will ensure that Germany is not blackmailed by Russia.
Advertisement
"As of today, Germany and the EU will become a great deal more secure and independent," the German leader said. "This is now the new pace in Germany with which we're pushing ahead with infrastructure."
The floating storage and regasification unit, in the form of the vessel Höegh Esperanza, arrived earlier this week after a pipeline connecting it to the mainland was completed last month.
Related
Even with one facility closed, U.S. LNG exports improve
Grocery delivery firm Getir buys German rival Gorillas
Trading firm Trafigura helps Germany secure more natural gas
The pipeline is built from 14,000 tons of steel, 1,500 tons of special-made steel pipes and 3,000 cubic meters of concrete.
Cooled down to minus 162 degrees centigrade, gas can be compressed, turned into a liquid and shipped around the world as LNG. Germany -- which received almost all of its gas via pipeline from Russia and Norway -- has never had the infrastructure necessary to turn LNG back into gaseous form.
Advertisement
The terminal was built in less than a year and "shows what Germany can achieve within a few months if it has to," Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck said.
By winter 2023, another three floating LNG terminals will be operational and the pipeline will be expanded, boosting capacity by another 19 billion cubic meters.
Next winter, Germany will be capable of importing some 32 billion cubic meters, according to the terminal's declared regasification capacity.
Environmentalists, however, have criticized Germany's pursuit of LNG, which they say will only lock in the future use of fossil fuels.
Environmental Action Germany said the opening of the new terminal marks the "peak of ignorance" since the environmental impact assessment was basically waived during the expedited permitting process, Bloomberg reported.
The group warned that the vessel may emit biocides into the Wadden Sea, a natural habitat listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site.



Topics
Energy






Latest Headlines







World News // 29 minutes ago
Chinese and Philippine ships collied amid territorial dispute of South China Sea
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ships of the Chinese and Philippine Coast Guards collided in the South China Sea on Monday as the two neighbors blame one another for the incident amid their protracted fight over the sovereignty of the disputed waters.










World News // 1 week ago
Ernesto heads to near Newfoundland as Category 1 hurricane
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ernesto continued to gather strength late Sunday after regaining hurricane status, according to forecasters who warn it is setting it sights on Canada after striking Bermuda as a Category 1 storm.










World News // 4 hours ago
Circle K's Canadian owner seeks to buy rival Japanese-owned 7-Eleven
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Canadian owner of Circle K  is seeking to buy Japanese-owned 7-Eleven, a rival convenience store operation, in a "friendly" offer.










World News // 11 hours ago
One dead in superyacht wreck off Italian coast; British billionaire among six missing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn.










World News // 12 hours ago
Britain to detain suspects in police cells amid a prison overcrowding crisis after riots
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Britain implemented emergency measures to reduce pressure on prisons overflowing from people being sentenced for taking part in, or inciting, riots across England and Northern Ireland in late July and early August.










World News // 14 hours ago
Blinken: Gaza cease-fire talks 'best, maybe last' chance to achieve truce, free hostages
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Talks between Israel and Hamas could be the last chance to agree to a cease-fire in the Gaza conflict and free Israeli hostages, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said ahead of a meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu.










World News // 14 hours ago
U.N.: Record 280 aid workers killed during conflicts in 2023
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United Nations said 280 humanitarian aid workers were killed around the world in 2023, setting a new record for the number of people dying while aiding those in need.










World News // 17 hours ago
U.S., South Korea kick off joint military exercise amid outcry from North Korea
 SEOUL, Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United States and South Korea on Monday kicked off a major joint military exercise meant to deter growing threats from North Korea, which denounced the drills as "offensive and provocative."










World News // 19 hours ago
Russia bans Clooney Foundation as 'undesirable'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Russian prosecutors on Monday designated the U.S.-based Clooney Foundation for Justice as "undesirable" on accusations that it works to discredit the Kremlin under the guise of a humanitarian organization.










World News // 20 hours ago
1 dead, 1 injured in Tel Aviv explosion; police investigating as potential terrorism
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- At least one person is dead and another injured after a bomb exploded Sunday night in Tel Aviv, according to authorities who believe the blast might be terrorism.






 Dec. 17 (UPI) -- The first German floating terminal for liquefied natural gas opened on Saturday in Wilhelmshaven as the country seeks to ween itself from Russian gas before the winter. At the opening ceremony on the North Sea coast, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said the new terminal will ensure that Germany is not blackmailed by Russia.
Advertisement "As of today, Germany and the EU will become a great deal more secure and independent," the German leader said. "This is now the new pace in Germany with which we're pushing ahead with infrastructure." The floating storage and regasification unit, in the form of the vessel Höegh Esperanza, arrived earlier this week after a pipeline connecting it to the mainland was completed last month.
Related
Even with one facility closed, U.S. LNG exports improve
Grocery delivery firm Getir buys German rival Gorillas
Trading firm Trafigura helps Germany secure more natural gas The pipeline is built from 14,000 tons of steel, 1,500 tons of special-made steel pipes and 3,000 cubic meters of concrete. Cooled down to minus 162 degrees centigrade, gas can be compressed, turned into a liquid and shipped around the world as LNG. Germany -- which received almost all of its gas via pipeline from Russia and Norway -- has never had the infrastructure necessary to turn LNG back into gaseous form.
Advertisement The terminal was built in less than a year and "shows what Germany can achieve within a few months if it has to," Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck said. By winter 2023, another three floating LNG terminals will be operational and the pipeline will be expanded, boosting capacity by another 19 billion cubic meters. Next winter, Germany will be capable of importing some 32 billion cubic meters, according to the terminal's declared regasification capacity. Environmentalists, however, have criticized Germany's pursuit of LNG, which they say will only lock in the future use of fossil fuels. Environmental Action Germany said the opening of the new terminal marks the "peak of ignorance" since the environmental impact assessment was basically waived during the expedited permitting process, Bloomberg reported. The group warned that the vessel may emit biocides into the Wadden Sea, a natural habitat listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site.