Sequoia-backed rapid-grocery startup Getir is set to raise around $500 million in a deal that would cut its valuation almost in half, industry sources said, as the broader sector struggles with changing consumer habits and a tough funding environment. The Turkish firm, which acquired its rival Gorillas in a $1.2 billion deal in December, is primed to raise $300 million from Emirati wealth fund Mubadala at a valuation of around $6.5 billion, three sources with knowledge of the deal told Insider. Other existing shareholders will add another $150 million to $200 million to the round, two further sources said. The deal is a 45% markdown on the $11.8 billion price tag that was placed on Getir during its last fundraise in March 2022. Getir could have been valued even lower but the deal will come with a high liquidation preference, the sources added. The deal has yet to be finalized and the figures involved could be subject to change as a result. Getir's CEO Nazim Salur had initially sought to raise $1 billion, Insider understands. The company is burning between $80 million and $100 million a month following its integration with Gorillas, two sources familiar with the situation said. The company also commenced layoffs in March, Retail Gazette reported. Getir declined to comment when contacted by Insider. 
                                Related stories
                               Despite its high burn rate, Getir appears to be hungry for acquisitions. The company weighed up a move for Flink, a smaller Berlin-based competitor, which is also backed by Mubadala. Getir held preliminary talks with Flink late last year, The Information reported. While talks had taken place, one source said a deal between the two parties was not being pursued currently. Founded in 2015, Getir gained momentum as the COVID-19 pandemic broke out and savvy users turned to grocery apps — and the big discounts they offered — to stay fed. In Europe, competitors such as GoPuff, Dija, Gorillas, and many others mushroomed and raised huge amounts of venture capital funding as investors tried to anticipate post-pandemic, longer-term trends. But within the space of a few years, most of these companies were either acquired or collapsed as entrepreneurs struggled with an expensive, low-margin business model.  Getir, which has a successful business in Turkey, will continue to focus on its UK operations where it boasts a strong foothold through its integration with Gorillas. The company has around 140 "dark stores," or delivery warehouses, in the UK but will trim this number to around 90 in the coming months with a focus on major cities like Manchester, Liverpool, Bristol, and the heart of its UK operations, London, one London-based source familiar with the matter said. Correction: April 20, 2023:An earlier version of this story misstated the status of Getir's new funding round. It is in its late stages but has not yet closed. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to