Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter. A ribbon cutting ceremony takes place at Rocky Vista University Montana College of Osteopathic Medicine on Thursday afternoon to celebrate the opening of Montana's first medical college. State and local dignitaries, Rocky Vista University leadership, the MCOM Community Advisory Council, a national dignitary from the American Osteopathic Association, and local health care leaders attended the event. RVU-MCOM was recruited to Billings, MT to help fill a significant need for physicians. According to the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), all 56 counties in Montana are designated as Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs) with 9 counties not having any doctors. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges State Physician Workforce Data Report 2022, Montana has 257.3 active physicians (ranked 31st) per 100,000 population and is ranked 47th out of the 50 states for the number of primary-care physicians, according to Kaiser Family Foundation data. MCOM is expected to add $67 million per year in combined economic impact upon full operation with all four classes of their Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine and Master of Medical Sciences programs. A ribbon cutting ceremony takes place at Rocky Vista University Montana College of Osteopathic Medicine on Thursday afternoon to celebrate the opening of Montana's first medical college. State and local dignitaries, Rocky Vista University leadership, the MCOM Community Advisory Council, a national dignitary from the American Osteopathic Association, and local health care leaders attended the event. RVU-MCOM was recruited to Billings, MT to help fill a significant need for physicians. According to the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), all 56 counties in Montana are designated as Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs) with 9 counties not having any doctors. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges State Physician Workforce Data Report 2022, Montana has 257.3 active physicians (ranked 31st) per 100,000 population and is ranked 47th out of the 50 states for the number of primary-care physicians, according to Kaiser Family Foundation data. MCOM is expected to add $67 million per year in combined economic impact upon full operation with all four classes of their Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine and Master of Medical Sciences programs.  Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter. Law enforcement officers recovered items that had been reported stolen in Billings, Carbon County and Big Horn County and discovered more item… Emergency crews had been searching for the man since Wednesday, according to a statement from Yellowstone County Sheriff Mike Linder.  As its efforts to tamp down on higher-than-average fares ramp up, the airport has sought to attract more air service to Billings. More competi… George Bradley Stewart, 63, died of drowning, Yellowstone County Deputy Coroner Valerie Juhl said Friday. His death has been ruled an accident. At the time of his arrest July 31, Shem Lee Fulmer had multiple warrants for his arrest and was named as a suspect in several other burglaries.   Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.