The consolidation of the food delivery market continues, as Uber Eats and Getir are joining forces. The partnership will begin in the United Kingdom, but before long it will be extended to countries like Germany and the Netherlands. Through the deal, Uber Eats customers will be able to order groceries via Getir’s dark stores and Gorillas’ former warehouses, giving them access to more than 2,000 products. Deliveries are made by Getir’s riders and can therefore be completed in a matter of minutes, TechCrunch reports. Getir had bought German rival Gorillas at the end of last year, but quickly had to make 14 % of all staff redundant. The delivery company also withdrew from several countries, including Spain and Italy. The ultra-fast delivery market collapsed after the Covid pandemic, exacerbated by a climate of financial uncertainty that has both consumers and investors holding back. Uber Eats, meanwhile, sees growing potential in grocery delivery. The meal delivery company has already forged partnerships with supermarkets such as Tesco in the UK and Carrefour in France. In the case of Getir, however, this is not an exclusive partnership: the Turkish flash delivery company has been doing the exact same thing with Just Eat Takeaway for the past year. In the UK and Germany, among others, the Getir assortment and delivery are available on the Just Eat Takeaway platform. Receive our free newsletters and do not miss out on the latest retail news. The consolidation of the food delivery market continues, as Uber Eats and Getir are joining forces. The partnership will begin in the United Kingdom, but before long it will be extended to countries like Germany and the Netherlands. Next week, Jumbo will open its 34th Belgian supermarket: Roeselare will be only the first store opening of the year for the Dutch supermarket chain in Belgium, which has plans for five additional shops this year. The Canadian group Couche-Tard, famous for its (failed) takeover bid for Carrefour in 2021, is now setting its sights on Japanese convenience store chain 7-Eleven. Dutch online-only supermarket Picnic continues to raise both its turnover and its losses, as it says investing in growth comes before profits. The first (tentative) profit figures in the Netherlands do offer a hopeful perspective.