Abbeville chef, Erica McCier, named 20203 South Carolina Chef Ambassador  Abbeville chef, Erica McCier, named 20203 South Carolina Chef Ambassador  The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Abbeville chef, Erica McCier, named 20203 South Carolina Chef Ambassador  An Upstate chef is being recognized for her local flavors and community collaborations, earning her the honor of 2023 South Carolina Chef Ambassador.  Erica McCier is the owner and executive chef of Indigenous Underground in Abbeville. In January, she and three other South Carolina chefs were named as the 2023 ambassadors. According to the state, the ambassadors represent South Carolina through culinary events and promotional opportunities.  “We’re like the spokespeople, the 'spokeschefs' I guess you could say- for the state of South Carolina," said McCier.  McCier says she creates dishes that remind her of her childhood.   “I grew up living off the land," she said. "A lot of my items on the menu just reflect those foods– those indigenous foods of South Carolina.” But, she says she thinks her work with local farmers and other producers is what earned her the honor from the state. “I think that’s what caught their eye," she said, "because I pull so many different businesses into this business as well.” McCier says she is excited to have received the honor but that, ultimately, it's not about her. She says it's more about those businesses that she works alongside.   “It wasn’t really me thinking about myself and what this does for me as a chef," she said. "It really came down to what this does for Indigenous Underground, what this does for the workers here at Indigenous Underground, what this does for Abbeville – the city of Abbeville, and what this does for the farmers that I use, you know, the products that they use in Abbeville." McCier describes her kitchen as a 'little kitchen with big flavor.' But more impressive than the flavorful dishes is the story behind the woman who creates them. McCier is a former art teacher. She taught middle school until she was diagnosed with a kidney disease.  “My life just got flipped upside down. I couldn’t teach anymore," she said. "All of the activities I was doing at this time, I couldn’t do any of those." But, it was during this tough time that McCier discovered cooking.  “While I was on dialysis, I started watching the Food Network, and I also liked the cooking channel," she said.  McCier, inspired by the chefs she watching on television, Googled "culinary schools near me," leading her to Greenville Tech to visit their culinary program. She decided to enroll, if nothing else, to learn to enjoy a new hobby. “'Hey, I’ve learned a new skill. I’m not  bored with life.' You know, I did something besides go to dialysis and go home," she said.  McCier attended classes at Greenville Tech on Tuesdays and Thursdays, all the while continuing dialysis on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.  Then, she fell in love.  “Needless to say, I just fell in love. I fell in love with cooking," she said. Next came a catering business, her first successful restaurant venture, teaching culinary classes and even a kidney transplant.  Now, McCier operates Indigenous Underground in a building in downtown Abbeville that she has loved for years.  "In like 2014, I was saying, ‘that’s going to be my building one day!'" she said. Her goal: connecting the people of Abbeville with their community and celebrating all that her city has to offer.  “You don’t have to drive to Greenville or Columbia or Augusta," she said. "because it’s right here in our backyard."  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.