A fugitive Chinese billionaire wants to auction sperm and eggs from unvaccinated donors on the right-wing social media platform Gettr. Guo Wengui, an ally of Steve Bannon and other pro-Trump Republicans, announced the plan in a live stream in February, AFP and Rolling Stone reported. "Sperm and eggs from our fellow fighters will be auctioned on our Gettr platform between June 1 and June 6," Guo said, per AFP. The billionaire claimed to have gathered nearly 6,000 eggs and "millions" of sperm from unvaccinated donors – and said the sale would include his sperm too. Guo said the site would use "scientific methods" and require an attorney's letter to verify the donors' vaccine status, per AFP. He did not provide further information on how the samples would be tested or stored. The plan, which capitalizes on the baseless conspiracy theory that the COVID-19 vaccines cause infertility, has generated buzz among Gettr users, according to AFP. The mysterious Chinese billionaire wanted in China over fraud charges. Last month, he was arrested in New York over unrelated allegations that he orchestrated a conspiracy to defraud thousands of his online followers out of at least $1 billion. It is not clear how his arrest will affect the auction plans. Guo made his fortune in China's real estate market before fleeing the country. Guo claims he fell foul of powerful and corrupt officials and fled the country in 2014, claiming asylum in the US in 2017. Guo was an early financial backer of Gettr, created by former Trump aide Jason Miller. It has become a platform where conspiracy theories and misinformation run rampant. Sources told Rolling Stone last month that there have been intense behind-the-scenes discussions at Gettr to transform the platform into a marketplace where unvaccinated men can sell sperm to the highest bidder. However, some working at Gettr have privately expressed concerns about the plan, Rolling Stone reported, pointing to various hurdles, including restrictions on semen sales in other countries. Advertisement POPULAR CATEGORIES