Editor's note: In honor of 3/17, we are republishing some of our favorite 317 Project stories. This was originally published in 2023. The 317 Project tells stories of life in all of Indianapolis’ vibrant neighborhoods – 317 words at a time. Have a tip for a story in one of Indianapolis’ neighborhoods? Let us know at 317project@indystar.com. The houses catch the eye immediately when strolling through Lockerbie Square. Two cottages, bright blue and muted mauve, sit side by side. But the houses' defining accessory is a tunnel connecting the two dwellings like hands clasped and connected. It's a unique feature even in a neighborhood full of historic homes. Helen Small, who currently lives in one of the homes, said the story goes back decades. A young speech therapist named Patricia, "Patti" Chunn, Helen said, lived in the "pink cottage" on Park Avenue in the 1970s. During neighborhood revitalization, a man named Larry Wallace, a lawyer with three high-school kids, moved into the blue house next door. It was fate. Patti and Larry fell in love, got married. There was just one problem — where they'd live. "Those lovebirds wanted to live in both houses," Helen said. Seeking an architectural solution, the couple sought permission from the Indianapolis Historic Preservation Commission to connect their homes by tunnel. The passageway was an unconventional solution, but it worked. For 30 years, Patti and Larry lived together in their puzzled-together cottages — their bedroom and main kitchen in one house, a wet bar in the other. Eventually, they planned to move to Florida, and put the homes on the market as one listing. Sadly, Larry died before they could retire together. But their houses, drawn together through love, became a new home for Helen and her husband, Bob, who lived across the street at the time. One spring morning, light streams through the tunnel in Helen and Bob's blue house, now walled off into a colorful sunroom. It’s the perfect space for drinking coffee and people-watching. "A lot of fibbing goes on here," Bob joked, referring to gatherings with neighbors. Theirs is not the love story that connected the cottages, but their 53 years together are a testament to a solid foundation. "We've made this place our own," Helen said. Contact business reporter Claire Rafford at 317-617-3402 or at crafford@gannett.com.  This article originally appeared on Indianapolis Star: 317 Project: Love story behind these unique houses in Lockerbie Square New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.