The U.S. District Court in Arizona granted mining giant Resolution Copper permission on Monday to join the U.S. government as a defendant in a lawsuit brought by grassroots group Apache Stronghold. The Native organization has been fighting to prevent Resolution from building a huge copper mining operation that would obliterate Oak Flat, one of the Apaches peoples' most sacred sites. Oak Flat, or Chi’chil Biłdagoteel, "the place where the Emory oak grows," is also culturally important to other Southwestern tribes, and is one of Arizona's remaining riparian zones and a popular site for recreational users. The 2,200-acre site, currently a campground on the Tonto National Forest about 60 miles east of Phoenix, has been at the heart of a nearly 20-year-long struggle among tribes, environmentalists, the U.S. government and Resolution Copper, which is owned by multinational mining giants Rio Tinto and BHP. Congress approved a land swap of other environmentally sensitive lands in Arizona for Oak Flat between Resolution and the U.S. Forest Service in December 2014 after a 10-year effort by Resolution to make the deal. Apache Stronghold filed suit in January 2021 to halt the swap. Luke Goodrich, an attorney for Apache Stronghold said the latest ruling means the U.S. will now team up with Resolution to fight Apache Stronghold. "It's clear that several judges think that destroying a sacred site would be unlawful," Goodrich said, referring to the suit's latest during an appeals hearing at the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in March. The move comes on the heels of retracted or clarified statements about the process by both the CEO of Resolution Copper's owner and an attorney for the federal government as well as continued calls to support Apache Stronghold and Apache tribes from religious leaders and Native rights groups. Oak Flat occupies a narrow valley with altar sites, petroglyphs, lifegiving water and places to hike and rock climb, and is sacred to Apaches, culturally significant to other tribes and beloved by environmentalists and outdoors enthusiasts. The site also holds one of the world's largest copper deposits, which is increasingly valuable as the need for copper explodes in the push by the Biden administration to replace fossil fuel generation with renewable energy plants. Resolution Copper said it believes the mine would be an important engine for economic growth in the Arizona Copper Triangle and a major contributor to the clean energy transition. The Forest Service was directed by Congress in 2014 to develop an environmental impact statement and consult with tribes with religious, political and cultural claims to the site. The Forest Service published the final version of that review on Jan. 15, 2021, which cleared the way for the swap to be finalized within 60 days of issuance. The Biden administration then withdrew the statement and called on the Forest Service to produce a new one that included more robust tribal consultations. In January 2021, Apache Stronghold filed suit in federal district to stop the swap. The Native rights group took the case to the appeals court after a judge ruled against their claims. The court rejected Apache Stronghold's assertion that the mine would pose a substantial burden to First Amendment religious practice rights. A three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit Court also denied Apache Stronghold's case, but in November, the court agreed to rehear the case in front of the entire panel of 11 judges. At the hearing on March 21, judges raised questions ranging from the serious — such as the impact to Apache religious practice if the mine turns Oak Flat into a 2-mile-wide, 1,000-foot-deep crater through a process known as block cave mining — to the silly. One judge asked if any religious protection laws would apply if "God says I need to be buried in Arlington National Cemetery to go to heaven?" Legal arguments:Resolution copper mine goes back before appeals court in a major religious rights case During that hearing, a government attorney said the Forest Service would publish the new environmental impact statement sometime in spring or early summer 2023. Issuing the new review would start the 60-day clock. Anytime within that period, the administration could close the deal and hand Resolution the keys to Oak Flat. That set off a flurry of statements and actions by Apache Stronghold, tribes and environmentalists angry that the government might not honor the court's order that 60 days' notice would be given before the final EIS would be published. Such a move would affect stakeholders and plaintiffs in the Apache Stronghold suit and two others filed in 2021 by the San Carlos Apache Tribe and environmentalists. The other two suits are on hold, awaiting the release of the new environmental impact statement. Copper mine fight:Tribal leaders converge in front of White House with message: 'Save Oak Flat' In May, the U.S. government wrote the 9th Circuit Court and took the statement back. "The Department has not identified a timeframe for completing its review," the letter said. Apache Stronghold leader Wendsler Nosie said the government didn't offer any reason for delaying the review or say how much longer it would take. "If you want answers for that, you'll have to ask the government," he said. Goodrich, senior counsel at Becket, a religious liberty law firm that represents Apache Stronghold, said the government's retraction of something said in a courtroom is a "pretty big deal," because attorneys carefully prepare their testimony and evidence beforehand. "The attorney wouldn't have said that if she didn't have permission," Goodrich said. In May, Reuters reported that Rio Tinto's board chair Dominic Barton said the firm was getting "immense pressure to proceed because of the copper reserves that are there,” during a meeting of Rio Tinto’s Australian shareholders. Barton told reporters that the pressure was coming from "parts of the U.S. government." Resolution shared the transcript of Barton's complete comments with The Arizona Republic. Barton said Rio Tinto was being pressured, but was committed to "steadfastly holding to the process to make sure that if we are to do something, it has to be done properly in the way that we go through it." Barton and Rio Tinto CEO Jakob Stausholm are new to their jobs because their predecessors departed in the wake of a 2020 incident that shook the world's Indigenous peoples, cultural heritage protectors and their allies. Rio Tinto blew up 46,000-year-old rock shelters in Western Australia's Juukan Gorge, which were heritage sites of the Puutu Kunti Kurrama and Pinikura peoples. The multinational firm has been under scrutiny ever since to ensure such incidents don't reoccur. Although Resolution Copper is now an official member of the team pushing for the congressional deal to be completed, the company's involvement is not expected to speed the court's ruling. A spokesperson for the company said, "As a party (to the suit), we will help ensure that the record of information before the court is fully developed." The spokesperson also said that they intend to respectfully engage with the groups opposed to the mine to "address and deepen our understanding of their concerns." Resolution has consulted with tribes over the past decade and has used traditional Indigenous knowledge to influence the project's design, the spokesperson said, and would keep Oak Flat open for as long as it is safe to do so. Nosie issued a statement saying that the U.S. is required to maintain a trust relationship with Native peoples of the land. "Any disagreement between us would be resolved between the United States and us, the Apaches," he said. But he was disappointed that the government is bringing in two foreign mining companies to battle Apache people. "Resolution Copper does not care about us, they have destroyed the world, people have suffered, land has been exploited regardless of its sacredness and now the U.S. Government is siding against us with them." More entities are taking the Apaches' side, including the National Congress of American Indians. The nation's largest Native advocacy group will present a panel on the Oak Flat issue during its mid-year conference on June 5 in Prior Lake, Minn. Goodrich said Apache Stronghold's struggle with the government to preserve Oak Flat is already a "David against Goliath" scenario. Bringing in Resolution just makes that a "David against two Goliaths" battle. But Goodrich, who said he is confident Apache Stronghold would prevail said, "The bigger they are the harder they fall." Debra Krol reports on Indigenous communities at the confluence of climate, culture and commerce in Arizona and the Intermountain West. Reach Krol at debra.krol@azcentral.com. Follow her on Twitter at @debkrol.  Coverage of Indigenous issues at the intersection of climate, culture and commerce is supported by the Catena Foundation. My articles are free to read, but your subscriptions support more such great reporting. Please consider subscribing today.