MLB FORT MYERS, Fla. — Christian Arroyo reached the big leagues already with a label. He was a Prospect with a capital P. First-round pick. Touted by Baseball America. The first high school player from the 2013 draft class to reach the majors. With his debut, Arroyo became the Giants’ youngest starting third baseman since Matt Williams, who debuted almost a decade before Arroyo was born. Arroyo had the talent to be a star. Advertisement Six years later, Arroyo’s still in the big leagues, but with a different label. Too old to be a prospect, but still not established enough to be a proven everyday player, Arroyo these days is simply injury prone, with all the red flags and uncertainties of a player who’s had trouble staying on the field “I’ll be the first one to tell you it’s frustrating,” Arroyo said. “But some of it is stuff I can control and some of it is stuff I can’t. … Whenever those things stack up and you miss X amount of time, you’re going to get that label, and I totally understand it. I get it. My thing is, I’m trying to put myself in the best position to kind of get those out of the way.” This season may be Arroyo’s best opportunity yet to prove he can a productive, everyday player — emphasis on both productive and everyday. In semi-regular duty with the Red Sox the past two years, Arroyo’s had a .749 OPS (league average for second basemen last season was .699) with nine defensive runs saved (that’s eighth-most among players with at least 100 innings at the position). But he’s still never had more than 300 plate appearances or played in more than 87 games in a season since Double A in 2016. Arroyo’s injury history is extensive and varied. At various times he’s strained his calf, his oblique, his forearm, his hamstring, and his groin. Those injuries typically cost him two or three weeks at a time. The hamstring strain came when he tried to stretch for a ball at first base during his first career start at the position, and it cost him more than a month. In 2021, Arroyo missed time with a bruised hand (he was a hit by pitch) and a bruised knee (he collided with Kiké Hernández). He’s also been on the COVID-19 injured list each of the past two seasons. It’s been this way since the beginning of his big-league career. Arroyo made his debut on April 24, 2017 and lasted a month and a half — hot start, but his bat faded — before the Giants optioned him to Triple A in early June. Ten days later, he was hit by a pitch in the left hand and missed about two weeks. In his first game back, Arroyo was hit again in the same hand, and that time it was broken. Advertisement Traded to Tampa Bay the following offseason — the prospect headliner of the Evan Longoria deal — Arroyo suffered a concussion when he was hit by another pitch in Triple A. He missed half of 2019 with a forearm injury. In 2020, the Red Sox claimed him off waivers. “It’s the old adage that you never know when this play might be your last,” Arroyo said. “I don’t necessarily think that way, but I play the game (that way). I don’t ever want to dog it. So, (getting hurt) kind of comes with the territory, right?” To some extent that seems to be true. Some of Arroyo’s injuries have come from a desire to play hard and earn his keep, but Arroyo said he’s been focused lately on training his body to avoid some of the muscular issues he’s dealt with in the past. He’s also tried to find the right balance between playing through manageable injuries and giving bigger problems time to heal. He’s also tried to be smarter about his all-out style of play. That came from a few words of advice from J.D. Martinez. Against the Blue Jays last August, Arroyo tumbled awkwardly over the first-base bag trying to beat out an infield single in a game the Red Sox were losing by seven runs. Arroyo stayed in the game but was clearly shaken up by the play. “J.D.’s like, ‘Dude, you gotta know when and where to pick your spots,'” Arroyo said.  He’s tried to take that to heart without losing his edge. This spring, he’s stayed focused on the opportunity in front of him. With Hernández playing shortstop and Trevor Story on the IL, second base belongs to Arroyo. The likely backup, Yu Chang, has yet to play a game this spring because of visa issues and the World Baseball Classic, and the player who might challenge for regular playing time later in the season, Adalberto Mondesi, is still rehabbing from knee surgery. For the time being, there’s not much competition for Arroyo’s job. If he can stay on the field, he should stay in the lineup. Advertisement “He gets hurt when he doesn’t play,” manager Alex Cora said. “Usually when he doesn’t play that much, and then he starts getting on base at a high rate, that’s when he gets hurt. When he’s playing at a high rate and he’s playing every day, he hasn’t been hurt with us. That’s something we noticed and something we know, but we still have to take care of him.” Arroyo turns 28 in May. He’s only a month older than Bobby Dalbec and could have another decade of baseball ahead of him. Even Arroyo himself said he’s “curious to see” what he can do with a full season of regular at-bats. He’s been a Prospect with a capital P, now he’d just like to be an everyday player without the IL. As for that injury-prone label, the only way to lose it is to stay on the field. “I’m trying to shake that,” Arroyo said. (Top photo of Christian Arroyo: Maddie Meyer / Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Chad Jennings  is a staff writer for The Athletic covering the Boston Red Sox and Major League Baseball. He was on the Red Sox beat previously for the Boston Herald, and before moving to Boston, he covered the New York Yankees for The Journal News and contributed regularly to USA Today. Follow Chad on Twitter @chadjennings22