College Baseball, MLB Draft, Prospects – Baseball America 

		Image credit:	
	(Photo by New York Yankees/Getty Images) Oswald Peraza, SS, Yankees: Lining up the order of the Yankees’ top three outfield prospects—Jasson Dominguez, Everson Pereira and Spencer Jones—is as tricky a task as you’ll find in the rankings world. Peraza, currently ranked as the system’s No. 1 prospect after the graduation of Anthony Volpe, has spent his time in Triple-A reminding people that he’s pretty darn talented, too. The 22-year-old has hit .347/.398/.663 with Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, including a 3-for-6 night on Wednesday that included two home runs. The effort was the fourth multi-homer game of Peraza’s career, two of which have come in the last dozen days.  Carson Whisenhunt, LHP, Giants: The Giants’ draft in 2022 was headed by two high-risk, high-upside plays. One, lefthander Reggie Crawford, had a minuscule track record on the mound and a Tommy John surgery on the card. Nonetheless, San Francisco chose him with their first-round pick. A round later, the Giants took Whisenhunt, who missed the entire 2022 season at East Carolina because of a suspension for performance-enhancing substances. Now, the Giants are being rewarded for their gamble. Whisenhunt dominated Low-A and has done the same at High-A, where he’s earned raves from scouts that match the loud numbers. He struck out seven over five one-hit innings on Wednesday, including a stretch of six straight strikeouts. He now has 36 strikeouts in 25.1 innings with Eugene.  Nelson Rada, OF, Angels: The amount of teenage talent in the Cal League right now is bananas. Ethan Salas (who will have turned 17 by the time you read this) is the talk of the league after skipping both the DSL and the ACL to arrive at Low-A less than five months after signing his first pro contract. Dynamic Dodgers Josue De Paula, Thayron Liranzo and Rayne Doncon are on that list as well. So, too, is Rockies righthander Jordy Vargas. Ditto for the Mariners’ Cole Young and Gabriel Gonzalez. Then there’s Rada, who began the year as the youngest player in the minor leagues. He also skipped over the ACL and is more than holding his own against exclusively older competition. Entering Wednesday, Rada was hitting .315/.436/.356 in May with more walks (15) than strikeouts (14). He collected two more hits against Rancho Cucamonga and stole four bases, bringing his season total to 20.  Luis Matos, OF, Giants: After a forgettable 2022 season, Matos has spent 2023 reminding everybody why he was so celebrated a year prior. Last year, he was caught in between approaches and also dealt with injuries in a season spent mostly at High-A Eugene. He broke camp this year with Richmond and quickly hit his way to Triple-A Sacramento. It is at this point that we must remind the reader that Matos is still just 21 years old and will remain so for the rest of the year. The outfielder, who showed gifts on both sides of the ball in the 2022 Arizona Fall League, collected two more hits on Wednesday. He entered the day hitting .315 between both levels. Perhaps more impressive, he closed his Double-A tenure with a 12.7% walk rate and more walks (17) than strikeouts (12).  Comments are closed. Not even a global pandemic could dim the starpower of the 2019 draft class. Five years later, we reflect on one of the greatest drafts of all time. Craig Yoho and Jack Leiter lead the way as two talented minor league pitchers to keep an eye on in this week’s Statcast Standouts. Ben Badler shares 50 scouting reports breaking down the top performing underclassmen at the 2024 Area Code Games. Once the minor league season began, it was easy to see why scouts were so excited about righthander Brody Hopkins during spring training It took 17-year-old Padres shortstop Leodalis De Vries some time to warm up, but as the summer wore on he really began to cook. In this week’s 90th Percentile Podcast, Geoff Pontes & Matt Pajak look into how athleticism and top speed are evaluated in MLB prospects. With the trade deadline now passed, J.J. Cooper and Geoff Pontes lead a deep-dive discussion on the state of each NL West organization. Star slugger and No. 3 overall draft pick Charlie Condon joins this week’s Hot Sheet Show to discuss his swing, his path to the bigs & more! With the trade deadline now passed, J.J. Cooper and Geoff Pontes lead a deep-dive discussion on the state of each NL Central organization. With the trade deadline now passed, J.J. Cooper and Geoff Pontes lead a deep-dive discussion on the state of each NL East organization. The move to 34 full scholarships from the traditional 11.7 number this offseason will further shake the core of the college game.  Read the newest magazine issue right on your phone Join our social media community 211K 223K 326K 21K 13k 
						Categories					 
						Competition Levels					 
						Subscribe					 
						About					 
				Follow us on:			