The Giants' Week 17 game against the Los Angeles Rams could be flexed to a Thursday night.
Chris Faytok | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com The Thursday Night Flex motion passed Monday afternoon at the NFL owners meetings in Minneapolis, but it more than likely is much ado about nothing as it relates to the Giants. Giants co-owner John Mara voiced his displeasure with the idea at the owners meetings in Phoenix in late March, but he knew the motion to allow games to be switched from Sunday night to Thursday night during Weeks 13 through 17 would be raised again. “I‘m adamantly opposed to it,” Mara said in Phoenix. “Flexible scheduling ... is really inconsiderate to our season-ticket holders who fill our stadiums every week. People have gotten used to going from Sunday afternoon to Sunday night, but that doesn’t mean they like it. This year, we can be flexed to Monday night, which I think is very inconsiderate to our ticket holders. BUY GIANTS TICKETS: STUBHUB, VIVID SEATS, TICKETMASTER “But to flex a game to Thursday night to me is abusive, and I’m adamantly opposed to it. Fortunately, it didn’t get enough votes, but it will probably be revisited in May.” It was and it passed by a 24-8 margin after some significant changes were made. No team can be made to play more than two Thursday night games and the league must give teams 28 days notice before they make a switch. Previously, the proposal called for a 15-day notice. The Giants, who have a Thursday night road game scheduled for Week 3 against the San Francisco 49ers, only have two games that could be impacted by the flex rule. In Week 13, the Giants have a bye. In Week 14, they are already scheduled for a Monday Night Football game against the Green Bay Packers at MetLife Stadium. That game can be flexed out from Monday night to Sunday afternoon, but not to Thursday. The Giants’ 1 p.m. Week 15 game at New Orleans could be moved to Thursday. The game currently scheduled for that night is the Los Angeles Chargers at the Las Vegas Raiders. It’s impossible to know for sure what will be a good matchup in Week 15, but there are four games scheduled for that Sunday involving two teams that made the playoffs last season. That list includes Minnesota at Cincinnati, Dallas at Buffalo, Philadelphia at Seattle and Baltimore at Jacksonville. Want to bet on the NFL? See the best NJ Sports Betting sites In Week 16, the Giants play in Philadelphia at 4:30 p.m. on Christmas Day, which is a Monday, so that game will not be moved to Thursday night. Finally, in Week 17, the Giants are home for a 1 p.m. game against the Los Angeles Rams. The scheduled Thursday night game that week is the Jets at Cleveland. There are two games involving 2022 playoffs teams that week: Miami at Baltimore and Cincinnati at Kansas City. All Thursday night games are on the Amazon Prime streaming platform. According to an ESPN story, the Thursday night flex rule will be in effect on a trial basis for the 2023 season only. If no Thursday night games are flexed, the resolution will carry over to the 2024 season. According to an ESPN story, the Thursday night flex rule will be in effect on a trial basis for the 2023 season only. If no Thursday night games are flexed, the resolution will carry over to the 2024 season. Judy Bautista of NFL.com asked Mara about the rule passing Monday and he said, “I’m disappointed, but certainly not surprised.” MORE SPORTS: Why is ex-Mets star — who earned $90M — still playing minor-league ball at 38? His Yankees career over, Aaron Hicks is free to chase his PGA Tour dream Why Yankees had Carlos Rodon return to New York Thank you for relying on us to provide the journalism you can trust. Please consider supporting us with a subscription. Bob Brookover can be reached at rbrookover@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices