How passionate are New York Giants fans? Pretty passionate. In a recent poll by Empire Stakes, the Giants’ fan base ranked ninth in the NFL when it comes to obsessing over their team. EmpireStakes.com – your source for New York sports betting – utilized Statista’s 2022 “Attitudes of NFL Teams” survey of NFL fans with 1,239 respondents to find who currently are the most obsessed fans in the NFL. To do so, we utilized the NFL fanbases who responded in the most positive manner to the following statements: 1) I do not want to imagine my life without my NFL team 2) My NFL Team is part of my day-to-day life 24 percent of Giants fans answered yes to each of the questions. Chicago Bears fans led the way with a 31 percent positive response followed by the Buffalo Bills, Baltimore Ravens, and Dallas Cowboys. The top 10 was rounded out by Carolina, Cincinnati, Green Bay, Arizona, San Francisco, Kansas City, and Denver. Not near the top of the list: the Jets, Eagles, Raiders, and Patriots. Story originally appeared on Giants Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine recap Team USA’s win over Brazil, preview Thursday’s game against Serbia and go through all of the NBA news they can find. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said.