Need help logging in?   An arial photo of Hermiston shows the town's natural beauty, featured Dec. 1, 2022 in 'Business View Magazine.' “A gem within a state renowned for its natural beauty.” That’s how the city of Hermiston is described in a recent feature in Business View Magazine, an online publication focusing on business-related issues. Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. This article first appeared on Northeast Oregon Now and is part of a content-sharing partnership between the Hermiston Herald and Northeast Oregon Now.     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 
                    Sign up to receive news directly to your desktop. Click the bell icon in the nav bar, at any time to change your settings.
                 
 View detailed reports of major stock indexes and look up specific symbols. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Would you like to receive breaking news? Discover hidden treasures, unique finds, and unbeatable bargains with your weekly scoop on area garage sales.  A weekly note from our editor about the inner workings of the newsroom. Find out what's happening with the latest events in our community. Would you like to receive our headline news? Would you like to receive our obituaries news? Get the best independent source of news and analysis of Oregon state government delivered to your inbox once a week. Best trending stories from the week. Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.