
Organizations choosing to expand with Armis as they seek one platform for all asset intelligence and security needs SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Armis, the asset intelligence cybersecurity company, today announced another business milestone since it reached its $100M ARR milestone in February, announcing it has achieved 80% customer growth in just the first 6 months of its fiscal year, ending July 2023. Customers across the globe also expanded their use of the Armis Platform with a 50% adoption rate of two solutions in the Armis portfolio, with over 15% adopting three or more of its solutions in the past year. 
“We focus on empowering businesses with asset intelligence and actionable plans so they can be assured that their infrastructure is safe and operational at all times,” said Yevgeny Dibrov, Co-Founder and CEO at Armis. “Today I see Armis chosen as the platform of choice for Fortune 100, 200 and 500 companies all around the world who are looking to understand their attack surface and proactively defend themselves against increased threats. I measure our success not only in financial growth, but in the positive impact that the company is having on virtually all industries thanks to the trust that our customers have given us.” 
The Attack Surface is Expanding and Threats are on the Rise 
Armis expects that by 2025, the number of connected assets will grow to 50B but 80% of assets remain unseen, unmanaged and lacking in any security measures. Vulnerabilities are also increasing with a growth of 689% in the last 6 years, many targeted at critical infrastructure with cyberattacks specifically up 140% in this sector. This increase has created a fast changing and difficult situation in which organizations are struggling to stay ahead. 
Armis is solving customers critical cybersecurity challenges with four key offerings: 
These four solutions, all recognized by analysts and customers, are all built on top of the same platform ensuring customers can benefit from an integrated platform which unlocks value and enables customers to truly see, protect and manage their attack surface. 
Armis becomes the cybersecurity industry standard, protecting the most critical assets on the planet 
Some notable recent wins include Vestas, the leading manufacturer and service provider for sustainable wind energy in the world, Reckitt, the multinational consumer goods company, Booking Holdings, the world leader in online travel, the Port of Antwerp, the world's largest cargo port, and JLR, the biggest luxury vehicle manufacturer in the UK. 
“As a leading manufacturer and service provider for sustainable wind energy, our customers require a high degree of security controls to meet regulatory requirements. We utilize Armis to detect and respond to threats and have worked extensively with Armis to shape the integration, so the product fits into our overall detect and response strategy. The insights provided by Armis have proven highly valuable in day-to-day operations again and again, and we are currently expanding our installation," said Steffen Høgh Vinter, Director CMRC Enablement and Problem Management, Vestas. 
“When we started the program from a central cyber team, we had no visibility into our factory so every device was unseen. Now, with Armis deployed in half our factories, we've seen 10s of 1000s of devices that we didn't know about before. Armis is allowing us to address three use cases: firstly, giving us that visibility that we didn't have before. Secondly, allowing us to identify vulnerabilities, which allows us to de-risk our state. And thirdly allowing us to identify any unusual behavior that's happening in our network,“ said David Boyd, Director of Cyber Strategy & Engagement at Reckitt. 
“Armis is one of those inventions that simply needed to happen. It meets a foundational, unmet need in cybersecurity, namely the ability to 'see all evil' (on the network) by discovering rogue devices and providing real time intelligence about their identity and condition. With Armis, there’s no need for an army of engineers or analysts to decipher complex systems and their signals,” said Spencer Mott, Chief Security Officer, Booking Holdings. 
Analyst Recognition and Accolades 
In 2023, Armis was recognized both in the Deloitte Technology Fast 500™ for its growth and high performance, and by Fast Company as the most innovative security company of 2023. Additionally, it has been named an honoree to the Inc. 5000 list, and its Armis Partner Experience Program (APEX) was given a 5 star rating in the 2023 CRN Partner Program Guide. 
If you would like to know more about Armis’ award-winning solutions, visit armis.com or contact us at info@armis.com. 
About Armis 
Armis, the asset intelligence cybersecurity company, protects the entire attack surface and manages the organization's cyber risk exposure in real time. In a rapidly evolving, perimeter-less world Armis ensures that organizations continuously see, secure, protect and manage all critical assets. Armis secures Fortune 100, 200 and 500 companies as well as national governments, state and local entities to help keep critical infrastructure, economies and society stay safe and secure 24/7. Armis is a privately held company headquartered in California. 
Media Contact:Rebecca Cradick
Senior Director, Global Communications
Armis
pr@armis.com 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.