MENU Business.com aims to help business owners make informed decisions to support and grow their companies. We research and recommend products and services suitable for various business types, investing thousands of hours each year in this process. As a business, we need to generate revenue to sustain our content. We have financial relationships with some companies we cover, earning commissions when readers purchase from our partners or share information about their needs. These relationships do not dictate our advice and recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates and recommends products and services based on their research and expertise. Learn more about our process and partners here. Build relationships, trust and loyalty with your social media followers to foster retention. Social media platforms can help businesses attract new customers, connect with current customers, build brand awareness, and push new products. However, many brands don’t understand social media’s vital role in customer retention.  A well-thought-out social media marketing strategy helps increase customer retention by building trusting, loyal relationships with consumers. Loyal customers provide invaluable repeat business, help create positive brand perception, and tend to spend more money per visit. We’ll share expert advice on using social media for customer retention and explain the importance of a customer retention strategy.  Editor’s note: Need an online marketing service for your business? Fill out the below questionnaire to have our vendor partners contact you with free information. You must sustain and grow customer relationships to grow your business. There are two parts to this: customer acquisition and customer retention. While successfully converting leads into customers is always a priority, it’s pointless if you lose existing customers at the same rate.  Here are five best practices for using social media for customer retention.  Building a relationship with your customers is vital to retaining them. If customers trust you and like your brand, they’re more likely to stay. Building a relationship with your followers is an ongoing process that needs care and attention, noted Rachael Goulet, social media manager at Sprout Social. “This starts with creating authentic, genuine content that adds value for the audience.” To build relationships, you must create content that is valuable to your audience without being overly promotional. Customers prefer connecting with brands they like, so be friendly and relatable. “It’s important to remember that relationships are a two-way street,” said digital strategist Taylor Fulton. “Brands should both listen and communicate with their audience to build meaningful engagements. This means talking with people, not just talking at them.” People come to social media to be social. If you aren’t engaging your audience on social media, your posts will be lost in the endless stream of new content. Customers who feel a strong connection to your brand will likely stay customers.  Effective ways to engage on social media include the following:  Use social media listening tools to understand who your customers are and what they want. When you understand where they’re coming from, you can align your posts and products with their preferences.  Here are some ways to listen to customers:  Perks like coupons can drive engagement and retention. Post coupons or exclusive sales only on your social media pages to keep customers returning to your accounts and thinking about your brand. You can also post company news and helpful resources on your social pages to increase followers. “Brands can use social media to share specific offers, announce company news, and even share exclusive resources, information, or tips about new or different ways to use their product or service,” advised Rachel Blanks, social media manager at InterContinental Hotels Group.  Sharing exclusive, helpful content can turn social media into a valuable resource for customers, and make your account worth following. There’s more to customer retention than excellent products and competitive prices. Building a customer loyalty program will incentivize customers to return, buy more and reap the rewards. Use your social media accounts to promote your loyalty program and rewards, including products, discounts and freebies.  Loyalty programs reward customers who choose your business over your competitors. They’re straightforward to plan and implement and easy to market via social media.  Besides the obvious benefit of increasing customer loyalty, marketing your loyalty program on social media will bolster customer retention, attract new customers who want in on the exclusive offers, and create stronger relationships with social media followers by making them feel special.  A customer retention strategy is essential to ensure your business’s long-term growth and success. The benefits of an effective customer retention strategy include the following:  Customer retention is crucial to your business in myriad ways, so it pays to have a well-thought-out customer retention strategy. You’re probably already running social media marketing campaigns. Boosting your efforts with specific attention to customer relationships and customer service issues will protect existing ties and yield enormous dividends.  Some source interviews were conducted for a previous version of this article. B. newsletter is your digest of bite-sized news, thought & brand leadership, and entertainment. All in one email. Our mission is to help you take your team, your business and your career to the next level. Whether you're here for product recommendations, research or career advice, we're happy you're here!