After a couple years of high growth with big IPOs and funding, the advertising technology industry slowed down in 2022. Marketers reined in digital ad spend, and adtech companies felt the blow, leading to industry-wide layoffs. Raising money became more difficult for startups, and there were less notable mergers and acquisitions. But it wasn't doom and gloom for everybody. Adtech companies with solid businesses that solved problems in hot areas like retail media and streaming TV stood out this year. The growth of ad-supported streaming from Netflix, Disney, and others led to new business for adtech companies that buy and sell TV ads. And retailers like Walmart and Kroger signed new deals with adtech companies to expand their advertising businesses. While fervor around the death of third-party cookies cooled down, thanks in part to Google once again delaying its deadline, advertisers continued to test new ways to target and measure ads.  Insider compiled this list based on our own reporting, more than 50 nominations, and discussions with ad industry analysts and research firms. This year, we squarely focused on companies whose primary business is facilitating the purchase and sale of ads, and did not include content owners that sell their own inventory. We included a mix of big companies like The Trade Desk and startups like Good-Loop. We looked at a variety of factors including the types of problems these companies are trying to solve, revenue, funding raised, big news events in 2022, and their reputation among industry peers. Here are the 12 hottest adtech companies of 2022. Star to know: Todd Parsons, chief product officer 2022 revenue: $645 million minus traffic-acquisition costs through September Seeking to dominate retail media and e-commerce ads: Criteo continued its pivot from retargeting to retail media this year, making it one of the biggest players that help retailers and brands buy e-commerce ads. Criteo powers ad businesses for 160 retailers, and helped launch programs for Best Buy and Michaels this year.  Criteo is betting big on its commerce business, which includes retail media and an arm that helps advertisers find and target shoppers on publishers' websites. The company predicts those areas will make up $1 billion— or 75% — of revenue by 2025. Criteo closed the acquisition of rival Iponweb this year, a key acquisition that adds to Criteo's first-party data products. The firm then rolled out new tools that sell, buy, and measure offsite retail media ads on the open web.  And a restructure of Criteo's sales team this year focused on the firm's e-commerce business by splitting sales teams into enterprise and growth marketers. Star to know: Julie Eddleman, EVP and global chief commercial officer 2022 revenue: Projected $454 million Assuaging brand safety concerns: One of advertisers' biggest fears is that their ads might show up next to objectionable content. The concerns will only increase in 2023, with the prevalence of user-generated content from platforms like TikTok, Elon Musk's continued takeover of Twitter, and the growth of new ad channels like Netflix. Companies like DoubleVerify fill an important role in ensuring brands that their ads ran against content that they're comfortable with, and that they were viewed by real people instead of bots — also important given the rise of streaming-TV viewing, which ad fraudsters have sought to take advantage of.  While DoubleVerify isn't the only company to offer these services, its revenue has grown steadily, in the mid-30%, since it went public in 2020. 2022 was a big business year for DoubleVerify, as it was one of the companies selected by Netflix to verify its ads, and it also expanded on a previous partnership with TikTok. It has an exclusive agreement to verify Reddit's ad inventory, and it got accreditation from the MRC, an industry body, to verify viewability on YouTube. Heading into 2023, DoubleVerify is intent on global expansion. Company CEO Mark Zagorski said at a Barclay's conference in December that its penetration outside the US is "very low," and that it hasn't had the chance to get in front of advertisers internationally. Julie Eddleman, the company's global chief commercial officer, is a veteran executive from Google, and is tasked with bringing more global business to DoubleVerify. Star to know: Amy Williams, CEO and founder  2022 revenue: $6 million to $8 million Driving charitable donations through ad engagement: Good-Loop is helping tackle digital advertising's high carbon emissions. The startup pitches advertising formats that encourage people to watch ads, and in exchange brands donate to a charity. Good-Loop also provides advertisers with a tracking pixel that tracks carbon emissions produced by digital ads.  UK-based Good-Loop raised $6 million in a Series A round this year and expanded into the US. Next year, the company plans to launch a QR code-based ad format for streaming TV and it is working on an educational program that will equip marketers with information about the environmental impact of digital ads. Good-Loop's partners include agencies and adtech firms like GroupM, Integral Ad Science, and Scope3. Star to know: Tousanna Durgan, head of solution engineering Revenue: $10 million to $15 million A data clean room industry educator: Habu operates in the nascent data clean room space, providing technology that helps the likes of advertisers, agencies, platforms, and publishers to match their data to find common audiences and other insights in an aggregated, privacy compliant way. It counts Disney, L'Oréal, and Activision among its clients. 2022 was a growth year for Habu, which more than doubled headcount to 65 people, hiring senior leadership from the likes of Oracle, Salesforce, and Epsilon. It also partnered with Google on its new clean-room-style tech product and with Amazon Marketing Cloud. Habu's focus for the rest of the year and beyond is to educate the market on the use cases of data clean rooms and provide new product features that make the technology easier to use. Those include extending its suite of no-code modules, expanding its library of pre-built queries, and leaning on the use of marketer-friendly data visualizations. Habu is also a founding member of the Clean Room Primer industry group — alongside competitors Claravine, InfoSum, LiveRamp, and Merkle — that aims to make the space less confusing and introduce standards. Star to know: Kunal Nagpal, chief business officer 2022 revenue: $282 million through September  Forging through headwinds in mobile advertising: Mobile advertising companies are dealing with a lot of volatility. Besides the economic slowdown that's gripped the entire world, mobile adtech firms are also dealing with the continued fallout of privacy restrictions coming from tech giants like Apple and Google.  While InMobi, which has 1,570 employees globally, isn't immune to these headwinds, it has maintained a plan to keep its ship steady. Some 70% of InMobi's business comes from the US, according to the Economic Times, and InMobi has big hopes for its consumer-facing properties based out of India. One of those properties is Glance, which sends content to smartphone lockscreens, and which will launch in the US in 2023. Glance also owns the short-form video platform Roposo, which InMobi hopes can capture some of the short-form video fervor popularized by TikTok.  While the success of Glance in the US remains to be seen, it's attracted significant investment. Google participated in a $145 million round in 2020, and earlier this year, Glance nabbed a $200 million investment round. If Glance succeeds in the US, it will provide audience data that InMobi could use to inform precise targeting and measurement. However, the company also blends that with adtech tools that can target more generalized audiences, based on what they consume online.  One of the key execs leading InMobi's success is Kunal Nagpal, a seven-year vet at the company who currently serves as its chief business officer. Nagpal continues to oversee a key product called InMobi Exchange, which connects advertisers to in-app ad inventory. Despite all of the headwinds buffeting mobile advertising, that exchange has seen 39% year-over-year revenue growth. Star to know: Jo Kinsella, president of InnovidXP Revenue: $93 million through September A Nielsen alternative for connected TV measurement: Having made its public-markets debut in 2021 through a SPAC merger, the connected-TV adtech company quickly put its newly raised funds to use. In February of this year, Innovid acquired TVSquared, a measurement platform, in a deal valued at around $160 million.  Jo Kinsella, former president of TVSquared, now leads InnovidXP, the measurement unit launched in the summer to help marketers measure their linear and CTV advertising. The measurement solution is integrated into Innovid's ad serving and creative optimization products and is said to work across over 1,000 publishers in more than 75 countries. With more ad dollars switching from linear to streaming TV and tensions rising between media companies and Nielsen, a race has ensued to find alternatives for the go-to US TV ratings provider, with Innovid in the frame among peers like Comscore and iSpot.TV. Innovid has signed key deals such as an expansion of its partnership with Fox to measure cross-platform viewing and an integration with The Trade Desk's measurement marketplace. Star to know: Sean Muller, CEO 2022 revenue: Increased 40% this year, according to a spokesperson. Last year's revenue was $75 million. Making big moves in streaming TV advertising: Last year, iSpot.TV took aim at Nielsen's dominance as the de facto measurement provider for TV advertisers. This year, it followed through on that promise by getting major media providers to use its measurement technology, working with a premiere ad buying platform, and nabbing a $325 million investment round from Goldman Sachs, while also investing in other companies. This activity was spearheaded by iSpot CEO Sean Muller. The company got a big boost in early 2022 when NBCUniversal allowed marketers to buy ads based on iSpot's audience measurements, putting it in the vaunted position as a TV-buying "currency." NBCUniversal said that some of its advertisers are already using iSpot's currency to buy ads. In March, iSpot also became the default streaming TV measurement provider for campaigns purchased on the ad-buying platform The Trade Desk. That's significant, considering that video and streaming TV advertising make up about 40% of ad spend on The Trade Desk. Beyond those partnerships, iSpot had a big year of dealmaking. In early 2022, it bought a company called Tunity, which lets people hear muted TVs in places like bars or offices by streaming the audio to their phones. The acquisition gives iSpot the ability to measure that out-of-home viewing. In November, iSpot led a $16 million funding round for TVision, another TV measurement provider that uses eye-tracking technology to determine how many people in a household are actually watching TV ads. That funding round also put Muller on TVision's board, giving him a prime view into TVision's business and technology, in case iSpot wanted to deepen its engagement. Star to know: Mano Pillai, chief product officer 2022 revenue: Nearly $200 million Putting email at the heart of first-party data strategies: As third-party cookies and other identifiers near their expiration dates, marketers and publishers are becoming increasingly reliant on email lists, logged-in users, and other first-party data to target and measure their campaigns.  LiveIntent, best known as an email-based ad network, has been leaning heavily into this trend with its Authenticated Bridge platform that connects logged-in email readers to website and app audiences without the need for cookies.  As more publishers and individual creators look to newsletters to expand their audiences and grow loyalty, LiveIntent has reported a surge in demand from both advertisers and publishers alike.  Looking ahead to 2023, LiveIntent is focusing its efforts on the fast-growing retail media space, ensuring retailers are emphasizing email in their strategies. The company already works with ecommerce brands including Wayfair, Sam's Club, Overstock, and Gap. Star to know: Kristin Wnuk Crawford, VP of sales 2022 revenue: Projected $125 million Powering local streaming TV advertising across the nation: Every adtech company is pushing to get into the surging streaming TV market, but Madhive is positioning itself to capture a unique aspect. Broadcasters can use Madhive's infrastructure to build tools for advertisers to target and measure streaming TV ad campaigns primarily in local markets. For instance, EW Scripps used Madhive's technology to build its own streaming TV ad targeting product. Other clients include Fox, Scripps, and TEGNA.  2022 was a big year for Madhive, as it really began to expand, building solutions specifically for sectors like healthcare and political advertisers. During the recent Midterm elections, Madhive's technology helped political ad buyers target voters more precisely, based on Congressional districts instead of ZIP codes.  And the company has expansive aspirations for 2023. The company currently has 146 employees and is growing 70% year-over-year. In September, it hired Kristin Wnuk Crawford as its SVP of sales. Crawford has extensive experience as a senior exec at Roku and Hulu spearheading local sales. And at Madhive, she'll play a big part in expanding the company's work with large advertisers like P&G. She'll be convincing them to integrate Madhive into their existing technology ad stacks, which is a big ask.  Madhive is making the case by claiming its tech can offer those brands better ad targeting and measurement at a local level — and that brands will be able to execute those local campaigns at a national level.  Star to know: Erin Madorsky, chief strategy officer 2022 revenue: More than $465 million Flying the flag for European adtech: In what was one of the biggest European adtech transactions in recent years, private-equity firm Bridgepoint took a majority investment in MiQ in September, which valued the UK-based ad firm between $900 million and $1 billion.  MiQ set straight to work in launching a new M&A division, and in November made its first acquisition: publisher audience platform AirGrid. The profitable company has said it now plans to become a strategic acquirer of more adtech startups to drive its inorganic growth strategy and further its international expansion. MiQ offers a product that helps advertisers like Subway and the US Tennis Association capture data from various sources to figure out where to target their ad spending and to improve the performance of their campaigns. It also buys and re-sells ad inventory from larger demand-side platforms and is growing its business in new areas such as advanced TV advertising. Product highlights from 2022 include launching its CookielessIQ customer "readiness" score that helps advertisers evaluate how they're performing against competitors in their use of cookieless targeting technology. It also launched an audience graph called Identity Spine that enables its advertiser clients to stitch together data from various sources to create audience and household profiles.  Star to know: Tim Sims, chief revenue officer 2022 revenue: $1.1 billion through September The only independent adtech company that can take on Google: The Trade Desk continued to use its clout as the largest independent adtech company to shape digital advertising. The company pulled hundreds of millions worth of ad spend from Google's Open Bidding tool this year and launched its own tool called OpenPath that lets advertisers directly buy programmatic ads without using a supply-side platform. The move put The Trade Desk and Google in more direct competition for publishers' ad businesses.  The Trade Desk also continued its big bets in areas beyond online ads. Video accounted for about 40% of spend running through The Trade Desk during the third quarter. The company is building a team that specializes in video game advertising and other emerging channels. The Trade Desk is also pushing into the surging business of retail media and signed new deals with Walgreens and Albertsons to help retailers sell offsite ads on the open web. Despite Google's decision to delay the death of third-party cookies and marketers' concerns about how cookieless ads will perform, Unified ID 2.0 — an open-source ID framework originally created by The Trade Desk — added partnerships with Procter & Gamble, Disney, and Amazon's AWS this year. Star to know: Michael Provenzano, CEO and cofounder 2022 revenue: $75 million Capitalizing on the return of outdoor advertising: After a rough couple of years from people mostly staying home during the pandemic, the out-of-home advertising industry came back this year, and ad spend is expected to grow 6% in 2023 to $31 billion — just above pre-Covid levels — according to Magna Global. Vistar Media is one firm driving that growth by placing programmatic ads on digital billboards and signs. The company handles $200 million in billings and helps advertisers like Old Navy, Target, and DoorDash buy out-of-home ads. The firm signed a deal with Uber in late 2021 that kicked off in earnest this year and uses Vistar Media's technology to power some ads that appear on top of Uber cars.  Vistar Media also raised $30 million from Lamar Advertising in 2021, and used those funds this year to acquire adtech firm Sage+Archer to expand into Europe, and in Asia Pacific markets like Hong Kong and Australia. The firm launched a product that pools ad space across publishers, aimed at selling digital out-of-home ads through an auction. Vistar Media is currently working on products that advertisers use to tweak creative on out-of-home ads. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to