MADISON - Wisconsin children with accounts on social media platforms like Instagram and TikTok would be barred from using the apps after 10 p.m. and need parental permission to create accounts under a new bill released Monday. Republican Rep. David Steffen of Green Bay is seeking support for a proposal that would require social media companies to adhere to new rules for Wisconsin users under the age of 18, including a requirement to verify account holders' ages. Steffen said in a memo to lawmakers the proposal is aimed at curbing use of social media among young Wisconsinites to prevent harmful mental health effects of such exposure. "The evidence is clear — social media companies benefit from unrestricted access to our children and it comes at the expense of the health and wellbeing of our kids. What’s more, both children and parents want more to be done to regulate this unfettered online environment." Under the bill, parents could access their child's social media accounts and also could opt out of the bill's requirements. Social media companies would also be required to obtain parental permission and perform age verification within 21 days of the creation of an account or from when the account was last accessed under the bill. If social media companies did not adhere to these rules, it could be fined $100 per day. Lawmakers across the country have been pushing to limit children’s access to social media. Nearly half of states nationwide have recently banned the popular video-sharing app TikTok from state-owned devices, in many instances with bipartisan support. Democratic Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers banned the app in January. Steffen announced his plans last month to propose more precautions for all social media platforms. Steffen said in a statement that he modeled the measure after a law Utah lawmakers passed in March. Questions have arisen about whether and how that law will be enforced, and it’s likely to face legal challenges. Arkansas lawmakers also passed a bill last month modeled after the Utah legislation that will offer another test of the enforceability of social media limits for kids. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Molly Beck can be reached at molly.beck@jrn.com.