Defendants in the lawsuit filed by Seneca Valley School District include the company that owns Facebook and Instagram, as well as the companies that own TikTok, Snap Inc., and YouTube. Defendants in the lawsuit filed by Seneca Valley School District include the company that owns Facebook and Instagram, as well as the companies that own TikTok, Snap Inc., and YouTube. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Defendants in the lawsuit filed by Seneca Valley School District include the company that owns Facebook and Instagram, as well as the companies that own TikTok, Snap Inc., and YouTube. A federal lawsuit filed by the Seneca Valley School District names several social media companies as defendants and claims those companies have played a role in the youth mental health crisis in America. The lawsuit was filed Wednesday.  Watch the report from Butler County: Click the video above. Defendants include the company that owns Facebook and Instagram, as well as the companies that own TikTok, Snap Inc., and YouTube. Attorney Tom King, with Dillon McCandless King Coulter & Graham LLP, said Moniteau School District and Burgettstown Area School District also joined in the lawsuit on Wednesday. In the lawsuit, the school district said an increased use of and dependency on social media has led to an increase in the number of students in crisis, acting out, vandalizing school property, and needing mental health services.  King said school districts are feeling a strain on their resources, such as counseling, when it comes to mental health and feel social media is at the root of the issue. In a statement, the district said, "Seneca Valley School District is participating in the lawsuit to hold social media platforms accountable for the direct targeting of adolescents through algorithms, which has caused detrimental effects to mental health. Additionally, the district seeks accountability anytime their own platform policies and community standards are violated but not addressed when identified by school officials. Part of the district's mission is to emphasize digital citizenship with our students; we hope this action will ensure future changes and additional safeguards from social media platforms to help us realize this goal." Pittsburgh’s Action News 4 has reached out to the defendants in the case. On Thursday morning, a spokesperson for Snap had already responded, writing, "Nothing is more important to us than the well-being of our community. At Snapchat, we curate content from known creators and publishers and use human moderation to review user generated content before it can reach a large audience, which greatly reduces the spread and discovery of harmful content. We also work closely with leading mental health organizations to provide in-app tools for Snapchatters and resources to help support both themselves and their friends. We are constantly evaluating how we continue to make our platform safer, including through new education, features and protections." Google released the following statement: “Protecting kids across our platforms has always been core to our work. In collaboration with child development specialists, we have built age-appropriate experiences for kids and families on YouTube, and provide parents with robust controls. The allegations in these complaints are simply not true,”  José Castañeda, Google spokesperson, said. This is the latest in a number of lawsuits filed by school districts across the country over this issue.  The cases will be taken to California and reviewed by a judge in Oakland who is overseeing all the platform cases nationwide, according to King. Pittsburgh Public Schools filed a lawsuit earlier this month.   King said more districts are expected to join in on the lawsuit on Thursday, including Mount Lebanon School District. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.