FN Media Group Presents USA News Group News Commentary VANCOUVER, British Columbia, June 8, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- USA News Group - By utilizing newly developed novel mechanisms, biotech researchers and scientists are making strides in the battle against cancer. A study put out by researchers at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center recently detailed a previously unexplained type of cell death that could open the door for novel cancer therapies. How we arm ourselves in the battle against cancer is rapidly changing, thanks to novel mechanisms giving important results, such as those from Oncolytics Biotech Inc. (NASDAQ: ONCY) (TSX: ONC), Gilead Sciences, Inc. (NASDAQ: GILD), iTeos Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ: ITOS), GSK plc (NYSE: GSK), and Precigen, Inc. (NASDAQ: PGEN). Oncolytics Biotech Inc. (NASDAQ: ONCY) (TSX: ONC) ended 2022 on a very strong note, receiving Fast Track Designation (FTD) for its flagship asset, pelareorep, a novel first-in-class intravenously delivered immunotherapeutic agent for the treatment of solid tumors and hematological malignancies. "Receiving this Fast Track designation is an important accomplishment that speaks to the impressive response rate and the durability of the response in our PDAC study, and it also reflects the pressing need to improve upon the standard of care in this indication," stated Dr. Matt Coffey, President and CEO of Oncolytics Biotech. "We expect the opportunity for more frequent communication about our data with FDA provided by this designation will be invaluable as we work to align with the Agency on the best design for a registrational PDAC study." At this year's Future of Oncology Virtual Symposium in early April, Oncolytics was selected to participate in a panel presentation called Novel Mechanisms with Important Readouts. Among the important results that Oncolytics has already announced was the release of interim clinical data in a cohort of the company's phase 1/2 GOBLET study for the treatment of advanced/metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients with the combination of pelareorep, the chemotherapies gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, and anti-PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor, atezolizumab. The GOBLET study's pancreatic cohort delivered an impressive 69% objective response rate (ORR), including a complete response, which the National Cancer Institute defines as "the disappearance of all signs of cancer in response to treatment" (aka "remission"). For contextual reference, these ORR results were nearly triple the average ORR of ~25% reported in historical control trials evaluating gemcitabine in combination with nab-paclitaxel in pancreatic cancer. Pelareorep's impacts on cancer are also being researched, including through Oncolytics' first and longest-standing focus on its HR-positive HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer program. In 2022, ONCY completed enrollment in the program's second randomized Phase 2 trial, BRACELET-1, which is approaching a crucial data readout that the company anticipates sharing at a major medical meeting next quarter. "Just to provide some additional company history, our breast cancer program's prior positive results come from IND-213, a randomized Phase 2 trial that counts as one of the two pivotal studies required for regulatory approval of pela in breast cancer, per a special protocol assessment agreement with the FDA," said Dr. Coffey in the company's Q4 2022 earnings call. "IND-213 showed a statistically significant and clinically meaningful near doubling of overall survival in HR-positive HER2-negative breast cancer patients who received pela plus paclitaxel compared to those who received paclitaxel alone." Oncolytics currently boasts approximately CDN$32.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (as of December 31, 2022), providing projected runway through BRACELET-1's upcoming readout and into 2024. Back in May 2022, Gilead Sciences, Inc. (NASDAQ: GILD) and partner Dragonfly Therapeutics announced a collaboration designed to advance a number of Dragonfly's novel natural killer (NK) cell engager-based immunotherapies for oncology and inflammation indications. As per the deal, Gilead secured an exclusive, worldwide license from Dragonfly for the 5T4-targeting investigational immunotherapy program, DF7001, and exclusive rights to develop and commercialize additional NK cell engager programs using Dragonfly's Tri-specific NK Engager (TriNKET) platform. DF7001 is a TriNKET designed to activate and direct NK and cytotoxic T cell killing against cancer cells. "We are excited to partner with Dragonfly as we expand our pipeline with innovative NK cell engager programs," said Flavius Martin, MD, Executive Vice President, Research at Gilead. "We look forward to working with the Dragonfly team to explore novel NK engager treatments across diverse therapeutic areas to address some of the greatest gaps in care for cancer and inflammatory diseases." iTeos Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ: ITOS) in collaboration with GSK plc (NYSE: GSK) is evaluating its monoclonal antibody EOS-448 as a potential next-generation immuno-oncology agent in multiple combination studies. As per iTeos' Q4 and FY 2022 results, the companies are continuing the exploration of two novel triples in selected advanced solid tumors both in Phase 1b trials: EOS-448 with dostarlimab and GSK's investigational anti-CD96 antibody, and EOS-448 with dostarlimab and GSK's investigational anti-PVRIG antibody. iTeos is also engaged in a clinical development program targeting a novel mechanism in the adenosine pathway for its first-in-class small molecule program EOS-984. The company has already completed Investigational New Drug / Clinical Trials Application-enabling activities, including toxicity studies and anticipates initiating clinical studies for EOS-984 in mid-2023. In February 2023, GSK received regular approval from the FDA for Jemperli, a programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1)-blocking antibody, for the treatment of adult patients with mismatch repair-deficient recurrent or advanced endometrial cancer. GSK intends for Jemperli to become the backbone of their ongoing immuno-oncology-based research and development programme when used alone and in combination with standard of care and future novel cancer therapies, particularly for patients who currently have limited treatment options. Working diligently to improve the field of CAR-T therapy, Precigen, Inc. (NASDAQ: PGEN) recently dosed its first patient in its ongoing Phase 1/1b Dose Escalation/Dose Expansion Study of its first-in-class investigational multigenic, autologous CAR-T cell therapy, PRGN-3007 UltraCAR-T platform in advanced ROR1-positive hematological and solid tumors. The target patient population for the study includes chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and solid tumors, including breast adenocarcinomas encompassing triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). There are estimated to be more than 100,000 patients diagnosed in both the hematological and TNBC target populations in the USA, EU and Japan in 2023. "Dosing the first patient with PRGN-3007, the next generation of UltraCAR-T incorporating PD-1 inhibition, is a significant milestone for the UltraCAR-T platform," said Helen Sabzevari, PhD, President and CEO of Precigen. "The PRGN-3007 study targets a broad range of hematological and solid tumor indications and this milestone helps us move closer to our vision for UltraCAR-T, which aims to deliver a library of personalized autologous UltraCAR-T therapies using overnight manufacturing at the patient's medical center." For more information please visit: https://usanewsgroup.com/2022/11/27/market-uncertainty-is-creating-opportunities-that-have-somehow-been-overlooked/ Article Source:USA News Grouphttp://USAnewsgroup.com info@usanewsgroup.com DISCLAIMER: Nothing in this publication should be considered as personalized financial advice. We are not licensed under securities laws to address your particular financial situation. No communication by our employees to you should be deemed as personalized financial advice. Please consult a licensed financial advisor before making any investment decision. This is a paid advertisement and is neither an offer nor recommendation to buy or sell any security. We hold no investment licenses and are thus neither licensed nor qualified to provide investment advice. The content in this report or email is not provided to any individual with a view toward their individual circumstances. USA News Group is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Market IQ Media Group, Inc. ("MIQ"). MIQ has been paid a fee for Oncolytics Biotech Inc. advertising and digital media from the company directly. There may be 3rd parties who may have shares of Oncolytics Biotech Inc., and may liquidate their shares which could have a negative effect on the price of the stock. This compensation constitutes a conflict of interest as to our ability to remain objective in our communication regarding the profiled company. Because of this conflict, individuals are strongly encouraged to not use this publication as the basis for any investment decision. The owner/operator of MIQ own shares of Oncolytics Biotech Inc. which were purchased in the open market, and reserve the right to buy and sell, and will buy and sell shares of Oncolytics Biotech Inc. at any time without any further notice commencing immediately and ongoing. We also expect further compensation as an ongoing digital media effort to increase visibility for the company, no further notice will be given, but let this disclaimer serve as notice that all material, including this article, which is disseminated by MIQ has been approved by Oncolytics Biotech Inc.; this is a paid advertisement, we currently own shares of Oncolytics Biotech Inc. and will buy and sell shares of the company in the open market, or through private placements, and/or other investment vehicles. While all information is believed to be reliable, it is not guaranteed by us to be accurate. Individuals should assume that all information contained in our newsletter is not trustworthy unless verified by their own independent research. Also, because events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected, there will likely be differences between the any predictions and actual results. Always consult a licensed investment professional before making any investment decision. Be extremely careful, investing in securities carries a high degree of risk; you may likely lose some or all of the investment. USA News Group is Source of all content listed above. FN Media Group, LLC (FNM), is a third party publisher and news dissemination service provider, which disseminates electronic information through multiple online media channels. FNM is NOT affiliated in any manner with USA News Group or any company mentioned herein.  The commentary, views and opinions expressed in this release by USA News Group are solely those of USA News Group and are not shared by and do not reflect in any manner the views or opinions of FNM. FNM is not liable for any investment decisions by its readers or subscribers. FNM and its affiliated companies are a news dissemination and financial marketing solutions provider and are NOT a registered broker/dealer/analyst/adviser, holds no investment licenses and may NOT sell, offer to sell or offer to buy any security. FNM was not compensated by any public company mentioned herein to disseminate this press release. This release contains "forward-loking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. "Forward-looking statements" describe future expectations, plans, results, or strategies and are generally preceded by words such as "may", "future", "plan" or "planned", "will" or "should", "expected," "anticipates", "draft", "eventually" or "projected". You are cautioned that such statements are subject to a multitude of risks and uncertainties that could cause future circumstances, events, or results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, including the risks that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, and other risks identified in a company's annual report on Form 10-K or 10-KSB and other filings made by such company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements included herein, and not place undue reliance on such statements. The forward-looking statements in this release are made as of the date hereof and FNM undertakes no obligation to update such statements. Media Contact Information:FN Media Group, LLCMedia Contact e-mail:editor@financialnewsmedia.com U.S. Phone: +1(954)345-0611  View original content:https://www.prnewswire.co.uk/news-releases/new-drugs-in-fight-against-cancer-being-powered-by-novel-mechanisms-of-action-301846410.html