Companies in the  Healthcare sector have received a lot of coverage today as analysts  weigh in on Gilead Sciences (GILD – Research Report), Legend Biotech (LEGN – Research Report) and GE Healthcare Technologies Inc (GEHC – Research Report). Gilead Sciences (GILD) In a report released today, Brian Abrahams  from RBC Capital reiterated a Hold rating on Gilead Sciences, with a price target of $87.00. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $86.15, close to its 52-week high of $89.74. According to TipRanks.com, Abrahams is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 11.2% and a 52.0% success rate. Abrahams covers the Healthcare sector, focusing on stocks such as Intra-Cellular Therapies, Karyopharm Therapeutics, and Enanta Pharmaceuticals. Currently, the analyst consensus on Gilead Sciences is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $91.31, which is a 5.0% upside from current levels. In a report issued on April 12, Morgan Stanley also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $85.00 price target.
		  See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Legend Biotech (LEGN) BMO Capital analyst Kostas Biliouris  maintained a Buy rating on Legend Biotech today and set a price target of $90.00. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $68.80, close to its 52-week high of $70.00. According to TipRanks.com, Biliouris is a 2-star analyst with an average return of 0.0% and a 47.4% success rate. Biliouris covers the Healthcare sector, focusing on stocks such as 4D Molecular Therapeutics, BioMarin Pharmaceutical, and Crispr Therapeutics AG. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for Legend Biotech with a $75.90 average price target, a 10.6% upside from current levels. In a report issued on April 18, Jefferies also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $73.00 price target.
		  GE Healthcare Technologies Inc (GEHC) BTIG analyst Ryan Zimmerman  maintained a Hold rating on GE Healthcare Technologies Inc today. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $79.89. According to TipRanks.com, Zimmerman is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 10.1% and a 49.6% success rate. Zimmerman covers the Healthcare sector, focusing on stocks such as Tactile Systems Technology, Treace Medical Concepts, and Zimmer Biomet Holdings. Currently, the analyst consensus on GE Healthcare Technologies Inc is a Strong Buy with an average price target of $92.33. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on GILD:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks