







 









 








 







 




 



 SPOTLIGHT - Ginko will be eligible for up to $331 million in milestone payments.   Image Credit: Adobe Stock Images/idealeksis Ginko Bioworks and Pfizer have officially announced a partnership focused on the discovery of RNA-based drug candidates, with the pharma giant leveraging Ginko’s proprietary RNA technology to advance development of novel RNA molecules across priority research areas. After receiving an upfront payment, Ginko will also be eligible for additional payments of up to $331 million contingent upon achievement development and commercial milestone. "Billions of patients around the world have already benefited from advances in RNA-based technologies. We're thrilled to be able to help enable the discovery and development of novel drugs using this powerful modality by applying our platform technologies, which are designed to program RNA for maximum therapeutic effect," said Jason Kelly, CEO, co-founder, Ginkgo Bioworks. "Ginkgo's approach enables and accelerates discovery across different disease areas and modalities for our partners, who bring deep expertise in drug development. We can't wait to leverage our broad and deep RNA Codebase and deploy our Foundry to enable the era of programmable medicines with the Pfizer team." Reference: Ginkgo Bioworks Announces Multi-Target RNA Discovery Collaboration with Pfizer. PR Newswire. September 27, 2023. Accessed September 27, 2023. https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ginkgo-bioworks-announces-multi-target-rna-discovery-collaboration-with-pfizer-301939570.html Questhealth.com Announces 13 New Blood Test for Micronutrients According to the company, about one-third of the country is at risk for micronutrient deficiency. Gen-Z Influence on Pharma M&A Ian Baer, Founder and Chief Soothsayer, Sooth, discusses how pharmaceutical companies and healthcare advertising agencies can adapt their strategies to attract Gen-Z. Personalizing Pharma: Overcoming Challenges to Drive Digital Customer Engagement As HCPs continue to face time constraints and information overload, delivering relevant and personalized content becomes increasingly critical. Transforming Cancer Care: Data, AI, and Patient-Centered Care    Join us as Mohit Manrao, SVP and head of US oncology at AstraZeneca, shares his patient-centered approach to transforming cancer care, bridging the gap between innovative science and tangible patient outcomes across all populations on a global scale.   4 Essential Approaches for Effective Brand Narratives  By embracing technology and integrating it seamlessly into your brand narrative, you can create a more engaging, personalized, and effective experience for HCPs.  Not Just Another Tactic: Why Pharmaceutical Brands Need to Build a Strategy Around Point of Care Messaging Point of care messaging offers unique advantages in pharmaceutical marketing and should be a high priority in brand strategy discussions. Questhealth.com Announces 13 New Blood Test for Micronutrients According to the company, about one-third of the country is at risk for micronutrient deficiency. Gen-Z Influence on Pharma M&A Ian Baer, Founder and Chief Soothsayer, Sooth, discusses how pharmaceutical companies and healthcare advertising agencies can adapt their strategies to attract Gen-Z. Personalizing Pharma: Overcoming Challenges to Drive Digital Customer Engagement As HCPs continue to face time constraints and information overload, delivering relevant and personalized content becomes increasingly critical. Transforming Cancer Care: Data, AI, and Patient-Centered Care    Join us as Mohit Manrao, SVP and head of US oncology at AstraZeneca, shares his patient-centered approach to transforming cancer care, bridging the gap between innovative science and tangible patient outcomes across all populations on a global scale.   4 Essential Approaches for Effective Brand Narratives  By embracing technology and integrating it seamlessly into your brand narrative, you can create a more engaging, personalized, and effective experience for HCPs.  Not Just Another Tactic: Why Pharmaceutical Brands Need to Build a Strategy Around Point of Care Messaging Point of care messaging offers unique advantages in pharmaceutical marketing and should be a high priority in brand strategy discussions. 2 Commerce Drive Cranbury, NJ 08512 609-716-7777