To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories Follow us The City of Joy is synonymous with its historic establishments. However, the past few years have witnessed an almost aggressive launch of new cafes in Kolkata. A series of restaurants with tasteful decor and terrace gardens and luxe resto-bars have also emerged in the city. From quaint little European eateries to ancestral houses-turned heritage bistros, here’s a list of the best new restaurants, bars and cafes in Kolkata for you to check out. Nestled in a 126-year-old colonial-style building on Ho Chi Minh Sarani is a mini slice of Mexico. Mehico, one of the city's buzziest establishments, features Oaxacan-inspired decor across its 1,900 square-foot space, which includes neon pink signs (in Spanish) lining the mirrored walls, large windows overlooking a tortilleria and a DJ-booth and dance floor infused with some Latin favourites (hello Karol G!). While the menu expands beyond the Mexican staples (we'd recommend the Patatas Bravas, Tamale Con Pollo and Mutton Birria Tacos) to more general Spanish food, like the Cochinita Pibil (a slow-pulled pork rice bowl). However, it's the restaurant's eclectic cocktail menu that features as its greatest draw. With a cocktail laboratory set up right behind the bar, its patrons whip up a host of foamy and frothy cocktails, like the patron-infused Capitol and Central Paradiso. Tucked in the bylanes of the otherwise bustling Bhawanipur area, The Bhawanipur House holds remnants of the city’s chequered past. The 150-year-old heritage bungalow originally belonged to the Ghosh family, before the Prakash Group decided to take a plunge into the F&B business and converted it into one of the most Instagrammable cafes in Kolkata. The new owners had kept the original material that remained in the dilapidated mansion and reused it to make up an antique-heavy interior with its wooden stairwells, cityscape paintings and gargantuan chandeliers. A tea-tasting room, confectionery and live pizza kitchen add to the cafe’s otherwise rustic charm and its sprawling open-air terrace seating is the perfect spot for those looking to take in the winter sun. The Egg Quattro Formaggi (egg stuffed with four types of cheese), Lahme (minced lamb served with hummus and pita bread) and Coq Au Vin (chicken and vegetables in brown sauce with rice) are our recommendations. Located in South Kolkata’s Gariahat, Miss Ginko is a hot new spot for live music and gigs in the city. From hip-hop party nights featuring international DJs to Sunday sundowners with acoustic sets and signature cocktails, the venue offers it all. It even has a glassroom for those looking to kick back with a beer while also staying close to the action. Miss Ginko’s has an eclectic menu, but its Asian dishes are the more popular ones. An Italian escape awaits those visiting Sorano, one of the city’s newest and buzziest restaurants, at Ho Chi Minh Sarani. Visitors can expect to sample the delicacies of Tuscan fare — hand rolled pastas, barramundis and a special mention to the Smoked Tomato Carpaccio for vegetarians — in a backdrop of high ceilings, arched windows and characteristically, plenty of olive shrubs. Sprawling across 17,000 square feet in Rashbehari, Club Aeries serves as a fun party destination with its fairy-light heavy outdoor setting and its extensive menu serving up a mix of Indian, Oriental, Lebanese, Mexican and more. The indoor lounge presents a cosier picture, with a roster of heady cocktails and live performances. Located in Lake Road, Poach- Kitchen and Espresso is one of the most Instagrammable cafes in Kolkata. The bistro is sectioned off into three floors — coffee and desserts, artsy decor and an open-air rooftop that’s ideal for good-weather days. It also hosts a pop-up space, for those looking for a charming venue to host exhibitions. It is also one of the only cafes in Kolkata to house a pet-friendly zone. Much like Sorano, Romaania, a centrally located cafe-bar on Elgin Road will teleport you to the pretty little cafes littering the big cities in Europe with their mosaic floors and bougainvillaea. The menu serves Lebanese, Italian, Turkish, Moroccan and Mediterranean fare and even contains vegan and gluten-free options. The Truffle Ravioli and Polenta Cake are must-haves. In Russian, ‘milee droog’ means ‘dear friend’. Yet another centuries-old heritage house converted into a modern-day bistro, Milee Droog comprises outdoor seating, checkboard floors and pastel holdings. What stands out about this cafe is that the menu is curated keeping the Slavic regions in mind: primarily Russia, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Poland, Azerbaijan and Turkey. While some of the dishes have an Indian twist up on the offing, others also boast of Spanish and Mexican influences. One of the more busy cafes in Kolkata is Craft Coffee, situated in a quiet Ballygunj bylane. Along with a range of artisanal coffees, visitors can also choose from an array of exciting cheeses, chocolates and savoury dishes. The cafe offers both indoor and outdoor seating, with the latter being decked up with fairy lights. It also contains a coffee roasting zone and live bakery, so you can watch your favourite baked goods being made from scratch! Low impact exercises: a surefire way to get ripped, without breaking a sweat 4 benefits of lemon water and weight loss is not one of them How Not To Die, The Longevity Diet and 5 other books that reveal the secret to a long and happy life 5 ways coconut water will help you lose weight and best time to drink it for visible effects 7 habits that can help you live longer and add 20 more years to your life More From GQ India Condé Nast India © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.