Monica Bellucci is set to play Beetlejuice's wife in Tim Burton's upcoming sequel. Per The Hollywood Reporter, Bellucci is in final negotiations to star in the film alongside newcomers Jenna Ortega and Justin Theroux. Ortega will play the daughter of Lydia Deetz, played by Winona Ryder. Michael Keaton is back as everyone's favorite poltergeist. Beetlejuice hit theaters in 1988 and followed a recently deceased couple (Geena Davis and Alec Baldwin) who, after returning to the land of the living as ghosts, are unhappy with the new family moving in and decide to hire a so-called "bio-exorcist." The film was a critical and commercial success, bringing in over $74 million at the global box office against a budget of $15 million and winning the Academy Award for Best Makeup. The film also spawned an animated series that aired on ABC and Fox in 1989 and a 2018 Broadway Musical. The movie's script has been penned by Wednesday creators Alfred Gough and Miles Millar, with Burton returning to direct. A sequel to the hit film has been in development hell since 1990, with Warner Bros. making an official announcement last year. Bellucci, who has multiple decades of American, French, and Italian films under her belt, most recently starred in Italian apocalyptic comedy Dry as well as Diabolik –Ginko all'attacco! She can be seen next in Mafia Mamma, starring opposite Toni Collette. Beetlejuice 2 is set to hit theaters on September 6, 2024. For more, check out our list of the most exciting upcoming movies, or, skip straight to the good stuff with our list of movie release dates. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.