E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 Visitors to Ginko Gallery, 19 S. Main St. in Oberlin, have a bit more in store than just art supplies when visiting the shop.Located in the store and gallery’s backroom is a hub for rescued kittens from throughout the area ranging from small bottle babies at a few days old to full fluffballs nearing six weeks.Owner and manager Liz Burgess said the idea to begin rescuing kittens is something she has been passionate about for many years.Three kittens currently call the Ginko Gallery home after being rescued from the streets of Amherst and Oberlin through the Community Action to Save Strays initiative. The initiative normally works with strays in Oberlin, but ventures to surrounding areas providing help when it can. (Lauren Hoffman — The Morning Journal)“I opened Ginko Gallery in 1997 with two of my friends, and the kittens came a little bit after that,” Burgess said. “When we started, I did not have kittens in mind, but they just kind of found me.”She said the kitten craze began right in her own garage one night.“There was a cat that had gotten hit and made their way into our garage where she delivered kittens,” Burgess said. “We didn’t know about it until we heard a kitten crying in the garage, and we went from there.”Since then, Burgess has made it a habit to take in bottle babies or kittens that need to be bottle fed and cared for in the way a mother cat would.In 2002, Burgess discovered Community Action to Save Strays or CATSS, an Oberlin nonprofit aimed at helping local strays.

“Because word spread that I knew how to take care of bottle babies, CATSS and I quickly partnered together,” she said. “I would foster the kittens, keeping them in my storeroom so I could take care of them every couple of hours.”Soon, the cries of kittens began to carry out from the storeroom and caught the attention of shoppers.“Before I knew it, I had a line of customers coming in and out of my storeroom to see the kittens and I knew then that the kittens were a hit,” Burgess said.Liz Burgess has found the most success in her “bottle babies” kittens. Because of her work with Community Action to Save Strays they have raised the survival rate to over 80% for stray cats in Oberlin and surrounding areas. (Submitted)“Before I started rescuing, we were known for our art supplies and contemporary art, but now, we are the kitten place,” she said with a laugh. “The nice thing is, our kittens are incredibly socialized from a young age and adopters tell me that they are unlike any cat they have had before.”For those interested in adopting, Burgess encourages them to go to CATSSOberlin.org and fill out an application.The potential owner also can visit the store to meet the kittens and adopt.“CATSS requires that all kittens adopted before eight weeks have a $100 adoption fee and submission of a form promising to spay or neuter the cat by the time it turns 6 months old with proof submitted to the nonprofit,” Burgess said. “From there, they can get $50 back if they wish or it can be donated.”Liz Burgess has found the most success in her “bottle babies” kittens. Because of her work with Community Action to Save Strays they have raised the survival rate to over 80% for stray cats in Oberlin and surrounding areas. (Submitted)Fostering positions also are available through Community Action to Save Strays.“Because of our fosters, I am able to bring anywhere from 80 to 100 kittens in and get adopted,” Burgess said. “The organization as a whole is able to rescue 250 a year as well.“It truly is a very rewarding experience.” Located in the store and gallery’s backroom is a hub for rescued kittens from throughout the area ranging from small bottle babies at a few days old to full fluffballs nearing six weeks. Owner and manager Liz Burgess said the idea to begin rescuing kittens is something she has been passionate about for many years. “I opened Ginko Gallery in 1997 with two of my friends, and the kittens came a little bit after that,” Burgess said. “When we started, I did not have kittens in mind, but they just kind of found me.” She said the kitten craze began right in her own garage one night. “There was a cat that had gotten hit and made their way into our garage where she delivered kittens,” Burgess said. “We didn’t know about it until we heard a kitten crying in the garage, and we went from there.” Since then, Burgess has made it a habit to take in bottle babies or kittens that need to be bottle fed and cared for in the way a mother cat would. In 2002, Burgess discovered Community Action to Save Strays or CATSS, an Oberlin nonprofit aimed at helping local strays. “Because word spread that I knew how to take care of bottle babies, CATSS and I quickly partnered together,” she said. “I would foster the kittens, keeping them in my storeroom so I could take care of them every couple of hours.” Soon, the cries of kittens began to carry out from the storeroom and caught the attention of shoppers. “Before I knew it, I had a line of customers coming in and out of my storeroom to see the kittens and I knew then that the kittens were a hit,” Burgess said. “Before I started rescuing, we were known for our art supplies and contemporary art, but now, we are the kitten place,” she said with a laugh. “The nice thing is, our kittens are incredibly socialized from a young age and adopters tell me that they are unlike any cat they have had before.” For those interested in adopting, Burgess encourages them to go to CATSSOberlin.org and fill out an application. The potential owner also can visit the store to meet the kittens and adopt. “CATSS requires that all kittens adopted before eight weeks have a $100 adoption fee and submission of a form promising to spay or neuter the cat by the time it turns 6 months old with proof submitted to the nonprofit,” Burgess said. “From there, they can get $50 back if they wish or it can be donated.” Fostering positions also are available through Community Action to Save Strays. “Because of our fosters, I am able to bring anywhere from 80 to 100 kittens in and get adopted,” Burgess said. “The organization as a whole is able to rescue 250 a year as well. “It truly is a very rewarding experience.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group