MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS The firms join a growing list of global institutions, including banks, universities and corporations, whose data was reportedly accessed by a hacking group known as CL0P. June 30, 2023 at 01:07 PM  4 minute read Cybersecurity Reporter The data of three Am Law 50 firms was accessed in a global data theft operation, according to the ransomware group claiming responsibility for the attack that has compromised the data of millions of individuals. Kirkland & Ellis, K&L Gates and Proskauer Rose are among the latest organizations to be identified in the breach, finding themselves in the company of a growing list of more than 50 other global corporations and banks targeted by the ransomware group known as CL0P. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Abigail Adcox By Mimi Lamarre By Amanda O'Brien By Abigail Adcox 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder Presented by BigVoodoo  Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies Honoring outstanding legal achievements focused at the national level, largely around Big Law and in-house departments. Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 
                                        COLE SCHOTZ P.C.Prominent mid-Atlantic law firm with multiple regional office locations seeks an Application Engineer. This person will work...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join The American Lawyer now! Already have an account? Sign In The American Lawyer provides the most informed and trusted source of news, data, analysis and forecasting on the global business of law. The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.