Although the cryptocurrency market has been going through a bit of a rough patch in recent weeks, the downturn has failed to put a dent in the progress and development efforts of many blockchain and cryptocurrency businesses and their teams. Specifically, Kusama (KSM), Polkadot (DOT), and Cardano (ADA) have remained the top three performers in terms of their GitHub development activity in the last 30 days, according to the recent information shared by crypto analytics platform Santiment on June 20. Specifically, these metrics cover the number of GitHub events generated by the project organization, including code pushes, issue interactions, pull request interactions, GitHub wiki edits, comments on commits, and the number of repositories open-sourced.  As it happens, Kusama and Polkadot share the first spot in these activities, with an average of 544.93 events over the past month, followed by Cardano with 486.9. The next in line is Status (SNT) with 347.5 events, Hedera (HBAR) with 344.53, and Chainlink (LINK) with 340.4, having returned to the top six most developed assets. Furthermore, Cosmos (ATOM) occupies the seventh place with a development score of 322.33, followed by Internet Computer (ICP) and 303 events in the eighth, Decentraland (MANA) in the ninth with 288 events, and Ethereum (ETH) in tenth place with a score of 246.57, as the table indicates. Indeed, being among the top 10 cryptos by GitHub development activity is a sign of the continued focus of their teams on progress, as exemplified by Cardano, which its founder Charles Hoskinson has touted as an ideal model of decentralization and a “wake-up call” for other assets to follow. Disclaimer: The content on this site should not be considered investment advice. Investing is speculative. When investing, your capital is at risk. Best Crypto Exchange for Intermediate Traders and Investors 
                Invest in 70+ cryptocurrencies and 3,000+ other assets including stocks and precious metals.
               
                0% commission on stocks - buy in bulk or just a fraction from as little as $10. Other fees apply. For more information, visit etoro.com/trading/fees.
               
                Copy top-performing traders in real time, automatically.
               
                eToro USA is registered with FINRA for securities trading.
               
                    By subscribing you agree with Finbold
                    T&C’s
                    & Privacy Policy
 Or copy link Create price alerts for stocks & crypto. Get started Get started  
              Copyright © 2024 Finbold.com. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service.
           
Disclaimer: The information on this website is for general informational and educational purposes only and does not constitute financial, legal, tax, or investment advice. This site does not make any financial promotions, and all content is strictly informational. By using this site, you agree to our full disclaimer and terms of use. For more information, please read our complete Global Disclaimer.
        