Siby Vadakekkara, Founder & CEO, Marlabs LLC.   The rise of artificial intelligence (AI) defies every well-informed prediction made over the past five years. In 2018, Gartner predicted that by 2022, 85% of AI projects would deliver “erroneous outcomes.” By 2019, data science projects were becoming notorious for not making it into production. In 2020, investments in AI startups fell to a three-year low. Even in 2021, businesses were ruing the money they put on AI because they couldn’t reap the forecasted returns. Suddenly, by 2022-end, all that became history. A simple headline stole the spotlight: Internet Sensation ChatGPT Crosses 1 Million Users In 5 Days. AI rapidly found its way into every industry, with a few exceptions—one of them being the life-sciences industry, where AI can be a game changer. ChatGPT has ensured that every enterprise is willing to walk its talk on AI. You don’t need to read tea leaves to know people’s health and welfare will be better served if the life-sciences industry embraces IT and data more vigorously. Other industries such as retail, financial services, entertainment and automobiles have demonstrated AI’s transformative nature, with juggernauts like TikTok and Amazon leading the way. However, the life-sciences industry faces notable challenges, including a lack of data science experts, ambiguous business goals and strict regulatory requirements surrounding data usage. A fresh and innovative approach to AI by the life-sciences industry can unlock the same level of rapid growth and success in other verticals. Additionally, by leveraging the power of AI, these organizations can develop better and more efficient processes, discover new insights and treatments, and improve patient outcomes. The initial sparks of AI innovations are evident in the life-sciences industry. For example, a Canadian AI startup, BlueDot, picked up signs of a new flu around the Wuhan market in China nine days before the World Health Organization sent out its alert about the novel coronavirus. BlueDot accomplished this landmark feat through AI, machine learning and big data to identify the virus. Their strategy involved picking up signals from thousands of sources worldwide in 65 languages, every 15 minutes. Their model scoured through blogs, medical journals, public health organizations, livestock reports and airline ticketing data. BlueDot then accurately predicted 11 cities that’d be the first to contract Covid-19 cases, proving a real-world use case where AI accelerated life-sciences capabilities. Developing the coronavirus vaccine is another case study of AI’s success in the industry. Under normal circumstances, developing the Covid-19 vaccine would’ve taken medical researchers over a decade—the median cycle time to bring such a vaccine to market. Instead, by leveraging AI, pharmaceutical companies like Moderna and Pfizer developed a vaccine within a year. With the power of machine learning and AI, each step of the drug discovery process can be streamlined, reducing time-to-market by several years and millions of dollars. One notable algorithm in this space is AlphaFold, developed by Alphabet subsidiary DeepMind. This deep learning model can predict the 3D structure of proteins from their amino acid sequence, offering significant potential to revolutionize the field of drug discovery. Also, Meta’s AI-powered ESM Metagenomic Atlas has created a database of 600 million predicted protein structures using a language model-based approach to protein folding. Both are creating a revolutionary AI-paved path to drug discovery. AI has the potential to deliver exponential impact when combined with advances in computer vision, pattern recognition, natural language processing and data modeling. The application range of AI spans wide, delivering powerful change. Here are just some of them, Image recognition for diagnosis: a vital area in which AI can decipher MRIs, X-rays, retinal scans, DEXA scans, etc., thus lowering the need for trained personnel and improving diagnosis. Patients also reap cost benefits when AI operations are carried out in a remote, low-cost geography. Document processing: typically a slow, painstaking and expensive process. Patient records, medical forms and research data can be rapidly digitized using AI—making medical documents searchable, easily distributable and ready for analysis. Physician engagement: a currently complex process for pharmaceutical manufacturers. It’s been historically difficult for sales agents to meet physicians in a regulated environment. AI can fill the gap by providing powerful one-on-one digital engagement without raising red flags with regulators. Patient recruitment for drug development: This can be organized using AI to accurately examine cohort groups, electronic health records and social media content. Those sets of information can further identify localities where a condition is more prevalent, where there’s unstructured data in letters and emails, with organizing genotype data—all of which help speed up recruitment. Unfortunately, research shows that 80% of clinical trials fail to meet patient recruitment timelines—a statistic that demands urgent correction. The life-sciences industry recognizes the lack of data science expertise as currently impeding AI adoption, but the expertise can be “rented” from technology partners. The real challenge lies in overcoming regulatory restrictions that prevent them from capitalizing on existing data. Unlike other industries, say retail, life sciences’ restrictions are limiting. The industry is also handicapped as it lags in institutionalizing data governance leadership—an aspect that’ll hopefully be addressed soon. To make up for lost ground, industry leaders have begun leveraging synthetic data and accelerating data mesh initiatives across their enterprises. These initiatives will build the foundation for more effective AI usage. AI can be transformative for the life-sciences industry also because there’s no dearth of data. However, the industry must also understand that AI needn’t be capital-intensive. AI can be harnessed easily using simple tools like GitHub’s Copilot and Abacus.ai. Andrej Karpathy, who led the autopilot effort at Tesla, recently tweeted that 80% of his code today is being written by GitHub Copilot. The goal should be to experiment with cost-effective tools and to become comfortable with them. The life-sciences industry can make exponential advances if it builds small teams responsible for experimenting with AI, with the remit to fail fast. Such risks are essential for anyone serious about leveraging AI. We would even say it’s our digital prescription for the industry! Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 