Glassdoor’s capitalised logo sits within a new g/d quotation mark monogram used as “a visual shorthand” across the identity. Koto has rebranded job insight platform Glassdoor, with a strategy inspired by the company’s origin story and a “sophisticated but human approach” to illustration. Speaking from Koto’s Los Angeles office, studio creative director Deanna German recalls how a few things stood out in the design brief, such as Glassdoor’s desire to shift the experience from being “a destination purely for insights and reviews into a community for real workplace talk”. Another goal was to better reflect one of the core company values: “radical transparency”, as the concept for Glassdoor came from an incident whereby employee salaries were left and found on a copier machine, according to German. She explains how Koto used this story as inspiration for the strategic and verbal work by including “real conversations and insights as a part of the verbal tone”, as well as foregrounding transparency in its open design process. This invovled sharing its work “frequently and iteratively in internal and external forums”, such as Slack, Fishbowl, and the Glassdoor blog, and inviting feedback from the audience, German adds. Koto commissioned  Folch partner and creative director Josep Puy to create a suit of illustrations that would represent different job roles and new ways of working across the office and home. German reveals that the studio had followed Puy’s illustration work for a while and determined that his “sophisticated but human approach” aligned with the Glassdoor’s new strategy. Puy aimed to illustrate “critical themes of conversation, diversity, anonymity, and collaboration through the lens of simplicity and honesty”, she says, adding that the illustrations appear in a black and white colour treatment. German describes Glassdoor’s previous logo as “difficult to use in the product”. Its replacement was designed with the notion of “real work talk” in mind to life with the now-all-caps wordmark, with g and d-shaped quotations at either side. The move to all caps nods to “elongated door proportions” and the letterforms” swing open when animated”, continuing the theme. Motion inspired by the product experience appears elsewhere in the identity, through behaviours such as typing, revealing, and scrolling. Flipping the first quote mark to reveal a lowercase g “was one of those aha smile in the mind moments”, says German. The g/d monogram can also be used as “a visual shorthand that translates to the app icon” and other touchpoints throughout the system, she adds. Custom emojis and icons mimic the wordmark’s elongated proportions, designed in favour of a “consistent and memorable product experience” with intentionally missing pixels seeking to represents “transparency and openness”, German explains. Koto spotlighted the platform’s offering through an ownable data visualisation style to be used across product and marketing. The studio developed “a set of rules and principles to drive visual consistency” as well as outlining “some clear content buckets for different types of data”, aiming to ensure that “a variation of content is represented”, says German. Glassdoor’s beginnings also informed the brand palette. While Glassdoor has traditionally been a green brand, Koto wanted to build on this, finding “the right shade of green that was AAA compliant [the highest level of Web Content Accesibility]” and devising “a set of complementary greens to support the product experience”, says German. A set of secondary colours, inspired by standard office copier papers, look to convey the “diverse voices of the Glassdoor community”, she adds.    Δ It is with great sadness that we heard about the passing of the hugely influential British designer, Sir Kenneth Grange. As we head back into our archives, here’s a gem from March 1990. Jane Lewis looks at the creative ways design firms promoted their services through mail-outs. During our pause, we’re re-publishing the occasional article from deep in our archives. This March 1990 column by our founder, Jeremy Myerson, looks at car design trends. In December 2023, it was announced that Design Week was closing its doors. However – good news! We’re reopening by the end of summer 2024! As the design industry propelled itself forward, we were always there to champion, inform, analyse and guide the way. Have you been paying attention for the last four decades? Only one way to find out. Design Week closes, having championed design excellence for the past 38 years. As part of our series on design in 2024, WeWantMore creative director Ruud Belmans offers his view on what retail and experience design might look like next year. As part of our series on design in 2024, Studio Arc director Lyndsey Bowditch offers her view on what exhibition design might look like next year. As part of our series on design in 2024, Mia Blume – founder of Design Dept. and Designing with AI – tells us that next year will be a “paradigm Taking the form of a ‘vagina-like’ tent, INTER/her by Camille Baker uses cutting edge tech to open up conversations around issues like ovarian and cervical cancer, endometriosis, and menopause. As part of our series on design in 2024, Run for the Hills co-founder Anna Burles offers her view on what hospitality interior design might look like next year. © Design Week, part of the Interconnect group Built by Standfirst Design Week Ltd, registered in England and Wales with number 15681060