Durlston Partners wooed employees with the promise of fast cash, epic parties, and an unbeatable culture. Some people who worked there say its CEO, Vax Bahram, also created a culture of fear, made racist and sexist comments, and potentially violated UK pension requirements. I n late June, Vax Bahram received an upsetting email: A young rising star at his fast-growing financial-services-headhunting firm, Durlston Partners, was resigning. She was the second employee on his data-science recruiting team to quit that month. A week earlier the leader of the team had quit the London-based firm. At Durlston, a staff of more than 50 serves a bevy of marquee names on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, including Citadel, Blackstone, Schonfeld, Two Sigma, and WorldQuant, among many others. Its four-person data-science team, which placed brainiac researchers and statisticians at investment and financial-technology firms, punched above its weight and had become a lucrative source of revenue. Bahram smoldered over the defections. The spurned founder forwarded the latest resignation email to the entire company, adding choice commentary of his own: "Goodbye thieving little whore." Since then, the other two members of the data-science team have quit as well. At least 10 people have left Durlston Partners, or DP as it is called in company parlance, over the past year. Seven former employees spoke with Insider about their experiences at Durlston. Themes that emerged from conversations with former employees, as well as court records, emails, and WhatsApp messages Insider reviewed, were grievances over the leadership and an extensive range of abusive, erratic, and often unprofessional behavior by Bahram. Allegations from former employees include bullying, going on tirades, making threats and sexist comments, and engaging in other forms of harassment. Additionally: Most employees spoke to Insider under the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution from Bahram, an exec they say frequently managed with intimidation. Several said Bahram's behavior has left them with lingering trauma. One former employee who says she was scarred by bullying, sexism, and harassment from Bahram tried to kill herself last year, saying her experience at Durlston contributed to a breakdown in her mental health. Two industry sources who knew Bahram early in his career painted a picture of a talented but volatile recruiter prone to surprising emotional outbursts. Bahram, speaking through his attorneys, said the characterization of him as an abusive boss is "divorced from reality." In a statement provided by the lawyers, he said: "Durlston has worked immensely hard to build an inclusive and professional company culture over many years. This story arises from a small number of former employees, some of whom are attempting to form a competitor firm, making false allegations against the company and its founder. This cynical tactic to discredit the company for commercial gain is unethical and bound to fail." Bahram did acknowledge sending racist and sexist text messages, as well as asking employees to opt out of the company's pension plan. He said he had apologized and worked to make amends. The allegations against Bahram come amid a period of record growth for Durlston, which quadrupled its headcount during the pandemic. A New York office opened in September, and the company continues to recruit. In the inconspicuous world of Wall Street recruiting, Durlston's lively culture — flaunted on social media and a spotless Glassdoor listing — made it an alluring destination to work. But some who worked at Durlston felt this was a facade behind which lurked an enigmatic and at times bullying leader who could inflict emotional damage at the drop of a hat. T he raucous excesses of Wall Street, memorialized in bestsellers like "Liar's Poker" and "The Wolf of Wall Street," are largely artifacts of a bygone era. Trading floors are no longer boisterous dens of machismo; they hum with quiet, intense efficiency as algorithms and mobile apps shoulder much of the heavy lifting. Bawdy party culture has been largely relegated to the industry's fringes and shadows. One of those fringes is Wall Street recruiting, an unregulated landscape of hundreds of firms that battle to fill vacancies and build out new ventures at banks and investment firms. At one end of the spectrum is the handful of global white-shoe executive-search firms like Heidrick & Struggles or Spencer Stuart — large institutions known for filling high-profile, senior roles and board positions at blue-chip corporations. Far more numerous are the small to midsized headhunting shops that focus on the breadth of roles beneath that level, from fundamental portfolio managers to quants to junior analysts and tech-support staffers. No special education or accreditation is required to run such a firm, and the overhead is minimal. As a result, the caliber and culture of such firms can vary dramatically. As with other sales-oriented industries, entertaining and drinking are part of the fabric, though some firms embrace partying with more gusto than others. Boiler-room hustlers and bespoke boutiques coexist in the same terrain and even serve the same clients, and companies can appear and disappear as quickly as British prime ministers. "It's an unregulated industry with loads of egos. It breeds eccentric, quirky personalities," a former Durlston employee said. In this sea of recruitment firms, Durlston Partners presents itself as an ideal destination for Wall Street recruiters. A polished, modern website boasts of "an extremely mature, collaborative and supportive environment" and an "endless list of benefits," including commissions of up to 40%, free food, extensive vacation time, and "epic end of quarter parties." On Glassdoor, Durlston holds an unblemished five-star rating and 100% approval for Bahram, who's listed as its chief executive. Employees heap praise in the "pros" section, while the "cons" are absent or spun as positives. "Sometimes you have to remind yourself to be grateful for being part of such an amazing team," one review reads; two reviewers say it's difficult to stay on a diet ("so much food and Deliveroo for afternoon tea!"). "You go into it thinking it's the best of the best within the industry," one ex-employee said. Most of the nearly 100 photos on the Glassdoor profile showcase the company's vibrant social life: black-tie dinners, a polo match, boat trips, rooftop bars, excursions to the countryside — typically accompanied by alcohol. One person who eagerly bought the sales pitch in early 2021 was Ailish Morrison. Shortly after her 23rd birthday, and fresh from completing her master's degree, Morrison, a young aspiring filmmaker, was desperate for a paycheck to cover the notoriously steep cost of living in London. Morrison found herself interviewing at Durlston, where she met with the entire firm over the course of several days in April. "It was a complete whirlwind, and it felt too good to be true," Morrison told Insider. "The biggest thing they sold to me was culture." On her first day, her optimism was dealt a reality check. She felt that she was welcomed icily by Bahram, who instructed her not to become a distraction to the mostly male staff. Bahram denies making this comment. "Something had changed. It was scary, and I felt very uncomfortable," Morrison said. Six months later she was in a mental-health clinic, explaining to medical personnel how she'd spiraled so far that she'd tried to take her own life and that abusive behavior from Bahram she'd been replaying in her head had contributed. O ne of the small mysteries of Durlston Partners is how the company maintained such an impeccable external presence to would-be hires. On Glassdoor, even the companies heralded as the best places to work, both large and small, have impressive yet imperfect ratings, including at times critical feedback in employee reviews. Durlston's perfect rating and glowing reviews on Glassdoor were no accident, ex-employees say. "Everyone is given a calendar reminder of when they have to submit a review," one former employee told Insider. "They press you to write one and naturally monitor what is written." Dan Franco — the former data-science team lead who left this summer, setting off a months-long legal brawl with Bahram — also said employees were instructed when to write a review. Bahram wrote in a WhatsApp message to Franco seen by Insider: "If you can help DP with a stonking but deserved Glassdoor review that would be great - going to get everyone to do one a week." One ex-employee recalled being hounded to write a review. Another told Insider that Durlston was "very pushy" about having employees post a Glassdoor review. This person said they were initially thrilled to land a job at the company — based on the Glassdoor reviews and an overwhelmingly positive interview experience, Durlston seemed best in class. Then they realized the company repeatedly pushed people to write reviews, often within weeks of joining the firm. "It's upsetting because you see all these amazing Glassdoor reviews, and then you see the context behind them," this ex-employee said. Durlston denied pressuring employees to write Glassdoor reviews. Durlston said that it sends out calendar invites to write a review only after an employee's sixth month at the firm and that it makes clear to employees that they can say anything they want, positive or negative. Glassdoor wasn't the only system Bahram tried to influence, according to former employees, WhatsApp messages, and court records. In the UK, with few exceptions, companies are required to offer employees a pension plan. At Durlston, employee contracts say the company will comply with that part of the law. But employees were pressured to opt out of the pension plan, according to four ex-employees and WhatsApp messages seen by Insider. In a message from January 2021, Bahram told Franco he was "holding up payroll" and needed to "log on and opt out from the pension scheme please." In a WhatsApp message to Durlston's team leads earlier this year, Bahram wrote: "Pension scheme - please get your team members to opt out, it's not something we offer and it's so small it's just damage to both DP and the employee. Lobbied by the powerful pension funds in parliament as a must. It's just another stealth tax like the student loan." When one senior leader asked how to track down those who hadn't opted out, Bahram advised him that he could get the list from the operations team. An ex-employee said in documents submitted to a court that some employees were "shocked and deeply upset" by the incident, adding that it contributed to her decision to quit what she called "a toxic workplace." The claim was settled before Durlston could respond to the allegation in court. Durlston told Insider she wasn't a credible source given the acrimonious nature of her departure from Durlston. A representative for the Pensions Regulator said in an email to Insider: "Employers who seek to induce staff to opt out risk enforcement action and financial penalty — they cannot encourage their staff to reduce their contributions below the statutory minimum or opt out. It can only be the saver's decision." Through his attorneys, Bahram denied that employees were pressured to opt out of the pension. Nonetheless, he said that Durlston self-reported the "potential breaches" to the Pensions Regulator, and that Durlston told employees to disregard "any previous communications that asked employees to consider opting out." His attorneys said Durlston has worked to remedy any concerns the regulator may have had about this specific issue, including speaking to individual employees who may have been affected to help them join the pension. F akhruddin "Vax" Bahram has broad shoulders and doughy cheeks, carrying the slight paunch of a 40-year-old father of two. Defining features include a helmet of straight, brown hair that shields his forehead like a stage curtain, as well as a penchant for dapper suits. He has a baritone voice and a proclivity for speaking in the third person. "I've never heard someone say their name so many times," one former employee said. His flair for fashion — and entrepreneurship — is longstanding. In 2006, after graduating from Kingston University with a degree in economics, he put together a charity runway show at a London nightclub featuring clothing designed by recent fashion graduates, according to local news reports. Bahram got his start in recruiting not long after, landing at the London headhunting giant Aston Carter, where he focused on technology and quant roles for hedge funds until he was laid off in 2009 amid the financial crisis. Two recruiters from this era who knew him described him as a gifted networker who was plugged in with some notable buy-side clients. But he could also be mercurial, controlling, and quick to hostility and excessive profanity when he didn't get his way.
 In 2010, Bahram was hired to help get a fledgling search firm, Radley James, off the ground. His tenure was short-lived. He was appointed and removed as a director in swift succession that spring, according to corporate records from Companies House. People familiar with the matter say he had a falling-out with the founders within weeks of joining and was fired for gross misconduct, including expletive-laden abuse. Bahram denies that he was fired, saying he left Radley James of his own volition to set up Durlston. Shortly after, Bahram did indeed found Durlston Partners. As a boss, Bahram embraced the corporate cliché of the business as a family — a dynamic heightened by the fact that his two brothers hold senior positions at the company. Bahram could be exceedingly generous with his time and money, former staffers said. Junior and senior employees alike get face time with the exec, and he has no problem shelling out cash to take care of his team well beyond team meals, outings, and retreats. Morrison, for example, had been surprised and grateful when Bahram offered her £500 to furnish a bare-bones apartment in London she'd just moved into. Bahram has housed new hires from outside London in his home or put them up in a hotel, a former employee told Insider. "He would always have time for you," another ex-employee recalled. "You could always go up to him and ask him for advice, and you could go for a walk and he'd be there for you. Take you to nice dinners. He'd shout about you if you did really, really well." But he was also prone to unprofessional behavior that alienated people on staff. A company outing this March to a comedy club was a notable debacle, former employees said. Bahram arrived at the Comedy Store in Soho and sat front and center. He had been drinking, former employees said, and he began heckling the comedians on stage, who dished it right back. At one point Bahram opened his wallet and threw £50 notes at one of the comics, who asked Bahram what he did for a living. According to several former employees who were there, Bahram responded, "I own a pornography company!" "We were just cringing," one of them said of the incident. (One of the performers who witnessed Bahram's behavior said he was "incredibly disruptive" and later received a gift basket with an apology note.) For the comedians and the venue, heckling is commonplace. For several Durlston staffers who were there, the display — and especially the implication that they worked for a pornography company — was disturbing and embarrassing. "It was incredibly mortifying," one of the employees who attended said. The next day, Bahram apologized to employees for drawing attention to himself. Bahram also made antisemitic and racist comments. Bahram espoused concerns about being conned by Jewish people. In a text, he said that if one of the Black male employees at the firm "ever pulls the angry black dude stunt at DP, he'll be out the door before his feet can touch the ground!" Such remarks were not limited to WhatsApp, another former employee said, adding that Bahram would casually make racist jokes and appear to "think nothing of it." In another message to Franco, he called the billionaire hedge fund manager Alan Howard, whose firms Durlston worked with, a "dumb ass" and boasted that if Howard were to show up at a meeting he would "slap his little bald head and tell him to pipe down." Bahram said this comment was intended as a joke and he deeply regrets making it. Bahram acknowledged through lawyers making comments "that could be perceived to be racist" during private conversations with Franco. But Bahram said the comments "do not in any way reflect company policy or culture at Durlston." He said he also deeply regrets other comments including calling an employee a "whore" in a companywide email. I n Durlston's office on Maddox Street in Mayfair, hanging on the wall where the desks begin is an imposing photo the size of a car windshield. Bahram is front and center, a glass of Champagne in hand, flanked by boxes of Veuve Clicquot and a bottle of Cartier bubbly. Confetti and cash rain down from the ceiling, a Shiba Inu — hired specifically for the photo shoot — rests at his feet, and surrounding him in eccentric outfits and poses are the Durlston rank and file. The arresting image took weeks to plan and the better part of a workday to shoot, and it cost well over £4,000; employees were asked by the operations team to chip in to cover it as a birthday gift to the boss. The photo's evocation of Jordan Belfort and "The Wolf of Wall Street" was by design. The office and the photo are both markers of a recent, prosperous turn in Durlston's fortunes. The company had taken some time to gain traction. A decade after its launch, its headcount had grown to about 10. But 2020 was the year everything changed. Surging wealth for quantitative-trading firms — many of which benefited from the market volatility during the Covid-19 pandemic — as well as reverberations from the Great Resignation helped fuel Durlston's growth over the next three years. Bahram had also embraced cryptocurrencies and courted firms specializing in them well before their monumental growth spurt, positioning the company to capitalize on the crypto industry's recent hiring binge. Durlston's business grew as mandates for data scientists, quants, software engineers, and other roles piled up, and Bahram hired more staff to keep pace. From the onset of the pandemic through early 2022, Durlston's headcount grew to more than 40 — a fourfold leap. While Durlston's pay and benefits were a draw, its culture also helped make it an enticing destination for work-hard, play-hard zoomers and millennials. Franco, 32, recalled his first few months at Durlston as a blur of revelry he'd associated more with professional athletes than Wall Street recruiters, including Champagne, table service at nightclubs, and women dancing in lingerie. Former employees described Bahram as an avid drinker who splashed money around to give them a taste of the high life, or what one ex-employee called "the billionaire lifestyle.""It feels like the sun is shining on you when you're with Vax," this person said. With Durlston's fortunes on the rise, Bahram was flush with cash. The cryptocurrency evangelist bragged about his multimillion-pound digital-asset portfolio, Franco said. He wasn't bashful about spending it, especially on entertaining and building a lively atmosphere at Durlston. Company retreats have been held in Ibiza and on a yacht in Barcelona, and when cross-border travel wasn't feasible during the pandemic he took the team to palatial compounds in the English countryside. These getaways were festive, enjoyable occasions for many, where booze flowed freely. "Everyone gets pretty loose at these events," a former employee told Insider, noting the availability of alcohol throughout the day. Durlston insisted to Insider that events and holidays do not revolve around alcohol. But some found the efforts at team building excessive and, in some cases, unsettling and uncomfortable. One company getaway to the countryside was held over Easter, for instance, making several employees choose between going to a work retreat and spending the holiday with their families. Many employees of Durlston regularly went to the office during the height of the pandemic. This at times stoked tensions between the exec and staffers who took the virus more seriously — people Bahram is said to have referred to as "panicky daisies," "self-righteous retards," and "fucktards." At one gathering in March 2021 to mark the end of the first quarter, the police buzzed the intercom to investigate a complaint that the company was hosting a party in violation of national law. Durlston staff quickly hid the alcohol and threw on headsets, pretending to work until the coast was clear, former employees recalled. Durlston said it did not break any COVID-19 laws, regulations, or restrictions, that there was no party, and that employees had ordered food and alcohol for an end-of-quarter presentation. The police took no action. Insider has seen videos from the evening in which loud music can be heard in the office and employees can be seen playing games, popping balloons, and drinking alcohol. Bahram was not in those videos. Significant lockdown restrictions were in place in London at the time, and Durlston would have needed to be able to demonstrate that the gathering of its employees was reasonably necessary for work purposes. Employees weren't surprised by or even opposed to the partying culture at Durlston. It was Bahram's behavior, at times exacerbated by booze, that shocked and offended former employees Insider spoke with. "A drinking culture was well intertwined — but that's a dime a dozen in the recruiting industry," a former employee said. "The systematic bullying was something I'd not seen before. It was aggressive." W hile Bahram preached family, his comportment could flip from father figure to "Full Metal Jacket" in short order. Some employees perceived that Bahram's generosity came with hidden strings attached and that in return Bahram expected loyalty, obeisance, and gratitude. "There was a culture of fear, definitely within members of staff," one former employee said. Hostile exchanges with Bahram were common, whether via tongue-lashings or heated Slack or WhatsApp messages, former employees said. A junior employee who ended up leaving the company said in court documents that Bahram berated her for delaying signing a contract. It contained a noncompete, and she told him she was seeking legal advice before signing. "What the fuck is going on? Why haven't you signed the contract?" Bahram said, according to the ex-employee's submissions to court. "Why would you need legal advice? If you are not 100% involved and committed to Durlston, you can get the fuck out!" The employee's claim settled before Durlston could respond to it, but the firm told Insider it believes the woman isn't credible because she left acrimoniously. Franco, the head of the data-science team and an outspoken, seasoned recruiter, was a frequent target of Bahram's ire, Franco and three other former employees said. "Dan was always the guy who never backed down. He was quite strong headed," one ex-employee said. Franco said that in one instance, after he accused Bahram — in front of other people — of abusing him, Bahram sent him a tirade over WhatsApp. Bahram wrote to Franco, in part: "You're beyond help and beyond my patience you absolute cunt. Go be someone else's headache, I don't need a toxic shitbag to bill me anything. I'm so disappointed and angry with you, you're lucky you're not in front of me right now. I'd rip your fucking head off." Last October, Franco was angling to move into a flat in East London with a friend who worked at a different recruiting firm, a move Franco said would significantly shorten his commute and provide more of a social life. "It's a bit lonely being on your own 24/7," he wrote to Bahram in a WhatsApp message. Bahram objected. "Not comfortable with you living with someone from a direct competitor. Find an alternative solution," Bahram wrote back. "Things are just starting to look up for you don't fuck it up by getting too excited." Bahram told Insider this was not a prohibition but merely a suggestion that it would not be an appropriate arrangement. Franco's tenure ended acrimoniously this June — roughly a month after Bahram had congratulated him for hitting an ambitious annual target of billing £1 million in five months, Franco says. In court documents, Franco described "constant abuse, intimidation and harassment." The fractious separation resulted in months of litigation. According to court filings, Durlston brought a claim against Franco alleging that he had breached his contract and violated restrictive covenants when he quit and subsequently launched a new search firm, Adamas Knight. Durlston also claimed that Franco had deceived Bahram and procured a substantial loan from Durlston that needed to be repaid. Franco countersued Bahram, arguing his employer's conduct forced him to quit against his will. Court filings show that Franco accused Bahram of withholding hundreds of thousands of pounds in commission payments. Bahram also sued Franco's subordinate, the data-science teammate who quit less than a week after Franco and whom Bahram called a sexist slur in companywide email, alleging they stole confidential information and violated the company's 12-month noncompete. She disputes the claims and alleged in court that Bahram "sexually harassed and discriminated against" her. Those claims included Bahram calling her while she was on vacation with her family and accusing her of having a sexual relationship with her boss, Franco, which she denied. She also learned that Bahram called her "a little ambitious dumb whore" in a text message to Franco. The employee asked that her name be withheld from this story so as not to further connect her to the embarrassing insults. "I felt I had no other choice but to resign from a toxic workplace," she said in the court filings. The cases were settled in October before a judge could determine the claims and counterclaims. Durlston said that Franco and his colleague who left shortly after him were not credible and were motivated competitors. Before resigning, Franco went dark and stopped responding to Bahram — he called in sick with a doctor's note citing stress. This provoked a cavalcade of calls and furious messages from his boss, according to records seen by Insider. Bahram believed Franco had stolen money and was in a romantic relationship with his subordinate, which Franco denied. "I believe in karma - your life will never taste the same you son of a bitch with no father and now no family," Bahram said in a text on June 23. "The police and the courts and everything I have will come after you every day, this day and the next. Vax Bahram always settles his debts and no one steal a penny from Vax Bahram. You ugly disgusting excuse of a human being." Bahram even attempted to reach Franco through his mother, whom he'd found on Facebook before messaging and calling her on WhatsApp. She declined to get involved. Bahram thanked her for being a "great human being" and sent her a selfie. She blocked him. Not long after Morrison started recruiting in digital assets for Durlston in April 2021, Bahram began to criticize and insult her at the office. Three former employees recalled the founder treating her especially poorly. Bahram chided Morrison for slouching and for not sitting and acting like a "lady," Morrison told Insider. Two other former employees said they saw the interactions. He disapproved of her attire and offered her money to buy new clothes that were more "ladylike," which she declined. Bahram denied making these comments. He said he offered Morrison money to buy clothes because he values presentability and had done the same with male employees. At one Friday happy-hour event in the office, Morrison's background as a competitive cheerleader got brought up. "We all know you like to spread your legs," Bahram said, people who were there told Insider. Others said they heard about the comment shortly after he said it. Bahram said his comment had been misconstrued and was intended to dissuade Morrison from doing gymnastics stretches at work. Morrison claims that on several occasions Bahram told her, a new employee who was in a probationary period, that he was firing her. He would then offer to keep her, she said, if she agreed to a list of written conditions — including that she quit smoking and not eat certain foods. Bahram denies this allegation. Morrison said her mental health deteriorated during her time at Durlston. Two friends of Morrison's told Insider she confided in them about Bahram's behavior at work. They said they witnessed a deterioration of her mood and were concerned for her well-being. "She's a really bubbly, great, incredible individual who was beaten down by this brute of a man," one of her friends said. "He went out of his way to literally put her spark out." Less than a month after leaving Durlston, in September 2021, Morrison had a breakdown. She tried to kill herself, but a roommate found her and helped get her to the hospital, where she spent several days. While in the hospital, she detailed her anguish to staffers, describing experiences of trauma at Durlston and abusive behavior by Bahram, according to medical records seen by Insider. Suicide attempts are complex and rarely the result of a single event — health issues, for instance, also contributed to Morrison's distress. But she and her close friends believe trauma from working at Durlston under Bahram played a significant role. "I internalized the things he said and believed them," Morrison recalled. "The things he said always came into my brain." Bahram told Insider that he was not aware of any former employees suffering mental-health issues as a result of their employment at Durlston and that he takes mental health very seriously. He described himself as very supportive of Morrison during her time at Durlston. When he learned that Insider was asking questions of current and former employees, Bahram, presuming the inquiry was related to his legal dispute with Franco, initially declined to discuss the matter with Insider, saying it would be resolved in the courts. When Insider asked him about allegations that he made inappropriate and abusive comments to employees, he said there was no truth to the claims. "I can assure you we do things properly," Bahram said in a phone call. Around that time, in early August, Bahram commissioned an employee survey through SurveyMonkey, which his representative shared with Insider. The results conveyed a blissful workplace. Of the 39 employees surveyed, 97% reported feeling happy or very happy at work, 90% agreed or strongly agreed that communication between senior leaders and employees was good, and 90% reported being satisfied with the workplace culture. No respondents reported being unhappy or dissatisfied. Between the fancy dinners, the company holidays, and the rich economic upside, it's not hard to see why for some it's a genuinely attractive workplace. One employee who described his experience at Durlston as positive and Bahram as a great boss said he'd generally avoided drama and kept his head down. He also acknowledged that his experience as a white man may have differed from the experiences of others. Another employee described positive experiences but said they were overshadowed by Bahram. "I've had some of the most amazing times working there — that's what's sad about it," this employee recalled. "It's him, ultimately, that ruined it for me." Through his lawyers, Bahram told Insider that there was no truth to the suggestion that it employed a toxic company culture that included sexism, bullying and harassment. He said Durlston takes great pride in its culture and ethos, which includes fostering a positive and empowering environment where its employees thrive. He said that sources for this article were disgruntled employees or competitors who had a clear interest in causing harm to Durlston's reputation. After her suicide attempt, Morrison struggled for months to manage her anxiety and depression. But she's worked through some of the trauma, and her life started to turn around last December. She built up a sizable following this year as a content creator, especially on TikTok, an outlet she said had been one of her "saving graces." "My followers didn't know the stuff Vax had said about me, and it was like a fresh start being who I truly was, with no ridicule," Morrison said. In early September, Bahram celebrated the launch of Durlston's US office at PHD Rooftop Lounge, the swanky club on the rooftop of the Dream Hotel in downtown Manhattan, pledging "the best comp in New York" for the first employees who join. According to LinkedIn, it's still hiring. Do you have a story to share? Contact the author at amorrell@businessinsider.com If you or someone you know is experiencing depression or has had thoughts of harming themself or taking their own life, get help. In the US, call or text 988 to reach the Suicide & Crisis Lifeline, which provides 24/7, free, confidential support for people in distress, as well as best practices for professionals and resources to aid in prevention and crisis situations. Help is also available through the Crisis Text Line — just text "HOME" to 741741. The International Association for Suicide Prevention offers resources for those outside the US. 
                                  Related stories
                                 
                                  More from Finance
                                 Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks Jump to