Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Darkest Dungeon's Grave Robber joins her fellow returning heroes in the second game as a stealth-focused hero. Through her combination of skills, she's able to attack from any rank with either direct single-target damage, Blight, AoEs, or a blend of these. Additionally, a lot of the Grave Robber's power stems from the high crit chance of her abilities.
     From Sacrificial Stab to Chaotic Offering, we've ranked the best abilities of Darkest Dungeon 2's Occultist.                     The Grave Robber's health pool is quite small compared to that of other Heroes. She can't take many hits, but her moves help her avoid them entirely, granting her Stealth or Dodge tokens. Some are key to staying alive, while others are easily replaced. Of the Heroes available, she's one of the hardest for beginners to learn to use effectively, and it's helpful to know which of her skills have the most utility.
                         Flashing Daggers is the Grave Robber's area of effect attack. So long as she’s not up front, she can attack the middle two ranks of enemies. With most Hero Paths for the Grave Robber, this move is very underwhelming. Its damage is abysmal, and its only use is clearing protective statuses like Block and Dodge from foes. With Paths like Venomdrop, it gets a much-needed boost by also inflicting Blight on its targets. That is really the only reason to use Flashing Daggers.
                         Thrown Dagger is the Grave Robber’s standard ranged attack. Usable anywhere but the front row, Thrown Dagger can target all but that same rank in the enemy formation. Its damage is lackluster, but the move still has its uses. When upgraded, it has a decent Crit rate of 30 percent, and that improves against Marked targets. Given the move’s lower damage, though, even crits don’t have the same punch. The other good thing about this move is it can circumvent the Guarded status.
                         Unsurprisingly, swinging a pickax into an enemy’s face deals good damage. Pick To The Face is a good melee skill for the Grave Robber, dealing the second-most direct damage of all her moves. Its also one of her starting moves, so you get some good damage on her turns from the beginning, even if she’s as far back as rank three.
                         It's good for hitting enemies that use Block tokens, since Pick To The Face goes right through. It also has a decent Crit chance of its own, which is boosted further against Marked targets. Given the skill’s high damage when upgraded, this is worth setting up.
                         Poison Dart is one of the better starting moves for your Grave Robber. Compared to her standard Thrown Dagger, Poison Dart does slightly less damage, but has a chance to inflict Blight damage. The best thing about Poison Dart is that it can hit any target, no matter the rank. None of her other moves can match this flexibility. It also gains the crit chance boost against Marked targets as well. This move is great at dealing both direct damage and leaving a sting for the following turns.
                         Shadow Fade is a good starting move for every battle. You can adjust your formation to have the Grave Robber start in one of the first two ranks, and once the battle begins, immediately have her move back and Stealth. This maneuver gives you a one-turn setup into her best moves, and moves that improve when used from Stealth. It also protects her from any targeted attacks on the first round. When upgraded, it also grants a Speed boost, but the Grave Robber is already fast anyway. It's a good move right out the gate, and you can conserve your Mastery points for more important choices.
                         As one of the most fragile characters, Grave Robber doesn't seem like a Hero suited to taunting enemies to attack her. Repartee can make the concept work, however. The skill requires the Grave Robber to be in Stealth, and loses the status once Repartee is used. In exchange for emerging from the shadows and drawing the enemy’s ire, she gains three Dodge tokens to help her avoid the consequences.
     From the causes of Loathing to its effects, here's everything you need to know about this difficult Darkest Dungeon mechanic.                      The move is far better when upgraded, since the awarded tokens are Greater. Dodge tanking is risky, but it can force enemies into wasting their turns completely. There is some reliance on luck here, but the technique can be incredibly powerful.
                         Dead of Night is a good move for the middle of a fight. It supports your team by clearing a corpse, and it heals the Grave Robber for a good chunk of her health to boot. Corpse clearing is important during fights, keeping your enemies from hiding in the back rows while your heavy hitters can’t touch them.
                         The benefit the Grave Robber gains for doing that task is worth the turn it takes. She can heal a third of her health (or half when the move is improved) and, after clearing a corpse, she also gains Stealth. Though it's not a damage-dealer in and of itself, this skill has fantastic utility.
                         In Darkest Dungeon 2, tougher enemies now have the ability to resist Deathblows just like your Heroes. Some of them can have Deathblow Resistance upwards of 50 percent. When Glint In The Dark is upgraded and you’re attacking from Stealth, you completely ignore Deathblow Resistance and execute the enemy. While its killing potential is its best feature, it also functions as a decent ranged attack.
     The Stagecoach acts as your sole source of traveling in Darkest Dungeon 2. Here are the best Stagecoach items to help you on your journey.                     It has good damage and no cooldown. Even when used out of Stealth, it retains some amount of deathblow piercing. Last of all, it ignores Stealth and can pull enemies out of the shadows for the rest of your team. Damage potential and utility combine in this deadly skill.
                         Taking a sip from her Absinthe decanter awards the Grave Robber 3 Dodge tokens and a Speed boost. While she can use the move any time, she will restore a third of her total HP if it's currently low. When upgraded, she gains Greater Dodge tokens, raising the Dodge chance from 50 percent to 75. When the Grave Robber is low on health, this is a effective way to fix that, since she’ll probably avoid the next few attacks and won’t end up right back on Death’s Door before your healer can act. You only have three uses of Absinthe per battle, though, so it needs to be used sparingly.
                         Pirouette is the elusive Grave Robber's escape move. After she’s been pulled up front, by her own doing or an enemy attack, she can use this skill to attack the front two enemy ranks and dive back safely behind her allies. For a move that hits multiple targets, its damage is respectably high. To balance it, however, it has a two-turn cooldown, and after its use the Grave Robber becomes Dazed, ensuring her next turn will be the last in the order. If an enemy were to daze her again before then, she would lose her turn to a full stun, so be wary.
                         Lunge is a melee attack that moves the Grave Robber forward two ranks. While it can be a risky maneuver given her low health pool, it does get her in position for some of her moves she can only use up front. As damage goes, Lunge is the strongest attack in the Grave Robber's arsenal. When used from Stealth, it also ignores Dodge tokens (and Block tokens when upgraded), always hitting for its full damage. In addition to that, the move has a high crit ratio, making it undoubtedly the Hero's most potent weapon. It can be key to dispatching some of the game's challenging bosses.
      Next: Darkest Dungeon 2: Best Combat Items
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Fans divided regarding Dr.Disrespect's imminent return to streaming.  Against all odds, these games managed to become huge success stories.  Despite no official announcement, this recent tweet by Geoff Keighley might hint at new Dying Light content. If you're on the hunt for your next JRPG fix, we have you covered! Kojima's shenanigans continue, but at least its something we can understand this time. Specializations play a key role in the game, especially when you are among the chosen ones who can fend off the evil lurking in the shadows.