By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:21 EDT, 28 April 2023   |  Updated:  03:54 EDT, 28 April 2023      8 View  comments  Just a day after Naomi Watts was spotted in New York City wearing a massive ring, the actress has continued to fuel engagement speculation with boyfriend Billy Crudup. Watts, 54, appeared on Today on Thursday, discussing ending the stigma around menopause, with hosts Hoda Kotb and Savannah Guthrie. Towards the end of the chat, Kotb joked that her 'eye was hurting,' implying it was from the 'glint' of the massive ring on Watts' left ring finger. 'It's like a big glint coming from some ring over here,' Kotb said with a smile, as Watts started laughing. 'It just struck me, but it's beautiful,' Kotb said, as they showed a close-up of the ring many are speculating is her engagement ring... though she wouldn't confirm. Speculation: Just a day after Naomi Watts was spotted in New York City wearing a massive ring , the actress has continued to fuel engagement speculation with boyfriend Billy Crudup Ring: Towards the end of the chat, Kotb joked that her 'eye was hurting,' implying it was from the 'glint' of the massive ring on Watts' left ring finger Laughs: 'It's like a big glint coming from some ring over here,' Kotb said with a smile, as Watts started laughing Guthrie clarified, 'Hoda is asking if you're engaged,' as Watts joked, 'So, the brain fog...' Guthrie added, 'You wear it well,' as Kotb added, 'You do, whatever you're wearing, you wear it beautifully.' The Aussie actress hasn't publicly addressed the speculation that her boyfriend of six years Billy Crudup has popped the question. She was first spotted wearing this massive diamond ring on her left ring finger last week, when she was spotted going on a road trip with some friends. Still, neither Watts nor Crudup have confirmed the engagement or spoken about the ring Watts is wearing.  The road trip also was her first time spotted out since her ex Liev Schreiber, 54,  announced he's expecting his first child with 31-year-old girlfriend Taylor Neisen. Watts and Schreiber share two children, Alexander 'Sasha', 16, and Samuel Kai, 15, from their 11-year relationship that came to an end in 2016. Watts and Crudup first met on the set of the Netflix series Gypsy in 2017 and they've been together ever since, though they largely keep their relationship out of the public eye.  Brain fog: Guthrie clarified, 'Hoda is asking if you're engaged,' as Watts joked, 'So, the brain fog... Beautifully: Guthrie added, 'You wear it well,' as Kotb added, 'You do, whatever you're wearing, you wear it beautifully Since their split, Naomi and Liev have continued to co-parent with their blended families. Last year in May, Naomi and her partner, Billy, were seen in an Instagram selfie in celebration of Kai's graduation.  Also in the snap was their other son, Alexander, as well as Naomi's ex, Liev and his girlfriend, Taylor, as they all flashed cheerful smiles towards the cameras.  During a past interview with PorterEdit in 2019, The Impossible actress opened up about their blended families and co-parenting together. 'We're doing things very differently.'  'I'm pretty proud of us, corny as that may sound. We've made it our absolute priority to be good and kind to each other and we're absolutely committed to that.'   Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group