However cloud spending isn't proving too popular 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Despite heightened economic pressure, new research claims almost half (44%) of UK SMBs hope to increase their IT spend this year likely in a bid to maintain high levels of productivity and to explore new and emerging technologies, like generative AI. A survey from Sharp of 5,770 European small and medium businesses, including 502 UK-based SMBs, looked at the technology challenges and investment priorities the firms expect to have to deal with over the next 12 months. Similar sentiments were felt across Europe, where IT security, hardware upgrades, and server updates all look to be key areas for investment this year. More than half of the UK-based companies that were surveyed had proclaimed plans to invest more than £20,000 on IT this year, with one in 20 set to part with more than £100,000. > These are the best online collaboration tools

> Hybrid working is still causing annoying issues for workers everywhere

> Companies everywhere are struggling with higher cloud costs than expected One in five (21%) of UK companies, and almost one-third (31%) of European companies, expect to embark on cloud migration projects to finesse their hybrid working strategies, which Sharp reckons is surprisingly low. The likelihood is that many organizations will be waiting to see what happens about the ongoing EU-US cloud battle, which could see some US providers pull out of the EU in the most drastic of outcomes. Cybersecurity represented the top priority for precisely one-third (33%) of the participants’ investments, with several others concerned about providing the right hybrid working technology and tools. Despite plans to invest big in IT, UK businesses are more aware of rising supply costs of the increased cost of living in general than their European counterparts. In comparison, Britain seems less bothered about talent acquisition and retention than European countries. Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed! Sharp UK Managing Director, Stuart Sykes, offers a glint of optimism: “Despite understandable concerns about rising costs in the UK, businesses here are investing strategically in technology and seeing its value, even at a time of uncertainty.” With several years’ experience freelancing in tech and automotive circles, Craig’s specific interests lie in technology that is designed to better our lives, including AI and ML, productivity aids, and smart fitness. He is also passionate about cars and the decarbonisation of personal transportation. As an avid bargain-hunter, you can be sure that any deal Craig finds is top value! "Not a human replacement" — Microsoft alters terms of service to remind users its AI services should not be taken too seriously This AI PC designed for complex tasks & heavy workloads is coming soon — Intel Ultra CPU with integrated 1.4 GHz NPU with up to 96GB of DDR5 in a compact NUC package NYT Strands today — hints, answers and spangram for Monday, August 19 (game #169) TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 