Updated: August 9, 2024 Working with affiliate networks is one of the most effective ways to increase brand awareness for your products and services, and up your conversions. Not only is affiliate marketing becoming a prime advertising concept, but marketers are taking advantage of the quick wins that affiliate networks guarantee. With the complex nature of affiliate marketing, and the various platforms and networks that can be found within the market, you want to partner with only the top affiliate marketing networks out there to grow your business quickly. Several advertisers and merchants are jumping on the affiliate marketing wagon, so you may be wanting to find more opportunities in this field too. This guide will help you understand the economics of affiliate networks, what makes them better than standalone platforms, and which networks you should work with to maximize your ROI. An affiliate network is an established platform that connects publishers, aka the affiliate marketers or advertisers, with brands. These publishers can be any kind of content creator, from bloggers to social media influencers who are willing to promote your product and services on their channels. The affiliate network will usually offer reporting features and a database of members, serving as the ‘middleman’, so that both parties offering programs can connect and find the most suitable publisher or brand to work with. In essence, an affiliate network helps web and app publishers to monetize their inventory by providing a variety of options, as well as all of the necessary tools for running campaigns, such as tracking links and creatives. For advertisers, affiliate network services and benefits include payment processing, ad tracking technology, ad campaign reporting tools, as well as access to a vast database of publishers. Some publishers, known as ‘affiliates’ or ‘media buyers’ will create or buy traffic using advertising specifically to promote campaigns from a network, rather than just to monetize existing inventory. There are also two characteristics that describe the concept of affiliate marketing that translate into a network, namely the types of offers and commissions. The most popular types are game offers, casino offers, app offers, dating offers and nutra offers. The most in-demand commission types are mobile CPA and CPI. Think of affiliate platforms as a marketplace for affiliates and marketers who sign up to the site, agreeing to its terms and conditions. Brands can then partner with suitable advertisers, and publishers can choose sites or brands they want to promote. Once the two parties agree to collaborate, the publisher receives a custom link that monitors how many users follow this link or make a purchase from their site or advert. They are then paid a commission for each click that results in a sale. Affiliate networks allow publishers to find affiliate programs and have an overview of affiliate commission payouts, while facilitating the process of partnering with influencers and affiliates for brands. Now, you may be asking yourself what the difference is between affiliate networks and programs, as these terms are being mentioned in similar contexts. An affiliate program is usually a single brand, with which creators can get discovered on an affiliate network. The affiliate network is therefore a database made up of several programs to choose from and join. By signing up to an affiliate platform, publishers can access available products and begin making sales right the next minute. However, they are usually only in direct contact with the network and not with the sellers, giving networks the core purpose of streamlining and monitoring the process of the collaboration. Before signing up to an affiliate network, you may want to know more about why affiliate marketing can be of advantage and important to the growth of your business. So, let’s talk numbers. Recent trends show that affiliate marketing spending is expected to reach $8.2 billion by 2022, which would be up from 5.4 billion that was recorded in 2017. Moreover, 81% of advertisers and 84% of publishers have turned to affiliate marketing, driving the industry towards this evolving strategy, only to increase even further in the upcoming years. With advertisers using affiliate networks as a serious marketing tool, over 80% of them are investing more than 10% of their budgets in affiliate platforms. And when looking into different industries, retail had the highest share of affiliate revenue of 44% in 2021, with telecommunication and media accounting for 25% in global affiliate income. What does this mean for marketers and influencers alike? More and better opportunities to secure sticky income online. But let’s dive into more concrete benefits of joining an affiliate network. Apart from several industries now turning to affiliate marketing and spending rates increasing rapidly by the year, there are many key benefits within the concept that can help grow your business. The main advantage of joining an affiliate network is that it is already an established platform, so you don’t have to go on a hunt for influencers and get them to promote your mobile app. When you sign up to a network, you can locate the most suitable advertisers in the database, making it easier to collaborate with them. Networks also only admit legitimate affiliates that need to pass certain criteria to join the platform. Therefore, you are less likely to partner with inactive publishers or those with low conversion rates. In order to increase the chances of partnering with a suitable affiliate network, another benefit is that these platforms usually already have an existing reputation, meaning that you can research and read reviews surrounding the companies. This will make sure you find a network that aligns with the objectives of your business, ensuring long term success and steady revenue. A final and important benefit of joining an affiliate network is that the platform will handle payments for you as well as provide insight into traffic and performance data through its many analytics and reporting tools. So, you can track your progress and adjust your campaign accordingly. When choosing the best affiliate network for your business, make sure to see the commission rates the platforms offer are at least around 5% of each sale. Moreover, the platform you choose to sign up to should connect you with affiliates that target the same audience as you do, or at least operate in the same field as your products and services. Notice the approval requirements as well, as many credible networks have criteria for you to join their network, such as having an established website or a certain amount of traffic. So, make sure to carefully read through their terms and conditions before you sign up. Keeping these points in mind, choosing to work with an affiliate network can be very beneficial to your mobile app, if you are looking to reach a wider audience and increase visibility for your services. This list of the top affiliate networks focuses on the companies that significantly work with mobile and app related traffic and offers, be it as specialist mobile affiliate networks or as a general affiliate platform, with a sea of mobile-friendly affiliate programs. The One-Stop-Shop In Affiliate Marketing The One-Stop-Shop In Affiliate Marketing #1 Performance Marketing Network Worldwide #1 Performance Marketing Network Worldwide 	 Boutique Affiliate Network & Agency 	 Boutique Affiliate Network & Agency The only way to succeed in affiliate marketing is to partner with the best! The only way to succeed in affiliate marketing is to partner with the best! Direct Advertiser of the PIN-UP Casino & PIN-UP Bet Direct Advertiser of the PIN-UP Casino & PIN-UP Bet NEXT LEVEL AFFILIATE MARKETING NEXT LEVEL AFFILIATE MARKETING 	 Ad technology from the heart of Hamburg. 	 Ad technology from the heart of Hamburg. 194 GEOs covered - 3G and WIFI monetisation 194 GEOs covered - 3G and WIFI monetisation Direct And Exclusive Offers Worldwide Direct And Exclusive Offers Worldwide Converting worldwide mobile traffic Converting worldwide mobile traffic Global affiliate network distinguishes by innovative Global affiliate network distinguishes by innovative Mobile Affiliate Network Mobile Affiliate Network Mobile Traffic Monetization by CPA, CPM, RTB Mobile Traffic Monetization by CPA, CPM, RTB Top Nutra Affiliate Networks Top Nutra Affiliate Networks #1 Global Performance Agency #1 Global Performance Agency The One-Stop-Shop In Affiliate Marketing The One-Stop-Shop In Affiliate Marketing #1 Performance Marketing Network Worldwide #1 Performance Marketing Network Worldwide 	 Boutique Affiliate Network & Agency 	 Boutique Affiliate Network & Agency The only way to succeed in affiliate marketing is to partner with the best! The only way to succeed in affiliate marketing is to partner with the best! Direct Advertiser of the PIN-UP Casino & PIN-UP Bet Direct Advertiser of the PIN-UP Casino & PIN-UP Bet NEXT LEVEL AFFILIATE MARKETING NEXT LEVEL AFFILIATE MARKETING 	 Ad technology from the heart of Hamburg. 	 Ad technology from the heart of Hamburg. 194 GEOs covered - 3G and WIFI monetisation 194 GEOs covered - 3G and WIFI monetisation Direct And Exclusive Offers Worldwide Direct And Exclusive Offers Worldwide Converting worldwide mobile traffic Converting worldwide mobile traffic Global affiliate network distinguishes by innovative Global affiliate network distinguishes by innovative Mobile Affiliate Network Mobile Affiliate Network Mobile Traffic Monetization by CPA, CPM, RTB Mobile Traffic Monetization by CPA, CPM, RTB Make money with eBay Partner Network Make money with eBay Partner Network 	 Affiliate network with exclusive casino offers 	 Affiliate network with exclusive casino offers Get paid for every exchange made through your links or widgets Get paid for every exchange made through your links or widgets 	 Affiliate Network 	 Affiliate Network We power connections We power connections Global Affiliate Network Global Affiliate Network 	 E-commerce Affiliate CPA Network 	 E-commerce Affiliate CPA Network Earn up to 10% advertising fees with a trusted e-commerce leader Earn up to 10% advertising fees with a trusted e-commerce leader Provides advertisers with an effective marketing solution through its affiliate network and tools. Provides advertisers with an effective marketing solution through its affiliate network and tools. All-in-one partnership management solution for your business growth All-in-one partnership management solution for your business growth Your Global Performance Marketing Partner Your Global Performance Marketing Partner 	 The fullest collection of Dating offers Worldwide 	 The fullest collection of Dating offers Worldwide Connect and grow with Tradedoubler Connect and grow with Tradedoubler Direct advertiser in dating Direct advertiser in dating The Affiliate Network Where YOU Come First The Affiliate Network Where YOU Come First 	 Mobile Affiliate 	 Mobile Affiliate 	 Trafee- the new generation of smartlink! 	 Trafee- the new generation of smartlink! Worldwide CPA network Worldwide CPA network Empowering Marketers to Engage & Influence Empowering Marketers to Engage & Influence Partner with an award-winning broker Partner with an award-winning broker Top Nutra Affiliate Networks Top Nutra Affiliate Networks 	 Innovative, ALL-IN-ONE Affiliate Network 	 Innovative, ALL-IN-ONE Affiliate Network Connecting Publishers and Advertisers worldwide Connecting Publishers and Advertisers worldwide CPA&Smartlink network CPA&Smartlink network 	 iGaming Affiliate Program 	 iGaming Affiliate Program Affiliate Marketing Made Easy Affiliate Marketing Made Easy #1 Health Affiliate Network #1 Health Affiliate Network 	 Affiliate Network 	 Affiliate Network Your Best Affiliate Network Your Best Affiliate Network 	 AdsEmpire - Your Exclusive Dating Partner! 	 AdsEmpire - Your Exclusive Dating Partner! Create Lasting Relationships with the Industry's Top Affiliates Create Lasting Relationships with the Industry's Top Affiliates CPA Network | Dedicated Managers | Unique Offers | Multiple Verticals CPA Network | Dedicated Managers | Unique Offers | Multiple Verticals Global Smart Link Affiliate Program | Weekly Payouts | 24/7 Support Global Smart Link Affiliate Program | Weekly Payouts | 24/7 Support Best mobile traffic monetization engine Best mobile traffic monetization engine #1 Global Performance Agency #1 Global Performance Agency Mobile Affiliate Network Mobile Affiliate Network 	 Affiliate program of the online trading & stocks trading platform. 	 Affiliate program of the online trading & stocks trading platform. 	 iGaming Affiliate Network 	 iGaming Affiliate Network CPA, forex affiliate program CPA, forex affiliate program Empowering Brands & Influencers to Grow Online Empowering Brands & Influencers to Grow Online 	 The Leading Performance Marketing Affiliate Network 	 The Leading Performance Marketing Affiliate Network Your All-In-One Platform For Digital Commerce Your All-In-One Platform For Digital Commerce 	 High-tech network of affiliate pay-per-action programs 	 High-tech network of affiliate pay-per-action programs Thousands of CPI/CPA Top Converting Offers! Thousands of CPI/CPA Top Converting Offers! 	 MaxWeb | Top Affiliate Network in the World. 	 MaxWeb | Top Affiliate Network in the World. Make money from your commerce content Make money from your commerce content 	 Affiliate Network in crypto & forex trading 	 Affiliate Network in crypto & forex trading Affiliate Program Affiliate Program 	 Gambling CPA Network 	 Gambling CPA Network The Enhanced Affiliate Network The Enhanced Affiliate Network ⚡️ Zeydoo is a CPA Network with 10+ in-house products  ⚡️ Zeydoo is a CPA Network with 10+ in-house products  Webgains Gives You The Edge Webgains Gives You The Edge Worldwide Nutra Affiliate Network Worldwide Nutra Affiliate Network 	 No 1 Affiliate Marketing Network for Crypto 	 No 1 Affiliate Marketing Network for Crypto 	 Performance Affiliate Network 	 Performance Affiliate Network 	 Gambling Affiliate Network 	 Gambling Affiliate Network Dare to think big. Expect bigger results. Dare to think big. Expect bigger results.  Datify.link -  CPA Smartlink Network with daily payments  Datify.link -  CPA Smartlink Network with daily payments 	 ProfitSocial - new Smartlink Affiliate Network direct from the owner 	 ProfitSocial - new Smartlink Affiliate Network direct from the owner Health and Beauty Affiliate Program Health and Beauty Affiliate Program Marketplace | News & Insights | Data | Events Site Info Follow Us