Despite his demise more than three years ago, Irrfan Khan’s influence and cherished memories remain vivid in the hearts of countless cinephiles worldwide. Known for seamlessly merging the real with the reel, Irrfan’s 32-year career left an indelible mark on the industry. Among those who miss Irrfan is his beloved son Babil, who recently shared an endearing photo of his parents, along with a heartfelt note. Quoting a dialogue from Irrfan’s 2012 film Life of Pi, helmed by Ang Lee, Babil noted: “…but what always hurts the most, is not taking a moment to say goodbye.” “I was never able to thank my father for all I learned from him. To tell him, that without his lessons, I would never have survived,” he added. In the picture, Irrfan can be seen enjoying a boat ride with his wife Sutapa Sikdar.     A post shared by Babil (@babil.i.k)     A post shared by Babil (@babil.i.k)     A post shared by Babil (@babil.i.k)     A post shared by Babil (@babil.i.k)     A post shared by Babil (@babil.i.k)     A post shared by Babil (@babil.i.k)     A post shared by Babil (@babil.i.k) In June, Babil had shared another long post remembering his late father. “I miss when you used to look at Ayaan and me with that glint in your eye as if nothing else existed, even after you had achieved more than a man could ask from himself, just in those moments I realised you loved being a father more than being an actor, and imagine that after being the best actor in the world. It makes me feel like I didn’t value your concern enough. I miss our laughter baba,” he noted. Irrfan Khan passed away on April 29, 2020, at the age of 53, after a long battle with cancer. Irrfan’s health had been on the decline ever since he was diagnosed with neuroendocrine cancer in 2018. Irrfan made his silver screen debut in Mira Nair’s Salaam Bombay (1988) and also starred in several acclaimed films such as Haasil, Maqbool, Life in a Metro, Paan Singh Tomar, The Lunchbox, Haider, Piku and Talvar. He was also known for his work in international projects like The Namesake, The Darjeeling Limited, Slumdog Millionaire, Life of Pi and Jurassic World among others. In a career spanning over three decades, Irrfan Khan acted in over 50 Indian films, bagging a National Film Award and four Filmfare awards. In 2011, Irrfan was honoured with the Padma Shri by the central government. Click for more updates and latest Bollywood news along with Entertainment updates. Also get latest news and top headlines from India and around the world at The Indian Express. Nine people have been arrested in the Porsche accident case, including the 17-year-old driver whose blood sample was swapped with his mother's at Sassoon Hospital. A chargesheet has been filed and bail applications submitted, with evidence showing the driver was drunk. Previous arrests include the minor's parents and hospital staff for conspiring to swap the samples.  