Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Alexangelie Muniz Batlle had no idea that the numbness in her legs could be caused by something wrong in her brain.Doctors couldn’t figure it out, so they sent her to Dr. Barry Gordon, a neurologist at a MidState Medical Center clinic, to see what he could find out.Hartford HealthCareDr. Barry Gordon, neurologist with Hartford HealthCare’s Ayer Neuroscience Institute“She had even tried some steroids from orthopedics to see if this would help with the symptoms in her legs, but they really didn’t have any good diagnosis,” Gordon said.Muniz Batlle, 29, who lives in Meriden, was getting worse. Pain was rising up her left leg and starting in her right. She was losing her balance as well.Gordon said the result of a good neurological exam, performed in the office rather than by telehealth, was the key to discovering an abnormal connection between a vein and an artery in her brainstem, known as a fistula.Courtesy Alexangelie Nuniz BattleAlexangelie Muniz Batlle felt numbness in her legs because of a fistula in her brain stem.“One of the striking things on exam is that she has exaggerated reflexes in the legs,” Gordon said. “That’s a big finding. In neurology that differentiates between damage at the spinal cord level, or up, versus damage to the nerve root level, or below,” he said.Exaggerated reflexes show that the damage is in the spinal cord, he said.

An MRI showed an unusual tangle of blood vessels around the spinal cord in Muniz Batlle’s neck, with swelling around the spinal cord, Gordon said.Dr. Tapan Mehta / Hartford HealthCareA tangle of blood vessels at Alexangelie Muniz Batlle’s brainstem, where a fistula needed to be repaired, shown by arteriography.So he called his colleague, Dr. Tapan Mehta, an interventional radiologist in the Ayer Neuroscience Institute, to get a closer look. Mehta looked at the films and performed an angiography “and figured out that this is truly a high-flow vascular malformation. … It was obviously affecting her thoracic spinal cord and cervical spinal cord, which was giving her these symptoms.”What Mehta found was “a small abnormal connection between the artery and the vein that goes in the spinal cord,” he said. Blood from the artery was entering the vein at higher pressure than the vein normally would carry, causing high blood pressure and pressing on the spinal cord.“All the pressure from the artery is basically poured into this vein,” Mehta said. “This vein is designed to take the pressure of 10 millimeters of mercury but now it’s actually getting 100 millimeters of mercury pressure,” Mehta said. “So what will happen is it will stop functioning and it will also make the organ stop functioning from which it is collecting blood,” the spinal cord. Hartford HealthCareDr. Tapan Mehta, interventional radiologist with Hartford HealthCare’s Ayer Neuroscience Institute.The vein putting pressure on the spinal cord caused her left leg to feel numb all the way up to her lower back, Muniz Batlle said, partly through an interpreter. She was given a prescription, which then caused both her legs to feel a burning sensation.“I was very, very scared,” she said. “I’m a single mother with an 11-year-old. I didn’t know what would happen if I didn’t get better. And the doctors told me I needed to have the procedure immediately. And I got scared.”After seeing an orthopedist, who gave her an MRI, Muniz Batlle said she was told there was “nothing else he could do because everything came out fine.” By the time she went to the neurology institute, she had no movement in her right leg.Using a catheter through a blood vessel from the groin, Mehta placed a “small drop of glue” in the area where the artery and vein met, closing the fistula. “When we inject the glue we have to be very precise, because if we inject in the wrong place, she could have a bad stroke or she could have bad hemorrhage that she might not recover from,” he said. Now, Muniz Batlle said, she has pins and needles in her legs but the doctors said it would take some months to completely heal. She’s going to therapy for that and to improve her balance.Both Gordon and Mehta said the interaction between doctors in the Ayer Institute was key. “We were immediately available, which is not a common thing,” Mehta said. “There have been published studies that have shown that these delays can be six, seven months (and) our patients lose function.”Usually, such a condition is congenital, but it’s unknown in this case. “This is a very unique and an uncommon situation,” Mehta said. “I think she really got lucky because of the rapid identification of the problem, and thank God everything went well.”Ed Stannard can be reached at estannard@courant.com. Doctors couldn’t figure it out, so they sent her to Dr. Barry Gordon, a neurologist at a MidState Medical Center clinic, to see what he could find out. “She had even tried some steroids from orthopedics to see if this would help with the symptoms in her legs, but they really didn’t have any good diagnosis,” Gordon said. Muniz Batlle, 29, who lives in Meriden, was getting worse. Pain was rising up her left leg and starting in her right. She was losing her balance as well. Gordon said the result of a good neurological exam, performed in the office rather than by telehealth, was the key to discovering an abnormal connection between a vein and an artery in her brainstem, known as a fistula. “One of the striking things on exam is that she has exaggerated reflexes in the legs,” Gordon said.  “That’s a big finding. In neurology that differentiates between damage at the spinal cord level, or up, versus damage to the nerve root level, or below,” he said. Exaggerated reflexes show that the damage is in the spinal cord, he said. An MRI showed an unusual tangle of blood vessels around the spinal cord in Muniz Batlle’s neck, with swelling around the spinal cord, Gordon said. So he called his colleague, Dr. Tapan Mehta, an interventional radiologist in the Ayer Neuroscience Institute, to get a closer look.  Mehta looked at the films and performed an angiography “and figured out that this is truly a high-flow vascular malformation. … It was obviously affecting her thoracic spinal cord and cervical spinal cord, which was giving her these symptoms.” What Mehta found was “a small abnormal connection between the artery and the vein that goes in the spinal cord,” he said. Blood from the artery was entering the vein at higher pressure than the vein normally would carry, causing high blood pressure and pressing on the spinal cord. “All the pressure from the artery is basically poured into this vein,” Mehta said.  “This vein is designed to take the pressure of 10 millimeters of mercury but now it’s actually getting 100 millimeters of mercury pressure,” Mehta said. “So what will happen is it will stop functioning and it will also make the organ stop functioning from which it is collecting blood,” the spinal cord.  The vein putting pressure on the spinal cord caused her left leg to feel numb all the way up to her lower back, Muniz Batlle said, partly through an interpreter. She was given a prescription, which then caused both her legs to feel a burning sensation. “I was very, very scared,” she said. “I’m a single mother with an 11-year-old. I didn’t know what would happen if I didn’t get better. And the doctors told me I needed to have the procedure immediately. And I got scared.” After seeing an orthopedist, who gave her an MRI, Muniz Batlle said she was told there was “nothing else he could do because everything came out fine.” By the time she went to the neurology institute, she had no movement in her right leg. Using a catheter through a blood vessel from the groin, Mehta placed a “small drop of glue” in the area where the artery and vein met, closing the fistula. “When we inject the glue we have to be very precise, because if we inject in the wrong place, she could have a bad stroke or she could have bad hemorrhage that she might not recover from,” he said.  Now, Muniz Batlle said, she has pins and needles in her legs but the doctors said it would take some months to completely heal. She’s going to therapy for that and to improve her balance. Both Gordon and Mehta said the interaction between doctors in the Ayer Institute was key.  “We were immediately available, which is not a common thing,” Mehta said. “There have been published studies that have shown that these delays can be six, seven months (and) our patients lose function.” Usually, such a condition is congenital, but it’s unknown in this case.  “This is a very unique and an uncommon situation,” Mehta said. “I think she really got lucky because of the rapid identification of the problem, and thank God everything went well.” Ed Stannard can be reached at estannard@courant.com. Copyright © 2024 Hartford Courant