Ole Miss women's basketball claimed its first NCAA Tournament win in 16 years on Friday night. But more than that, the eighth-seeded Rebels produced a shining representation of everything they're about on the college game's biggest stage, beating ninth-seeded Gonzaga 71-48 at Maples Pavilion in Stanford, California. Ole Miss (24-8) grated one of the nation's most efficient offenses into a disorganized pulp. Gonzaga, coming into the game as the country's top 3-point shooting team, did not connect from beyond the arc in the first half and made just 1-of-17 for the game. The Bulldogs (28-5) shot 29.3%, and produced by far their lowest points total this season. The Ole Miss defense – the foundation on which Yolett McPhee-McCuin built her program – offered the Bulldogs no quarter. Any space present in the Rebels' defensive half was closed down instantly. The Rebels closed the passing lanes, presenting Gonzaga with few opportunities to move the ball quickly. Ole Miss defenders stuck to Bulldogs guards like glue, providing them no room to penetrate and generate the kick-outs necessary to feed the 3-point shooters on the perimeter. Every Gonzaga movement was punished by an Ole Miss bump. McPhee-McCuin said in the leadup to Friday's contest that the team that imposed its brand of basketball would leave with a win. By the five-minute mark of the first quarter, it was obvious that team was Ole Miss. For their efforts, the Rebels earn a matchup with No. 1 seed Stanford on Sunday (8:30 p.m., ESPN). FULL UPDATES: Ole Miss women's basketball score vs. Gonzaga: Live updates from March Madness NIL:As March Madness nears, Ole Miss women continue program growth with landmark NIL deal COACH YO:With Ole Miss women March Madness bound again, Coach Yo's upbringing holds secret to success Lately, Ole Miss guard Snudda Collins hasn't been the offensive force she was early in the season, but she sparked the run that helped the Rebels take control of Friday's game. Collins scored 10 points in the second quarter, including a spectacular four-point play, to provide the scoring punch behind a 17-5 Ole Miss run that sent the Rebels into the halftime break with a comfortable 34-21 lead that only grew thereafter. Ole Miss outscored Gonzaga 25-10 in the third quarter. Collins finished with a team-high 15 points for the game. Madison Scott (11) and Angel Baker (11) also ended in double figures. Making their first NCAA Tournament appearance under McPhee-McCuin last season, Ole Miss didn't feel ready. The Rebels were happy to be there. And they lost in the first round. This season, Ole Miss built its roster around experienced players who had been to March Madness before. The Rebels said they treated the journey like a business trip. And they were rewarded for that mentality. This article originally appeared on Mississippi Clarion Ledger: Ole Miss women dominate Gonzaga to advance in NCAA Tournament Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin.