The Windsor Forest boys basketball team was the best in the Coastal Empire last season as the Knights reached the state finals for the first time in school history -- losing to Cross Creek in the Class 3A championship game. The Knights lost some key pieces as D'Ante Bass (Georgetown), Javonte Landy (Savannah State) and Mike Cabellero graduated. Windsor Forest has been flying under the radar locally this season as the Knights dropped down a classification to 2A, where they were the only Savannah squad competing in Region 2-3A. After winning the region title, the Knights entered the state playoffs ranked No. 6 among 2A teams in the state by Sandysspiel.com, but they drew one of the toughest matchups possible in the first round of the state playoffs in Thomson, ranked No. 8. The teams have a recent history -- with the Knights knocking off Thomson in the tight state semifinal matchup last year. 'Glue' players from local hoops teamsHere's the 'Glue' players that anchor successful basketball squads as state playoffs begin Windsor beats Thomson in state semfinalsHow Windsor Forest rallied late to advance to first state championship game in school history Calvary girls, Johnson boys win regionsRegion tournament roundup: How Johnson boys and Calvary girls dominated to win titles The highly-anticipated rematch went down at Windsor Forest Wednesday night, and the Knights prevailed in another memorable battle -- winning 72-68. Windsor Forest came out on fire in the first quarter behind some red hot shooting from sophomore Landon Page, who scored 10 of his team-high 18 in the first stanza as the Knights took a 23-15 lead. But Thomson rallied to tie things up at 38 at the half. The Knights led by eight with 2:27 left, but Thomson kept coming and narrowed the deficit to 70-68 with 43 seconds left, and the ball. That's when Knight senior Ahmad Grovener made a huge defensive play, with a steal a midcourt that seized the momentum back for the Knights, who were able to close it out. Page knocked down four treys among his 18 points, and Grovener scored 15. Larry Pounds played a pivotal role on both ends of the court and scored 14, with Jah'Tavious Gaines showing off his gritty style of play and adding 11 points. Qurahn Anderson, who was recently selected as region player of the year for Windsor, had eight points. Timmy Steed led Thomson with 20 points and Lavonta Ivery had 16. "I was impressed with our effort and our attitude, especially on defense tonight," Windsor Forest coach Aaron Clark said. "There were a couple times where we made great defensive plays and the ball bounced their way and they ended up scoring. But our guys never got down, they stayed positive and kept playing aggressively. "We lost some key seniors to graduation, but Qurahn (Anderson), Jah'Tavious (Gaines), Ahmad (Grovener) and Larry (Pounds) have stepped up as unparalleled leaders. We played so well together tonight, and I'm really proud of the guys." Gaines had to sit out last season as he transferred in from a South Carolina school, and he is relishing the chance to contribute in his final high school season. "This was a tough game, but we fought hard and got locked in on defense at the end," Gaines said. "That was the key for us." Anderson said Thomson was a tough first round test, and the experience should pay dividends as the Knights move forward. "They have five athletes who got up and down the court fast, they all could shoot, and they played physical," Anderson said. "But we trusted each other, shared the ball and got the stops when we needed to." Windsor Forest is set to host Central (Macon) in a second round game either Friday or Saturday at a time to be announced.  Harlem 57, Beach 56 Beach saw its season come to an end in a last second loss at Harlem. The Bulldogs have been struggling lately after senior star Shamarrie Hugie hurt his wrist against Johnson in a loss on Feb. 3. He had been sidelined ever since, and the Bulldogs ended up as a No. 3 seed entering the playoffs without their go-to man. But Hugie was cleared to play on Tuesday, and he played well -- scoring a team-high 18 points in the loss. Tyrese Bellamy had 15 points and Jayden Newton added 11. Beach was up by 14 as the fourth quarter got under way, but technical fouls by Bellamy and Hugie played a part in Harlem's comeback. "We had all the momentum, but it was a turning point when Bellamy got that first tech, and things started going downhill even worse when Shamarrie got the other one," Beach coach Simon Heyward said. Hugie, James Leach and James Tisby all fouled out in the final five minutes, leaving Beach with just one experienced player from last year's Final Four team on the floor in sophomore point guard Chandler Reid as Harlem scored the go-ahead basket in the final seconds. Heyward was disappointed in how the season ended, but proud of the way his team performed when looking at the big picture. "All in all, the boys gave me everything they had all year long, in every game," Heyward said. "We had a lot more ups than downs. Now I'm going to make sure my seniors find their spots playing college ball, and we'll get back to work with the guys we have coming back." Johnson 107, Hephzibah 45 The Atom Smashers, ranked No. 1 in the state among Class 3A teams by Sandysspiel.com, were hitting on all cylinders Wednesday as they blew out visiting Hephzibah. Johnson's Big Three game to play with stellar performances across the board. Malachi Robinson had the triple double with 28 points, including five 3-pointers, to go along with 17 rebounds and 10 assists. Josh Quarterman had 28 points, seven assists, five rebounds and three steals. Antonio Baker had 26 points, five assists and six rebounds. Favion Kirkwood grabbed seven rebounds and scored eight points and Cormari Jones had seven steals and six assists for an Atom Smasher squad that improved to 23-4. Johnson is set to host Crisp County in second round game set for Friday night at a time to be announced. Benedictine 65, Trinity Christian 47 The Cadets, the Region 3-4A champions, played the part in dominating fashion Wednesday with a lopsided win over visiting Trinity Christian. Senior point guard Stephon Frazier, named the Region 3-4A Player of the Year earlier this week, poured in 28 points for the Cadets. Sophomore star Caleb Jones had a game-high 29 points and junior LaDon Bryant added 16 for the Cadets, who improved to 16-5. BC is set to host Perry Saturday in a Sweet 16 matchup at a time to be announced. Savannah High 76, Crawford Co. 43 Host Savannah High rolled to a playoff win over visiting Crawford Wednesday night. The Blue Jackets improved to 21-7 on the season and will be on the road to face Swainsboro in a second round game Friday or Saturday at a time to be announced. Sophomore Maki Joyner continued with his impressive -- season scoring 20 for the Blue Jackets. Junior Jermaine Edwards added 13. Cross Creek 87, Groves 63 Sidney Flaggs scored 20, Ja'Quawn Singleton added 16 points and seven boards and Khari Manning had 11 points, five assists and four rebounds as Groves lost in the first round to defending state champ Cross Creek. Groves, the No. 4 seed out of Region 3-3A, finsihed the season with a 15-13 record. Class 5A Bradwell Institute 65, Jones County 48 Class 4A Benedictine 65, Trinity Christian 47 Fayette County 98, New Hampstead 73 Class 3A Johnson 107, Hephzibah 45 Harlem 57, Beach 56 Cross Creek 87, Groves 63 Class 2A Windsor Forest 72, Thomson 68 Class A Division 1 Woodville-Tompkins 60, Lamar County 33 Savannah High 76, Crawford County 43 No. 3 Bryan County (12-16) at No. 2 Heard County (8-16), Wednesday, TBA GIAA Boys Class A Boys Memorial Day vs. winner of Highland Christian/Thomas Jefferson, Saturday, Feb. 25, at Stratford Academy in Macon, time TBA Class 3A Boys St. Andrew's vs. winner of Brookwood/Lakeview, Saturday, Feb. 25, 7:30 p.m. at First Presbyterian in Macon Andrew Jackson 73, Bethesda 52 Class 7A No. 4 Richmond Hill (15-11) at No. 1 Pebblebrook (17-9), Wednesday, 5 p.m. Class 6A  Lee County 44, South Effingham 30 Class 5A Bradwell 64, Eagle’s Landing 41 Class 4A  Fayette County 56, Islands 41 Class 3A Calvary Day 65, Salem 27 Liberty County 64, Hephzibah 48 Cross Creek 60. Savannah Country Day 55 Class 1A Div. 1 Woodville-Tompkins 63, Crawford Co. 38 Temple 55, Bryan County 50 Lamar County 56, Savannah High 40 Class A first round St. George Episcopal 50, Memorial Day 11 Dennis Knight covers sports for the Savannah Morning News. Contact him at Dknight@savannahnow.com. Twitter: @DennisKnightSMN This article originally appeared on Savannah Morning News: Windsor Forest grinds out a win and Johnson, BC, Savannah advance in playoffs Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Rookie quarterbacks continue to dominate the conversation of the preseason. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL.