Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox We have more newsletters A new law which will impact all cat owners comes into effect from next year - and our pets will be safer thanks to it.  The new rule requires all cats to be microchipped, with their owners up-to-date contact details, and failure to do so could result in a £500 fine. Furry friends must be implanted with a microchip before they reach the age of 20 weeks.  All owners must have their cat microchipped by 10 June 2024 and owners found not to have microchipped their cat will have 21 days to have one implanted, or could be hit with the fine. The new law will make it easier for lost or stray pet cats to be reunited with their owners and returned home safely. Try MEN Premium for FREE by clicking here for no ads, fun puzzles and brilliant new features.  The process of microchipping involves the insertion of a chip, generally around the size of a grain of rice, under the skin of a pet. The microchip has a unique serial number that the keeper needs to register on a database. When an animal is found, the microchip can be read with a scanner and the registered keeper identified on a database so the pet can quickly be reunited with them. It will not be compulsory for free living cats that live with little or no human interaction or dependency, such as farm, feral or community cats. Owners with cats that are already microchipped should ensure their details are up to date. There are over 9 million pet cats in England, with as many as 2.3 million unchipped, meaning that it would be very difficult to reunite them with their owner if they get lost or stolen. The new microchipping rules follow a Government call for evidence and consultation on the issue in which 99% of respondents expressed support for the measure.  Environment Secretary Thérèse Coffey said: “Cats and kittens are treasured members of the family, and it can be devastating for owners when they are lost or stolen. Legislating for compulsory microchipping of cats will give comfort to families by increasing the likelihood that lost or stray pets can be reunited with their owners.” Join our WhatsApp Top Stories and Breaking News group by clicking this link Cats Protection’s Head of Advocacy, Campaigns & Government Relations, Madison Rogers, said: “Cats Protection is delighted that pet cats in England will be given the same protection as dogs when it comes to microchipping. The charity regularly reunites owners with their much-loved cats, and in most cases this is only possible thanks to microchips.  "No matter how far from home they are found, or how long they have been missing, if a cat has a microchip there is a good chance that a lost cat will be swiftly returned home.” The commitment to microchipping is part of a wider Government effort to build on our existing world-leading standards. Since publishing the Action Plan for Animal Welfare in 2021: we have brought in new laws to recognise animals sentience, introduced tougher penalties for animal cruelty offences and brought forward a ban on glue traps. 