 Father-and-son duo Isko Moreno and Joaquin Domagoso are set to appear together on "Black Rider!"  According to Aubrey Carampel's report on "24 Oras," Tuesday, Isko has already started his taping days for the upcoming GMA Public Affairs action series.  "Ang nakaka-excite kasi 'yung bumalik ka sa pag-arte. Alam naman ng lahat na ito talaga ang naging tulay ko para maka-angat sa buhay, and that is through GMA-7, 'That's Entertainment,' and I think Kuya Germs will be happy now again me doing a lot of things in GMA," he said.  Isko said that he accepted the project because he will play the character of "Tiagong Dulas," a role that is close to his heart, like the "G sa Gedli" segment he is doing in "Eat Bulaga."  "Malapit din sa puso ko 'yung pagtulong sa mga naaapi, nahihirapan sa buhay, so in character eh, so we've been doing that for more than two decades. As I have said before, it's good to be home with GMA," Isko said.  Meanwhile, Joaquin admitted that he felt nervous acting with his dad.  "Of course, it's my dad who's watching me eh, so naiisip ko rin 'yun, nandito pala si papa," he said.  Like in real life, Isko and Joaquin will play father and son in the series. They also teased that they would be taking on some action scenes.  "Malamang, malamang, mag-aral lang ng konti. Siya nakapag-training na eh, nakita ko mga training niya eh," the supportive dad said.  Joaquin added, "Mga barilan, mga rolling on the floor. If anything, if may gagawin si papa, ako na magsa-salo sa mga eksena niya."  Ruru Madrid said that he is happy to be working with Isko and Joaquin for the first time.  "Sobrang nakakataba po ng puso na 'yung mga dating tinitingala ko na mga artista, eh ngayon po, nakakatrabaho ko na po sila," he said.  Isko, Joaquin, and Ruru will be joined by "Black Rider" co-stars Yassi Pressman, Kylie Padilla, Matteo Guidicelli, Jon Lucas, Rainier Castillo, Katrina Halili, Zoren Legaspi, Gladys Reyes, Empoy, Jayson Gainza, Janus del Prado, and many more.  —Carby Basina/MGP, GMA Integrated News