 The eastern portion of Isabela (Divilacan, Palanan, Dinapigue) and the extreme northern portion of Aurora (Dilasag) are under Storm Signal No. 3 as Super Typhoon Goring moves south-southeast near Casiguran, Aurora, PAGASA said.  In its 5 p.m. tropical cyclone bulletin, the state weather bureau said that the center of the eye of Goring (international name: Saola) was estimated 95 km east of Casiguran, Aurora, carrying maximum sustained winds of 185 km/h near the center, gustiness of up to 230 km/h, and central pressure of 935 hPa.  "Strong to typhoon-force winds extend outwards up to 260 km from the center," PAGASA said.  Four areas are under Signal No. 2:  Sixteen areas are under Signal No. 1:  Track  Over the next 12 hours, Goring is expected to move eastward over the Philippine Sea east of Aurora, and is expected to make landfall in Taiwan on Wednesday evening or Thursday morning. It is expected to remain a super typhoon until then.  "It is likely that Goring will emerge over the Taiwan Strait and exit the PAR [Philippine Area of Responsibility] region on late Thursday or Friday as a severe tropical storm or a typhoon in its lowest limit," PAGASA said.  Habagat  The Southwest Monsoon or Habagat, enhanced by Goring, is expected to bring occasional or monsoon rains over the western portions of central Luzon, southern Luzon, and Visayas over the next three days, PAGASA added.  In its 8 p.m. Heavy Rainfall Warning, PAGASA said a red rainfall warning has been issued over Peñablanca in Cagayan, as well as Palanan and Dinapigue in Isabela, meaning floods and landslides may be occurring in flood- and landslide-prone areas.  An orange rainfall warning has been issued over the rest of Cagayan, the rest of Isabela, and northern Aurora (Dilasag, Casiguram, Dinalungan, and Dipaculao), meaning floods and landslides are threatening flood- and landslide-prone areas.  Light to moderate and occasional heavy rains, meanwhile, are affecting Metro Manila, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Bulacan, Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Quezon, and Rizal, and are seen to persist over the next few hours. — BM, GMA Integrated News