 Residents who had gathered outside to drink until the early hours invaded their neighbor's house and vandalized her car after they were asked to keep the noise down.  According to Maki Pulido's report on 24 Oras on Thursday, many residents of one neighborhood in Barangay 179, Manila, could be seen on CCTV footage outside Lourdes Diangson's house over the weekend, sitting around and drinking.  The footage then shows Diangson's son-in-law coming out of the house to talk to some of the neighbors, apparently to ask them to turn down the sound system as it was already past midnight and his children could not sleep.  On the son-in-law's way back through the gate of the house, someone puts his arm around his shoulder and he shakes it off. The person then punches him and he hits back, then retreats into the house.   The footage then shows the assailant and some of his drinking companions surging into the house, and the altercation continuing inside, where Diangson's youngest child tried to stop the fight.  Diangson said that her three grandchildren, including a baby, were nearby.   "Lahat nung nakainuman niya, nagsuguran na dito," Diangson said. "Nag forced entry sila, kaya nasira yung screen door, tapos nabasag nila yung jar ko na nakapuwesto doon. Yung mga apo ko, siyempre nagulat sa pangyayari, di lalong nag-iyakan, kasi binaba na namin [sila] dahil nga sobrang lakas ng sound sa itaas."  The footage then shows that after the neighbors left the house, they turned their attention to Diangson's car, which was parked outside. They kicked and struck at it, knocking off the side mirror, scratching the exterior and shattering the windows and windshield with rocks. One of them even tilted the CCTV camera down away from the car, but another camera caught the damage done to it.  Barangay chairperson Lily Desalesa said that they had told off these men against such behavior several times. Four barangay kagawads were also part of the group, and apparently did nothing to stop their companions from attacking the family and the car.  They were reprimanded in the morning.  "Medyo matigas ang ulo," Desalesa said. "Kasi nga lagi yung tuwing may inuman, madalas hanggang madaling araw. Pero hindi naman kami nagkulang ng paalala sa kanya at kinausap na rin namin."  Diangson plans to file complaints against the neighbors.   Pulido tried to get comment from the neighbors by visiting their homes, but was told they were not in. Their families also declined to comment. — BM, GMA Integrated News