 More buses are needed to transport waiting passengers at the Parañaque Integrated Terminal Exchange (PITX) amid the holiday season.  According to Lei Alviz’s “24 Oras” report, almost 115,000 passengers were recorded in the PITX as of 6 p.m. Thursday.  Several passengers were waiting for “extra trips” as the regular trips were almost fully booked going to the provinces.  The PITX management, however, said they are adding additional trips based on the demand.  “Ngayon halos fully booked na siya lahat kaya ang ginagawa natin ngayon humihingi tayo ng additional units sa ating partner operators and then consequently hinihingan natin ng special permits with the Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB),” Jason Salvador, head of the corporate affairs and government relations, said.  The LTFRB said special permits have been given to 639 additional provincial buses this Christmas season.  LTFRB technical division chief Joel Bolano said the application for a special permit is already closed.  However, he said the agency will issue more special permits if there is an urgent need for additional units during bus operations.  “Basta makauwi kami, 12 daw mamayang hating gabi. Ang tagal nga, yun iniisip namin kaso lang walang choice. Lahat kami senior magkakapatid,” passenger Angelica Manaog said.  “Siguro mag-aantay na lang kung merong another chance na makakuha ulit ng masasakyan. So, magtitiyaga na lang mag-antay dito. One year na rin hindi nakakauwi sa pamilya eh puro trabaho so kailangan na rin umuwi kasi magpaPasko, holiday,” passenger Mark Floranda said.  Salvador said these passengers were those who did not book their trips beforehand.  “Eto kasi yung mga last minute na, yung pupunta lang dito walang advance booking ngayon lang bibili ng ticket. So ginagather natin yung data na yan, binabato natin sa mga partners natin para makita nila na may demand pa eh makapagsupply sila accordingly,” he said.  The management of PITX encouraged passengers to avoid bringing many baggage to give space to others.  But some passengers said they could not help bringing big or bulky items as gifts to their loved ones.  “Bike po, pinapauwi ng anak ko. Yung anak ko binigyan ko ng bike para meron siyang gagamitin sa school,” passenger Vergel Nebran said.  “Kasi ano po, isang taon na akong hindi [umuwi] uli. Pamasko ko man doon sa mga kamag-anak ko,” passenger Lilibeth Torres said.  Bus stations such as Florida and Victory Liner were also filled with passengers during the holiday season.  “Masayang masaya po kasi one year din po ako. One year, one year lang po ako umuuwi,” another passenger said.  The PITX management reminded passengers to wear facemasks and advised them to eat before the trip to avoid removing masks inside the bus.  The management also expected the influx of passengers which may reach 175,000 on Friday.—Richa Noriega/LDF, GMA Integrated News