Tampa General Hospital has agreed to buy three Bravera Health hospitals north of Tampa for $290 million. The sale was announced by Community Health Services, the current owner of the three hospitals in Brooksville, Crystal River and Spring Hill. Once the sale closes, the Franklin, Tennessee-based company will no longer have any hospitals or clinics in Tampa Bay, leaving the operator with seven hospitals in the Panhandle, Southwest Florida and the Keys. In 2020, CHS sold St. Petersburg’s embattled Bayfront Health to Orlando Health. Since 2016, CHS has been shedding hospitals to focus on regional hubs, per a 2018 report from Healthcare Dive. The health care giant, which owns or leases 77 hospitals across 15 states, reported a $51 million net loss attributable to shareholders for the first quarter of 2023. Meanwhile, the sale is a major investment for Tampa General, which owns over 100 properties in Florida, most notably a 1,040-bed hospital in Tampa’s Davis Islands. Other significant holdings include a 130,000-square-foot health complex in Brandon and a rehabilitation hospital on Kennedy Boulevard, which added a 15,000-square-foot emergency center last month. A smattering of specialized clinics, surgery facilities, urgent care centers and cancer centers across Tampa Bay, as well as some properties in South Florida and Fort Myers, fill out the rest of Tampa General’s portfolio. The Tampa hospital also operates in partnership with the University of South Florida’s Morsani College of Medicine, which has its own building on the Davis Islands campus. Tampa General will add 372 beds to its network with the acquisition of the three hospitals. The Bravera hospitals currently provide cancer treatment, surgeries, primary care and rehabilitation, among other services. The sale will close later this year, according to a news release from CHS. A spokesperson for Tampa General said the company won’t comment on the sale until the deal closes. Shauna Muckle is reporter covering tourism, transportation and technology. She can be reached at smuckle@tampabay.com.  The Tampa Bay Times e-Newspaper is a digital replica of the printed paper seven days a week that is available to read on desktop, mobile, and our app for subscribers only. To enjoy the e-Newspaper every day, please subscribe.