U.S. Sens. Katie Britt and Tommy Tuberville have joined a bipartisan group of 14 senators pushing for the extension of a federal policy to help rural hospitals.  The Low Wage Index Hospital Policy went into effect in October 2020, essentially increasing Medicare payments to the bottom 25% of hospitals on the Medicare inpatient hospital wage index.  These low-wage areas tend to be rural, and rural providers are often more reliant on Medicare and Medicaid payments than urban providers, according to the Rural Health Information Hub. If the policy is not extended, the additional payments to low-wage hospitals will stop Sept. 30.  “Our rural families and communities depend on the medical services and potentially life-saving treatments that local hospitals provide,” Britt said in a statement. “Every Alabamian deserves access to quality care and the opportunity to thrive in safe, strong communities – no matter their ZIP code.”  Many rural hospitals in Alabama already operate on extremely limited budgets. A 2023 report from healthcare consulting firm Chartis showed that 61-80% of rural hospitals in Alabama have a negative operating margin. Meanwhile, about 50% of hospitals statewide operate in the red.  A 2023 report from another consulting firm, Kaufman Hall, estimated that Alabama hospitals have lost almost $1.5 billion since the start of the pandemic. Even with federal relief funds in place, hospital losses of income grew from $124 million in 2020 to $738 million in 2022. “This study demonstrates that we are likely on a collision course with disaster, and we have only a short window to avoid losing access to services or seeing some hospitals close,” Alabama Hospital Association President Donald Williamson said in a statement on the Kaufman Hall report. “While the access crisis will be worse in already underserved rural areas, as local hospitals close and patients pursue care in larger centers, many of the financially precarious urban facilities may not have the resources or capacity to absorb the volume.” Last week, Britt and Tuberville authored a letter alongside 12 other senators formally requesting that Chiquita Brooks-LaSure, the head of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, grant a four-year extension of the Low Wage Index Hospital Policy.  They argued that the policy and its increased reimbursements allow hospitals in rural areas to compete for and retain high-quality staff — one of several barriers to adequate medical care in rural areas.   “Unfortunately, due to disruptions in the marketplace caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have not had the opportunity to see the true impact of the Low Wage Index Hospital Policy envisioned by CMS,” the letter stated. “Extending the Low Wage Index Hospital Policy for four additional years will allow hospitals and the agency to better understand the policy’s true impact in a more normal environment.” The other authors were Mark Warner (D-Va.), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.), Bill Hagerty (R-Tenn.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.) and Tom Cotton (R-Ark.). Hadley Hitson covers the rural South for the Montgomery Advertiser and Report for America. She can be reached at hhitson@gannett.com. To support her work,subscribe to the Advertiser ordonate to Report for America.