Omar Silverio will never play a game in the Old Gold and Blue, but it won't be by choice.  A few days ago, the NCAA deemed Silverio ineligible for one more year of eligibility and denied WVU's appeal for a waiver, thus bringing his collegiate career to an end.  Silverio began his career at Rhode Island but averaged just 7.8 minutes per game before transferring to Hofstra. During his first two years in the program, Silverio averaged between 10-15 minutes per game, but became a big piece of the Pride's offense this year averaging 10.9 points, 3.3 rebounds, 1.1 assists, and 1.1 blocks per game while shooting 37% from the field and 35% from three-point range. After the 21-22 season, Silverio transferred to Manhattan, but left after head coach Steve Masiello was fired just two weeks before the season. The same reason Jose Perez left Manhattan for West Virginia. Because of the ruling, Silverio is being forced to forfeit the $10,000 he was promised in NIL money. To help replace that money, a GoFundMe has been created by Adam Berkowitz where WVU fans can help the now former Mountaineer out. Fundraiser description: "Ten years ago Omar Silverio left his family in the Dominican Republic to chase his dream of an education and basketball career in the United States. Through the ups and downs, he has worked hard, treated people the right way and stayed positive. He has dealt with injuries, saw one coach fired right before the season started, lost another to a major health issue, and played for three coaches in three seasons all while at the same school. Despite that, he earned his degree from Hofstra University. Now, he has been waiting for six months to hear from the NCAA regarding a waiver to play his final season at West Virginia. As many of you know, that waiver was denied this week and Omar's college career is over. He appreciates all of his teammates and coaches and especially all of the fans he has met and come in contact with throughout his college career. The community at West Virginia has treated him like family even though he won't be able to suit up for the University this season. He has many great memories -- winning the CAA Championship, scoring 40 points in a game, playing in front of friends and family, and meeting some amazing people along the way. He is contemplating what is next for him and his family. He is considering filing a lawsuit against the NCAA, but isn't sure if it is worth the time and expense that will entail. Regardless, thanks to the NCAA, he has had to forfeit the NIL money that he was promised. Please consider supporting Omar and his family in DR as they navigate the next steps in their lives." You can follow us for future coverage by liking us on Facebook & following us on Twitter: Facebook - @MountaineersNow Twitter - @MountaineersNow and Schuyler Callihan at @Callihan_. Publisher of Mountaineers Now on FanNation/Sports Illustrated. Lead recruiting expert and co-host of Between the Eers, Walk Thru GameDay Show, Mountaineers Now Postgame Show, and In the Gun Podcast.