
  A couple has raised £8,500 to help fund an operation for their beloved pet dog who has been given only months to live.
 
  Jaxson the Spaniel was born with a genetic condition affecting his mobility in his front elbows.
 
  His owners, Bekki Woolnough and Eren Mustafa, from Beccles, took him to several local vets and discovered he would need life-changing bilateral elbow arthrodesis surgery, which can only be done at a specialist referral practice and would cost them £20,000.
 
  Due to the specialist nature of the surgery, their pet insurance does not cover the high fee.
 
  Bekki Woolnough and her partner bought Jaxson from a breeder in Norwich as a puppy, and only started to notice he was having mobility issues as he grew older.
 
  Jaxson, a Cocker Spaniel, is now one and a half years old, and vets have said he will be lucky to see past his second birthday if he doesn't get the urgent surgery in time. 
 
Jaxson on the beach as a puppy  (Image: Bekki Woolnough)
 
  Ms Woolnough, a 41-year-old nail technician from Beccles, said: "As he grows and gets older his elbows are going to carry on deteriorating and it's going to get to the stage where it becomes too painful for him to move at all.
 
  "At the moment he's on anti-inflammatories and pain killers which he has to take every day, and that's only just keeping him going until we manage to get him the surgery."
 
  Jaxson is on pain medication to reduce inflammation in his joints which is easing some of the discomfort and has also been given a dog wheelchair by the charity Winston's Wheels. He can now go outside and get fresh air for the first time, although he needs the surgery as a permanent long-term fix for his health issues. 
 
  The couple has raised £8,500 of their goal so far and still need help to achieve the £20,000 target.
 
  You can donate to Jaxson's gofundme here. 
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.