Will she ruin Chloe and Mack's engagement? Emmerdale spoilers follow. Charity Dingle considers making a shock confession to Chloe Harris in Emmerdale. This week, Chloe and Mack announced their engagement to their family, and they also believe they may be expecting their second child together. When Chloe eventually discovers she's not pregnant, she panics that the only reason Mack wanted to get married is because he thought they were having another child. Unfortunately for Chloe, she'll soon have more reason to worry, as her romantic rival Charity Dingle considers confessing to Chloe that she slept with Mack a few months ago. Related: Emmerdale's Cain and Caleb mystery continues in 24 new spoiler pictures Charity's first reaction to the engagement news is that she tries to heat up her romance with Liam Cavanagh by arranging a date for that night. It ends up being an awkward evening at the B&B for dinner when the pair are seated next to Chloe and Mack. To make matters worse, the motel's owner, Bob Hope, still holds a grudge against Liam for cheating with Wendy. Charity gets so upset seeing Chloe and Mack happy together that she ends up ruining her date by lashing out at Liam. The following day, Charity finds herself in another awkward situation when she ends up on the playground at the same time as Chloe and her son Reuben. Reuben suddenly runs a high temperature, and there are fears over his condition, leading Chloe to ask for Charity's help taking her son to the hospital. Charity does her best to comfort Chloe at the hospital as they wait for news on Reuben's condition, and the child is eventually given a clean bill of health. The two women use the situation as a chance to talk frankly about their fraught history, so Charity considers revealing to Chloe that she recently had a one-off fling with Mack. Will Charity blow up Chloe and Mack's engagement? Emmerdale airs on weeknights at 7.30pm on ITV1, and streams on ITVX. Read more Emmerdale spoilers on our dedicated homepage Emmerdale airs new John Sugden mystery Emmerdale star promises major new Mandy story Emmerdale star addresses Tom and Belle ending Emmerdale cast in new awards photoshoot Emmerdale reveals Rose mystery twist in 21 pics Emmerdale's Will left shocked over Rose news Emmerdale's Ella to attack Wendy in shock scene Emmerdale's Noah left devastated in new scenes Emmerdale's Tom makes dark plans in 24 pictures Emmerdale's dark Tom plot and more soap spoilers Real-life Emmerdale couple set 2025 wedding date Emmerdale star praises Vinny and Aaron scene DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.