Stassi Schroeder may have been fired from Vanderpump Rules, but the aggrieved Faith Stowers hardly sees that as a resolution. The former VPR darling was fired in 2020 and left disgraced. She quickly made a public apology. But adding insult to injury, Stassi has profited by sharing the story in two New York Times Bestseller books, Next Level Basic and Off With My Head. And such is the difficulty. Faith was hardly given the same platform. Certainly, being falsely accused of stealing by a highly privileged white female would be an in-demand story. Especially considering that Stassi was fired during the height of the Black Lives Matter movement. So now, Faith is coming for her share. Faith is seeking funding to sue Stassi for calling the police and reporting her for stealing. Fans suggested that Stassi was seeking revenge for Brittany Cartwright after it emerged that Brittany’s then-boyfriend Jax Taylor had cheated with Faith. This theory magnifies injustice. That Stassi toyed with destroying a woman’s reputation and clean record for a potential vendetta. Thus, there is a public interest in Faith’s GoFundMe, which lists a financial goal of $20,000. In the description, Faith wrote of her grievances against both Stassi and Kristen Doute. Kristen was fired at the same time but has made a VPR comeback in the wake of Scandoval. Faith wrote, “I was publicly targeted and mercilessly verbally attacked by Stassi Schroeder and Kristen Doute.” “During that time, I was also racially targeted and wrongfully accused of horrendous crimes that I have since been vindicated from,” Faith continued. The statement then lists Stassi’s NYT Bestseller scores and claims Stassi “made more terrible non factual claims,” in her book. Faith called these claims “ignorant” and “harmful to me and my family.” Accordingly, Faith then calls for the demonetization of Stassi’s books. Finally, she added, “I’m seeking assistance with my legal team to get this book removed and all royalties/funds collected from this book be given to charity or assisting a family of choice.” The statement ended by thanking supporting fans for “standing up against bullies and racial division.” If Faith succeeds in her lawsuit, Vanderpump Rules will be rocked by another major scandal. And Stassi will have more problems than being denied a ride at Universal Studios because of her pregnancy. TELL US – WHAT DO YOU THINK OF FAITH’S GOFUNDME? WHAT DO YOU THINK THE OUTCOME WILL BE? SHOULD STASSI DONATE HER EARNINGS TO CHARITY? #mc_embed_signup{background:#fff; clear:left; font:14px Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif; width:600px;} /* Add your own Mailchimp form style overrides in your site stylesheet or in this style block. We recommend moving this block and the preceding CSS link to the HEAD of your HTML file. */ * indicates required Email Address *  First Name  Last Name  The post Faith Stowers Organized a GoFundMe to Sue Stassi Schroeder appeared first on Reality Tea. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.