Are you ready to celebrate the Lunar New Year? If not, we’ve got you covered when preparing your feast for the occasion. Also known as Chinese New Year, Lunar New Year 2023 kicks off on Sunday, January 22, and ushers in the Year of the Rabbit. The 15-day celebration signifies the start of the lunar-solar calendar, a time spent honoring the household, heavenly deities and ancestors. Those who celebrate partake in activities and traditions that ring in the holiday, like festivals, lion and dragon dances, flower market shopping and, of course, an indulgent meal.  Most Chinese New Year foods symbolize goals and manifestations for the year ahead — longevity noodles (good fortune), Nian Goa (progress), Peking duck (loyalty) and dumplings (wealth) all serve some symbolic purpose on the table. What's more, meal delivery services are participating in the holiday to bring your favorite dishes in a jiffy. Goldbelly, an online marketplace, ships prepared dishes to your door. It's Lunar New Year menu features a vast selection from restaurants across the country (with most products shipping within a few days to a week). To help curate your lineup, we found the most appetizing Lunar New Year menus out there, including delicious bao buns to festive cookies. Whether you’re looking to gain prosperity, abundance or luck, the dishes and desserts ahead are an excellent place to start. Get a Lunar New Year 2023 feast delivered from Goldbelly, including traditional Chinese dishes and Lunar New Year desserts like noodles, dumplings and nian gao. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.