Celebrities For many celebrities, making it in Hollywood may come after starring in a blockbuster film or seeing their face on a billboard. However, the ultimate test of whether they’ve made the A-list is if they receive a coconut cake from Tom Cruise. Cruise is known to send a coconut cake to those on his Christmas list around the holidays. The white chocolate cake from Doan’s Bakery in Woodland Hills, California is available for purchase for $125.95, and is available for shipment around the USA. “Doan’s Bakery ships its legendary white chocolate coconut bundt cake nationwide on Goldbelly!,” reads a description on the website for food delivery service Goldbelly.  “The White Chocolate Coconut Cake is Doan’s most famous creation and for good reason. They start with a ring of moist, luxurious coconut bundt cake, mix in chunks of sweet white chocolate, layer on rich cream cheese frosting, and then dust it all over with toasted coconut flakes.  “The result is a delicious, pillowy cake good enough to derail the strictest Hollywood diets. “Despite its worldwide renown (Doan’s Bakery is a favorite among Hollywood’s A-listers), this California bakery is still a family-owned and operated business, with a single location in Woodland Hills, California.” Countless celebrities have talked about receiving the cake over the years, including Rosie O’Donnell, Jay Ellis, Graham Norton, Cobie Smulders, Miles Teller, Angela Bassett, Elle & Dakota Fanning and Kirsten Dunst. Jon Hamm, who starred with Cruise in ‘Top Gun: Maverick’, also receives the cake, though it predates them working together on the 2022 film. “I’m on the list. I’m very proud to be on the list,” Hamm told Dish Nation. “I was on the list pre-Maverick so I’m very happy. I predate the movie, so somehow I got on that list.” Tom Hanks receives the cake as well, and he says it is always a hit when it arrives at his production company, Playtone. “They start eyeing: What mail has come in? Is the big box coming in? Are we getting, what has essentially been called the Tom Cruise cake?,” he told the YouTube series Last Meals. One celebrity who used to receive the cake is Brooke Shields.  “I was on the list for a while. I had a good 10-year run, and I got the coconut cake every year, which I was very happy [about],” she told People. Celebrities Music However, the 57-year-old added that she hasn’t received the cake, which was initially addressed from Holmes, Cruise, and their daughter Suri, and later from “just Tom”, in years, though she’s hoping that will change. “I want to get back on that cake list. It’s the best cake,” Shields laughingly said. “Tom, I need to be back on the cake list.” ENTERTAINMENT HOLLYWOOD MUSIC DAZN Enjoy live and on-demand online sports on DAZN. Activate your account NBA Pass League Now you can watch the entire NBA season or your favorite teams on streaming.