
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga’ on HBO Max, a Visionary, Action-Rich 'Fury Road' Prequel				 
					'Furiosa's Tom Burke is Low Key the Hottest Guy of the Summer				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘The Union’ on Netflix, a Terminally Bland Mark Wahlberg-Halle Berry Action-Comedy				 
					Mike Colter Talks ‘The Union,’ Kicking Halle Berry, and Mark Wahlberg’s Infamous Work-Out Schedule: “He Is Dedicated”				 
					Alicia Silverstone Sparks Concern After Filming Herself Eating A "Mildly Poisonous" Fruit: "She's Actually Clueless"				 
					What Makes Adam Sandler's 'Grown Ups' Movies Such Enduring Favorites?				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘I Can’t Live Without You’ on Netflix, a Toothless Spanish Comedy About Cell Phone Addiction				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘La Chimera’ on Hulu, the Josh O'Connor-Alice Rohrwacher Collab You Didn't Know Would Blow You Away				 
					'Inside Out 2' Comes to Digital, But When Will 'Inside Out 2' Be Streaming on Disney+?				 
					Is 'Ryan's World The Movie' Streaming on Netflix or YouTube?				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Despicable Me 4’ on VOD, Another Entry In This Franchise That Cares More About Jokes Than Coherence				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: 'Saving Bikini Bottom: The Sandy Cheeks Movie,' a SpongeBob Spinoff on Netflix				 
					Stream It or Skip It: 'Downtown Owl' on Netflix, a Chuck Klosterman Adaptation By Way Of Lily Rabe and Hamish Linklater				 
					Gena Rowlands, Remembered: An Immediate, Intimate, Truly One-of-One Talent				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: 'Homicide: Life On The Street' On Peacock, The Streaming Debut For The Gritty Baltimore-Based '90s Cop Series				 
					When Does 'Yellowstone' Return? 'Yellowstone's Season 5, Part 2 Premiere Date, 'The Madison' Spin-off Updates, And Streaming Info				 
					'Live's Kelly Ripa Jokes About Trying To Run Away From Home When Her Mother Wouldn't Let Her Cross The Street: Four Lefts "And Then I Was Back Home"				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: 'Chimp Crazy' On HBO, A Docuseries About People Who Keep Chimpanzees As Pets, Highlighting One Who Fights To Keep Hers				 
					Julianne Hough Reveals Why Cher Made Her Cry While Filming 'Burlesque'				 
					R.I.P. Peter Marshall: Longtime 'Hollywood Squares' Host Dead At 98				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Girl You Know It’s True’ on VOD, A Biopic Treatment Of The Rise And Fall Of Milli Vanilli, With A Sensitive Side 				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Are You Sure?!’ on Disney+, A Hangout Reality Show Featuring Jimin And Jung Kook of BTS				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Dirty Pop: The Boy Band Scam’ on Netflix, A Docuseries Delving Into The Financial Scheming of The Backstreet Boys and NSYNC’s “Big Poppa”				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Bob Marley: One Love’ on Prime Video, A Biopic of a Music Legend and International Inspiration				 
					'The Bachelorette' Season 21, Episode 7 Recap: Who Went Home After Hometown Dates?				 
					Former 'Bachelorette' Rachel Lindsay Claims Teresa Giudice "Mistook" Her For Rihanna: "Like Actually Screamed When She Saw Me"				 
					What Time Is 'The Bachelorette' On Tonight? How To Watch Season 21, Episode 7 (Hometown Week) Live On ABC And Hulu				 
					Rachel Lindsay Warns 'Bachelor' Grant Ellis To Lawyer Up Before He Finds His New Wife Amidst Her Own Messy Divorce 				 
					'Industry' Season 3 Episode 2 Recap: Urinetown				 
					'Industry' Star Harry Lawtey Jokes His “Pathetic” Playpen Brawl With Kit Harington Was "Not 'Game of Thrones' Standard”				 
					'Industry' Star Marisa Abela Breaks Down Yasmin’s Strangely Sexy Pee Scene with Kit Harington’s Henry Muck				 
					Kit Harington Reveals Why He "Backed Out" Of 'Game Of Thrones' Jon Snow Spinoff After It Was Stuck In Development For "Years"				 
					'Bad Monkey's Charlotte Lawrence Shares Sweet Vince Vaughn Story From Set: "I Was Just In Awe…He's The Best"				 
					‘Bad Monkey’ Episode 2 Recap: "A Hundred Bucks Says You Won’t"				 
					‘Bad Monkey’ Episode 1 Recap: Of Severed Limbs And Curses				 
					New Shows & Movies To Watch This Weekend: Prime Video's 'Jackpot!' + More				 
					Natalie Portman's Steamy 'Lady in the Lake' Mirror Sex Scene Takes Us Through the Looking Glass				 
					'Lady in the Lake' Episode 6 Recap: Dream a Little Dream				 
					'Lady in the Lake' Episode 5 Recap: 13 Conversations with Maddie Morgenstern				 
					'Lady in the Lake' Episode 4 Recap: Tonight There's Gonna Be a Jailbreak				 
					Whoopi Goldberg Refuses To Join 'Hot Ones' Challenge With Sean Evans On 'The View': "I'm Not Following Anybody Into The Bathroom"				 
					Whoopi Goldberg Tells 'The View' Why She Was So Honest About Taking A Weight Loss Drug: "You Know I Didn't Go To The Gym" 				 
					Whoopi Goldberg Defends Billy Baldwin Amid Feud With Sharon Stone On 'The View': "Maybe He's Just Tired Of People Taking Potshots At Him"				 
					Whoopi Goldberg Has To Repeat A Hot Topic On 'The View' Because The Audience Is So Confused: "You Want To Hear It One More Time?"				 If watching The Bear on Hulu makes you hungry, you’re not alone.  Since the show is set in and around a restaurant, food is bound to be a significant theme, whether the characters are cooking, imagining how their meals may look once plated, or eating at local spots. Obviously, Italian beef was a big food focus in season one — that’s what Original Beef of Chicagoland was known for dishing out — and the season two episode “Forks” shines a spotlight on another classic Chicago food, deep dish pizza.  But the local food scene representation is upped this season, too, when Sydney (Ayo Edebiri) goes on a solo food tour of some of Chicago’s hottest spots, including avec, Kasama, The Publican and Publican Quality Meats, Margie’s Candies, and Big Star. Tori Ulrich, owner of Chicago Super Sitters and a resident of the Windy City for over 18 years, says, “I have lived in different neighborhoods in my years, and even while trying as much as I could to try all the options, there are just too many to hit them all!”  She adds, “Chicago food is full of so many cultures and flavors, and cost is not a barrier to deliciousness.” Grace Hodges, who has lived in both downtown Chicago and the south suburbs for 26 years, agrees.  “I’m always discovering new places that I’ve either never heard of or that I just haven’t tried yet; I could live here forever and never try everything because it’s just impossible to,” she said. With signature dishes and no shortage of excellent restaurants, it’s safe to say Chicago is a great city for foodies.  If the show piqued your curiosity about all the food Chicago has to offer, but you’re nowhere near the Midwest, we found a solution that might solve some of those cravings.  Goldbelly is an online marketplace that helps restaurants, bakeries, and more to ship their products nationwide. All the food sold on Goldbelly is packaged well for shipping, made fresh and transported with dry ice to final destinations.  Below, we’ve rounded up dishes from The Bear, along with a few other Chicago staples, that you can get shipped right to your door — no travel necessary.  Before The Beef became The Bear, they were serving up Italian beef sandwiches. Not sure what that is? Dating back to the 1930s, the sandwich’s primary ingredient is thin-sliced roast beef.  From there, it’s kind of a choose-your-own-adventure of sandwich building. Do you want your sandwich hot (served with Chicago-style giardiniera), sweet (with sweet green Italian peppers), or both? What about that signature gravy? Do you want your entire sandwich, bread and all, dipped into the juice the beef is cooked in?  This kit includes 10 sandwiches worth of Italian beef, gravy mix, hot giardiniera, sweet peppers, and French bread.  Pequod’s Pizza is the very pizza featured in episode seven of The Bear season two, “Forks.” In the episode, Richie (Ebon Moss-Bachrach) picks up the pies to serve to guests at the restaurant he’s staging at.  What makes Pequod’s stand out is their “caramelized crust.” According to the restaurant, “a ring of mozzarella cheese surrounds the pan pizzas’ crust, deeply caramelizing as it cooks along the side of the cast iron pizza pan, forming a cheesy, chewy, almost-burnt halo that’s one of the most hallowed bites in all of pizzadom.” Choose between cheese, pepperoni, and sausage for both pies in the two-pack.  Italian beef is not the only sandwich Chicago is known for (though the jury’s still out on whether we’re calling hot dogs sandwiches these days).  Chicago-style dogs are unique for the toppings: sport peppers, Chicago-style bright green relish, yellow mustard, and celery salt, all on a poppy seed bun. Add your own chopped white onion, tomato, and pickle spears for the full effect! This kit comes with everything you’ll need to make 16 hot dogs with the works.  Like any good food city, there’s some spirited debate around Chicago’s signature food. While deep dish may be the first pizza you think of, thin-crust tavern-style pizza is just as essential to the city’s food culture. Cut it into squares to get the full effect! For each of the pizzas in the pack, choose from cheese or a number of toppings, including meatball lovers, sausage, pepperoni, mushroom, spinach, and combinations.  What’s better than deep-dish pizza? Deep dish pizza and Garrett Mix. Garrett Mix from Garrett Popcorn Shops combines two classic popcorn flavors, sweet CaramelCrisp and savory CheeseCorn, into one delectable mix. With so many deep dish spots with a long history populating the city, Chicagoans typically have a favorite. For Ulrich, it’s this very pizza.  “I’m a Lou Malnati’s girl, myself. Best sauce, best crust, and best cheese,” she said. “I also love sending Lou Malnati’s to my friends that live outside Chicago since they moved away and miss it so much. Very awesome gift!” “Stan’s Donuts are next level,” Ulrich said. “They are donuts that have been elevated to a level that feels like a whole dessert, not just a donut.” (This writer, though not a Chicago native and just a frequent visitor, would have to agree!) Create a pack of 12 donuts by choosing four signature Stan’s flavors: Cinnamon Sugar Cake, Vanilla Sprinkled Cake, Powdered Sugar Cake, Lemon Pistachio Old Fashioned, Blueberry Old Fashioned, Glazed Old Fashioned, Red Velvet Cake, Coconut Cake, Birthday Cake, and Apple Fritter. While bao is a less “traditional” Chicago food, Wow Bao is worth the hype, according to Hodges.  “Sometimes they’re sweet, and sometimes they’re savory, but they’re always so good,” she said when asked about the kind of bao the establishment serves. While you can only ship their bao in three signature flavors through Goldbelly, locals can stop in for much more, including bowls, entree combos, and bundles. Every good meal has to end with dessert, right? Eli’s Cheesecake Company is a Chicago institution that’s been family-owned for three generations; “Chicago’s most famous dessert” was first developed as a dessert for original owner Eli Schulman’s restaurant.  “It’s definitely a Chicago staple with a bunch of flavors available now,” Hodges said. She estimates she’s had it at most family birthday parties she attends.  For locals, it’s fairly easy to get (baked in Chicago and sold in area grocery stores), and now it’s even easier for the out-of-towners to get, too! This sampler pack comes with four slices each of original, strawberry, chocolate chip, and candy bar (made with Heath bars).  For more like this, check out the Decider Shopping section. 
This story has been shared 4,545 times.
4,545
 
This story has been shared 2,155 times.
2,155
 
This story has been shared 2,109 times.
2,109
 
This story has been shared 969 times.
969
 
This story has been shared 927 times.
927
 
This story has been shared 822 times.
822
 
This story has been shared 762 times.
762
 
This story has been shared 708 times.
708
 
This story has been shared 692 times.
692
 
This story has been shared 528 times.
528
 
This story has been shared 497 times.
497
 
This story has been shared 420 times.
420
 
This story has been shared 392 times.
392
 
This story has been shared 375 times.
375
 
This story has been shared 276 times.
276
