Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Since it first aired, Sword Art Online has captivated fans all over the world thanks to its rich storytelling, realistic depiction of MMORPG games, and beloved characters. As the story of Kirito has progressed, many incredible and charming cast members have joined the ranks of SAO’s world.
      RELATED: Best Anime About Gaming
                     Nonetheless, not every member of the cast has received the same acceptance and love. Some have received a lot more support from the fanbase than others from the moment they were introduced to the show, for a wide range of reasons. Here are some of the individuals that Sword Art Online fans cannot get enough of.
      Spoiler warning: Beware of major plot spoilers for the Sword Art Online franchise!
                     Without good gear, the players of SAO would have most likely perished one after the other. Knowing this, Andrew, also known as Agil, made it his mission to create the best gear money could buy, as seen during his time as Kirito’s main supplier.
      Related: Best Anime Worlds, Ranked
                     He was also a fierce warrior, without whom the game would have not been won. After the events of the first season came to an end, Agil again proved his worth by being the one to inform Kirito about Asuna’s whereabouts. A truly compelling character that sadly does not shine as brightly as he could have within the show.
                         Throughout the events of the show’s first season, only a select few characters could have been defined as Kirito’s friends. One of the most iconic and loyal of these individuals is his first acquaintance in SAO, Klein. A powerful warrior, a righteous leader, and a selfless friend who is always there to support his companions.
      Related: Anime Shows With The Best Animation, Ranked
                     Yet, Klein is also one of the most outgoing and relaxed players, taking the time to make his guild members feel like valuable parts of the team. Unfortunately, as the SAO incident was left behind, Klein became another forgotten cast member, which is a shame because he is a greatly developed side-character.
                         When you feel completely alone, you can always count on those closest to you to lend you their support, even when the situation gets rough. Suguha, also known as the warrior Leafa, is one of the most loyal and caring sisters, always there for her younger brother Kirito.
                         She was vital during Kazuto’s mission to save Asuna, as she was the one to show the young man the ropes of Alfheim Online. She was willing to do anything to see her brother happy, fighting alongside him against the millions of enemies found in the World Tree.
                         Kirito and Asuna’s lives forever changed when they found the adorable and intelligent Yui. This impressive AI program was created to oversee the players trapped inside SAO. After she fell into despair, she wandered Aincrad looking for the aforementioned couple, as they were some of the few still hopeful players.
                         Yui became an adoptive daughter for Kirito and Asuna, accompanying them even after they managed to escape SAO. She is an adorable and powerful character, capable of fighting gigantic monsters without breaking a sweat. Tragically, she has begun to appear less and less as the story has progressed, robbing the fans of seeing more of Yui.
                         The Mother’s Rosario Arc is considered one of the best in the entire franchise, mostly due to the new character introduced, Yuuki. In the real world, Yuuki was a 15-year-old girl, but inside Alfheim, she was an elite warrior nicknamed the Absolute Sword, due to her proficiency with said weapon.
                         She was so skilled that even Asuna had a hard time fighting against her. Her untimely death broke the hearts of fans all over the world, as they had gotten attached to this sweet personality. Sadly, not many fans gave Mother’s Rosario a chance, missing out on Yuuki’s tragic story.
                         When Kirito was recruited by the police to work as an undercover agent in a game called Gun Gale Online, he met a young woman who quickly became one of his closest confidants, Shinon. This young woman was hailed as one of the best snipers in the game, with few people being able to avoid her shots.
      Related: Best Anime Like Bofuri
                     Alongside Kirito, she discovered the truth behind the infamous serial killer Death Gun. She has one of the most compelling arcs in the show, learning to trust and to overcome her fears to become a friendly and brave young woman. Sadly, after the events of GGO, she was mostly forgotten.
                         As soon as it first aired, the Alicization Arc of the show became a fan favorite, with many fans claiming it was a refreshing new take on the premise. The newly introduced characters made this arc beloved, and Alice is one of them. This tenacious and fearless young woman is a powerful knight of the Underworld.
                         She has been there supporting Kirito throughout his entire journey in the aforementioned world. She is one of the few inhabitants of Underworld who broke the obedience seal put on them. This makes her extremely valuable as an ally, as well as a steadfast and loyal friend. Sadly, many fans fear what will happen to her once the Alicization Arc comes to an end.
                         Like Alice, Eugeo was first introduced when Kirito entered the world of Alicization. Inside this world, he was considered Kirito’s childhood friend, who accompanied him throughout his entire life. A brave and intelligent warrior, Eugeo was the voice of reason that kept Kirito safe.
                         He fought bravely to save Alice and Kirito from the many dangers that tried to take them down during their adventure. Eugeo’s selflessness and love for his friends was underlined when he sacrificed his own life to make sure Kirito and Alice were unharmed. Lamentably, his death means that he has not appeared in the show for a while, which has affected his popularity.
                         The Hero Of Aincrad, the Black Swordsman (better known as the ingenious and charismatic Kirito), is the main protagonist of the SAO Franchise. Kazuto was one of the unfortunate souls trapped inside Akihiko’s death game when the show began. He was an invaluable member of the team, as his vast experience with MMORPGs made him an elite player.
      RELATED: Best Anime Like Fullmetal Alchemist
                     He later went on to defeat Sugu after the man kidnaps Asuna, defeat Death Gun with Shinon’s help, and is fighting to survive the world of Alicization. He is the face of the franchise, inspiring viewers with his impressive fighting skills and heroic heart. Despite this, some fans consider him to be a little bit generic as an anime hero.
                         Few people can remain calm in the face of their imminent demise and still rise to the dangers ahead of them. Asuna, Kirito’s wife and one of the top players of SAO, is one of these people. Despite not being a veteran MMORPG player, Asuna trained hard until she was powerful enough to fight against the most terrifying monsters.
                         Her first-season persona is the perfect example of a powerful female character who does not rely on others to fight her battles. Though this aspect of her was perhaps mishandled in the second season, she recovered her fierce personality and fearless attitude, providing us again with the amazing and inspiring young warrior we know and love.
      NEXT: Best Isekai Anime, Officially Ranked
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Specializations play a key role in the game, especially when you are among the chosen ones who can fend off the evil lurking in the shadows. Despite no official announcement, this recent tweet by Geoff Keighley might hint at new Dying Light content. There are quite a few amazing Talismans found in Elden Ring, but there are several duds, too. Here's a list of some of the most powerful. Dragon Age: The Veilguard intends to set a new standard for character creation It's time to strap on your snow boots for another bloody trip to Blackwood Mountain. Silent Hill 2 Remake story trailer chills and wows the players