The Royal Mint has revealed details of its next series of commemorative coins, known as the Annual Set - and it will be the first time King Charles III has appeared on a £2 coin The Royal Mint has revealed the first coins of 2023 and they all feature the image of King Charles III. The series of commemorative coins, known as the Annual Set, include £5, £2 and 50p coins. It marks the first time people will see the portrait of King Charles on a £2 coin.  The first 50p coins to feature the monarch were released into circulation this month. Each of the five coins in the 2023 set will celebrate significant moments to come that year. There will be a £5 coin to mark the 75th birthday of King Charles. There will also be two £2 coins commemorating the life of The Lord of the Rings author JRR Tolkien and the centenary of the Flying Scotsman. Finally, two 50p coins celebrating 75 years of the NHS and 75 years of the Windrush generation complete the collection.  The 2023 commemorative sets will be available in a range of precious metal and base proof finishes from January 3, at The Royal Mint website.  Prices will start from £50 for a Brilliant Uncirculated set, going all the way up to £10,390 for a Platinum Proof collection. Each of the coins will be available individually in 2023. Anne Jessopp, CEO of The Royal Mint, said: “As the official maker of UK coins, The Royal Mint has been proud to strike every single UK coin for Her Late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II for 70 years. “As we enter the New Year, we will start to see one of the biggest changes to UK coins for decades take place as King Charles III’s portrait begins to appear on all new UK coins.” Rebecca Morgan, divisional director of the collector services at the Royal Mint, said: “Each year The Royal Mint reveals a collection of coins, known as the Annual Set, which feature a range of designs that appear on £5, £2 and 50p coins marking some of the year’s most significant moments and anniversaries. “This year is particularly special for The Royal Mint, as we unveil the first coins of 2023 bearing His Majesty King Charles III official coin portrait, which also includes a commemorative £5 coin to celebrate His Majesty’s 75th birthday. “The Annual Set provides members of the public with an opportunity to collect the very first coins of 2023 with The King’s portrait and mark this historic transition in monarchy on coins.” Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter