Finra fined Goldman Sachs $3 million for mixing up 60 million short sale orders. The stock orders were mismarked as long sales between October 2015 and April 2018. GS failed to include a single line of computer code during a software upgrade, which led to the mishap. A Wall Street watchdog, the US Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra, hit Goldman Sachs with a $3 million fine for mixing up 60 million stock orders, the brokerage regulator said in a Tuesday filing. The culprit? A single line of missing code in a software update. Goldman Sachs had mismarked "short" sales orders totaling more than 14 billion shares as "long" sales orders between October 2015 and April 2018, per the filing, which was signed by both, Finra and the investment banking giant. Short sales mean selling stocks the entity does not currently own. Vice versa, long sales mean the entity is selling stocks it currently owns. Of the 60 million incorrectly marked orders, Goldman Sachs executed nearly eight million, Finra said. Further, Goldman's mismarked orders led to 12,335 short orders being executed while a short-sale circuit breaker was in place, per the filing. The document did not disclose the monetary value or the loss or profit from the affected shares. The orders were incorrectly marked because Goldman "inadvertently failed" to include a single line of computer code during an upgrade to its automated trading software."The firm immediately fixed this coding error after being notified by Finra in April 2018," according to the document. The development comes amid heightened scrutiny on financial institutions and their regulators following the collapse of several banks globally in March. Finra has slapped fines on several broker-dealers — including UBS Securities and Nomura Securities — for breaching US securities laws and its own rules earlier this year. Goldman accepted and consented to Finra's findings "without admitting or denying them," the filing states. Insider was unable to reach Goldman Sachs via phone lines outside regular business hours. A spokesperson declined to comment to Bloomberg on Wednesday. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.