McKinsey & Company and Boston Consulting Group made the highest offers at the final placement process for the Postgraduate Programme in Management at the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad (IIMA). A total of 188 firms participated with around 280 roles offered, including in pre-placement offers. McKinsey & Company made the most offers (34), followed by Boston Consulting Group with 33 offers. Among investment banks, Goldman Sachs was the largest recruiter, making eight offers, closely followed by o3 Capital with three offers. The conglomerate cohort witnessed as high as a 135 per cent increase in the number of net offers. The private equity, venture capital and asset management cohort witnessed close to a 19 per cent increase in the number of net offers, and the cards and financial advisory cohort saw a 20 per cent increase in the number of net offers vis-à-vis last year. In the general management domain, Adani made the highest number of offers (10), closely followed by Essar Group, which rolled out eight offers. In the IT consulting cohort, Tata Consultancy Services was the most prominent recruiter, with 10 offers. In the laterals process, PwC made the highest number of offers, 13, closely followed by FinIQ, with 10 offers. American Express and Angel One rolled out six offers each. Firms from multiple domains participated across the three clusters in final placements, with all students placed across 23 cohorts, the IIM said in a release issued Friday. Prof Ankur Sinha, chairperson of the placement committee at the IIM, said, “Along with the participation of multinational firms, we saw an increase in attractive offers from domestic firms with the potential to offer better growth prospects. We saw an increase in the participation of firms and also the variety in job roles. The placement this year indicates that the demand for high-quality talent continues to grow, and demonstrates the strength of the relationships we have built with our recruiters over the decades.” The placement process was completed in a hybrid mode. However, in contrast to the Covid years, a large number of recruiters visited the campus while only a few logged in from remote locations. Kalyan Perisetty, recruitment secretary at the IIM, said, “The laterals and finals placement process of IIM Ahmedabad concluded on February 20. Despite challenging circumstances caused by uncertainty in markets, the process was driven by the core philosophy of achieving the best ‘candidate-recruiter’ fit. Like the preceding summer cycle, recruiters were given the opportunity to conduct interviews in online and offline modes, making this the first-ever hybrid laterals and finals placement process. Overall, adequate preparation and contingency planning worked out well, and we successfully completed the process well on time and maximised the candidate-recruiter fit objective, with over 100 students exercising the dream option across clusters and several intra-cluster upgrades in offers.” The placement process was conducted in two stages. The first was the laterals process, where firms interviewed students with prior work experience and offered them mid-level managerial positions. Thirty-six firms participated from diverse sectors such as technology, banking, finance, consulting, analytics, etc. In the second stage of the process, firms were grouped into cohorts based on their core business, and groups of cohorts were invited to the campus across different clusters. As in previous years, students were provided with the flexibility of making “dream” applications to firms of their choice in a subsequent cluster, even with an offer in hand. There were 106 dream applications this year. This gave students the flexibility to build careers in sectors of their preference. Sectoral overview Firms from different sectors and geographies participated in the process at the IIM through laterals, finals and pre-placement offers. Recruiters in the consulting domain included Arthur D. Little, Alvarez & Marsal, Bain & Co., Boston Consulting Group, Kearney, KPMG, McKinsey & Company, Monitor Deloitte, Oliver Wyman, Praxis Global Alliance, PwC and Strategy& Middle East. Prominent recruiters in the investment banking & markets and private equity, venture capital and asset management space included A91 Partners, Arpwood Capital, ARGA Investment, Avendus, Bank of America, Citibank, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase & Co, Kotak, Morgan Stanley, Premji Invest, o3 Capital, and Standard Chartered. Consumer goods, consumer services, consumer tech and consumer electronics cohorts’ firms that made offers were Airtel, Asian Paints, Coca-Cola, HUL, Kimberly-Clark, L’Oréal, Nestle, P&G, Samsung Electronics and Wipro Consumer Care, among others. The conglomerate and retail B2B & B2C cohorts saw participation by Amazon, Adani Group, Aditya Birla Group, Bajaj, CK Birla Group, Emaar, Reliance and Tata Administrative Services, among others. The banking, financial services, insurance and cards, and financial advisory recruiters included American Express, Angel One, IDFC First Bank, IIFL Securities and Mastercard. Some prominent recruiters in enterprise tech that gave offers were Adobe, Atlassian, Ikigai Labs and Oracle. Firms participating in the laterals process included Amagi, American Express, Angel One, Arteria Technologies, BrowserStack, Capital One, EXL Service, FinIQ, Lodha Group, Media.net, Microsoft, Ola, Paytm, Piramal Alternatives, Praxis Global Alliance, PwC, Trident Limited and Zomato. There were several new recruiters, such as Essar Group, cult.fit, Javis, BLS International, Wells Fargo & Co and WestBridge Capital. Regular recruiters at the IIM Prabhav Kashyap, partner and head of MBA recruitment, Bain and Company, said, “IIMA has always been a source of top professional talent for Bain and continues to be this year as well. We’re super thrilled to continue to be one of the preferred recruiters at IIMA and are excited to welcome the new generation of ‘Bainies’ to our firm.” Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates Nikkhil Advani, director of the latest film Vedaa, spoke about his fallout with Karan Johar and how Salman Khan became the "messiah" of the industry by backing him after the fallout. However, on the first day of shooting for their film Salaam-E-Ishq, Nikkhil mistakenly called Salman "Shah Rukh" and the whole set went quiet.  