UK Edition The Sunday Times Rich List features the King, the prime minister, a Catholic priest, two scrap metal dealers, a centenarian, a former tea lady — and the wealthiest Liverpudlian in history (not a Beatle). But the big news is that the boom time is over. The 35th Sunday Times Rich List, topped by Gopi Hinduja and family with an estimated record fortune of £35 billion, registers the first fall in the number of billionaires since the 2007-08 financial crisis. There are 171 billionaires — down six from 2022. Wealth shared by UK billionaires climbed to £683.856 billion, £30.734 more than in last year’s Rich List. However, at a time of double-digit inflation that 4.5 per cent rise represents a fall in real terms. The Rich List has laid bare a golden era for Britain’s most minted for more than a decade. Each year the billionaire count rose. Each year their fortunes soared ever higher. The question was not whether the boom would end, but when — and what it would mean for the rest of us. That time has come. The party is over and it’s time to sober up. “Years of cheap, cheap money ramped up the value of our companies and made it easier to expand,” said one anonymous billionaire retailer who has seen his wealth clipped in this year’s Rich List. “A lot of us did very well out of it. The recession never turned up and I don’t think it will. Time for everyone to get back to work, get their heads down and frankly be a bit more sensible.” It is a new environment that is being shaped by an end to rock-bottom interest rates, the bursting of a second tech bubble and the jitters creeping through the banking world. Just look at the financial fate of Rishi Sunak and Akshata Murty. The prime minister and his wife made their Rich List debut in 2022 thanks to the stake Murty owns in Infosys, an Indian IT giant co-founded by her father. The share price of the Bangalore-based company is down by about 25 per cent over the past year. As a result the prime minister and his wife’s wealth is estimated at £201 million less than 12 months ago. That works out as an average daily loss of more than £500,000.● Read more: shares in Sunak and Murty’s most valuable asset plummet over the past year They are not alone, and are far from the biggest fallers. In 12 months Sir Richard Branson’s fortune has shrunk by 42.6 per cent to £2.41 billion. Shares in his satellite venture, Virgin Orbit, have collapsed. Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, easyJet’s founder, is another high-profile faller. The budget airline’s share price has continued to lose altitude and the other lines in his easy empire have failed to make up for it. Denis Sverdlov, the entrepreneur behind the electric vehicle manufacturer Arrival, has dropped out of this year’s Rich List. Arrival was worth almost £10 billion at its stock market debut in 2021. It is now worth about £24.3 million. A similar fate has befallen Alex Chesterman, who initially made money from Zoopla and LoveFilm. The share price of his car-selling start-up, Cazoo, has plummeted by 99 per cent since its US stock market float in August 2021. We cannot identify sufficient wealth for him to meet the £350 million that would put him in our list this year. Chesterman’s losses look trivial next to those of Guillaume Pousaz. In early 2022 a fundraising valued Checkout.com, his electronic payments outfit, at £29.6 billion. That deal ensured his 65 per cent stake was worth £19.5 billion — propelling the Swiss-born university dropout into fifth place on last year’s Rich List. His stake is now worth less than £6 billion, meaning Pousaz has lost £13.5 billion in just 12 months. ● How the Rich List 2023 was compiled Such wealth destruction may delight those with a taste for schadenfreude. However, financial pain for billionaires can have implications for the rest of us. Rich Listers do not operate in a vacuum: cautious billionaires and multimillionaires may be less likely to start businesses that create jobs, help to power economic growth and boost the public finances. Those who titter at the stock market woes of Branson, Sverdlov and Chesterman should remember that pension funds and other investors are also nursing big losses from buying stakes in Virgin Orbit, Arrival and Cazoo. These were public markets and there were many public losers. Matt Moulding, the founder of the online retailer THG, and Mike Lynch, who cofounded the cybersecurity firm Darktrace, both slide down this year’s Rich List. THG’s share price has fallen nearly 90 per cent since it floated in early 2021. Darktrace’s shares initially made gains but the stock is still down about 70 per cent over the past 18 months. Again, mainstream fund managers bought stakes in these companies at the top of a frothy stock market. When the shares plunged it wasn’t just Rich Listers who lost out. ● 35 richest people under 35 in the UK There are still some astonishing stories of savvy wealth creation in this year’s Rich List. Sir Jim Ratcliffe, who is in a battle to take control of Manchester United, is this year’s highest climber. New information about his finances has catapulted the Chemicals baron into second place, with an estimated fortune of £29.688 billion. Perhaps it’s no surprise that several “pile it high, sell it cheap” retailers have thrived during a cost of living crisis. Tom Morris, the low-profile tycoon behind the budget retailer Home Bargains, increased sales to £3.4 billion last year. The chain of 575 stores owned by Morris, the son of a shopkeeper, now employs nearly 30,000 people. Home Bargains paid out a £30 million dividend to him and his family last year, making Morris almost certainly the wealthiest Liverpudlian in history.The fortune of the Sports Direct founder Mike Ashley has bounced up by 28 per cent to more than £3.8 billion. With retail increasingly an online affair, not everyone was convinced by the former squash coach’s appetite for snapping up ailing high street chains. But profits at his Frasers Group — which encompasses Sports Direct, Jack Wills and Evans Cycles — jumped by 50 per cent in the second half of last year. Trading at the low-cost fashion outfit Primark has also been brisk, augmenting the £14.5 billion fortune of its owners, the Weston family. This year’s expanded list of 350 individuals and families together hold combined wealth of £796.459 billion — a sum larger than the GDP of Switzerland. Sir Elton John, Lord Lloyd-Webber and David and Victoria Beckham all appear in this year’s larger survey. 1. Gopi Hinduja and family: ▲ £35bnFollowing the death of his elder brother Sri, Indian-born Gopi heads a family conglomerate with interests spanning manufacturing, finance, energy and IT 2. Sir Jim Ratcliffe: ▲ £29.688bnRaised on a council estate and sacked from his first job after three days, Ratcliffe went on to launch the chemicals behemoth Ineos 3. Sir Leonard Blavatnik: ▲ £28.625bnBlavatnik controls Warner Music Group, music service Deezer and sports streaming outfit DAZN 4. David and Simon Reuben and family: ▲ £24.399bnThe India-born brothers poured their earnings from the global metal industry into London property. Also part-own Newcastle United 5. Sir James Dyson and family: ▶ £23bnA £750 set of headphones complete with air purifying mask is the inventor’s latest gadget. The computer chip shortage hit his bottom line 6. Lakshmi Mittal and family: ▼ £16bnThe metals mogul has lived in London for since the mid 1990s. His ArcelorMittal is the world’s largest steel producer 7. Guy, George, Alannah and Galen Weston and family: ▲ £14.5bnThe retail dynasty’s investments include Primark, Silver Spoon and Ryvita. But they’ve sold Selfridges and Brighton’s Grand Hotel 8. Charlene de Carvalho-Heineken and Michel de Carvalho: ▲ £13.122bnDe Carvalho-Heineken, the “self-made heiress”, inherited her stake in the brewing giant and then set out on global expansion 9. Kirsten and Jorn Rausing: ▶ £12bnThe Rausing siblings each own a third of Tetra Laval. The packaging group’s growth offsets the falling value of Jorn’s Ocado stake 10. Michael Platt: ▲ £11.5bnA £500 gift from his gran on his 14th birthday kick-started Platt’s stockpicking career. His BlueCrest Capital has profited from rising interest rates Explore the Rich List full top 350 to see where money was made and lost this year © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.