By Jessica M. BacudCauayan City, Isabela – True to his commitment to serve the populace in the 2nd District of Isabela, Rep. Ed Christopher S. Go has also supported the empowerment of Isabela women as he continuously supports and meets their needs and rights. Rep. Go said he will always be there to support the needed assistance for GO WOW, a women’s association earlier launched by former Congresswoman Ana S. Go alongside his better half, Stephanie Umali-Go, the concurrent Consultant. “I will persistently work on empowering and inspiring our communities. We find opportunities to work together and create new ways as we boost and strengthen a viable future,” Rep. Go said. Over the years, the Legislative Office of the young lawmaker has established and reared partnerships with its 40,000 women members in the province and encouraged them to play an active role in sustainable development. In this program, women from the towns of Aurora, Benito Soliven, Burgos, Gamu, Mallig, Naguilian, San Mariano, San Manuel, Palanan, Reina Mercedes, Quirino, and Quezon have the opportunity to develop skills and receive remote work opportunities. On behalf of the GO WOW Association, District President and Naguilian Councilor Angelica Julie L. Reyes expressed her profound gratitude to Rep. Ed Christopher Go for his unending support to the association, saying the lawmaker has assisted them all the way. The young solon was the major sponsor during the recent GO WOW Christmas Party and Search for Mrs. GO WOW 2022 on December 22, 2022, held at FLDY Coliseum in Cauayan City. Other sponsors are Board Member Ed Christian S. Go, Board Member Edgar Capuchino, and Mayor Engr. Juan Capuchino. Rep. Go provided Php 500,00 worth of prizes for the raffle draws that raised excitement from over 3,000 GO WOW members that arrived at the venue. Also, six municipalities in District 2 received an additional Php 300,000 or P50,000 each, while all the attendees received umbrellas as a giveaway. © All Rights Reserved, Newspaper Theme.