
        NOT FOR REPRINT
       
      Page Printed from:
      treasuryandrisk.com/2023/10/31/forecast-for-ar-dramatic-improvement-in-efficiency/?slreturn=20240819180253   And the winner of the 2023 Gold Alexander Hamilton Award in Working Capital & Payments is ... Microsoft. Congratulations!  Accounts receivable (A/R) at Microsoft is massive. The company's Global Treasury & Financial Services (GTFS) group is responsible for A/R for almost every business unit throughout the global organization. That means the team handles receivables on millions of invoices, for thousands of customers, each month—and those numbers continue to grow. In fact, as Microsoft Azure and other innovative lines of business have taken off over the past five years, the company's A/R volume has nearly doubled, and it shows no signs of slowing down. Accounts receivable (A/R) at Microsoft is massive. The company's Global Treasury & Financial Services (GTFS) group is responsible for A/R for almost every business unit throughout the global organization. That means the team handles receivables on millions of invoices, for thousands of customers, each month—and those numbers continue to grow. In fact, as Microsoft Azure and other innovative lines of business have taken off over the past five years, the company's A/R volume has nearly doubled, and it shows no signs of slowing down. The GTFS group outsources collections for all those receivables to Accenture. A couple of years ago, members of the Accenture team were preparing receivables forecasts using manual processes that were not sustainable considering Microsoft's growth trajectory. "The collectors were all managing their own forecasts in Excel, so it involved a lot of people and took away time from core collection activities," explains Apra Bothra, senior finance program manager in Microsoft's GTFS group. Each collector was assigned specific accounts. "They would go through their accounts on a weekly basis to determine which receivables were forecasted to come in and which of those were at risk. Then they would look at how their at-risk receivables might affect the ledgers, and they would prioritize accounts for their collection activities." 
        Register and gain access to:
       
        Already have an account?
        Sign In Now 
    © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
    academic re-use from
    www.copyright.com.
    All other uses, submit a request to
    
[email protected].
    For more information visit
    Asset & Logo Licensing. Meg Waters is the editor in chief of Treasury & Risk. She is the former editor in chief of BPM Magazine and the former managing editor of Business Finance.  More from this author ⟶  By T&R Staff |  August 01, 2024 If your team has been involved in an innovative initiative in treasury, finance, or risk management, enter it today to win a 2025 Alexander Hamilton Award! Deadline: September 9, 2024. By T&R Staff |  May 03, 2024 Congratulations to Heidrick & Struggles, Casey's General Stores, and Hilton! By Meg Waters |  May 02, 2024 The winner of the 2024 Gold Alexander Hamilton Award in Technology Excellence is … Heidrick & Struggles. Congratulations! 
          Already have an account?
           Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
      Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
    