Police in China have rescued some 1,000 cats from a truck en route to a slaughterhouse, state-affiliated media has reported, busting part of an illicit trade that fraudulently sells feline meat as pork or mutton and sparking fresh food safety concerns. Acting on a tip-off by animal activists earlier this month, officers from Zhangjiagang, in the eastern Chinese province of Jiangsu, intercepted a vehicle used to collect and transport captured cats, according to Chinese state-affiliated news outlet The Paper. Without the intervention, the batch was likely to be slaughtered and shipped south to be served as pork and lamb skewers as well as sausages, the report said. Police and agricultural authorities have since sent the cats to a shelter nearby, The Paper said, after foiling a plot that could have raked in as much as $20,500. The report did not mention whether any arrests had been made, nor whether the cats were strays or pets. CNN has reached out to the Zhangjiagang police and the animal shelter for comment. The Paper reported that animal activists first noticed a large number of nailed wooden boxes carrying many cats near a cemetery. They patrolled the streets for six days and when the truck began ferrying the cats to the slaughterhouse, they intervened and called police, the report said. Images published by The Paper showed rescued cats at the shelter resting in larger cages. One activist cited by the outlet said the illicit operation can sell a pound of cat meat for around $4 by passing them off as mutton and pork. Each cat weighs about four to five pounds after they are processed. “Some people will do all it takes because it is profitable,” Gong Jian, an activist who is building a sanctuary for stray felines in Jiangsu, told The Paper. Another activist Han Jiali, who said she took part in stopping the truck, told the Chinese news outlet that it was not the first time, and that she had stopped similar illicit trades before in Guangdong, a southern Chinese province. The report triggered a fresh wave of concern over animal rights and food safety on Chinese social media, with many calling for greater scrutiny by the authorities. The country has struggled with a long history of food and safety scandals in the past. One recent food scandal that went viral concerned a rat’s head found in a school meal at a college. Local officials originally insisted it was a piece of duck neck, but amid fears of a cover-up provincial investigators were called in and found otherwise. While China has laws to regulate and protect livestock and endangered animals, there is no general law targeting animal cruelty for pets and stray dogs and cats. Animal rights and environment groups have long campaigned against the use of animal parts – including from many endangered species – for traditional medicine. There is also growing opposition to an annual dog meat festival in Yulin, in the western autonomous Guangxi region. “Animals don’t have rights and there is no guarantee for food safety,” one of the hundreds of users who weighed in on the most recent debate wrote. The topic was viewed five million times on Sunday alone. Local authorities came under fire in 2021 for the deaths of several pets euthanized after their owners tested positive for Covid. One particular incident, involving a health worker beating a corgi to death with a shovel, triggered an outburst of fury. “I hope the country can legislate an animal protection law soon,” another user said, referring to the latest scandal. For more CNN news and newsletters create an account at CNN.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.