Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Back in the original, pre-expansion era of World of Warcraft, raids were some of the most difficult and inaccessible content in the game. Not only did they require players to have near flawless communication and strategy, but also it required 40 players to clear them. For many players, the process of finding 40 well geared players was extremely difficult if not impossible.
                         To make a more accessible raid, Blizzard released a 20-man raid known as Zul'Gurub on September 22nd, 2005. When the pre-patch for Cataclysm was released, the original Zul'Gurub raid was removed from the game and was eventually replaced with an updated dungeon version of the instance. Just like with Naxxramas, many of the gear and recipes became no longer obtainable. But in Dragonflight, it is possible for World of Warcraft players to obtain these lost recipes and items by unlocking the secrets of Zul'Gurub.
      RELATED: World of Warcraft Hints at Iconic Raid Coming to Timewalking
                     In order to begin unlocking the secrets of Zul'Gurub, players will first need to level a character to 70. The class doesn't matter, and this is the only thing that is required before being able to unlock the secrets of Zul'Gurub. Head down to Stranglethorn Vale where Zul'Gurub can be found. Enter the dungeon and then head toward the temple in the middle of the instance.
                         Instead of going up the stairs where Jin'do is fought, go right and walk around the outside of the temple to find a doorway that leads into a chamber. Within this chamber is a gong. On the ground to the left of the gong is a small object that can be interacted with to receive a Shattered Hakkari Bijou.
                         Next, kill two bosses to spawn Jin'do at the top of the temple. It doesn't matter which bosses players kill. Since both High Priestess Kilnara and Bloodlord Mandokir have a chance at dropping mounts, it is not a bad idea to go after those two if players don't have either of those mounts yet. Unlike Valiance in Naxxramas, there are no hoops that players need to jump through to get these mounts other than luck.
                         After killing two bosses, go to the top of the temple and fight Jin'do. Once phase two begins, go back down to the room where the gong is. In the exact same spot as above, there is an object that can be interacted with to loot a Fragmented Hakkari Bijou.
                         At this point, players can either teleport out of the instance by using their Hearthstone or complete the boss fight by destroying Hakkar's Chains at the top of the temple. This is accomplished by taunting a Gurubashi Spirit, luring it to the chain, and waiting for it to cast Body Slam. This destroys the barrier protecting the chain which can then be destroyed. Repeat this three times to complete the dungeon.
                         Regardless of which option players choose, they can then combine the Shattered Hakkari Bijou and Fragmented Hakkari Bijou to turn them into Restored Hakkari Bijou. This item begins a quest that requires players to find someone to give the bijou to.
                         To complete this quest, go to Dazar'alor in Zuldazar and look for Rin'Wosho in a building with a sign that says "The Yojamba Exchange". For players struggling to find him, he can be found at the location depicted in the image above. Rin'Wosho will gladly accept the Bijou. Turning it in completes the quest and players will successfully have unlocked the secrets of Zul'Gurub.
                         After unlocking the secrets of Zul'Gurub, Rin'Wosho will relocate. At this point he can be found just inside Zul'Gurub on the right side of the stairs.
                         Once players have completed this quest, they will gain access to a wide variety of old Zul'Gurub recipes and ensembles that can be purchased with Hakkari Bijous. Bijous were originally items that dropped in the 20-man version of Zul'Gurub. Players would take them and destroy them to gain reputation with the Zandalari. Now these Bijous are account bound currency that can be looted from bosses in Zul'Gurub.
                         Since there are only a few bosses in Zul'Gurub, it will take players numerous runs of this dungeon to get every recipe and ensemble from Rin'Wosho. Fortunately, heroic dungeons only have a 24-hour cooldown as opposed to a week.
      World of Warcraft is available now on PC.
      MORE: World of Warcraft Makes Improvement to Classic Continents
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. A new Minecraft update seemingly removes a feature from the game that was present for 14 years, despite not actually doing anything. Dexter: Resurrection will continue Dexter Morgan's dark story, but what do fans think is going to happen in the new series? A fresh melee weapon has joined the action. Find out how to unlock the Spear in Modern Warfare 3 and Warzone using this guide. Dragon Age: The Veilguard seems primed and ready to benefit from a Dragon's Dogma 2 pre-release tactic that became a huge hit among fans. A World of Warcraft fan seemingly discovers traces of a secret location thought to have been removed years ago in WoW Remix: Mists of Pandaria. Motive Studio, the developer behind EA's upcoming Iron Man video game, has a tough choice to make regarding one specific gameplay element. Pokemon playing a role in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate's success could mean the next entry in the series taking a few things from Scarlet and Violet.