Elder Gerrit W. Gong of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles was born in Redwood City, California, on Dec. 23, 1953. His parents were professional teachers and collectively spent more than 70 years in the classroom. Elder Gong inherited his parents’ love for learning, studying at Brigham Young University and receiving master’s and doctorate degrees at Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar.  After both served as full-time missionaries in Taiwan, Elder Gong married Susan Lindsay in January 1980 in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of four sons and have three grandchildren. Elder Gong worked for the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C., the U.S. State Department and as special assistant to the U.S. ambassador in Beijing, China. Before his call to the apostleship, he was in the Presidency of the Seventy. He also served as Asia Area president and as an Area Seventy, stake president, stake mission president, bishop and seminary teacher.  In honor of his birthday today, here are nine of his quotes from the past year. “Through the sacred covenants we make in the house of the Lord, our Savior can help draw us closer to God and to one another.” — Facebook post, Dec. 5, 2022 “Dear young men and women, the Lord loves you,” Elder Gong said. “This is a time for new beginnings and a time for important commitments and priorities. Please make your education a priority. Please make serving a mission a priority. A mission will bless you and others for a lifetime. A mission blesses your family now and will bless your future eternal family. ...  “Please love, share and invite others.” — Visit to Costa Rica, Nov. 18, 2022 “It does not matter if you are the first generation or the fifth generation in the Church. Each of us can be a strong welding link in our eternal family.” — Mexico Area young adult devotional, Oct. 23, 2022 “Our joy becomes full as we feel Jesus Christ’s grace and forgiveness for us. And as we offer the miracle of His grace and forgiveness to each other, the mercy we receive and the mercy we offer can help make life’s injustices just.” — “Happy and Forever,” October General Conference “Jesus Christ invites us to become, like Him, a good Samaritan, to make His inn (His Church) a refuge for all from life’s bruises and storms,” he said. “We prepare for His promised Second Coming as each day we do unto ‘the least of these’ as we would unto Him. ‘The least of these’ is each of us.” — Elder Gong narrates new Church video, Aug. 18, 2022 A post shared by Gerrit W. Gong (@gerritwgong) “By birth or adoptive lineage, we are ultimately all connected in the family of God and in the human family. As I have met with invited guests this week for tours at the Washington D.C. Temple, I have again been impressed how much we all have in common. Truly, God is the Creator of us all. His temples allow us to learn about these connections.” — Instagram post, April 19, 2022 “From their trials and accomplishments, we gain faith and strength. From their love and sacrifices, we learn to forgive and move forward.”  —”We Each Have a Story,” April 2022 general conference “Latter-day Saint commitment to religious liberty is a practical reality and desire as faithful Church members seek to honor, obey and sustain the law and contribute as good parents and good citizens in our communities and countries across the world.” — Church History Symposium, March 11, 2022 “In the next 40 years, as we come to the 100th anniversary of the Church in the Philippines, you will be astounded by things you’ve never seen. Because you’ll be diligent and faithful, loving and kind, because you’ll find belonging and hope in Jesus Christ for yourself and those around you, you will see miracles.” — Philippines Area-wide young single adult devotional, Feb. 20, 2022