
Prime
 Muwonge wants to add the coveted ABU title to his collection as he pursues a world title. PHOTO/ABDUL-NASSER SSEMUGABI 
By 
Abdul-Nasser Ssemugabi
 Defeating Tanzanian Ally Mbukwa by unanimous decision on February 3 lifted Muwonge into 10th place among the contenders for the vacant ABU gong.   When professional boxer Latibu Muwonge enters the red corner at New Obligato March 10, Clement Albano will be his third Tanzanian opponent in three months. Muwonge, nicknamed the Dancing Master, has defeated the previous two Tanzanians but victory against Albano will be his greatest career achievement as it will wrap the Africa Boxing Union (ABU) super lightweight belt around his slim waist. “I have worked for this opportunity and I can’t afford to waste it. You are going to watch the Dancing Master at his very best,” Muwonge said, sporting his trademark sunglasses and big Afro hair at the fight launch Wednesday afternoon. Defeating Tanzanian Ally Mbukwa by unanimous decision on February 3 lifted Muwonge into 10th place among the contenders for the vacant ABU gong. He could have faced better and stranger opponents from South Africa, Ghana, Morocco or Namibia, but he is lucky to take on Albano who has won seven, lost three and drawn one of his pro fights since September 2015. “ABU gave the promoter a chance to negotiate with promoters of boxers in the top 10 but their asking price was too much for him. And we exceptionally let him settle for an opponent ranked 20th,” Maureen Mulangira, the ABU general secretary explained. Big Strikers promoter Emmanuel Mwesigwa said some promoters were asking for over $20,000—nearly Shs74m—a hefty sum no Ugandan promoter can afford. Uganda Professional Boxing Commission president Salim Uhuru lauded the promoter for giving the best to their boxers. Victory will put Muwonge among the elite class of Badru ‘Mr Crush’ Lusambya, Michael Kizza, Abdu Tebazaalwa, and Joseph ‘Joey Vegas’ Lubega, who have won the coveted ABU title. On this being Muwonge’s most important fight so far, he said his dreams are even bigger. “My ultimate dream is winning the best there’s. I want to win the World Boxing Council (WBC) titles. And many more. I’m a world champion in the making.”GLOBAL SUPER LIGHTWEIGHT RANKING Muwonge: #321 / 2,101 Albano: #385 / 2,101 NATIONAL SUPER LIGHTWEIGHT RANKING Muwonge: #1 / 16 Albano: #5 / 65 FIGHT RECORDS Muwonge: 6-0-0 Albano: 7 [4KO]-3-1 ROUNDS FOUGHT Muwonge: 48 Albano: 57 *All stats are according to boxrec 
We come to you.
We are always looking for ways to improve our stories. Let us know what you liked and what we can improve on.
 
Fatality rates vary, and depend heavily on the healthcare available to the sickest patients 
“If they are found guilty they will not return to Dubai but if they are innocent, they will go back,” he said 
About 69 passengers are believed to have on board 
If you have an Ad-blocker please disable it and reload the page or try again later.
 
Nation Media Group © 2024
 
It's free!
 
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism
