I’m a lifelong music lover, which makes evaluating audio gear one of the best parts of my job. It hardly feels like working when I’m blasting tunes from a powerful new speaker or shovelling snow while wearing a nice set of headphones. It’s tough to put together a “best of” list, especially when review units come and go throughout the year. That makes it all but impossible to do a true comparison between them. However, I definitely had favorites. These audio products may or may not belong on a “best of 2022” list, but they stood out in more than one way that made them memorable. I would consider these five my favorite audio gear reviews of 2022. Marshall Stanmore III Bluetooth Speaker The most recent review on my list, I spent the better part of December listening to music on the Marshall Stanmore III Bluetooth speaker. I will be the first to admit that I am a sucker for vintage audio gear and retro-inspired products. That means the Marshall Stanmore III is like catnip to people like me. The Bluetooth speaker is built to look like a vintage Marshall guitar amp and instead of the usual touch controls or plastic buttons, this one has brass-finish knobs and an actual toggle switch for power. Design aside, this speaker wouldn’t have made the list if it didn’t have chops, and the Marshall Stanmore III is definitely a performer. It has serious bass punch thanks to a 5-inch woofer, while dual angled tweeters keep the upper end bright and help to disperse the sound. A total of 80 Watts of amplification means this speaker has the power to fill a good-sized room with music. It’s not a portable, but is equipped with inputs — including RCA jacks for a turntable (so long as it’s equipped with a pre-amp) — to make it the focal point of a compact home audio system. You can read my full Marshall Stanmore III review here. A pair of Syng Cell Alpha Triphonic wireless speakers mounted on optional floor stands. There are several reasons why I would never buy a Syng Cell Alpha Triphonic wireless speaker. The company’s insistence on eschewing all input ports except USB-C is a little maddening, making it far more challenging than it should be to connect an external audio component like a turntable. It has Bluetooth, but only for setup. And then there’s the eye-watering price: starting at $2,399 for one. To get the full effect, you’ll probably want to spring for at least two. However, Syng has designed a memorable speaker in the Cell Alpha. It looks like nothing else out there, and sounds like nothing else either. The marquee feature triphonic surround sound feature made possible by an array of beamforming drivers works extremely well, but it’s the Earth-thumping bass that I remember. Dual 6.5-inch woofers in an opposing configuration (one has the stand mount running through it while the second faces straight up) deliver a low frequency punch that has to be experienced. My Syng Cell Alpha review is here, if you’d like to learn more about this futuristic wireless speaker. SOUNDBOKS Go is tough to beat if you're looking for a performance portable speaker. A third wireless speaker made the list for 2022. This one is a Bluetooth portable — although at 20 pounds, it is definitely pushing the definition of portability. The SOUNDBOKS Go is the portable speaker that fills the role of the boombox of days gone by. There’s even an optional shoulder strap available. Its audio isn’t exactly audiophile quality but it brings a lot of energy to the party. There are multiple sound modes (including one for indoors) and an app-based EQ to customize the sound. The big size of this speaker isn’t just for show. Its rugged grill conceals a massive 10-inch woofer and a 1-inch silk done tweeter, driven by two 72 Watt Class D amplifiers. With over 140 Watts on tap, you will have no problem hearing your music above the din of the loudest outdoor party. Unlike the boombox days of costly D-cells that died every few hours, with the SOUNDBOKS Go’s swappable, 40-hour battery, you’ll be able to keep that party soundtrack going and going... To learn more about the mighty SOUNDBOKS Go portable Bluetooth speaker, you can read my full review here. Fluance RT85N Turntable I’ve written repeatedly about the Fluance RT85 turntable, a $499 beauty that is loaded with premium components that make it a bargain for those who are serious about their record collections. In spring 2022, I had the opportunity to test the company’s new variant of its flagship turntable: the RT85N. This new version still offers everything that makes the original so great, including the solid MDF plinth (available in a range of finishes), an acrylic platter, adjustable rubber spike isolation feet, servo-controlled motor with optical sensor, and an S-type aluminum tone arm. What makes the RT85N special is the inclusion of a pre-mounted Nagaoka MP-110 cartridge with a polished elliptical bonded diamond stylus. Other Fluance turntables have come with with Ortofon or Audio Technica cartridges. The Fluance RT85N’s Nagaoka cartridge lends a warmer, smoother sound to records. It’s a great option for those looking for all the analog warmth their record collection can offer. You can read my hands-on review, including how the Fluance RT85N compares to the original RT85 here. Electrohome Montrose Record Player + McKinley Powered Bookshelf Speakers Finally, proof that an audio product doesn’t need to be super expensive to make an impression. I had the opportunity to test out a home audio setup from Electrohome that is extremely affordable, but still manages to look attractive, offer decent audio quality, and allows you to play records without the risk of damaging them that often comes with cheap record players The Electrohome Montrose Record Player + McKinley Powered Bookshelf Speakers is a package (components also sold separately) in matching teak finish MDF cabinets. The system has a minimalist, retro vibe. The two-speed Montrose record player is equipped with a brand-name, Audio-Technica AT3600L MM diamond-tipped conical cartridge along with an adjustable counterweight. The McKinley bookshelf speakers feature dual drivers (with 4-inch woofers) offering 15 Watts per channel of output. They also support Bluetooth streaming. The included remote even lets you adjust bass and treble. No one will mistake this system for a release from an audiophile brand, but it is outstanding for an entry level package that is priced just below $200. You can read more about what Electrohome offers in the Montrose Record Player + McKinley Powered Bookshelf Speakers package in my review.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.