With the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am finishing on Monday due to high winds and seemingly every corner of the United States being windswept as of late, we thought it’d be a good time to show you the best apparel to beat the wind. Whether you’re caught off guard by a random cold front or if you’re brave enough to keep your windy tee time, we have the perfect gear for you. And of course, we’re not ones to overlook fashion at Golfweek. We’ve found some of the coolest colors and designs that the market has to offer in order to extend your golf season through even the windiest of days. Rarely have to deal with wind at your home course? Check out our list of best men’s golf shoes for 2023 or the brand-new Golfweek Wine Club. Arthur Gor-Tex Pant – Galvin Green (PGA TOUR Superstore) Price: $350 Why it’ll keep you warm: Gor-Tex is the holy grail when it comes to weatherproof gear. These pants from Galvin Green are worth the price if they save your legs from wind and moisture just even once. The Bushwick Vest (Rhoback) Price: $138 Why it’ll keep you warm: Rhoback’s Bushwick vest is both warm and comfortable. The slight puffer vest is functional and won’t get in the way of your swing. CLOUDSPUN WRMLBL Golf Jacket – Puma (PGA TOUR Superstore) Price: $160 Why it’ll keep you warm: This jacket from Puma uses a puffer-style torso and fleece-lined sleeves to keep you warm and cut the wind. Pair with a long sleeve polo and a base layer to stay warm even if the wind is bringing a chill. ColdGear Reactor Golf Hybrid Jacket – Under Armour (PGA TOUR Superstore) Price: $160 Why it’ll keep you warm: Under Armour is the king of cold gear. This jacket replicates the quality we’ve come to expect from the weather gear giant. Cross Chill Jacket (Lululemon) Price: $190 Why it’ll keep you warm: Lululemon isn’t just for the gym. This jacket features a soft shell outside to repel moisture while keeping wind away from your core. Everyday Ripstop Slim Fit Hooded Windbreaker (G/FORE) Price: $225 Why it’ll keep you warm: This G/FORE windbreaker is as advertised. Cutting the wind and keeping it off your body has never looked so fashionable. Fairhaven Vest (Vineyard Vines) Price: $145 Why it will keep you warm: Vests allow you to stay flexible while also protecting you from the elements. This Vineyard Vines vest is made for those brisk days that aren’t quite freezing but also aren’t the warmest. Flight Jacket (Devereux) Price: $98 Why it’ll keep you warm: A relaxed fit and mid-soft outer shell are perfect for windy days. No matter if you’re on the golf course, the hiking trail or just out and about, this Devereaux jacket is a must-get coming in under $100. Frostguard Recycled Content Full-Zip Padded Jacket (Adidas) Price: $220 Why it’ll keep you warm: Want to capitalize on those sunny days that seem perfect until you step outside? This Frostguard jacket from Adidas is great for the cold windy days that disguise themselves behind the facade of sunshine. HydroLite Rain Pants (FootJoy) Price: $130 Why it’ll keep you warm: If you’re going to play in the wind, don’t get caught in shorts. These FJ rain pants should be in everyone’s trunk and/or golf bag pocket if there’s even a 5 percent chance of sideways weather. Crystal Cove 2.0 Full Zip (TravisMathew) Price: $139.95 Why it’ll keep you warm: A lightweight option, this TravisMathew jacket is a great topper for any windproof outfit. Bonus points for the mock neck and elastic cuffs which keep breezes from crawling up and giving you chills. Remastered Wind Pants (New Balance) Price: $69.99 Why it’ll keep you warm: Who better to trust when it comes to wind than a running brand? New Balance is a fantastic option if you’re not wanting to drop hundreds of dollars on a pant you’ll wear only a few times per season. Sport Windshirt (FootJoy) Price: $95 Why it’ll keep you warm: In love with quarter zips? This windshirt from FootJoy is the perfect combination of QZ and soft shell jacket, keeping the wind off of your core. Storm-FIT Victory Full-Zip Golf Jacket – Nike (PGA TOUR Superstore) Price: $90 Why it’ll keep you warm: With college golf in full swing, you’ll see plenty of these jackets worn by Nike-sponsored schools, and for good reason. The Storm-FIT line from Nike is one of the best on the market. Storm Guard Water Resistant Golf Pants (GlobalGolf) Price: $119.99 (Down from $200, save 40 percent) Why it’ll keep you warm: Who doesn’t love a good sale? These Callaway rain pants are nearly 50 percent off. Get ’em while you still can! The Flights Joggers (Rhoback) Price: $112 Why it’ll keep you warm: The opposite of “it’s not the heat, it’s the humidity” applies when “it’s not the cold, it’s the wind”. These Rhoback joggers are a fantastic option for the spring. And as the name suggests, they double as the perfect travel pant. Turbine Wind Jacket (Oakley) Price: $60 (Down from $120, save 50%) Why it’ll keep you warm: Oakley is known for their sunglasses, yes, but it should be known for its snow gear. The Turbine wind jacket is a product that has years of cold and wind gear development behind it which is just one of the reasons why it made our list. We occasionally recommend interesting products, services, and gaming opportunities. If you make a purchase by clicking one of the links, we may earn an affiliate fee. Golfweek operates independently, though, and this doesn’t influence our coverage.
 We occasionally recommend interesting products, services, and gaming opportunities. If you make a purchase by clicking one of the links, we may earn an affiliate fee. Golfweek operates independently, though, and this doesn’t influence our coverage. 




						for Serious Golfers					
 
				© Copyright Golfweek 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP