Want the best deal in GOLF? Stock up on sale apparel while it lasts. Courtesy If you thought the holiday season was the best time to snag great deals on golf apparel, think again! We may be in the throes of winter at the moment, but spring golf is closer than you think. That’s why now is an ideal time to stock up on some sleeveless polos — especially when you can buy them for less than $40! Check out three of our favorite sale selections below, two of which are from Puma, and one from Nike, and click on the link to reveal the discount and add to cart. The soft pastel color palette pairs perfectly with whatever warm-weather destination you’ll be playing in, and the fabrics are lightweight, stretchy and breathable. Make sure to order yours before they’re gone! And to shop more great gear for your game, visit GOLF’s Pro Shop — your ultimate source for the latest apparel and equipment, all in one convenient place.  As a four-year member of Columbia’s inaugural class of female varsity golfers, Jessica can out-birdie everyone on the masthead. She can out-hustle them in the office, too, where she’s primarily responsible for producing both print and online features, and overseeing major special projects, such as GOLF’s inaugural Style Is­sue, which debuted in February 2018. Her origi­nal interview series, “A Round With,” debuted in November of 2015, and appeared in both in the magazine and in video form on GOLF.com.
 As a four-year member of Columbia’s inaugural class of female varsity golfers, Jessica can out-birdie everyone on the masthead. She can out-hustle them in the office, too, where she’s primarily responsible for producing both print and online features, and overseeing major special projects, such as GOLF’s inaugural Style Is­sue, which debuted in February 2018. Her origi­nal interview series, “A Round With,” debuted in November of 2015, and appeared in both in the magazine and in video form on GOLF.com. INCLUDES 12 SRIXON Z-STAR XV GOLF BALLS, 1 YR OF GOLF MAGAZINE, $20 FAIRWAY JOCKEY CREDIT - AND MUCH MORE! © 2024 EB Golf Media LLC. An 8AM Golf Affiliated Brand. All Rights Reserved.