Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account   All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. We're sorry to remind you, but summer is nearly over. The fact that we're cataloguing the best Labor Day sales means that the kiddos are back to school, your remaining beach days are dwindling, and Q4 is just around the corner. But for everyone who's been grinding hard all year long, we hope these deals can help you treat yourself to something nice over the upcoming holiday weekend. Say it with us: You deserve it, king. To help you make sense of the glut of Labor Day sales we're seeing, we rounded up the ongoing tech, appliance, furniture, clothing, home decor, kitchen, and outdoor sales that actually pass the vibe check. If you're looking to kit out your apartment—or re-up on basics and bedding—these are all the best Labor Day sales worth a small chunk of your hard-earned wages. Apple Amazon Sony Best Buy iRobot Amazon Apple Walmart Hisense Walmart Canon B&H Amazon: Never sleep on Amazon during these long weekend holidays, where you'll reliably find savings on video games, audio gear, and more, plus two-day shipping if you're a Prime member. Apple: Apple sales are extremely rare, but the tech giant is ramping up for the back-to-school craze with some special discounts for students and educators. If that applies to you, you could nab a small discount on a Mac or iPad, take 20% off AppleCare, or take home a gift card worth up to $150. It might sweeten the deal on all the student loans you'll be paying off. Best Buy: Best Buy's Labor Day sale is stocked with TVs (as low as $220!), laptops, phones, home appliances, and gaming consoles to pad out your smart home with. B&H Photo and Video: Geek out at the New York-based electronics retailer, which has a boatload of sales ranging from camera gear—like bodies, lenses, and photoshoot essentials—to your typical Apple products and computers. Dyson: Several of Dyson's vacuums, including the beefy Dyson V15 Detect Absolute, the entry-level Dyson V8, and the rarely discounted Supersonic hair dryer are on sale. Microsoft: On Team PC? Head over to Microsoft, which is offering savings on laptops and tablets, as well as a few select Xbox accoutrements. Office Depot: Upgrade your WFH setup with big savings on printers, desks, and office chairs. Otterbox: Whether you need a new charger or phone case, it's on sale for 15% off through September 5 at Otterbox. Walmart: The big box retailer is discounting a fairly wide range of items in its annual Labor Day sale, including AirPods and plenty of TVs. Casper Casper  The Company Store CGK Linens Target Gravity Gravity Tuft and Needle Tuft and Needle Brooklinen Brooklinen The Citizenry The Citizenry Purple Purple Brooklinen: For a limited time, one of our favorite bedding brands is offering 20% off sitewide, all thanks to the long weekend. Bed Threads: If you're looking to get a great deal on bedding, make sure to check out Bed Threads, where everything is 15% off. And if you want to stock up the linen closet, bedding bundles are at least 30% off. Brooklyn Bedding: Brooklyn Bedding, makers of the hard-as-a-rock (on purpose!) Plank mattress, is taking 25% off its entire selection of mattresses and bedding with the code “LABORDAY25.” Buffy: Now's your chance to score a deal on some cooling bed sheets or breezy comforters since Buffy's slashing prices sitewide by up to 35%. Casper: Casper's cushy-as-hell foamy mattresses are all up to 20% off right now. For even deeper savings, mosey on over to the brand's “last chance” clearance section for up to 50% off accessories and bedding. Crane and Canopy: Right now, you can score up to 60% off on bed sheets and home decor from one of the internet's most popular bedding brands, Crane and Canopy. The Citizenry: A plethora of attractive home goods, as well as some editor-beloved linen sheets, are 20% off for Labor Day, so shop 'til you drop into a well-made bed. The Company Store: One of our favorite lesser-known bedding purveyors is having a semi-annual sale where you can take up to 30% off gobs and gobs of sheets, mattress toppers, and best-in-class comforters. Coyuchi: Totally refresh your bed with a new set of sheets (may we suggest the GQ Sleep Award-winning linen sheets?) for 20% off. Cozy Earth: Whether you're jonesing for a new pajama set or just a timely bedding refresh, Cozy Earth is offering between 20% to 25% off its best-sellers, with orders over $50 shipping for free. Marlow: Brooklinen's sister brand Marlow makes some exceptionally versatile pillows, which are currently marked down by 15% if you've been eyeing some. Parachute: Parachute's luxe bedding is on sale in its ongoing sale section, but the Labor Day deal is this: take 15% off the brand's flagship mattress, for savings up to $700 off(depending on the size of the bed). Sijo: Hot, sweaty sleepers will rest easier thanks to Sijo's Labor Day sale, which finds the whole website being marked down by 20%. Tuft & Needle: Tuft & Needle remains one of our favorite mattress brands and is just one of the many that's currently offering a Labor Day sale on a selection of its bestselling bedding and mattresses. Take up to 40% off furniture, sheets, mattress toppers, and more, or save up to $700 off the brand's Mint Hybrid. Lulu & Georgia Lulu and Georgia AllModern AllModern Shinola Crate and Barrel Laurel Foundry Modern Farmhouse Wayfair Business & Pleasure Co. Nordstrom HAY Design Within Reach Four Hands 2Modern Arhaus Arhaus AllForm: Take 20% off any of AllForm's modular sofas for Labor Day when you enter the code “LABORDAY20” at check out. AllModern: From home decor to furniture for every room in your home, AllModern is offering huge savings on some of the snazziest-looking pieces around. Apt2B: Refurnish your entire apartment for up to half-off thanks to Apt2B's clearance section. Blu Dot: Blu Dot's outlet sale is brimming with great deals on overstock items like cabinets, desk accessories, and bed frames. Burrow: If we're to believe Burrow, makers of one of the best sofas in a box, then this is “the big one.” Its Labor Day sale is a massive selection of easy-to-assemble mid-century modern furniture for those looking to redo their whole home. Design Within Reach: A whole mess of beautifully designed furniture and home decor is up to 50% off and everything (yes, everything) ships for free. Floyd: Everything at Floyd is at least 20% off, like its mega-popular bed frame and shelving system. To sweeten the deal, the handsome, GQ-approved Floyd sectional is a whopping 30% off. Hay: Danish homewares brand Hay is famous for its eclectic and playful styles, some of which is on sale for up to 40% off. Hem: Hem's summer deals are a great way to end the warmer months on a high note—sofas are up to 30% off, rugs are up to 25% off, and throws are up to 15% off. And that's just barely scratching the well-adorned surface. Home Depot: Home Depot might not be the most exciting place to shop during the holiday weekend, but if you've got time to kill, the home and garden retailer is offering a wide range of deals for sprucing up your space. Joybird: If you've been eyeing any of Joybird's best sellers, then now is the time to pull the trigger, since a bunch of its top picks are up to 45% off. Lowe’s: In celebration of the holiday weekend, which is still a short while away, Lowe’s is offering up hefty discounts on a ton of indoor and outdoor appliances. Outer: Outer is behind some of our favorite outdoor sofas, and they're all up to 30% off so you can make the most out of dining al fresco while the weather's still good. Ruggable: Cut a rug on a new (washable) rug from Ruggable, which is taking 15% off your purchase of a single rug or 20% off your purchase of two or more rugs. Schoolhouse: Get ready to open your wallet, because the more you spend, the more you save. Orders of $250 and up are eligible for 20% off, while orders of $500 and up are up for a 25% off discount. Wayfair: Find steals on everything from big-ticket items (sofas and beds) to smaller accessories (side tables and rugs) when you shop Wayfair's up to 70% off clearance sale. West Elm: West Elm's Labor Day sale has finally kicked off, offering up to 60% off the company's wide-ranging selection of furniture, bedding, and indoor/outdoor accessories. Yardbird: Almost all of Yardbird's popular outdoor furniture is included in its Labor Day sale, so get ready to save 25% off. Crux Best Buy Food52 Food52 Cuisinart Wayfair Black+Decker Target All-Clad Sur La Table Cuisinart Walmart Our Place Our Place Misen Misen Aerogarden: Looking to grow your own herbs, vegetables, and fruit at home? Aerogarden's currently hosting its Labor Day sale, where you can take up to 40% off one of its hydroponic garden systems. Anyday: You can in fact cook a really good meal in the microwave, no joke. Give it a try with Anyday, which specializes in microwaveable cookware that doubles as storage. And for Labor Day weekend, you'll get 20% off when you spend $100 and up. Decide to spend over $125? You'll get a special gift for free, too. Food52: From stylish cooking essentials to heritage cookware from brands like Staub, Food52's got it all and is offering up 65% off during its ongoing sale. Macy's: Macy’s kitchen section is stacked with summer deals on chef-approved brands like All-Clad and Pyrex. Fly By Jing: Spice fans will find Fly By Jing's Labor Day sale to be extra caliente because you can save up to 30% off the brand's chili oils, spice mixes, or hot pot seasonings. Great Jones: Use the code “LDW25” to take 25% off everything from Great Jones, which makes some very attractive cookware from Dutch ovens to baking sheets. Le Creuset: Save up to 50% off the brand's colorful selection of heritage cookware, including a few variations on its beloved Dutch oven. Misen: Shop the Misen outlet and you’ll find a well-stocked selection of kitchen upgrades at approachable prices. Omsom: Close the takeout app and subscribe to Omsom's easy-to-use (and delicious) sauce packets, which are 25% off the initial month for first-time subscribers when they use code “LDW25” at checkout. Our Place: The brand behind the internet-famous Always Pan is throwing a Goodbye Summer sale, where its namesake product is 25% off and a whole mess of its other cutesy cookware is up to 40% off. Sur La Table: Don't miss Sur la Table’s summer sale that's offering all sorts of deals on gourmand-friendly kitchen gear. Williams Sonoma: From 40% off Le Creuset goodies to 20% off non-stick cookware, Williams Sonoma is giving you a chance to stock your kitchen like a Michelin-starred chef. Year & Day: Set the table with some fresh dinnerware, which is 25% off when you spend $150 and up at Year & Day. Coleman REI  Patagonia Yeti Dick's Sporting Goods Cannondale REI Mountain Hardwear Backcountry Snow Peak Snow Peak Petzl Backcountry Chrome Industries Chrome Industries Backcountry: As part of its semi-annual sale, Backcountry is letting you take up to 60% off a bunch of camping, biking, and climbing gear. Hydro Flask: From bottles to coolers, Hydro Flask is taking 25% off some of its most popular products. Snow Peak: Camp like a pro with Snow Peak's outdoor-ready gear, whether you want a grill, a tent, or folding chair—most of which is 25% off. Chrome Industries: All the gear you need to truly get out there—from roomy rucksacks to reflective biking shorts—is marked down in the brand's existing sale section. Huckberry: Huckberry could've been in any category on this Labor Day list, but we'll throw it in with our favorite outdoor sales, because you'll find a range of items like hiking shoes and bags in its ongoing sale section. Patagonia: Our favorite time of the year might just be whenever Patagonia hosts its blowout sale, which this time is offering savings up to 50% off. Huckberry: Huckberry is always packing its sale section with amazing goodies, all of which is an additional 15% off during the holiday weekend. (And we did you the favor of finding some of the best picks from the Huckberry sale.) REI: Peep REI's big ol' sale section and you can hit the trails in a fresh set of gear for up to 50% off, whether you need apparel or gear to help you face the elements. Asics Nordstrom Rack Levi's Levi's Casio Amazon Nike Nike Todd Snyder Todd Snyder J.Crew J.Crew Rhodes Footwear Huckberry Gap Gap Matches: The Matches summer sale is a truly wild assortment of deals: Besides slashing prices by up to 70%, the retailer is also offering 20% some select pieces for the upcoming season. Todd Snyder: Unbeatable sweats? Impeccable tailoring? Collectible timepieces? Todd Snyder’s answer to all of these questions is a resounding yes. And a lot of goodies are currently 70% off for the long holiday weekend. Jaxxon: Yeah, yeah, you're arm candy, but your arm (and décolletage, fingers, etc.) could all use a little candy, too, courtesy of Jaxxon's up-to-40%-off sale. Levi’s: Levi's really wants you to hop into a pair of its jeans because it's taking 30% off the entire damn site. Alex Crane: A bunch of linen clothing (and tops and bottoms from other materials) from a brand that does it best is on sale for up to 67% off. Alex Mill: Don't get your Alexes confused. Alex Mill, which focuses more on all sorts of well-made basics, has marked down a nifty selection of pieces that are ready to elevate your closet. Uniqlo: Dip into the bargain bin at Uniqlo at find limited-time offers on T-shirts, button-downs, underwear, and more (including the GQ-favorite Uniqlo U T-shirt). J.Crew: J.Crew's meaty sale is chock-full of primo wares like jeans, suits, and polos, all of which is 40% off. Plus, take an extra 60% off sale styles when you use the code “SHOPNOW.” Everlane: Who doesn’t need a staple button-up shirt or a classic denim jacket? Save up to 70% off styles for year round. Madewell: Honestly, Madewell has been good again for a while. Use the code “COOLDOWN” to take an extra 40% off sale items, whether you want basics of menswear flexes. Nike: The Swoosh is our go-to for anything style-related, and thankfully there’s a bounty of hot sneakers, workout gear, and fresh apparel on sale for up to 50% off. Nordstrom: Nordstrom's monstrous sale section is full of deals on designer goods, grooming products, and more with savings up to 60% off. Banana Republic: Don't sleep on BR's sale section, which finds polos, chinos, shirts, and outerwear of all kinds marked down for up to 60% off when you take an additional 20% off the marked-down price. Urban Outfitters: Aside from graphic tees, Urban Outfitters has a pretty sick selection of menswear for those looking to overhaul their closet on a budget. Abercrombie & Fitch: The mall brand renaissance includes Abercrombie & Fitch, which is continuing to raise the bar with elevated polos, camp shirts, and beyond—some of which is 25% off for the post-summer sale season, while you can save an additional 15% off most other items. Theory: Theory's treasure trove of modern staples are at some of its lowest prices ever with savings up to 70% off. Mr Porter: A selection of fresh-for-the-season menswear is 20% off at Mr Porter for Labor Day. Bodega: From streetwear staples to high-end designers, Bodega's offering you 25% off the whole site when you enter code “OUTOFOFFICE23” at checkout. END. Clothing: There are literally thousands of deals happening at END., where you can score up to 60% off sneakers, watches, home goods, streetwear, and on and on and on. Lululemon: Lululemon refuses to call its sale section what it is (a sale section), but its “We Made Too Much” section is always a reliable place to surface markdowns on sweat-wicking athleisure and all the accessories you need to get moving. Adidas: Need some new workout gear? A pair of sick sneakers? Get up to 40% on hundreds of styles over at Adidas. Tommy John: Time to restock the undies drawer. Right now, if you spend over $125 at Tommy John, you'll take 25% off your entire order. Just use code “DAZE25” at checkout. Taylor Stitch: This is your last chance to score some of Taylor Stitch's most popular items, which are up to 50% off right now. Corridor: Corridor's celebrity-friendly clothing is getting the end-of-season sale treatment, bringing savings up to 65% off. Ralph Lauren: Get up to 30% off on Polo Ralph Lauren, RRL, and Purple Label. The Best Online Furniture Stores to Shop Right Now The Best Sleeper Sofas Are a Major Upgrade From Your Saggy College Futon The Best Candles for Every Kind of Mood The Best Indoor Plants That Even You Can’t Kill Not a subscriber? Join GQ to receive full access to GQ.com. More From GQ Connect © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. GQ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices