With his wife, Jade Thomason, Carl Haensel operates Namebini, a fly-fishing guide service headquartered in Duluth that specializes in rivers along the north and south shores of Lake Superior. Together the couple recently published a comprehensive book, "Fly Fishing Minnesota," which offers detailed information about how and where to fly fish in the state not only for trout, but for bass, northern pike and other species. In advance of the statewide stream trout season that opens Saturday, April 15, Haensel offers 10 steps prospective fly anglers can follow while wading into a sport many devotees find life-changing. Seek information and advice. "Fly Fishing Minnesota" is a good place to start. Together with its companion spiral-bound lay-flat publication, "Minnesota Fly Fishing Maps," The book is a wealth of information about gear, flies and rivers and other waters to fish. "Jade and I wanted to create a book for people throughout the state who want to get into fly fishing and also who are experienced anglers who perhaps are looking for new places to fish and different fish to catch," Haensel said. "I was fortunate in that I started fly fishing with my Dad. But for those who didn't have a family member to learn from, seeking information is important. Local fly shops can be a wealth of information, too, as can local chapters of conservation groups such as Trout Unlimited." Purchase or borrow equipment. Disregard the well-established trend among outdoor equipment manufacturers that suggests that "only the best and most expensive gear will do." You can be assured that when Izaak Walton published "The Compleat Angler" in 1653 he owned neither a Gore-Tex raincoat nor a $1,000 fly rod with titanium guides. Introductory fly fishing outfits can be bought for a couple hundred bucks, and used rods and reels are available online at various sites. You will want advice about the size of rig to buy, however, as well as lines and leaders. So talk with friends and/or local fly shops before you pony up hard cash. Practice casting. To catch a trout or any other fish on a fly, you needn't be Paul Maclean, the character portrayed by Brad Pitt in "A River Runs Through it." In that movie, Maclean is shown "shadow casting" long loops of fly line on what was portrayed to be the Big Blackfoot River in Montana (actually, angler Jason Borger, not Pitt, did the casting, and the scene was shot on the Gallatin River, not the Blackfoot). "Fly-casting lessons are widely available, from local parks and recreation centers, to fly shops, to pros who teach casting," Haensel said. "Backyards or parks or lakes with still water are good places to get experience with fly rods." Pick a fishy time of year to start. "You want everything working for you when you begin, so I always advise people new to fly fishing to start in April and May, for example, if they're fishing for trout in southeast Minnesota," Haensel said. "Spring is also a good time to fly fish for sunnies and crappies. You want to start out when fish are accessible and flies are a good tool to catch them." Which fly to try? Entomology is a multisyllable word meaning "a branch of zoology concerning the study of insects." Fair enough. But one needn't be an entomologist to "match the hatch," for example, on southeast Minnesota's Whitewater River when the state's inland stream trout season begins. One shortcut? Check out Haensel and Thomason's book (or, oftentimes, handouts from fly shops). The book includes a comprehensive hatch chart showing which bugs appear when in, on and above Minnesota streams. Observe first, then fish. "Having gotten your gear together at the car, it's very easy to walk up to a stream and start casting," Haensel said. "Far better is to observe the stream first. Most trout streams are formed in 'riffle, run, pool' scenarios. You can be pretty sure that trout are in deep pools, but the active fish will often be in the moving water leading to or from the pool. Look closely also for any insects you might see hatching, perhaps 'caddisflies' skittering across the stream surface or 'mayflies' lying flat and still. Most important when you do cast is to have your fly drift downstream at the same speed as the current. If you can present your fly in this natural way, you'll catch trout." New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.