Hyderabad, Dec 29 (UNI) President Droupadi Murmu on Thursday advised students to be empowered and empower others too. 
The students should not be satisfied just with their own success and happiness. They have a duty towards the nation and humanity as a whole and should use their talent and technological capabilities for the larger good, Murmu said while addressing  the students and faculty members of G. Narayanamma Institute of Technology and Science for Women and also students of BM Malani Nursing College and Suman Junior College of Mahila Dakshata Samithi here.
She said benefits of technology should reach the remotest areas and the poorest of the poor and added that  it should be used as an instrument of social justice.
The President said that engineering has played a big role in technological advancements including computers, medical equipments, internet, smart devices and digital payment systems. 
The role of engineering as a profession becomes very critical in today’s world where unthinkable and unprecedented problems need quick and sustainable solutions.
Murmu said that engineers have the power to make the world a better place. The solutions that they find and technologies that they would create in future should be people-oriented and environment-friendly. 
Recently at COP 27, India reiterated its vision of a safe planet in a one-word Mantra – LiFE which stands for Lifestyle for Environment. We have been achieving our climate targets and upgrading them. We are taking new initiatives in renewable energy, e-mobility, ethanol-blended fuels, and green hydrogen. These initiatives can start producing better results on ground through technological innovations, the President said.
MORE UNI CS Anakapalli, AP, Aug 19 (UNI) Three students, who were staying at a private hostel, died after having food at Kailasapatnam village in Kotauratla mandal of the district on Monday. Kakinada, Aug 19(UNI) Members of the All India Fishermen’s Association staged a dharna in front of the  District fisheries office here on Monday demanding immediate payment of Rs.20,000 as fishing ban period allowance. Hyderabad, Aug 19 (UNI) Telangana Civil Supplies and Irrigation Minister Capt N Uttam Kumar Reddy praised the Telangana government's historic agricultural loan waiver, led by Chief Minister Revanth Reddy, Deputy CM Bhatti Vikramarka, and Agriculture Minister Nageshwar Rao. Bengaluru, Aug 19 (UNI) In an interim relief to state Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, the Karnataka High Court on Monday temporarily suspended legal action against him in connection with a case involving alleged land allocation irregularities. Bengaluru, Aug 19 (UNI) MeritTrac, India's foremost testing and assessment provider, on Monday announced a strategic partnership with the Occupational English Test (OET),  a leading global English proficiency test for healthcare professionals, to significantly enhance the career prospects for nurses, doctors, and other healthcare workers in India seeking international opportunities.