Danny Murphy believes Harry Maguire does not have a future at Manchester United but would be a decent signing for Newcastle United. The Red Devils paid £80million to sign Maguire in 2019 but the defender has struggled despite his top performances for England. Named club captain by former manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, the 29-year-old has not just had a tough time on the pitch but faced his fair share of problems off of it. A fresh start is probably the best solution for player and club with the United hierarchy desperate to raise funds to ensure Erik ten Hag can be backed in the summer transfer window. Having paid a ming-boggling £80m fee to bring in Maguire, you would expect the Red Devils to ask for an ambitious fee to sell him. Given his form in the Premier League, it would be surprising if a side comes forward and offers half of what United paid to buy him from Leicester City. The Manchester club might be happy to see the back of their captain and his wages, with a transfer fee being a welcome bonus.  Maguire was linked with a move to Chelsea last summer – in a switch that would likely suit him with the Blues often operating with a back five. Filthy-rich Newcastle have been mentioned by the odd pundit, with Eddie Howe unlikely to pursue the England centre-half. Sven Botman joined the Magpies last summer and has been one of the best signings of the season, developing a great partnership with Fabian Schar. Having only conceded 11 league goals in 2022-23 – the best in the division, three better off than Arsenal – Howe will probably not look to bring in a new centre-half this month. If they do go in for a player in Maguire’s position, former Liverpool midfielder Danny Murphy reckons the Geordies “could do a lot worse” than the United skipper. Asked if Maguire has a future at Old Trafford, Murphy told talkSPORT: “No, but he has a good future somewhere else because he’s still a great talent. “He’s got leadership qualities, he’s learnt at United. Yes, he’s had a little bad spell but a lot of it has been good. He’s done brilliantly on the international stage at big tournaments, he’s great on set-plays, he’s a good character. “He’s not a ‘big time Charlie’, he’s humble, he looks like a great lad, good family, good support network around him. He’s going to have many takers. “It wouldn’t surprise me if someone like Eddie Howe went for Maguire as another choice for them. A club like Newcastle could do a lot worse than get someone like Maguire.” Transfermarkt values Maguire at £26.5m – which you would probably expect United to be happy to receive. The 29-year-old has only started four Premier League matches this term with Erik ten Hag preferring Lisandro Martinez, Raphael Varane, and even left-back Luke Shaw. READ MORE: Sheffield Wednesday overcrowding revives painful Hillsborough memories and questions  Harry Maguire insists claims that Man Utd could sack Erik ten Hag last season “did damage” to their performances on the pitch.
 Chelsea have been urged to “take a chance” on Manchester United star Harry Maguire, who can plug a “gap” in Enzo Maresca’s squad ahead of the new season.
 Man Utd are looking to sell seven more players this summer as they look to raise funds for a big transfer spree, according to reports.
 Leny Yoro has broken onto the list of most expensive defenders ever and Matthijs de Ligt could be on there three times if he joins him at Manchester United.
 Manchester United have spent £1.6bn since Sir Alex Ferguson retired in 2013. That’s a lot of wonga for zero Premier League titles, isn’t it?
 AI has predicted ten notable Premier League summer transfers. Most of them won’t happen (i.e. Mo Salah to Real Madrid), but some are far more likely… 
 © Planet Sport Limited 2024 • All Rights Reserved