Survey after survey, country after country, the data points to the same reality: Mental health has become one of the biggest challenges for journalists. More than 60% of the media workers in countries as diverse as Canada, Spain and Ecuador reported high levels of anxiety in 2022. At least one in five reported depression. Levels of post-traumatic stress disorder and burnout are also on the rise. The picture is likely to get worse unless we do something about it from within our organizations. In 2021, some journalists started to speak up more publicly about their predicament, and 2022 was the year when the topic finally got out of the journalism closet. We heard about this through Twitter, articles, books), and the very public cases of reporters breaking down on air.  Even more unprecedented was the vast number of journalists demanding training to learn how to take care of themselves — and to generate a healthier industry. Nearly 10,000, from every corner of the planet, signed up for mental health courses at the Knight Center, ITS Rio. or The Self-Investigation Academy. The issue was included in all major conferences — including one entirely focused on care. The demand and the need are clear. In 2023, it’s the media organizations’ turn to pick up the baton and lead the way towards a more sustainable culture of care in journalism. Managers, editors and publishers worldwide: Why make such an investment? To achieve more with less, because research shows that healthier and happier employees perform better — and are more likely to stay. For your audiences, so they receive more inspiring and hopeful coverage, instead of having to avoid the news due to the negative effect it has on their mood. Out of shared humanity, to eradicate stigma around mental health. Or for the business. The World Health Organization estimates that anxiety and depression alone cost the global economy US$ 1 trillion, mostly in lost productivity. Incorporating wellbeing as a key value will mean rethinking the way we work, so that we’re not just sticking Band-aids to an already unsustainable workload. In the United States, 84% of employees reported that their workplace had a negative impact on their mental health. The approach needs to be systemic and have support from top management. The WHO recommends three evidence-based interventions: “manager training for mental health, training for workers in mental health literacy and awareness, and individual interventions delivered directly to workers.” It will also mean creating new narratives of what it means to be a “good journalist” and developing different role models, so that we stop commending unhealthy practices such as being always on, structural overtime, lack of mutual recognition and care, or not having a fulfilling personal life. If not, the industry is at risk of losing more good talent, especially among Millennials and Gen Z. Joining the mental health revolution doesn’t have to be costly. It requires low investment and results in high returns. We know this because many organizations have already started in other industries – and also within journalism. Some newsrooms, for example, began by harnessing the interest among their staff, and encouraging mental health committees that provide resources and guidelines, or establishing community-based safe spaces to share among peers – led or not by an external facilitator. Others provide free access to a number of therapy sessions as part of their benefits package. Journalists are ready and the situation is urgent. It’s time for a substantial shift in journalism’s culture and 2023 is the year to start planting seeds for long-lasting change. The media industry can no longer afford to bypass the mental health revolution. Mar Cabra is cofounder of The Self-Investigation and a journalist and digital wellness expert. Kim Brice contributed to this prediction. Mar Cabra is cofounder of The Self-Investigation and a journalist and digital wellness expert. Kim Brice contributed to this prediction. Survey after survey, country after country, the data points to the same reality: Mental health has become one of the biggest challenges for journalists. More than 60% of the media workers in countries as diverse as Canada, Spain and Ecuador reported high levels of anxiety in 2022. At least one in five reported depression. Levels of post-traumatic stress disorder and burnout are also on the rise. The picture is likely to get worse unless we do something about it from within our organizations. In 2021, some journalists started to speak up more publicly about their predicament, and 2022 was the year when the topic finally got out of the journalism closet. We heard about this through Twitter, articles, books), and the very public cases of reporters breaking down on air.  Even more unprecedented was the vast number of journalists demanding training to learn how to take care of themselves — and to generate a healthier industry. Nearly 10,000, from every corner of the planet, signed up for mental health courses at the Knight Center, ITS Rio. or The Self-Investigation Academy. The issue was included in all major conferences — including one entirely focused on care. The demand and the need are clear. In 2023, it’s the media organizations’ turn to pick up the baton and lead the way towards a more sustainable culture of care in journalism. Managers, editors and publishers worldwide: Why make such an investment? To achieve more with less, because research shows that healthier and happier employees perform better — and are more likely to stay. For your audiences, so they receive more inspiring and hopeful coverage, instead of having to avoid the news due to the negative effect it has on their mood. Out of shared humanity, to eradicate stigma around mental health. Or for the business. The World Health Organization estimates that anxiety and depression alone cost the global economy US$ 1 trillion, mostly in lost productivity. Incorporating wellbeing as a key value will mean rethinking the way we work, so that we’re not just sticking Band-aids to an already unsustainable workload. In the United States, 84% of employees reported that their workplace had a negative impact on their mental health. The approach needs to be systemic and have support from top management. The WHO recommends three evidence-based interventions: “manager training for mental health, training for workers in mental health literacy and awareness, and individual interventions delivered directly to workers.” It will also mean creating new narratives of what it means to be a “good journalist” and developing different role models, so that we stop commending unhealthy practices such as being always on, structural overtime, lack of mutual recognition and care, or not having a fulfilling personal life. If not, the industry is at risk of losing more good talent, especially among Millennials and Gen Z. Joining the mental health revolution doesn’t have to be costly. It requires low investment and results in high returns. We know this because many organizations have already started in other industries – and also within journalism. Some newsrooms, for example, began by harnessing the interest among their staff, and encouraging mental health committees that provide resources and guidelines, or establishing community-based safe spaces to share among peers – led or not by an external facilitator. Others provide free access to a number of therapy sessions as part of their benefits package. Journalists are ready and the situation is urgent. It’s time for a substantial shift in journalism’s culture and 2023 is the year to start planting seeds for long-lasting change. The media industry can no longer afford to bypass the mental health revolution. Mar Cabra is cofounder of The Self-Investigation and a journalist and digital wellness expert. Kim Brice contributed to this prediction. Mar Cabra is cofounder of The Self-Investigation and a journalist and digital wellness expert. Kim Brice contributed to this prediction. Daniel Trielli   Trust in news will continue to fall. Just look at Brazil. Tre'vell Anderson   Continued culpability in anti-trans campaigns Andrew Losowsky   Journalism realizes the replacement for Twitter is not a new Twitter Laura E. Davis   The year we embrace the robots — and ourselves John Davidow   A year of intergenerational learning Cassandra Etienne   Local news fellowships will help fight newsroom inequities Zizi Papacharissi   Platforms are over Ben Werdmuller   The internet is up for grabs again Sue Schardt   Toward a new poetics of journalism Peter Sterne   AI enters the newsroom Anthony Nadler   Confronting media gerrymandering Kaitlyn Wells   We’ll prioritize media literacy for children Amethyst J. Davis   The slight of the great contraction Eric Ulken   Generative AI brings wrongness at scale Jessica Clark   Open discourse retrenches Joe Amditis   AI throws a lifeline to local publishers Mary Walter-Brown and Tristan Loper   Mission-driven metrics become our North Star Snigdha Sur   Newsrooms get nimble in a recession Alexandra Svokos   Working harder to reach audiences where they are Michael Schudson   Journalism gets more and more difficult Kavya Sukumar   Belling the cat: The rise of independent fact-checking at scale Burt Herman   The year AI truly arrives — and with it the reckoning Sarah Alvarez   Dream bigger or lose out Ståle Grut   Your newsroom experiences a Midjourney-gate, too Alex Perry   New paths to transparency without Twitter Jacob L. Nelson   Despite it all, people will still want to be journalists Jim VandeHei   There is no “peak newsletter” Elite Truong   In platform collapse, an opportunity for community Sue Robinson   Engagement journalism will have to confront a tougher reality Julia Angwin   Democracies will get serious about saving journalism Jody Brannon   We’ll embrace policy remedies Doris Truong   Workers demand to be paid what the job is worth Jesse Holcomb   Buffeted, whipped, bullied, pulled Molly de Aguiar and Mandy Van Deven   Narrative change trend brings new money to journalism Rodney Gibbs   Recalibrating how we work apart Richard Tofel   The press might get better at vetting presidential candidates Nikki Usher   This is the year of the RSS reader. (Really!) J. Siguru Wahutu   American journalism reckons with its colonialist tendencies Danielle K. Brown and Kathleen Searles   DEI efforts must consider mental health and online abuse AX Mina   Journalism in a time of permacrisis Mael Vallejo   More threats to press freedom across the Americas Sue Cross   Thinking and acting collectively to save the news Joanne McNeil   Facebook and the media kiss and make up Johannes Klingebiel   The innovation team, R.I.P. Kirstin McCudden   We’ll codify protection of journalism and newsgathering Juleyka Lantigua   Newsrooms recognize women of color as the canaries in the coal mine Simon Galperin   Philanthropy stops investing in corporate media Bill Grueskin   Local news will come to rely on AI Moreno Cruz Osório   Brazilian journalism turns wounds into action Walter Frick   Journalists wake up to the power of prediction markets Mauricio Cabrera   It’s no longer about audiences, it’s about communities Parker Molloy   We’ll reach new heights of moral panic Gordon Crovitz   The year advertisers stop funding misinformation Sumi Aggarwal   Smart newsrooms will prioritize board development Emily Nonko   Incarcerated reporters get more bylines Felicitas Carrique and Becca Aaronson   News product goes from trend to standard Pia Frey   Publishers start polling their users at scale Ariel Zirulnick   Journalism doubles down on user needs Mar Cabra   The inevitable mental health revolution Susan Chira   Equipping local journalism Emma Carew Grovum   The year to resist forgetting about diversity Jakob Moll   Journalism startups will think beyond English Jessica Maddox   Journalists keep getting manipulated by internet culture Nicholas Thompson   The year AI actually changes the media business Jennifer Brandel   AI couldn’t care less. Journalists will care more.  Jenna Weiss-Berman   The economic downturn benefits the podcasting industry. (No, really!) Valérie Bélair-Gagnon   Well-being will become a core tenet of journalism Peter Bale   Rising costs force more digital innovation Stefanie Murray   The year U.S. media stops screwing around and becomes pro-democracy Al Lucca   Digital news design gets interesting again Joshua P. Darr   Local to live, wire to wither Khushbu Shah   Global reporting will suffer Brian Moritz   Rebuilding the news bundle Cindy Royal   Yes, journalists should learn to code, but… Sarah Marshall   A web channel strategy won’t be enough Ryan Gantz   “I’m sorry, but I’m a large language model” A.J. Bauer   Covering the right wrong Alan Henry   A reckoning with why trust in news is so low Bill Adair   The year of the fact-check (no, really!) Eric Thurm   Journalists think of themselves as workers Don Day   The news about the news is bad. I’m optimistic. Dana Lacey   Tech will screw publishers over Mariana Moura Santos   A woman who speaks is a woman who changes the world Julia Beizer   News fatigue shows us a clear path forward S. Mitra Kalita   “Everything sucks. Good luck to you.” Kerri Hoffman   Podcasting goes local Ayala Panievsky   It’s time for PR for journalism Amy Schmitz Weiss   Journalism education faces a crossroads Karina Montoya   More reporters on the antitrust beat David Cohn   AI made this prediction Ryan Nave   Citizen journalism, but make it equitable Tim Carmody   Newsletter writers need a new ethics Errin Haines   Journalists on the campaign trail mend trust with the public Ryan Kellett   Airline-like loyalty programs try to tie down news readers Jaden Amos   TikTok personality journalists continue to rise Masuma Ahuja   Journalism starts working for and with its communities Laxmi Parthasarathy   Unlocking the silent demand for international journalism Michael W. Wagner   The backlash against pro-democracy reporting is coming Sam Guzik   AI will start fact-checking. We may not like the results. Anita Varma   Journalism prioritizes the basic need for survival Sarabeth Berman   Nonprofit local news shows that it can scale Basile Simon   Towards supporting criminal accountability Nicholas Diakopoulos   Journalists productively harness generative AI tools Kathy Lu   We need emotionally agile newsroom leaders Eric Holthaus   As social media fragments, marginalized voices gain more power Christoph Mergerson   The rot at the core of the news business Esther Kezia Thorpe   Subscription pressures force product innovation Gabe Schneider   Well-funded journalism leaders stop making disparate pay Nicholas Jackson   There will be launches — and we’ll keep doing the work Sarah Stonbely   Growth in public funding for news and information at the state and local levels James Salanga   Journalists work from a place of harm reduction Matt Rasnic   More newsroom workers turn to organized labor Gina Chua   The traditional story structure gets deconstructed Eric Nuzum   A focus on people instead of power Christina Shih   Shared values move from nice-to-haves to essentials Dominic-Madori Davis   Everyone finally realizes the need for diverse voices in tech reporting Mario García   More newsrooms go mobile-first Jarrad Henderson   Video editing will help people understand the media they consume David Skok   Renewed interest in human-powered reporting Megan Lucero and Shirish Kulkarni   The future of journalism is not you Dannagal G. Young   Stop rewarding elite performances of identity threat Barbara Raab   More journalism funders will take more risks Martina Efeyini   Talk to Gen Z. They’re the experts of Gen Z. Brian Stelter   Finding new ways to reach news avoiders Andrew Donohue   We’ll find out whether journalism can, indeed, save democracy Rachel Glickhouse   Humanizing newsrooms will be a badge of honor Delano Massey   The industry shakes its imposter syndrome Hillary Frey   Death to the labor-intensive memo for prospective hires Upasna Gautam   Technology that performs at the speed of news Shanté Cosme   The answer to “quiet quitting” is radical empathy Surya Mattu   Data journalists learn from photojournalists Janet Haven   ChatGPT and the future of trust  Elizabeth Bramson-Boudreau   More of the same Priyanjana Bengani   Partisan local news networks will collaborate Larry Ryckman   We’ll work together with our competitors Jonas Kaiser   Rejecting the “free speech” frame Raney Aronson-Rath   Journalists will band together to fight intimidation Jennifer Choi and Jonathan Jackson   Funders finally bet on next-generation news entrepreneurs Jim Friedlich   Local journalism steps up to the challenge of civic coverage Cory Bergman   The AI content flood Kaitlin C. Miller   Harassment in journalism won’t get better, but we’ll talk about it more openly Alexandra Borchardt   The year of the climate journalism strategy Joni Deutsch   Podcast collaboration — not competition — breeds excellence Taylor Lorenz   The “creator economy” will be astroturfed Anna Nirmala   News organizations get new structures Cari Nazeer and Emily Goligoski   News organizations step up their support for caregivers Sam Gregory   Synthetic media forces us to understand how media gets made Lisa Heyamoto   The independent news industry gets a roadmap to sustainability Alex Sujong Laughlin   Credit where it’s due Anika Anand   Independent news businesses lead the way on healthy work cultures Victor Pickard   The year journalism and capitalism finally divorce Paul Cheung   More news organizations will realize they are in the business of impact, not eyeballs Wilson Liévano   Diaspora journalism takes the next step Tamar Charney   Flux is the new stability Josh Schwartz   The AI spammers are coming Francesco Zaffarano   There is no end of “social media” Leezel Tanglao   Community partnerships drive better reporting To promote and elevate the standards of journalism Covering thought leadership in journalism Pushing to the future of journalism Exploring the art and craft of story The Nieman Journalism Lab is a collaborative attempt to figure out how quality journalism can survive and thrive in the Internet age. It’s a project of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University.