Tire manufacturer Goodyear has made a pledge to create a tire made from 100% sustainable materials by the year 2030. And while other such pledges don’t always necessarily come to fruition, it appears that Goodyear is well on its way. At this year’s Consumer Electronics Show (CES), the company unveiled a prototype tire made from 90% sustainable materials. That’s up a whopping 20% from the already impressive prototype tire the company revealed at last year’s CES, which was made from 70% sustainable materials. What’s more, Goodyear says that the new prototype has already passed Department of Transportation testing, meaning it’s approved for road use. Now, all it has to do is secure enough materials to produce the new tires at a commercial scale, and then the tires should be hitting the roads. The tires are made from soybean oil (instead of petroleum oil), rice husk silica (a byproduct of rice milling that is abundant in rice-producing countries), postconsumer polyester, and biorenewable pine tar resins. Polyester, in particular, is a major environmental problem, and finding ways to recycle it while also cutting down on the need for new materials is a great thing for our planet. Favored by fast-fashion brands, polyester is made from nonrenewable oil and makes up a huge portion of the 100 million tons of textile waste sent to landfills each year. From the landfills, it leaches toxins into the surrounding soil and water. While some of Goodyear’s plans for more sustainably made tires were previously upset by supply chain issues caused by the pandemic, the company appears to be back on track, and it’s not taking its eye off the ball. “While we celebrated [the 70% sustainable tire], we knew it set the foundation for us to continue to push forward,” the senior vice president and chief technology officer said. In addition to the sustainable materials, Goodyear says that the new tires have a lower rolling resistance, which means better gas mileage and longer electric vehicle ranges. Combine that with the reduced carbon footprint and they truly sound like the tires of the future. Join our free newsletter for weekly updates on the coolest innovations improving our lives and saving our planet. ‘Please be careful’ "I hope that you will continue to hold close those you cherish most, just as I was blessed to do with my beloved Phillip," Thomas wrote in an Instagram tribute Often revered as an astute judge of character, Queen Elizabeth II told friends that she found Donald Trump “very rude,” and mused that he must have “some sort of arrangement” with his wife, Melania.The stunning claims are made in a new biography of the late queen which is being serialized in the Daily Mail. It also says that the late monarch “particularly disliked” Trump’s habit of looking over her shoulder, as if “in search of others more interesting.”Elizabeth hosted Trump twice during her rei The Utah-based Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints updated its General Handbook with changes regarding transgender policies, garment wearing for people with medical restrictions, and temple sealing language. Lifeguards working in Long Beach on Monday found a shocking and grotesque item on the sand on Monday — or so they thought. At about 7:15 a.m., lifeguards saw what appeared to be a human skull that had washed ashore in the area of East Ocean Boulevard and Orizaba Avenue, according to the Long Beach […] Peyton Manning knows a thing or two about great quarterback play, having won two Super Bowls and earned a spot in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. At this past weekend's Fanatics Fest, he listed his five top quarterbacks in the NFL. While not a surprising list, it does… Multiple people were injured during an incident at a western Pennsylvania amusement park ride Saturday night. Given Donald Trump's hostility toward democracy, it's worth pausing when he asks supporters, "Why are we having an election?” JD Vance, the Republican vice presidential nominee, may have earned some side-eyed glances in Philadelphia on Monday after he asked workers at Pat’s King of Steaks why they didn’t serve Swiss cheese on their sandwiches.Vance, who was in Philadelphia campaigning, made the pilgrimage to the famous steak sandwich joint on Monday after a speech at a waste management facility. Pat’s, alongside its South Philly cross-street rival Geno’s Steaks, is one of the most famous steak sandwich shops in the Cit "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Safari guests in India were treated recently to a rarely witnessed interaction between a tiger and cobra, which appeared to culminate in a standoff. Several clips are being shared via social media but the accompanying footage is reported to have been captured in early August… Marlo Thomas released an emotional statement after the death of her husband, Phil Donahue. “Hello, Friends. I'm sure by now you've heard the very sad news that I lost my sweetheart last night, so I know you understand that I'll be stepping away from this page for a while to take care of myself and... The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Then they acted like nothing happened. A former conservative federal appellate judge is urging the Supreme Court to keep Donald Trump off the ballot, arguing the ex-president’s effort to cling to power after his 2020 election loss was “broader” than South Carolina’s secession from the US that triggered the Civil War. The daughter of an Orange County supervisor and a nonprofit are being sued by the county after they allegedly “brazenly plundered [tax dollars] for their own personal gain,” the suit claims. The Viet America Society received as much as $13.5 million to help feed the elderly and those in need during the pandemic, but instead, […] A Buford man who attempted to rob a then teenager in 2021 will spend the rest of his life in prison. The coach of the Golden State Warriors took a page from star player Steph Curry's book. Please take me to the universe where Old Yeller lives. Whether or not you're familiar with the name Miista, you'll likely have come across the Spanish...