We've made some important changes to our Privacy and Cookies Policy and we want you to know what this means for you and your data. We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and collect browsing data to give you the best online experience and to personalise the content and advertising shown to you. Please let us know if you agree. These settings apply to AMP pages only. You may be asked to set these preferences again when you visit non-AMP BBC pages. The lightweight mobile page you have visited has been built using Google AMP technology. To make our web pages work, we store some limited information on your device without your consent. Read more about the essential information we store on your device to make our web pages work. We use local storage to store your consent preferences on your device. When you consent to data collection on AMP pages you are consenting to allow us to display personalised ads that are relevant to you when you are outside of the UK. Read more about how we personalise ads in the BBC and our advertising partners. You can choose not to receive personalised ads by clicking “Reject data collection and continue” below. Please note that you will still see advertising, but it will not be personalised to you. You can change these settings by clicking “Ad Choices / Do not sell my info” in the footer at any time. Image source, Getty Images Japan has demanded China release one of its nationals after the man was arrested by Beijing on allegations of espionage. The man, an employee of drug-maker Astellas in his 50s, has been detained since early March. China has detained at least 17 Japanese nationals for alleged espionage since 2015, according to Kyodo News.  Relations have long been strained over the disputed East China Sea islands, wartime history and Taiwan.  On Monday, Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno said China had informed the country of the arrest through diplomatic channels and requested a consular visit.  But he did not disclose any details about the man's identity or his alleged offence.  Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning said later in the day that the man was being held for espionage. "China will handle the case in accordance with law and will protect the rights of the person in accordance with law," she said. Ms Mao said Japan needed to do more to ask its citizens to refrain from engaging in such activities. Astellas Pharma confirmed that the man was its employee but refused to divulge his identity. In 2019, China detained a Japanese professor who specialises in modern Chinese history on suspicion of spying. He was released after two months.  China-Japan relations have shown no signs of improvement in recent years.   In February, the two countries held a security dialogue in Tokyo for the first time in four years. During which, Japan criticised China's ties with Russia and its alleged use of spy balloons while Beijing expressed concern over Japan's military build-up. Content is not available © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.