As more destinations re-opened and dropped Covid-related regulations like mandatory testing, the travel industry experienced big time in 2022. This week, Google released a list of the top 10 trending destinations on its online flight booking search service Google Flights. The list shows where American travelers want to go this year and beyond. London ranked the top trending destination this year, Google reports. A representative from Google explained to CNN that “‘trending’ queries are the searches that had a high spike in traffic over a sustained period in 2022 as compared to 2021.” The top destinations can be related to the process of reopening borders, which makes travel easier, according to CNN. For American travelers, European cities were four of the top 10 destinations searched for by US-based Google Flights users in 2022 — London, Paris, Rome and Lisbon, meaning that the continent had a special appeal for summer travel season this year. Due to its slower reopening (compared to European countries) the Asia-Pacific region is set to lose its position as the world’s largest travel region in 2022. However, Ho Chi Minh City placed high on Google Flights’ trending list. Vietnam reopened to tourism in early 2022, while other traditionally popular countries like Japan and China remained shut. Also, India’s two big cities, Mumbai and New Delhi, made the US Google Flights list. India reopened its borders in late 2021, and US passport holders can apply for travel visas online.   Canada dropped the last of its Covid-related travel restrictions on October 1. The decision to lift restrictions made US searches for Canada skyrocket. Vancouver landed in eighth place on the Google Flights trending list, while Toronto was fifth. Here’s the list of the top 10 trending Google Flights destinations searched for in the US for 2022.  London, UK  Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam  Paris, France  New Delhi, India  Toronto, Canada  Rome, Italy  Mumbai, India  Vancouver, Canada  Lisbon, Portugal  New York, NY New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.