
	If you purchase something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission.
		 Listening, watching or trekking to Arrowhead, here are the details for the Chiefs primetime home game on Thursday Night Listening, watching or trekking to Arrowhead, here are the details for the Chiefs primetime home game on Thursday Night The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Listening, watching or trekking to Arrowhead, here are the details for the Chiefs primetime home game on Thursday Night The Kansas City Chiefs are hosting the Detroit Lions this Thursday night at Arrowhead Stadium for not only their home, but the kickoff game to the entire 2023 NFL season. The game will kick off at 7:20 p.m. central time. The Sept. 7 match is the team's first home at GEHA Field. Here's everything you need to know if you plan on watching or attending the game.  Get tickets to Kansas City Chiefs game by clicking here: Ticketmaster | StubHub | SeatGeek | Vivid Seats | Ticket City During pregame, the Kansas City Chiefs will celebrate the franchise’s third Super Bowl title with a short on-field ceremony that concludes with the unveiling of a new championship banner inside the stadium. “ Voice of the Chiefs” Mitch Holthus will lead the ceremony, which will feature Chiefs Chairman and CEO Clark Hunt.  Pregame entertainment will also include a performance from the Kansas City Boys Choir and Kansas City Girls Choir singing ‘Lift Every Voice.’ For more information on the choirs visit www.kcbcgc.org.  Nine-time Grammy nominee and five-time Gospel Music Association Female Vocalist of the year Natalie Grant will sing the national anthem while the Jackson County Sheriff’s Office Honor Guard will present the colors.  The flyover will be conducted by the 110th and 393rd Bomb Squadron’s B-2 Stealth Bombers out of Whiteman Air Force Base. The Chiefs introduced the GEHA Deck in 2019 as the home for two gameday traditions – the Drum Honoree and the Tony DiPardo Spirit Leader. Chad Henne, former Chiefs quarterback, will serve as this week’s Drum Honoree. The Tony DiPardo Spirit Leader will be Sanay Cherry-Owens, the Boys & Girls Clubs of America’s Missouri Youth of the Year. Parking lots for Thursday’s game open at 3 p.m. Passes are mobile only and must be purchased in advance. Fans should access all tickets and passes through www.mychiefsaccount.com or the Chiefs Mobile app prior to arrival. Tickets and parking passes are mobile only and fans are encouraged to save to their mobile wallet for easy access. Heavy delays are expected due to rush hour traffic on Interstates 435 and 70, as well as streets around the Truman Sports Complex due to the start time of Thursday’s game.  Fans are asked to plan in advance and arrive several hours prior to kickoff to avoid rush hour and minimize delays.  Guests using rideshare services may drop-off and pick-up at the Missouri Welcome Center located between Gates 1 and 2 on Blue Ridge Cutoff.  Fans can find additional information by visiting www.chiefs.com/map. Fans who are unable to attend Thursday's game can tune in to WDAF-FM (106.5 The Wolf), the Home of the Chiefs Radio Network, as "Voice of the Chiefs" Mitch Holthus, former Chiefs WR Danan Hughes and sideline reporter Josh Klingler call the action.  Tico Sports will produce a Spanish-language broadcast available on the Audacy app (“Chiefs en Espanol”) within the Kansas City market and on KSSA La Ke Buena (105.9 FM) in Garden City, Kansas as well as KSMM 1770 AM in Liberal, Kansas   Both radio broadcasts are also available to stream on the Chiefs Mobile app within a 50-mile radius of the Kansas City metro area. Thursday evening's national game will be broadcast on NBC. Mike Tirico, analyst Cris Collinsworth and sideline reporter Melissa Stark will deliver the call. All GEHA Field at Arrowhead Stadium gates will open at 5:00 p.m. for the 7:20 p.m. kickoff. Gates for guests with tickets on the CommunityAmerica Club Level will open at 4:30 p.m.  To welcome all fans back to football the Chiefs will host World’s Largest Tailgate presented by Bud Light, a virtual tailgate and concert experience hosted live from the Ford Tailgate District and streamed to mobile devices, living rooms, restaurants, bars and fan clubs in Chiefs Kingdom and around the globe. Details. The Ford Tailgate District, located in Lot M on the north side of the stadium closest to Lancer Lane, will open at 3:30 p.m. Regular programming will run from 3:30 until 4:30 p.m. and will resume after the World’s Largest Tailgate presented by Bud Light through kickoff with regular activations available throughout the day. For each home game, the club selects a Season Ticket Member to honor with this special recognition.  This week’s Lamar Hunt Legacy Seat honoree is Kelly Kennedy, a long-time elementary school teacher and high school swim coach from Haysville, Kansas. Kennedy is the co-founder of Swim to a Wish, a community fundraiser for Make-A-Wish of Missouri and Kansas. This week’s 50/50 Raffle beneficiary are the Ronald McDonald House Charities of Kansas City. Raffle tickets are priced at 10 for $10, 60 for $20 and 200 tickets for $40.  Fans who are not at GEHA Field at Arrowhead Stadium on Thursday can also participate in the Hunt Family Foundation 50/50 Raffle by visiting this website.   All concession stands and retail points of sale are completely cashless.   In addition to traditional scan and chip reader options for credit/debit cards, all fixed points of sale offer Chiefs Pay, Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.  In-stadium hawkers and vendors are credit card only. The NFL's clear bag policy is in place for all events at GEHA Field at Arrowhead Stadium. Fans can visit the Chiefs' website for important information on the clear bag policy and a complete list of permitted and prohibited items.  If guests have questions or need assistance, including with accessible services, they can contact Fan Experience at (816) 920-4237 or by email at fanexperience@chiefs.com. Beginning at 1:30 p.m. on event day, guests can also text (816) 920-4237 with location and issue. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.