Jun. 14—With goals to highlight the growth of and bring people to downtown Logansport, Tri Kappa sorority is hosting "Kappa on the Town" from 6-9 p.m. Friday. The event is similar to a social media scavenger hunt. Gamers will download the Goosechase app on their phones and use the code on their ticket to play. Tickets are $15 per person and can be purchased in advance at Fisher Funeral Chapel or at Black Dog Coffee at 5:30 p.m. Friday. Players can try to do it alone or form a team of up to six people to make the most efficient use of the three-hour contest. It's not a race, but rather a point-based system where the score is kept by the app. Contestants must complete tasks like posting videos or photos to prove they visited a location or answer riddles about businesses. Several downtown businesses and restaurants will be offering specials throughout the event. A limited number of tickets will be sold and the first 75 players will receive goodie bags full of coupons and items from local businesses. The grand prize features a gift basket worth several hundred dollars in donated prizes and gift cards. There will also be prizes for team spirit and the most original post. A second-place drawing for a $100 cash prize will be held with all participants eligible. Proceeds benefit the Tri Kappa Scholarship Fund. Contact Sarah at 765-409-9063 for more information. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.