IPD and Biovac will each receive a $5m grant to acquire the technology to develop locally relevant vaccines. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is providing $40m in funding to advance the accessibility of Quantoom Biosciences’ affordable mRNA vaccine research and manufacturing platform. The platform was developed with an early-research Grand Challenges grant awarded to its parent company, Univercells. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 The new investments will advance access to mRNA research and vaccine manufacturing technology that will support the capacity of low and middle-income countries (LMICs) to develop vaccines at scale. Senegal’s Institut Pasteur de Dakar and South Africa’s Biovac, both experienced in vaccine manufacturing, will each receive a $5m grant to acquire the technology to develop locally relevant vaccines. Quantoom Biosciences will receive $20m to further advance the technology and reduce commercialisation costs. The foundation will grant a further $10m to other LMIC vaccine manufacturers. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     The new funding builds on its earlier $55m investment in mRNA manufacturing technology. Biovac CEO Morena Makhoana stated: “This collaboration will help close critical gaps in access to promising mRNA vaccines against diseases that disproportionately affect the world’s poorest. “It will also assist us in our mission to establish end-to-end vaccine manufacturing capability at scale in Africa for global supply.” Leveraging Univercells’ original vaccine manufacturing technology, IPD intends to begin manufacturing essential measles and rubella vaccines. IPD CEO Dr Amadou Sall stated: “Expanding our capacity to discover and manufacture affordable mRNA vaccines in Africa is an important and necessary step towards vaccine self-reliance in the region.” Cell & Gene Therapy coverage on Pharmaceutical Technology is supported by Cytiva. Editorial content is independently produced and follows the highest standards of journalistic integrity. Topic sponsors are not involved in the creation of editorial content. You will receive an email shortly. Please check your inbox to download the Whitepaper. By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData may share your information with Cytiva Thematic and that your personal data will be used as described in their Privacy Policy Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus : Pharmaceutical Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024