In a report released today, Alexander Nowak from Craig-Hallum maintained a Buy rating on Bio-Techne (TECH – Research Report). The company’s shares closed yesterday at $66.31. According to TipRanks, Nowak is an analyst with an average return of -10.5% and a 29.71% success rate. Nowak covers the Healthcare sector, focusing on stocks such as CareDx, Celcuity, and REPRO-MED Systems. Bio-Techne has an analyst consensus of Strong Buy, with a price target consensus of $100.00. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> The company has a one-year high of $90.36  and a one-year low of $65.77. Currently, Bio-Techne has an average volume of 835.6K.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 22 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is positive on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders buying their shares of TECH in relation to earlier this year. Most recently, in August 2023, Kelderman Kim, the Pres. Diagnostics & Genom of TECH bought 2,100.00 shares for a total of $99,960.00. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Bio-Techne (TECH) Company Description: Bio-Techne Corp. engages in the development, manufacture and sale of biotechnology reagents and instruments for the research and clinical diagnostic markets. It operates through the following segments: Biotechnology, Protein Platforms, Diagnostics, and Corporate. The Biotechnology segment supplies specialized proteins, such as cytokines and growth factors, immunoassays, antibodies and related reagents, as well as in situ hybridization, media and other cell culture products and reagents to the biotechnology research community. The Protein Platforms segment develops, manufactures, and sells tools to simplify protein analysis. The Diagnostics segment includes blood chemistry and blood gas quality controls, hematology instrument controls, diagnostic immunoassays, and other bulk and custom reagents for the in vitro diagnostic market worldwide. The company was founded on 1976 and is headquartered in Minneapolis, MN.
		   Read More on TECH: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks