AI writing tools are becoming increasingly popular for businesses and individuals alike. Discover the 10 best AI writing tools for 2023. 
eWEEK content and product recommendations are editorially independent. We may make money when you click on links to our partners. Learn More.
 Artificial intelligence writing tools allow users to generate volumes of high-quality content in a fraction of the time it would take to write manually. To accomplish this, AI writing tools use a combination of AI algorithms, natural language processing, and machine learning techniques, all of which work together to generate text that reads as if it was written by a human. We tested the top AI writing software to see how it compares on features, pricing, and relative strengths and weaknesses, and to see how well it meets a variety of common use cases. Here are our picks for the best AI writing tools in 2024: <style=”font-size: 0.5em; font-weight: 300; color: gray;”>SPONSORED Visit Grammarly The following chart shows at-a-glance how each of the AI writing tools compare on key features, pricing, and availability of a free version. TABLE OF CONTENTS  Best for Beating Writer’s Block Copy.ai is an artificial intelligence writing tool designed to help marketers, business owners, and copywriters create various forms of content, including website copy, sales landing pages, email, and social media and blog posts. A boon to content marketers, Copy.ai can automatically conduct SEO research and produce content briefs for writers, streamlining the production process and giving writers guidance. Another distinctive feature is the thought leadership tool, which automatically turns raw transcripts from interviews with experts into a variety of content assets, including blog posts, social media posts, and newsletters. This dramatically reduces the time it takes to manage content repurposing. The AI writing tool also lets you easily generate copy that aligns with your organization’s persona. Copy.ai’s in-platform AI chatbot acts as a writing assistant to help beat writer’s block by aiding with brainstorming. For example, I asked it to give me 10 Instagram post ideas for fashion week—it delivered 10 useable ideas I could use as the basis for my social posts. These features enable your team to create and distribute more high-quality content at a lower cost than before. For an in-depth guide to the best AI detection tools, read our guide: AI Detector Tools  Best for Copywriters Rytr is an AI-powered writing tool capable of producing copywriting content on various topics. It’s one of the best AI writing tools for commercial copywriting jobs, where copywriters can use it to automate the creation of post and caption ideas, paragraph content, SEO meta titles, emails, call to actions, replies, and other less complex copywriting assets. The platform also supports more than 40 other use cases, including generating blog ideas and creating job descriptions. In addition, paid users can create their own use cases by training Rytr for their specific needs. I tested Rytr out for copywriting and asked it to write me a call-to-action for “A knee pad that protects middle-aged gardeners from hurting themselves.” In response to my prompt, it provided the following two variants: When I changed the tone from “convincing” to “humorous,” it generated two more options that were not useable out-of-the-box but were still useful for ideation: Overall, Rytr its a useful AI writing tool for copywriters who want to streamline their writing process and come up with more ideas for a variety of content types. To see top AI software in several categories, see our guide: Best Artificial Intelligence Software  Best for Paraphrasing QuillBot is an AI-powered writing assistant that, unlike most AI writing tools, focuses on helping you paraphrase and summarize texts. This makes it great for content marketers who often have to write repetitive copy with slight variations across their different content assets or even within the same blog post. For example, instead of writing “automate your administrative accounting tasks” five times, they could use QuillBot to spin that into five different variations. It also functions as a citation generation tool, making it somewhat useful for academics—but it may not be the best tool for writing essays and research papers, as its output doesn’t consistently pass AI detection tools. One of QuillBot’s standout features is the ability to choose from nine modes of paraphrased output. You can select from natural, academic, simple, creative, shortened, expanded, and more. As an example, when I prompted it with “The shift to agriculture took thousands of years” in academic mode, the output read, “The transition to an agrarian society spanned several millennia.” Overall, I found the tool helpful for the outwardly simple but cognitively-taxing task of coming up with new ways to express your ideas in writing. See the very best of today’s generative AI tools: Top Generative AI Apps and Tools  Best for SEO Teams and Content Managers Frase.io is an AI writing tool designed to help you generate content, provide suggestions for better writing, and optimize articles for SEO. SEO teams and content managers use its templates and outline builder to automatically produce article structures that align with the intent of the searcher, and as a result, increase the chances that the article will rank highly in search engine results pages (SERPs). Frase’s keyword optimization feature will identify important keywords while you write, make suggestions about how frequently to use them, and track how often they are used in the copy. In addition to keyword tips, it also tells you the ideal number of headings, words, links, and images your articles should have to outrank the competition. Many of the SEO managers I’ve worked with have used Frase, and I’ve found it especially helpful for optimizing articles for SEO. Watching the SEO “topic score” go up as I make edits is motivating and lets me know I’m on the right track. Frase also offers a Pro Add-On that allows unlimited AI content for $35 per month, but does not offer a free plan. For a detailed look at a leading AI tool, see our guide: ChatGPT: Understanding the ChatGPT ChatBot  Best for Copywriting Performance Analysis Anyword is an AI writing tool that uses machine learning algorithms to generate content and analyze the performance of your copy across various channels. What distinguishes the tool is its Copy Intelligence functionality, which analyzes all of your previously published content to determine which messaging works best on your website, ads, socials, and email channels while clueing you into opportunities to improve your copy. Its Target Audience feature lets copywriters and marketers define their ideal readers down to their key problems and desires. The AI writing tool will then take this into account when creating and analyzing content. I found Anyword’s templates extremely helpful for prompting the AI writer to create content that fit my needs. In addition, its self-guided wizards walked me through the information I needed to provide the tool for it to write a blog post or ad campaign for my needs.  Best for Grammatical and Punctuation Error Detection Grammarly is a popular AI writing app that helps you improve your writing by checking for grammatical and spelling mistakes and offering suggestions for enhancing clarity, tone, conciseness, and style. It can be used in a wide range of contexts, including writing emails, reports, essays, or social media posts. Grammarly can be used as a browser extension, a desktop application, or a mobile app. It’s free to use with limited features, or is available with additional functionalities as a premium subscription. I’ve found Grammarly’s free version to be extremely useful as an AI editing tool. When I use it to run a final grammar and spelling check on a finished article, it inevitably catches mistakes and offers solutions to fix them. I also use it when writing emails to get the tone right. For example, when emailing a new client, I like to make sure the tone is confident and upbeat—Grammarly’s tone detector helps me achieve that goal.  Best for Content Readability Measurement Named after a writer known for his concise and simple prose, Hemingway Editor is a writing tool that helps you enhance the clarity, grammar, and readability of your written work. It analyzes text and provides various readability suggestions while highlighting lengthy, complex sentences, excessive adverbs, passive voice, and hard-to-read phrases. It also assigns a readability score based on the grade level required to understand the text. If the score is too high, content writers can tweak the highlighted sentences to lower the grade level. It is available both as a web-based application and as a desktop app. I’ve used Hemingway in various capacities and I find that it does its main job of measuring content readability extremely well. Its passive voice detector is my favorite part of the tool. That said, one of the risks of using an AI editing tool like Hemingway is that, if you follow its suggestions without thinking, you may edit all the rhythm, flow, and personality out of your writing, leaving you with text that’s plain, lifeless, and stilted and suited for a grade level well below your target. Overall, though, I’ve found it a useful tool for making sure blog content is clear and easy to understand while streamlining the editing process. The platform is free to use. To see a comparison between two leading AI tools, read our guide: ChatGPT vs. Google Bard  Best for Blog Content Writing Writesonic uses artificial intelligence technology, specifically natural language processing (NLP), to provide content generation services. It’s one of the best AI writing tools for creating full blog posts. Writesonic’s AI can generate text based on prompts and user input. In the case of creating a blog post, the wizard will ask you to input information such as article length, keywords, number of headings, topic, and references. Once you’ve approved of the outline, it’ll generate a blog post following these instructions as well as SEO optimization best practices. While it can be a helpful resource for automated content creation, the quality of generated content may vary, and human editing is often required to ensure accuracy and coherence.  Best for High-Output Bloggers AI Writer is designed to generate full-length articles in minutes, making it great for high-output bloggers, affiliate marketers, and other people who need articles fast. The platform lets you tailor the AI’s writing to your specific needs by selecting from a long list of recommended keywords for your topic or by manually inputting your chosen keywords. It also suggests sub-topics for your article and helps you structure your content with headings. The tool even cites its sources, displaying journalistic responsibility. Significantly, it helps you choose topics about which to write. While exploring the platform, I found its topic generator helpful for coming up with article topics using a seed keyword—after prompting with “cold calling,” for example, I received a long list of article keywords and their associated traffic. I then selected Research and Write, a one-click article feature for Cold Calling Leads, and within minutes, I had a basis for a new 600-word article on the topic. Compared to other AI writing tools, AI Writer’s blog content creation was incredibly quick. However, a note on quality—although AI Writer’s articles are typically well-written, SEO-friendly, and factually correct, they could benefit from a writer’s touch. When I took another pass to add personality, anecdotes, actionable insights, and personal experiences to the copy, it became more appealing to readers and search engines.  Best for Creating Long-Form Articles Those looking for an AI writing tool to automatically create long-form articles (over 2,000 words) may find ContentatScale features suitable. After plugging in your topic and further context, it will automatically generate body text, headers, subheaders, a title, bulleted lists, a call to action, and other content elements necessary for effective long-form SEO articles. Not only will it write the blog post—it will also help you come up with ideas, outlines, and relevant keywords in a fraction of the time it would take you to do it manually. The platform claims to pass AI detection tests, indicating that its generated content mimics human writing and is not easily distinguishable from human-written content. ContentatScale also offers an AI detector solution that ranks as one of best reviewed AI detector tools. Overall, it can be helpful for streamlining the long-form content writing process. Choosing the best AI writing tool for your business depends on your AI writing needs and your budget. Our “best-for” use cases are a good starting point to help you decide. In addition, here’s a little more information to help you narrow down your choice: Other factors to consider when choosing the best AI writing tools for your business include features, content quality, user interface, and customization options. Keep in mind that it doesn’t have to be an either-or choice—these tools can be used together for better quality content. For example, you can use QuillBot to paraphrase Anyword’s AI-generated text, Grammarly to correct spelling and punctuation errors, and the Hemmingway App to improve readability. We weighed the best tools across five categories. Each category has subcategories that helped us evaluate and compare the AI writing tools. We assessed the writing capabilities of each tool, including its grammar and spelling correction, sentence rephrasing, and content generation capabilities. We looked for tools that provided accurate and high-quality writing suggestions. We evaluated the accuracy and coherence of the generated content produced by each AI writing tool. Tools that could generate clear, well-structured, and error-free content received higher scores. We examined the different pricing plans offered by each AI writing tool. This included evaluating the cost of the tool on a monthly or annual basis, as well as any additional fees or hidden costs. We compared each tool’s cost to its value, looking for tools that offer a high level of functionality for a reasonable price. We assessed the availability and responsiveness of customer support channels, such as email, live chat, or phone support. Prompt and helpful customer support is essential for users who may encounter issues or need assistance with the tool. We also considered the availability of resources and documentation, such as user guides, tutorials, or knowledge bases. We looked for tools that have an intuitive and user-friendly interface, allowing users to navigate and utilize the tool’s features easily. There are plenty of free AI writing tools for content creation, editing, and paraphrasing, including some of those reviewed in this guide. While many of the AI writing tools’ advanced features are restricted to paid users, some writers will find the feature sets in the free plans sufficient for their needs. Companies can benefit from AI writing tools by using them to streamline the content creation and editing process across various marketing channels, from social media to SEO blog content. These tools can automatically generate content, help with brainstorming, and suggest edits to improve your copy. Overall, AI writing tools help businesses improve efficiency and increase content marketing output and quality. The output of AI writing tools will not have the compelling quality of writing created by human writers. After all, AI writing tools are merely generating text—they’re not thinking, considering personal anecdotes, or making unique connections between ideas. Ultimately, the output of AI writing tools need a human touch to create quality writing. This guide highlights our recommendations for the best AI writing tools to help with your writing needs, but they may not fit every use case perfectly. AI is a tool that can help with idea and content generation and quality improvement, but the best results still require a skilled human touch. When used properly, these tools can boost efficiency and are likely to continue driving changes in any market sector that relies on written content. Read next: for more assistance with your projects, read our analysis of the best AI chatbots and the top conversational AI tools. 
                    Subscribe to Daily Tech Insider for top news, trends & analysis                 
                    Subscribe to Daily Tech Insider for top news, trends & analysis                 eWeek has the latest technology news and analysis, buying guides, and product reviews for IT professionals and technology buyers. The site’s focus is on innovative solutions and covering in-depth technical content. eWeek stays on the cutting edge of technology news and IT trends through interviews and expert analysis. Gain insight from top innovators and thought leaders in the fields of IT, business, enterprise software, startups, and more. Advertise with TechnologyAdvice on eWeek and our other IT-focused platforms. Property of TechnologyAdvice.
© 2024 TechnologyAdvice. All Rights Reserved
Advertiser Disclosure: Some of the products that appear on this site are from companies from which TechnologyAdvice receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site including, for example, the order in which they appear. TechnologyAdvice does not include all companies or all types of products available in the marketplace.