When Tony Dong first started freelancing in 2021, he thought the side hustle might earn him enough to pay for an extra vacation. "At the beginning, I set low expectations," the Vancouver-based financial writer told Insider. He quickly exceeded his expectations, and realized he not only could go on an extra vacation, but he could make a real living out of writing.  Dong quit his day job in March 2022 and proceeded to make 149,000 Canadian dollars that year from freelancing alone, according to documents viewed by Insider. (His earnings convert to about $115,000 using the Bank of Canada's average 2022 exchange rate for USD, which was 1.30). The 27-year-old is on track to earn even more in 2023. In January, he posted his biggest month yet, bringing in CA$23,000 ($16,950), he said. His "hourly earning potential," which he calculates by looking at his average rate per word across his eight clients (and assuming he can write 1,000 words per hour), is currently around $215. That's the amount he could make for every hour that he works. His hours fluctuate each month, he noted, depending on whether or not he's traveling. But assuming that fixed rate, with a 40-hour week and two weeks of vacation, he could earn more than $400,000 a year before factoring in expenses.  Dong shared four strategies that have helped him maximize his earning potential as a freelancer.  "I like to work with large clients who hire top notch writers and are willing to pay top dollar," said Dong, whose clients include USA Today, U.S. News & World Report, and The Motley Fool, which was his first big freelance client.  Without much writing background besides reports for school and posts on Reddit, he said, landing The Motley Fool required some creativity.  "I had no qualifications so I resorted to shock value. I sent a pretty funny cover letter, and the editors liked it. You've got to make yourself stand out somehow," said Dong. "They started me out very small with just two assignments a week, but pretty soon they were asking me to ramp up."  
                                Related stories
                               Now, he's established enough as a writer that he has the luxury of being picky and turning down offers that don't make sense for him. That said, when you're just starting out, don't say yes to every job, he advised: "By taking a lowball price right off the bat with the thought of, 'I want to get my foot in the door,' you're already setting yourself up for failure." He warns against looking for work on platforms like Fiverr and Upwork because you'll be "competing with people who are willing to accept rock bottom rates," he explained, adding: "I've seen rates as low as five cents a word."  Before accepting any job, Dong recommends breaking down your "hourly earning potential," he said, which means figuring out roughly how long the project will take you to complete. Then, take the rate offered by the client and divide it by the number of hours you expect to work to get an idea of your hourly rate. "Don't just look at the per piece rate," he said. "It might be 100 bucks, but they might want 2,000 words out of you. If that takes a couple hours of your time, you're making less than 20 bucks an hour." Instead of using Fiverr or Upwork, reach out to potential clients via email, LinkedIn, or other social platforms. That's what he did when he was first starting out, he said: "I cold-messaged about 20 different editors and publications, sent them samples, and did a lot of follow up calls. From there, my client base just exploded." If an editor doesn't reply right away, "follow up," he said. "Editors are busy people."  Whether you're new to freelancing or have been doing it for a while, share your content across social media platforms. You never know who might stumble upon it. Dong posts everything he writes on LinkedIn, where he's built a following of over 28,000 people.  "Anytime I post an article, it gets a couple thousand views. I'm betting that of those thousand views, a few might be editors," he said. "There's probably a better writer out there, but I'm the most prominent one. That's my advantage." Dong uses specific tools, including ChatGPT, Grammarly, and Dragon Professional, to work more efficiently.  The AI chatbot ChatGPT helps him come up with titles and write content outlines, which he'll often send to editors when he's pitching article ideas. "It can't write articles," he stressed but, "it's great at synthesizing data," as long as you give it very specific prompts.  He uses Grammarly, an online writing assistant, to help with tone and sentence structure. It's helped him write more concisely and in an active (rather than passive) voice, "which resonates well with readers," he said. He compares it to having your own speech writer that can correct your tone and suggest better-flowing sentence structures.  Finally, he pays for Dragon Professional, a speech-recognition software that saves him time. Instead of typing out his articles, he can speak into a microphone and the program transcribes his words into a document. "When you get a set rate, it's important to work fast but also accurately," said Dong. After all, the slower your work, the more your hourly earning potential drops. To work quickly and accurately, "accept assignments that are within your limits." If you take on projects that are outside the scope of your knowledge, it'll be a lose-lose situation. For example, Dong recently turned down a couple of requests for articles about investing in robotics and AI, which isn't his speciality, he said: "I knew from a glance that it would take me an inordinate amount of time. And, I would be doing them a disservice because there are better writers suited for that. So I told them, 'Thank you for thinking of me. This isn't my area of expertise.'" Don't be afraid to walk away from an existing client if it's not working out, he added. For example, with a previous client, he felt like there was too much back-and-forth between him and the editor to make the job worth his time: "​​I'd write something and there would be three hours of back-and-forth for 250 words." It was time-consuming, plus he felt like the end product wasn't written in his voice, so he politely parted ways with the client.  Dong likes uninterrupted writing time, so he turns off notifications and doesn't check email while working.  Plus, he does other seemingly simple things like prioritizing sleep, eating well, and exercising consistently to get the most out of his work hours. Rather than setting an alarm clock, "I'll wake up naturally," he said. "I wake up when my last REM cycle ends. It could be anywhere from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m." After checking emails and reading through the financial news, he'll head to the gym around 10 a.m., eat lunch, and write between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m.  While that's a typical day, "I don't have set hours," he said, which is a perk of working for yourself instead of someone else. "I don't have to worry about being at my computer all the time. Between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., my time was effectively someone else's. Now, if I want to go work out at 11 a.m., I can. If I want to go to the mall at 2 p.m. when it's empty and do some shopping, I can." 
                                Read next
                               Jump to