 Log In St. Louis-based electrical, communications and data networking products distributor Graybar on July 17 announced it has completed the acquisition of Shepherd Electric Supply. Based in Baltimore, the electrical distributor serves construction, commercial, industrial and government customers. and operates five locations in Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. The company ranked 34th on Electrical Wholesaling magazine’s 2023 Top 150 Electrical Distributors List with a 2022 revenue of $429 million.  “With its longstanding presence and strength in the Washington-Baltimore metropolitan area, we believe this acquisition provides a solid foundation for accelerating our growth,” said Graybar Chairman, President and CEO Kathleen Mazzarella. As a subsidiary of Graybar, the company will continue to operate under the Shepherd Electric Supply name with the same leadership team, employees, and suppliers. This is the second big deal Graybar — ranked as the No. 3 Electrical Distributor and No. 20 Industrial Distributor on MDM’s 2023 Top Distributors List with a 2022 revenue of $10.5 billion — announced this year. In April, Gray announced it has entered into an agreement to acquire Valin Corp., a distributor of automation, filtration, fluid handling, heating and process control products and systems. In June, Graybar also appointed a head of acquisitions and financial planning. Beaumont, Texas-based Coburn Supply is a distributor of HVAC, electrical and plumbing products. Electric Supply now has seven locations and is growing organically as well as through acquisition,… West Florida Supply is a distributor to retailers, education systems, food processors and municipalities, City… You must be logged in to post a comment. Read the latest articles and see your reports. The MDM update newsletter is your best source for news and trends in the wholesale distribution industry. Wholesale distribution news and trends delivered right to your inbox. Sign-up for our free newsletter and get: 2 articles left Subscribe today and get: Log in MDM Premium Subscribers get: Log in 1 article left Subscribe to MDM Premium to get unlimited access. Your subscription includes: Log in Join other distribution executives who use MDM Premium to optimize their business. Our insights and analysis help you enter the right new markets, turbocharge your sales and marketing efforts, identify business partners that help you scale, and stay ahead of your competitors. Log in Back to MDM.com By providing your email, you agree to receive announcements from us and our partners for our newsletter, events, surveys, and partner resources per MDM Terms & Conditions. You can withdraw consent at any time. Δ Δ