 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Our winner is the Costway Freestanding Electric Fireplace In This Article Henry Wortock  There’s nothing cozier than curling up in front of the fireplace on a chilly winter day. Even if you don’t have a chimney in your living room or bedroom (we are still drooling over Ashley Benson's gold-plated fireplace), you can get the same ambiance — plus extra heat — with an electric fireplace. These gadgets offer supplemental warmth on cold days and recreate the warm glow of a real fire, and there’s no need to worry about rogue sparks or chopped wood. 
  There is a wide range of electric fireplaces available today, including models that resemble wood stoves and traditional built-in fireplaces, complete with mantles. Besides appearance, you should think about safety. As you compare products, you’ll also want to consider how much heat the fireplace generates, as well as its heating mechanism and wattage. 
  To help you find the best electric fireplace for your home, we tested more than 20 of today’s top models in our lab, and we took our favorites home to test them in our living rooms over two months.
  Here are the best electric fireplaces that PEOPLE tested.
 This was one of the more affordable options on our list. It has a lightweight design. It had realistic flames with nice movement and color. It has an impressive heat output. This is not ideal for large rooms. There is no noticeable change between heat settings.  The Costway 20-inch Freestanding Electric Fireplace has an attractive design and impressive heating abilities (especially given its compact size), and it’s one of the most affordable fireplaces we tested. Its freestanding design weighs just 17.5 pounds, making it easy to move around your home as needed, and the fireplace is certified by the CSA Group for safety and will automatically shut down if it ever overheats.
  In our testing, we found that you can feel this fireplace's warmth radiating from up to 4.5 feet away, and it was able to raise the temperature of objects around it by more than 10 degrees in around 15 minutes — impressive for a small heater! We were also impressed by the appearance of its faux flames, which have a pleasant orange color and realistic movement. Even after 2 months of home testing, we still found ourselves cuddling by this electric fireplace, never experiencing a decline in performance or warmth.
  This fireplace has a temperature control knob that allows you to select four settings between 68 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit, but we didn’t notice a huge difference between the various heat levels. In terms of other benefits, the product has a three-sided panoramic design and a cool-touch exterior, meaning you can safely display pieces of decor on top of it.
  Dimensions: 23 x 11 x 20 inches | Weight: 17.5 pounds | Wattage: 1,400 | Type: Freestanding | Heat Output: 4,777 BTU | Room Size: 700 square feet
 People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock It has an easy setup with no assembly required. It is compact and lightweight if you want to move it to different rooms. It allows you to control the heat and the flames separately. It gives off a nice glow, but the flames look unrealistic. It doesn’t push the heat very far.  If you don’t want to spend too much money, the TURBRO Suburbs TS17 Electric Fireplace is a compact option that’s extremely budget-friendly. Its freestanding design weighs just 13 pounds, and it’s small enough to tuck in the corner of any room — we compared its size to that of a small space heater. After a few months of testing, a space heater is exactly something we'd liken it to, due to its small stature yet warm heat output. The fireplace arrives fully assembled, making it quick and easy to set up, and it’s safety-certified by the CSA Group.
  Because it’s so small, this little heater isn’t the most powerful option out there. In testing, we found that it only pushes heat out 32 inches in front of the unit, so you have to be quite close to it to enjoy the warmth. The fireplace has four temperature settings that you can control via a dial on the side of the unit, and you can operate the flames and heat separately if desired. While it functions well to heat up small spaces, the TURBRO Suburbs TS17 didn’t score well in terms of its appearance. The fireplace does give off a cozy orange glow, but the flames don’t look real at all.
  Dimensions: 18 x 15 x 9 inches | Weight: 13 pounds | Wattage: 1,400 | Type: Freestanding | Heat Output: 4,777 BTU | Room Size: 400 square feet
 People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock It has an attractive and durable construction. It had a wide range of settings, allowing you to adjust temperature, flame, brightness, and color. This fireplace heats a large area. It comes with a remote control. This fireplace only has one blower speed.  If you’re looking for an attractive fireplace that will be the focal point of your living space, this model is worth the splurge. The Real Flame Silverton Electric Fireplace earned a near-perfect score in our testing thanks to its high-quality construction, a wide range of settings, and above-average heating abilities. It has a mantel-style design that gives it the appearance of a built-in fireplace, and we think it’s a beautiful piece of decor for any living space. 
  This CSA-certified fireplace doesn’t just look good, either. Using its remote or control panel, you’re able to adjust the temperature, flame height, brightness, and color, as well as set an automatic shut-off timer. After testing it in our homes, we can affirm that this feature really does work well, shutting off at exactly the allotted time that we've set it for. During testing, we could feel the fireplace’s warmth from more than 11 feet away — the farthest of all the products we tested — making it a top choice for larger rooms. Our only real complaint with this beautiful fireplace is that it doesn't have multiple blower speeds, a feature offered on other high-end models. 
  Dimensions: 41 x 48 x 8.75 inches | Weight: 101 pounds | Wattage: 1,500 | Type: Freestanding | Heat Output: 4,780 BTU | Room Size: 1,000 square feet
 People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock It has a sleek and contemporary design. It has realistic flames and embers. It has an easy setup with no assembly needed. We appreciated the quiet operation of the fireplace. It only had two heat settings — low and high. Our unit arrived with a broken lightbulb.  For a more contemporary design, we recommend the Cambridge Freestanding Electric Fireplace, which has a sleek rounded shape and earned top marks in testing for its attractive appearance. It comes ready to use right out of the box — no assembly needed — and it offers low and high heat settings, as well as a built-in timer, which you can adjust on the hidden control panel or via remote control.
  The CSA-certified design is best suited for small rooms, as you can only feel its heat within a 4-foot radius. However, it does heat up quickly, and it’s quieter than many other models while it’s running. We thought the flames and ember bed inside this fireplace looked quite realistic, and while the unit we tested arrived with a broken lightbulb, we still think it’s a great value for an attractive electric fireplace. 
  Dimensions: 28.9 x 19.7 x 12.6 inches | Weight: 34 pounds | Wattage: 1,500 | Type: Freestanding | Heat Output: 5,115 BTU | Room Size: 210 square feet
 People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock This fireplace heats a large area. It has an easy setup with limited assembly required. It had five heat settings, with a noticeable heat difference between the levels. There is no flame-only setting. It is not the most attractive design.  The Pleasant Hearth Sheridan Electric Fireplace delivers the most bang for your buck when it comes to sheer heating power. This moderately-priced option delivers an impressive 5,200 BTU, which the brand recommends for spaces up to 1,000 square feet, and our testing confirmed that it does a great job pushing heat out into the room. This CSA-certified fireplace has a mantel design that’s available in four finishes, and it even has optional caster wheels that allow you to move it around easily. 
  This fireplace offers five heat settings, and our testers said there was a noticeable difference in the amount of warmth produced on the different levels. They were also able to feel the heat from up to 8 feet away, making this fireplace an efficient option to heat a whole room. However, keep in mind that this unit doesn’t have a flame-only setting, so it can’t be used solely for ambiance. We never noticed a decline in heat production, even after months of testing, but we do think we'd be wary of letting little ones get close to the heating element. Additionally, its flames and logs aren’t the most realistic — they definitely look better from far away than up close.
  Dimensions: 31.75 x 12.76 x 27.25 inches | Weight: 55 pounds | Wattage: 1,350 | Type: Freestanding | Heat Output: 5,200 BTU | Room Size: 1,000 square feet
 People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock This had the most realistic flames of all the products we tested. It was quiet during operation. It had an impressive heat output. It was a complicated installation. There is no remote available.  The Real Flame Foster Freestanding Electric Fireplace has an attractive wood stove-inspired design, complete with a faux stove pipe that connects to the wall for an authentic appearance. This CSA-certified design has a powder-coated steel frame and glass windows on all three sides for multi-angle viewing. In fact, we thought that it had the most realistic flames we'd ever seen on an electric fireplace. After two months of testing, we still found ourselves happy with this antique-looking fireplace and liked toying around with the features and adjustable visuals that this heater has to offer.
  This freestanding fireplace has four heat settings that range between 68 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit, and we found that there was a noticeable difference in heat output between settings. The warmth can be felt around 4.5 feet in front of the unit, and the controls are very simple and easy to use (though there’s no remote control). Our biggest struggle with this fireplace, however, was assembly and installation. It required two people to put together the stove pipe, and the screws provided didn’t seem to be quite large enough to provide a stable connection.
  Dimensions: 56.5 x 25 x 15 inches | Weight: 42 pounds | Wattage: 1,400 | Type: Freestanding | Heat Output: 4,700 BTU | Room Size: 1,000 square feet
 People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock It has a functional and attractive design. It supports TVs up to 65 inches and 150 pounds. It has handy cord management ports. We were able to feel the heat from more than 7 feet away. It is a heavy piece of furniture to move. It was a complicated and time-consuming assembly. It features only one heat setting.  For a fireplace that’s easy to integrate into your living space, we recommend the Walker Edison Glenwood Highboy Fireplace TV Stand. This piece can support a TV up to 65 inches and 150 pounds, and it features two enclosed cabinets and two open shelves with cable management ports where you can store entertainment devices. The electric fireplace is located between the two cabinets, and according to the brand, it kicks out up to 4,600 BTU of warmth. 
  This fireplace was one of the most cumbersome options in terms of assembly: It took two hours to put it together, even with two people working on it, as it has a lot of cam bolt and dowel connections. The final piece is quite sturdy — and CSA-certified for safety — but unlike many other options we tested, it only features one heat setting. Despite this, we were able to feel the fireplace’s warmth from more than seven feet away from the stand, and overall, our testers thought it was a very solid and attractive piece of furniture to add to your home. After two months of using this fireplace multiple times a week for hours, we have nearly no complaints about this stand-meets-fireplace combo. It adds style, storage, and warmth to our home — what more could you want?
  Dimensions: 32 x 15.75 x 58 inches | Weight: 120 pounds | Wattage: Not listed | Type: Removable insert | Heat Output: 4,600 BTU | Room Size: 400 square feet
 People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock People / Henry Wortock It was easy to set up with minimal assembly required. It has a cool-touch top, allowing you to display decor on time. It has a built-in timer. It doesn’t push heat very far. The rustic design isn’t for everyone.  If you like its rustic appearance, the Festivo Freestanding Electric Fireplace is our top pick for a mantel-style design that looks like a true built-in fireplace. We loved that it arrived almost fully assembled — all you have to do is unbox it and install the anchor bracket, and it’s ready to use. The CSA-certified design offers a variety of settings, including temperatures between 62 and 82 degrees Fahrenheit, adjustable flame brightness, and a built-in timer, and all its features worked perfectly during our testing. 
  While we like the aesthetic of this mantel fireplace, it’s not the most powerful when it comes to warming up your home. We were only able to feel its heat when we were within three feet of the fireplace, and it increased the temperature by just a degree or two after 15 minutes. It’s likely sufficient for a smaller room, but it won’t be enough for supplemental heat in larger spaces. The good news, however, is that the cool-touch top allows you to display decor on top of the mantel, giving it the appearance of a true fireplace. 
  Dimensions: 34 x 36 x 11.5 inches | Weight: 72.6 pounds | Wattage: 1,000 | Type: Freestanding | Heat Output: 3,400 BTU | Room Size: 1,000 square feet
  There are a few different styles of electric fireplaces that you’ll likely encounter as you shop, and it’s important to understand the difference between them to select the best option for your needs.
  Because electric fireplaces are designed to heat your home, it’s important that they have been properly designed and certified as safe to operate indoors. Otherwise, they could become dangerous to your family and home. 
  “You want to make sure that it’s [safety] rated, so at least you’re starting with a baseline safe product,” says Larry Campbell, master electrician — he recommends looking for a UL, ETL, or CSA testing badge on the product. These certification programs test all types of products, such as ovens and washers and dryers, to ensure they meet North American safety standards, and certified products generally have important safety features like overheating and tip-over protection.
  If you want your electric fireplace to be a source of supplemental heat, you’ll want to look at its heat output, which is measured in BTU or British Thermal Units. In general, 3,000 to 6,000 BTUs are needed to heat up 100 square feet, but factors like your local climate, your home’s insulation, and other heat sources will affect how many BTUs you need. If you live somewhere cold, you’ll likely want a fireplace with a higher BTU rating, such as the Pleasant Hearth Sheridan Infrared Electric Fireplace.
  Most electric fireplaces use between 700 and 1,500 watts of power during operation. Campbell explains that standard 120-volt electrical outlets can only handle around 1,500 watts, which is sufficient to handle average household appliances like a good microwave. If your fireplace has higher wattage, you may need an electrician to install a new circuit — otherwise, you may find it trips your circuit breaker during use. 
 Henry Wortock  There are a wide range of electric fireplaces available today, and we chose 23 popular models to put to the test in our lab.
  After running these tests on all the electric fireplaces, we rated each product on its setup, performance, design, safety features, and overall value. The average score for all fireplaces we tested was 3.7, but the Costway Freestanding Electric Fireplace ended up with a perfect score, securing its place as our top overall pick. The Real Flame White Silverton Electric Fireplace scored just behind it with a 4.9 out of 5 stars, earning it the title of Best Investment.
 Henry Wortock Similar to space heaters, most electric fireplaces use around 1,500 watts of power on their highest settings. The average price per kWh in the US is $0.16, which means it will cost around $0.24 to run an electric fireplace on high for one hour. If you keep the fireplace on for 12 hours a day, it would cost $2.88 at this rate. It’s not advisable to leave an electric fireplace on overnight. While these devices are considered to be safe for home use, there’s always a small risk that they could start a fire, which is why most brands only recommend using their products with proper supervision. You can safely mount a TV over your electric fireplace as long as the fireplace does not blow heat directly upward. There are even some electric fireplaces that are built into TV stands, allowing you to rest a TV right on top of the surface. Always read the user manual for your specific electric fireplace and take note of any warnings around heat output and object placement. Also, when hanging holiday decorations, it's good to follow general holiday fire-safety tips to avoid hazardous situations. Electric fireplaces actually have long lifespans, often lasting for between 10 and 20 years. You’ll probably need to replace its light bulbs every two or three years, but as long as you follow the manufacturer’s maintenance guidelines, your fireplace should last for a long time. Although there are many advantages of electric fireplaces, you must be aware of the disadvantages as well. They are not meant to heat your entire home, as they provide enough heat to warm smaller areas. You should not sleep with them on, so they can’t heat your home at night. They also use electricity as a power source, so they will not work during a power outage.  Camryn Rabideau is a freelance writer and product reviewer specializing in home, kitchen, and pet products. In her 6+ years of experience as a product tester, she's reviewed hundreds of items firsthand, and her work appears in publications such as PEOPLE, The Spruce, and more.
 Larry Campbell is a licensed electrical contractor with 36 years of experience in residential and light commercial electrical wiring.   We created the PEOPLE Tested seal of approval to help you find the very best products for your life. We use our unique methodology to test products in three labs across the country and with our network of home testers to determine their effectiveness, durability, ease of use, and so much more. Based on the results, we rate and recommend products so you can find the right one for your needs.
  But we don’t stop there: We also regularly re-review the categories in which we’ve awarded the PEOPLE Tested seal of approval — because the best product of today might not be the best of tomorrow. And by the way, companies can never buy our recommendation: Their products must earn it, fair and square.
  In short, PEOPLE Tested provides recommendations you can trust — every day, every purchase. 
