Eagle-eyed viewers of yesterday’s Olympics closing ceremony might have noticed something different about the motorcycle Tom Cruise rode out of the stadium, through the streets of Paris, and up into a waiting cargo plane. Electric motorcycles are likely not the first thing that comes to mind when thinking of BYD, the world’s leading electric car maker. But thanks to a new agreement, the company’s batteries are heading to Africa, where they’ll be used in Ampersand’s electric motorcycles. Everyone loves a good comeback story. Rocky. The Karate Kid. CAKE? That’s right, the Swedish electric motorcycle company is preparing to rise again. On a recent trip to China where I met with several micromobility companies, I was fortunate enough to spend an afternoon with the electric motorcycle maker Tromox. The team gave me the chance to be one of the first Westerners to ever take a test ride on Tromox’s new MC10 TrailX.  Ahead of the bike’s upcoming US market release, I can already tell you that this thing is a blast to ride and is likely to send shockwaves through the Sur Ron and Talaria communities for its combination of performance and packaging, offering high power riding in a small-format bike. A former SONDORS employee has revealed new details regarding the Metacycle electric motorcycle sold by the now-defunct SONDORS e-bike company, describing the project as “a freight train wreck turned into a dumpster fire.” Ryvid, the Southern California-based manufacturer of the popular Ryvid Anthem electric motorcycle, has just launched its second model based on the same platform. The new Ryvid Outset, priced at just $5,995, is set to become the most affordable highway-capable electric motorcycle in the US. At the same time, the company announced a major price drop, lowering the Ryvid Anthem to just US $6,495 after moving into a new scaled-up production facility in San Bernadino, California. Summer is coming in hot, and the impending heat is set to once again break the prior year’s record-breaking temperatures. For gas motorcycle riders, a scorching hot planet isn’t the only immediate source of discomfort outside. The benefit of riding electric is two-fold… Harley-Davidson’s LiveWire company unveiled its third electric motorcycle in March: the S2 Mulholland. At first glance, the electric cruiser closely resembles the existing LiveWire S2 Del Mar. That’s thanks to the shared Arrow platform fulfilling its purpose of spanning multiple electric motorbikes. Still, there are a number of key differences between the S2 models that make these two distinct bikes. While we’ll have to wait for an extensive review, I recently completed a LiveWire S2 Mulholland test ride and have some initial impressions. LiveWire, the all-electric motorcycle company spun out of Harley-Davidson’s electric motorcycle division, has just unveiled its latest electric motorcycle. The new LiveWire S2 Mulholland is the brand’s first cruiser electric motorcycle, and in fact the first cruiser of any major electric motorcycle maker. Battery swapping for electric motorbikes isn’t new technology, but its adoption rate has proven to be remarkably inconsistent around the world. One of the biggest surprises recently has been one of the places where such technology has grown rapidly: Africa. LiveWire, the all-electric motorcycle brand spun out of Harley-Davidson, is shaping itself into a force to be reckoned with in the still-evolving electric motorcycle industry. The company brings an interesting mix of high-tech startup energy and a lumbering century-old motorcycle legacy that results in both an impressive (and growing) range of electric motorcycles but also a series of growing pains. And I got to experience all of it as the proud new owner of a shiny indigo LiveWire S2 Del Mar Launch Edition electric motorcycle. As Californians brace for record-setting rain and flooding in many areas, drivers are forced to be extra cautious on flooded roadways. In what may be a first for this particular bike though, we’re getting a look at a Ryvid Anthem electric motorcycle that was ridden battery-deep through flood waters and lived to ride back out. The entire exercise underscores just how waterproof electric motorcycles can be, even riding underwater. CAKE, the Swedish electric motorcycle maker known for its eye-catching designs, is reportedly filing for bankruptcy after failing to raise enough funding to keep operations afloat. Ryvid, a California-based electric motorcycle manufacturer, has just shared new details about its soon-to-be-completed San Bernadino factory and an upcoming new model. After covering the unveiling of Damon Motorcycles’ first electric models in 2019, I’ve seen the company promise repeatedly that its bikes are still coming. Now that we’re entering the sixth year of coverage, Damon says it’s serious this time. And the company is now showing off a new partnership that could help it cruise closer to manufacturing. Horwin’s flashy flagship electric motorbike, the SENMENTI 0 production model, has just made its US debut at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada. Unlike Europe, the US just doesn’t have very many higher-speed seated electric scooters to choose from. But that could change as more models slowly enter the North American market. The latest to hit the streets in the US is the CSC ES5 electric scooter, which is now shipping to reservation holders and available for order. The motorcycle industry has long stood at the crossroads of tradition and innovation. While roaring engines and iconic designs have been the pride of the past, the future holds the hum of electric powertrains. Until recently, the electric revolution largely focused on creating the fastest, most powerful electric bikes, often sporting equally hefty price tags. However, the emergence of medium-power electric motorcycles has ignited a new spark in the two-wheeler universe, one that promises to bring more new riders into the fold. Harley-Davidson’s electric motorcycle brand LiveWire is still up to its riding leathers in its second electric motorcycle model, the LiveWire S2 Del Mar. But even as the company is pushing out deliveries of that bike, new leaked details are already revealing design information about the company’s next model. And it may just be the more comfortable cruiser that so many have been waiting for. For years, the US electric motorcycle market was dominated by $20,000+ flagship models. While those bikes are still leading the pack, a new wave of lower-cost commuter electric motorcycles has expanded the market’s reach. The latest such bike, the Ryvid Anthem, has recently expanded its deliveries after production began earlier this year. And with a price tag under half of the major flagship electric models, it’s opening the door to more riders than ever before. Kawasaki’s upcoming new electric motorcycles are set to help the brand usher in the future of motorcycling. This month, we got the chance to check them out in person and take a closer look at the Kawasaki Ninja e-1 and Z e-1 models. Electric motorcycles are notorious for their impressive torque and the ability to access that torque instantaneously. It’s why an e-motorcycle with less total power than a combustion engine motorcycle can still cross the finish line first in a head-to-head drag race. It’s also why an Energica rider recently got into a bit of hot water after being “too fast” on a race track. The light electric motorcycle market has expanded far beyond that of the larger and flashier flagship electric sportbikes. While companies like Harley-Davidson, Zero, and Energica battle for market share of the electric equivalent of liter bikes, a dizzying array of companies have rolled out wave after wave of new, lighter electric motorcycles. One of the most interesting on the small-sized end of the market is Tromox. The company’s roots may be small, but the new MC10 electric motorbike is now pushing the brand into larger territory than ever before. Royal Enfield has just revealed its first-ever electric motorcycle, known as the Him-E. The bike was unveiled at the 2023 EICMA Milan Motorcycle Show, where Electrek got an up-close look at the new model ahead of its unclear production path. Manage push notifications