Need help logging in?   Correspondent Gray wolf. Wolf advocates have temporarily withdrawn but plan to refile a petition next week seeking stricter rules on when Washington wildlife managers kill wolves to protect livestock. The Fish and Wildlife Commission was scheduled to discuss a petition filed in July on Friday. Wolf advocates withdrew the petition Tuesday. Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. Correspondent   
                    Sign up to receive news directly to your desktop. Click the bell icon in the nav bar, at any time to change your settings.
                 
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Sign up to receive upcoming ag auctions in your email! Would you like to receive breaking news? Would you like to receive California ag news weekly? Digital Delivery of Capital Press eEdition Would you like to receive daily ag news? Would you like to receive dairy news weekly? A weekly note from our editor about the inner workings of the newsroom. Would you like to receive Idaho ag news weekly? Would you like to receive livestock news weekly? Get the best independent source of news and analysis of Oregon state government delivered to your inbox once a week. Would you like to receive our top stories of the week? Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.