

Holcim Group Services Ltd


 / Key word(s): Miscellaneous





Holcim accelerates climate action 






31.03.2023 / 07:00 CET/CEST Holcim shares the acceleration of its net zero journey with the publication of its second climate report, including its upgraded 2030 climate targets aligned with the 1.5°C framework and validated by the Science Based Targets initiative. Accelerating its net zero ambition, Holcim aims to reach 420 kg CO2 per ton of cementitious materials by 2030. Making progress in carbon capture utilization and storage (CCUS), Holcim commits to invest a cumulative CHF 2 billion by 2030 in mature technologies to capture more than 5 million tons of CO2 per year. Jan Jenisch, CEO: «Holcim is accelerating its climate action with upgraded net zero targets and a clear commitment to invest CHF 2 billion in CCUS technologies by 2030. We are committed to scaling up low-carbon and circular construction while making buildings more sustainable in use to build cities that work for people and the planet.» Magali Anderson, Chief Sustainability & Innovation Officer: «Taking a science-driven approach to climate action, we upgraded our 2030 targets to be in line with the SBTis 1.5°C framework and are pushing the boundaries of innovation to be at the forefront of low-carbon and circular building. I am encouraged by the progress we are making across our sites to accelerate the shift to net zero.» Delivering against all its levers, Holcim is deploying decarbonized materials in its product formulation, adopting more alternative and renewable energy, and scaling up its low-carbon building solutions, from ECOPact to ECOPlanet. Driving circular construction across its business, Holcim recycled 6.8 million tons of construction and demolition waste into new building solutions, on track to exceed the 2025 target of 10 million tons. Continuing the momentum on its net zero journey, Holcim increased its green investments by 15% in 2022, reaching CHF 403 million. With its successful transformation, Holcim reduced its CO2 per net sales by 21% in 2022 and commits to reduce by over 10% in 2023.
  Holcims Climate Report will be put to an advisory vote at its Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2023, reflecting the companys commitment to give its shareholders a say on the companys climate strategy. Holcims Climate Report can be found here. About Holcim
Holcim is a global leader in innovative and sustainable building solutions. Driven by its purpose to build progress for people and the planet, its 60,000 employees are on a mission to decarbonize building, while improving living standards for all. The company empowers its customers across all regions to build better with less, with its broad range of low-carbon and circular solutions, from ECOPact to ECOPlanet. With its innovative systems, from Elevates roofing to PRBs insulation, Holcim makes buildings more sustainable in use, driving energy efficiency and green retrofitting. With sustainability at the core of its strategy, Holcim is becoming a net-zero company with 1.5°C targets validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Learn more about Holcim on www.holcim.com, and by following us on LinkedIn. Sign up for Holcim's Building Progress newsletter here and follow our journey to a net-zero future.
  Important disclaimer  forward-looking statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements do not constitute forecasts regarding results or any other performance indicator, but rather trends or targets, as the case may be, including with respect to plans, initiatives, events, products, solutions and services, their development and potential. Although Holcim believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions as at the time of publishing this document, investors are cautioned that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Holcim, including but not limited to the risks described in the Holcim's annual report available on its website (www.holcim.com) and uncertainties related to the market conditions and the implementation of our plans. Accordingly, we caution you against relying on forward-looking statements. Holcim does not undertake to provide updates of these forward-looking statements. 
End of Media Release 

1597727  31.03.2023 CET/CEST
 Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks