Apply Now
 From aerial and satellite remote sensing imagery to the Global Positioning System, computerized geographic information systems are revolutionizing business, science, and government policy. Geospatial technologies have become a driving force for decision-making across the globe. OU’s online Master of Science in Geospatial Technologies program will prepare you to leverage new technologies to support governmental, environmental, business, and societal decision-making affecting the future of our planet. Request Information Rolling admissions (applications due 14 days before the intended start date). Fall, Spring Stay up to date with OU holiday closings, deadlines, and more. View Calendar Our curriculum includes the theory and application of geospatial technologies, so you learn conceptual and professional skills. You will use creative, qualitative, and mixed research methods to deepen your understanding of our world. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the geospatial technology market (cartographers and photogrammetrists) is expected to grow 5% by 2032. With this advanced degree, students will likely have access to higher-paying jobs and career advancement opportunities. Learn in a flexible, online program designed for working professionals. You’ll engage in online discussions with professors and fellow students, gaining access to career support and professional network opportunities that will prepare you for this rapidly growing field. OU Online graduates find employment within six months after graduation* OU Online graduates report earning an annual salary of $75,000 or more* OU Online students say the skills they gained in their program made them more competitive in their career field* *Source: OU Online Graduate Outcomes Survey, 2023 Take the next step in your career with a degree from the University of Oklahoma. Applications are reviewed year-round for fall, spring, and summer sessions. Choose your program, choose your start, and apply today. The University of Oklahoma’s online geospatial technologies program* was developed by the College of Atmospheric and Geographic Sciences and the Department of Geography and Environmental Sustainability to foster the geospatial insights, technical skills, and advanced training students need to become leaders in the rapidly growing field of geospatial technologies. *The full name of the degree program is an online Master of Science in Geography and Environmental Sustainability with a concentration in Geospatial Technologies. Graduates of the program will receive a Master of Science in Geography and Environmental Sustainability diploma.  Students who want to focus on a few core concepts, prepare for professional-level certification exams, or consider a Master of Science path may opt for a certificate track. The online Certificate in Geospatial Technology** program is 12 credit hours and can be completed in months. **The full name of the certificate program is an online Certificate in Geography and Environmental Sustainability with a concentration in Geospatial Technologies. Graduates of the program will receive a Graduate Certificate in Geography and Environmental Sustainability. Admission to the University of Oklahoma’s geospatial technologies program is selective. Those interested in the program should have a competitive undergraduate GPA. Additional admissions factors may include work or service experience, demonstrated leadership potential, exceptional talents or skills, trends, or academic and undergraduate school performance improvement. To apply for the online geospatial technologies program, students are asked to submit: Applicants must submit at least one of the following but are encouraged to submit more: The admissions committee operates under a rolling admission process, and admissions may continue until two weeks before classes start. The committee strives to respond to all applicants within two weeks of submitting a completed application. For more information on the admissions process, please complete the contact form below, and an admissions counselor will be in touch shortly. If you would like to compare the estimated cost of your program with a typical financial aid package, use the cost calculator on our OU Online financial aid page.  Graduate tuition waivers cannot be applied to OU Online programs. OU Online programs qualify for the OU Faculty/Staff Tuition Waiver & Fee Exemption, and we encourage you to check your eligibility.   Tuition waiver and fee exemption package application If you have questions regarding financial aid for your online program, please get in touch with the Online Aid office by emailing onlineaid@ou.edu or calling 405-325-2929. Apply Now Like every OU Online program, the geospatial technologies program is built on the foundation of world-class University of Oklahoma faculty mixed with professors of practice providing valuable instruction. By linking industry experts with our online programs, we offer the most advanced curriculum and prepare students for future career success.   Earning a geospatial technologies degree from OU Online gives you the skills to succeed in a growing and evolving field. It also gives you access to career support and an expanded professional network as part of the global OU alumni community. Stand out where the industry is moving while enjoying the potential for higher pay, career advancement, and new opportunities. Tuition and fees for the program are $32,505 ($985 per credit hour). Books and additional materials are not included. Once accepted into the program, students must submit a $350 nonrefundable deposit within two weeks. Deposits are applied toward tuition expenses and secure a student’s place in the upcoming class.  Our tuition calculator can help you estimate your tuition and financial aid for your program of interest. ESTIMATE COSTS
 We are a top-tier public institution offering high-quality, affordable, professional undergraduate and graduate programs committed to maintaining academic excellence online. Every OU Online program is built on the foundation of world-class faculty mixed with professors of practice providing valuable instruction. By linking industry experts with our online programs, we offer the most advanced curriculum and prepare students for future career success. When you graduate from an OU Online program, you’ll join the network of 250,000 OU alumni and be forever part of the OU family. Become part of the tradition of excellence that OU has established in its 130-year history. Apply Now          