Illustration by Gemma DeCetra The Green Lab Certification Program encourages more sustainable practices, such as shutting off equipment nightly, recycling materials and electronic waste, conserving water and energy and disposing hazardous materials effectively.  Chelsea Zhao, ReporterFebruary 13, 2023 Northwestern sustainNU began the Green Labs Certification Program Fall Quarter to encourage more sustainable practices in lab facilities on campus.  The program is an extension of the existing Green Office Certification, which encourages environmental practices —  such as recycling and reducing waste —  in on-campus workplaces.  Program Administrator of Sustainability Cria Kay works with labs at NU’s Evanston and Chicago campuses to design and implement sustainable practices tailored to each lab space, such as using energy-efficient settings for electronic devices.  “Labs are oftentimes one of the highest energy, water and resource users on campus,” Kay said. “So, the Green Labs (Certification) Program is focused on instilling best practices for sustainable lab management and operations.” Practices she encourages include shutting off equipment nightly, recycling materials and electronic waste, conserving water and energy and disposing of hazardous materials effectively. Participating labs are required to complete 75% of sustainable practices, according to the Green Labs Certification Guide. To be certified, these labs must also complete a multi-pronged process that includes participation in a sustainNU presentation and a walkthrough with the lab and sustainNU.. Associate Director of Sustainability Julie Cahillane said the certification is rooted in adapting campus labs’ infrastructure to better support sustainability.  “This is a way to help engage folks,” Cahillane said. “Whether they’re in an office or a lab, and understanding how they can adopt sustainable practices to make the impact of their individual or their group’s operations better.” Certified labs each appoint one or more green leaders, depending on the size of their site. Since labs typically have a high turnover rate as research students graduate, green leaders help these spaces commit to sustainable goals, Kay said.  Fifth-year material science and engineering Ph.D. student Matt Sweers, a green leader for Seitz Lab, said he first reached out to Kay to express interest in the position after learning about the new program through sustainNU’s newsletter.  “There are certain practices that we can adopt that are more environmentally friendly, considering that most of us are very motivated by environmental challenges,” Sweers said.  He said most items in his lab space, such as contaminated plastic waste, are not recyclable. But, through the program, the lab hopes to implement more changes to conserve resources and reduce waste, Kay said, although they are still developing a specific plan. The program plans to utilize plugboard monitors to track energy savings case studies. Kay said the program also aims to monitor biohazardous wastes, electronic recycling and energy conservation from background machinery.  “This really is intended to change the culture and operations of the lab in the long term,” Kay said.  But, NU is not the only institution encouraging more sustainable practices within labs. University of Illinois at Chicago and the University of Chicago both have sustainability programs similar to sustainNU. UIC’s LabShare Program accepts donations of lab supplies to minimize waste, and UChicago employs a GreenLabs initiative to conserve energy and reduce waste. sustainNU also partnered with other campus organizations for the Green Labs Certification Program, including the Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern Office for Research Safety and Science Policy Outreach Task Force. Sweers said few lab researchers have heard of the program, which he hopes gains more traction and awareness in coming years.  “I think it would be good if it’s a requirement for a lot of labs here,” Sweers said. “I know there (are) limitations to what certain labs can do. But I think in general, Northwestern has a lot of room for improvement in terms of environmental sustainability.” Email: [email protected]  Twitter: @chelseaqizhao Related Stories:   — SustainNU set to release second 5-year Strategic Sustainability Plan in 2022  — Ryan Fellow Matthew Coile discusses recyclable plastic research  — Sustainable Evanston fashion show promotes sustainability, mutual aid Sign up to receive our email newsletter in your inbox. 


   August 6, 2024 At approximately 3:55 p.m. today, Evanston Police Department responded to two shooting scenes — one...  August 6, 2024 Two months following a disappointing 2-1 loss to UNC in the 2022 NCAA Championship, then-junior midfielder...  August 1, 2024 It is that time of year in Chicago again where Grant Park is transformed into one of the nation’s largest...  July 25, 2024 With just over a month until Northwestern’s Aug. 31 season opener against Miami (Ohio) at Martin Stadium,...  July 19, 2024 Cook County’s State Attorney dropped charges against three Northwestern faculty members and one graduate...  July 17, 2024 Hundreds of soccer enthusiasts and community members gathered at the Robert Crown Community Center on...  July 16, 2024 Northwestern Police Department issued four class A misdemeanor citations this month to individuals involved...  Stuart Gibson There is so much wrong about Samuel Aftel’s guest column “Northwestern Embraces Police Repression,”... Aftel: Northwestern embraces police repression  August 8, 2024 Perry: A little humility goes a long way  June 4, 2024  August 13, 2024 It’s been an uncertain offseason for the Wildcats following a coaching vacancy and challenging 2023 season — but sitting alongside new coach Tim Nollan last Monday, the... Field Hockey: Zimmer, Sessa and Fuchs make the journey to the Paris Olympics  August 6, 2024 Football: Northwestern embracing realigned conference challenge at Big Ten Media Days  July 25, 2024  Emily Kim, Digital Managing Editor  June 19, 2024 Run clubs are the latest craze, and West Twn Brew Crew is one of many in Chicago. Combining fitness and socializing over coffee, this club is all about “running with friends.”

Email:... The secret (and short) lives of cicadas on campus   Edward Simon Cruz, Assistant Audio Editor  May 19, 2024 Communication Prof. Barbara Butts believes stage management requires a diverse set of leadership skills, and she wants her students to be able to use them both inside and... Everything Evanston: Behind the boba in downtown Evanston Misdemeanor charges dropped against NU faculty for activity during pro-Palestinian encampment  July 19, 2024 Four individuals face charges for April’s pro-Palestine encampment  July 16, 2024 Nights at Dearborn Observatory, CIERA Astronomer Evenings bring astronomy education to the public  July 3, 2024 Two local men charged after three shootings in less than 24 hours  August 12, 2024 Evanston Police Department responds to three shootings in the last 24 hours  August 6, 2024 City Council amends RLTO to increase notice period for non-renewal of lease, hears updates to Envision Evanston 2045  August 2, 2024