Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition As 31 towns and cities across central Connecticut observe Memorial Day, Wethersfield will offer a unique tribute: A parade led by five veterans of the World War II era.Ranging from 97 to 101, the five Wethersfield veterans will serve as grand marshals of the town’s annual parade Saturday morning.“It’s a great honor to know these men. This year our theme is ‘Our Greatest Generation’ instead of ‘The Greatest Generation’ as we honor all the veterans of the World War II era,” said John Ewaski, commander of American Legion Post 23 in Wethersfield.Throughout the region, there will be parades, wreath-layings, speeches and ceremonies in honor of the men and women who’ve died serving in the United States military. Several will be held Sunday, the vast majority are scheduled for Monday, and two communities — Cromwell and New Britain — hold their parades on Tuesday.Starting the Memorial Day schedule are Saturday morning parades in Wethersfield and Newington.The Wethersfield procession will be led by grand marshals Reno Franconi, 101, who served in the Army Air Corps; Anthony Gilistro, 97, who served in the Marine Corps; Nicholas Giosa, 98, who served in the Navy; Welles Hale, 97, who served in the Navy; and John William Maycock, 98, who served in the Navy.Memorial Day events in the region include:Avon: The Avon VFW’s 78th annual Memorial Day parade starts Monday at 11 a.m. at the school board annex, 34 Simsbury Road, and continues to the town Green at Ensign Road and Route 44 for a ceremony. In case of severe weather, the ceremony will be at the senior center at 11 a.m.

Berlin: The parade begins Monday at 9 a.m. at St. Paul’s Church on Peck Street and proceeds to the Veterans Memorial Park for a ceremony. Police Chief Matt McNally will be the speaker. In case of rain, the ceremony will be at 9 a.m. at the VFW post at 152 Massirio Drive.Bloomfield: A ceremony begins Monday at 10 a.m. at Mountain View Cemetery, with the stepping off at 11:30 a.m. A ceremony will be held at noon at the town Green.Bristol: American Legion Post 209 hosts a parade Sunday at 2:30 p.m. starting at East Main and Central streets in the Forestville section; the rain date is Monday at 2:30 p.m.Burlington: The parade begins Monday at 10 a.m. outside the Cadence Academy Preschool on Route 4 and proceeds to the town Green for a speaking program. A ceremony afterward will be held at Center Cemetery.Canton: The parade is Monday at 10 a.m. from the Canton Intermediate School to the village cemetery, where a ceremony will be held.Coventry: The parade starts Monday at 10 a.m. at the Memorial Green and concludes at Bradbury Lane.Cromwell: A ceremony and parade are scheduled for Tuesday at 6 p.m. at the Memorial Green at West and Main Streets.East Granby: A parade begins Monday at 10 a.m. at the Elmwood Cemetery and will be followed by a ceremony.East Hartford: The parade begins Monday at 10 a.m. from 9 Riverside Drive and continues to the Fallen Star Memorial at Goodwin University, followed by a C-130 flyover and a ceremony. The town then sponsors “A Celebration of East Hartford” with live music, vendors, food trucks, a travelling World War II museum.East Windsor: The parade Monday starts at 10 a.m. at the town hall annex and ends at the Veterans Memorial Green, where a ceremony will be held.Ellington: A parade Monday begins at 9 a.m. at Green Street and Route 140 and goes to the Crystal Lake Cemetery for a service. At 10:30 a.m., a ceremony will be held at Ellington High School followed by another parade starting at approximately 11:30 a.m.; that procession goes from the high school to the Ellington Cemetery.
 The annual Memorial Day parade in Bristol’s Forestville section.Enfield: The Enfield Veterans Council’s parade is Sunday at 1 p.m. from Enfield Street School to the town Green, where there will be a ceremony.

Farmington: The town’s parade Monday begins at 10 a.m. at Garden Street and Farmington Avenue, then proceeds to the Riverside Cemetery.Glastonbury: The parade is Monday starting at 9 a.m. at Main and Welles street, and proceeding to the Hubbard Green for a ceremony by the Glastonbury Veterans Services Commission. In event of severe weather, an abbreviated ceremony will be held on the Hubbard Green.Granby: The parade starts Monday at 10 a.m. from the Geissler’s parking lot on Bank Street, proceeds to the Granby Cemetery for a service and ends at the town Green.Manchester: The parade is Monday at 9:30 a.m. starting at the Army and Navy Club on Main Street. It continues to Center Memorial Park for a ceremony. In case of severe weather, the ceremony will be at 11 a.m. at the Salvation Army.Middletown: The parade begins Monday at 10:30 a.m. on Spring Street. There will be a ceremony at noon on the town Green, and another at 2 p.m. at the state veterans cemetery on Bow Lane. On Saturday at 9 a.m., 13,000 American flags will be placed on graves at the state veterans cemetery.New Britain: A ceremony is scheduled Monday at 10 a.m. at the National Iwo Jima Memorial. The city’s parade begins Tuesday at 6 p.m. from Broad and Burritt streets and concludes at Franklin Square. Ceremonies are scheduled from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Tuesday at 12 memorial monuments across the city; the schedule is at newbritainct.gov/services/community/veterans/defaulthtm.Newington: The parade begins Saturday at 10:30 a.m. at the Robbins Green and proceeds to town hall for a ceremony at the Veterans Memorial.Plainville: The parade on Monday begins at 9 a.m. at Whiting and Broad streets, and will be followed by a ceremony at Veterans Memorial Park.Portland: The parade begins Sunday at 2 p.m. at Main Street and Victoria Road and concludes with a ceremony.Rocky Hill: The parade begins Monday at 9:30 a.m. at Rocky Hill High School and proceeds to the town Green for a ceremony. In case of rain, the ceremony will be at 9:30 a.m. inside the high school.Simsbury: The town holds a parade Monday starting at 9 a.m. at Main and Winthrop streets in the Tariffville section and ending at St. Bernard Cemetery for a ceremony. In event of severe weather, the ceremony will be at 9 a.m. at Trinity Episcopal Church. A second parade Monday begins at 1:30 p.m. on Owens Brook Boulevard at Hopmeadow Street and ends at the Simsbury Veterans Memorial for a ceremony. In case of severe weather, that ceremony will be at 1:30 p.m. at Eno Hall.Southington: The parade begins Monday at 10:30 a.m. at Derynoski School off of Eden Avenue. A ceremony afterward will be held at the American Legion on Main Street.South Windsor: The parade on Monday starts at 10 a.m. near Nutmeg Road South near Satellite Road and proceeds to Veterans Memorial Park for a ceremony.Vernon: On Sunday a parade begins at Talcottville Congregational Church at 9 a.m. and concludes at the Mount Hope Cemetery with a ceremony. A second parade begins Monday at 10:15 a.m. at the Grove Hill Cemetery for a ceremony and ends in Rockville with another ceremony at Central Park.West Hartford: The parade begins Monday at 10 a.m. and proceeds from Woodrow Street at Farmington Avenue to town hall. Immediately afterward, a ceremony will be held at the Veterans Memorial at North Main Street and Farmington Avenue.Wethersfield: The parade will step off Saturday at 9 a.m. from the state Department of Motor Vehicles office on State Street and finish at Village Cemetery for a ceremony. In case of rain, there will be a ceremony inside Wethersfield High School at 10 a.m.Windsor: On Monday an observance will be held at 8 a.m. at the Elm Grove Cemetery, followed by a ceremony at Veterans Cemetery at 9 a.m. Immediately after that, a parade will step off and proceed to town hall for another ceremony at 10 a.m.
Windsor Locks: The parade starts Monday at 10 a.m. from the public safety complex and concludes at Memorial Hall on Main Street, where the Windsor Locks American Legion will conduct a ceremony. Ranging from 97 to 101, the five Wethersfield veterans will serve as grand marshals of the town’s annual parade Saturday morning. “It’s a great honor to know these men. This year our theme is ‘Our Greatest Generation’ instead of ‘The Greatest Generation’ as we honor all the veterans of the World War II era,” said John Ewaski, commander of American Legion Post 23 in Wethersfield. Throughout the region, there will be parades, wreath-layings, speeches and ceremonies in honor of the men and women who’ve died serving in the United States military. Several will be held Sunday, the vast majority are scheduled for Monday, and two communities — Cromwell and New Britain — hold their parades on Tuesday. Starting the Memorial Day schedule are Saturday morning parades in Wethersfield and Newington. The Wethersfield procession will be led by grand marshals Reno Franconi, 101, who served in the Army Air Corps; Anthony Gilistro, 97, who served in the Marine Corps; Nicholas Giosa, 98, who served in the Navy; Welles Hale, 97, who served in the Navy; and John William Maycock, 98, who served in the Navy. Memorial Day events in the region include: Avon: The Avon VFW’s 78th annual Memorial Day parade starts Monday at 11 a.m. at the school board annex, 34 Simsbury Road, and continues to the town Green at Ensign Road and Route 44 for a ceremony. In case of severe weather, the ceremony will be at the senior center at 11 a.m. Berlin: The parade begins Monday at 9 a.m. at St. Paul’s Church on Peck Street and proceeds to the Veterans Memorial Park for a ceremony. Police Chief Matt McNally will be the speaker. In case of rain, the ceremony will be at 9 a.m. at the VFW post at 152 Massirio Drive. Bloomfield: A ceremony begins Monday at 10 a.m. at Mountain View Cemetery, with the stepping off at 11:30 a.m. A ceremony will be held at noon at the town Green. Bristol: American Legion Post 209 hosts a parade Sunday at 2:30 p.m. starting at East Main and Central streets in the Forestville section; the rain date is Monday at 2:30 p.m. Burlington: The parade begins Monday at 10 a.m. outside the Cadence Academy Preschool on Route 4 and proceeds to the town Green for a speaking program. A ceremony afterward will be held at Center Cemetery. Canton: The parade is Monday at 10 a.m. from the Canton Intermediate School to the village cemetery, where a ceremony will be held. Coventry: The parade starts Monday at 10 a.m. at the Memorial Green and concludes at Bradbury Lane. Cromwell: A ceremony and parade are scheduled for Tuesday at 6 p.m. at the Memorial Green at West and Main Streets. East Granby: A parade begins Monday at 10 a.m. at the Elmwood Cemetery and will be followed by a ceremony. East Hartford: The parade begins Monday at 10 a.m. from 9 Riverside Drive and continues to the Fallen Star Memorial at Goodwin University, followed by a C-130 flyover and a ceremony. The town then sponsors “A Celebration of East Hartford” with live music, vendors, food trucks, a travelling World War II museum. East Windsor: The parade Monday starts at 10 a.m. at the town hall annex and ends at the Veterans Memorial Green, where a ceremony will be held. Ellington: A parade Monday begins at 9 a.m. at Green Street and Route 140 and goes to the Crystal Lake Cemetery for a service. At 10:30 a.m., a ceremony will be held at Ellington High School followed by another parade starting at approximately 11:30 a.m.; that procession goes from the high school to the Ellington Cemetery.
   Enfield: The Enfield Veterans Council’s parade is Sunday at 1 p.m. from Enfield Street School to the town Green, where there will be a ceremony.

Farmington: The town’s parade Monday begins at 10 a.m. at Garden Street and Farmington Avenue, then proceeds to the Riverside Cemetery. Glastonbury: The parade is Monday starting at 9 a.m. at Main and Welles street, and proceeding to the Hubbard Green for a ceremony by the Glastonbury Veterans Services Commission. In event of severe weather, an abbreviated ceremony will be held on the Hubbard Green. Granby: The parade starts Monday at 10 a.m. from the Geissler’s parking lot on Bank Street, proceeds to the Granby Cemetery for a service and ends at the town Green. Manchester: The parade is Monday at 9:30 a.m. starting at the Army and Navy Club on Main Street. It continues to Center Memorial Park for a ceremony. In case of severe weather, the ceremony will be at 11 a.m. at the Salvation Army. Middletown: The parade begins Monday at 10:30 a.m. on Spring Street. There will be a ceremony at noon on the town Green, and another at 2 p.m. at the state veterans cemetery on Bow Lane. On Saturday at 9 a.m., 13,000 American flags will be placed on graves at the state veterans cemetery. New Britain: A ceremony is scheduled Monday at 10 a.m. at the National Iwo Jima Memorial. The city’s parade begins Tuesday at 6 p.m. from Broad and Burritt streets and concludes at Franklin Square. Ceremonies are scheduled from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Tuesday at 12 memorial monuments across the city; the schedule is at newbritainct.gov/services/community/veterans/defaulthtm. Newington: The parade begins Saturday at 10:30 a.m. at the Robbins Green and proceeds to town hall for a ceremony at the Veterans Memorial. Plainville: The parade on Monday begins at 9 a.m. at Whiting and Broad streets, and will be followed by a ceremony at Veterans Memorial Park. Portland: The parade begins Sunday at 2 p.m. at Main Street and Victoria Road and concludes with a ceremony. Rocky Hill: The parade begins Monday at 9:30 a.m. at Rocky Hill High School and proceeds to the town Green for a ceremony. In case of rain, the ceremony will be at 9:30 a.m. inside the high school. Simsbury: The town holds a parade Monday starting at 9 a.m. at Main and Winthrop streets in the Tariffville section and ending at St. Bernard Cemetery for a ceremony. In event of severe weather, the ceremony will be at 9 a.m. at Trinity Episcopal Church. A second parade Monday begins at 1:30 p.m. on Owens Brook Boulevard at Hopmeadow Street and ends at the Simsbury Veterans Memorial for a ceremony. In case of severe weather, that ceremony will be at 1:30 p.m. at Eno Hall. Southington: The parade begins Monday at 10:30 a.m. at Derynoski School off of Eden Avenue. A ceremony afterward will be held at the American Legion on Main Street. South Windsor: The parade on Monday starts at 10 a.m. near Nutmeg Road South near Satellite Road and proceeds to Veterans Memorial Park for a ceremony. Vernon: On Sunday a parade begins at Talcottville Congregational Church at 9 a.m. and concludes at the Mount Hope Cemetery with a ceremony. A second parade begins Monday at 10:15 a.m. at the Grove Hill Cemetery for a ceremony and ends in Rockville with another ceremony at Central Park. West Hartford: The parade begins Monday at 10 a.m. and proceeds from Woodrow Street at Farmington Avenue to town hall. Immediately afterward, a ceremony will be held at the Veterans Memorial at North Main Street and Farmington Avenue. Wethersfield: The parade will step off Saturday at 9 a.m. from the state Department of Motor Vehicles office on State Street and finish at Village Cemetery for a ceremony. In case of rain, there will be a ceremony inside Wethersfield High School at 10 a.m. Windsor: On Monday an observance will be held at 8 a.m. at the Elm Grove Cemetery, followed by a ceremony at Veterans Cemetery at 9 a.m. Immediately after that, a parade will step off and proceed to town hall for another ceremony at 10 a.m.
 Windsor Locks: The parade starts Monday at 10 a.m. from the public safety complex and concludes at Memorial Hall on Main Street, where the Windsor Locks American Legion will conduct a ceremony. Copyright © 2024 Hartford Courant