ASHEVILLE - Today’s question is from a reader inquiring about the source of Mountain Valley Spring Water of Asheville’s water supply. Got a question for Answer Man or Answer Woman? Email Interim Executive Editor Karen Chávez at KChavez@citizentimes.com and your question could appear in an upcoming column. Question: I drive by Mountain Valley Spring Water several times a week. It's in a densely populated area in West Asheville on Haywood Road. Where is their spring that they get the water from? What's the history of that spring and currently how much water are they taking from it annually? What is the volume in gallons per minute of the spring? Answer: Here’s a refreshing question and hopefully an answer that will quench your thirst for knowledge about the spring water company and its Asheville connection. The company surely did extra business during Asheville's recent water outage crisis during the Christmas and New Year's holidays. More:Water outages: Asheville chose to cut off the south from water; Melton made the call More:Asheville creates independent review committee in the wake of widespread water outages More:South Asheville businesses, breweries, Mission Health, Givens talk water outage impacts The Mountain Valley Spring Water springs in question are in the Ouachita Mountains, Arkansas, near where the company is founded and headquartered. Information about the details of the spring’s specific whereabouts or the volume procured seems to be tightly protected as I was directed by a local representative to the website for any public information about the water without further comment. So, here’s a summary from the company’s website about its mineral-rich water: Founded in 1871, Mountain Valley Spring Water collects water that rises naturally from a spring in the Ouachitas that is then filtered “through granite-based aquifers collecting all the pure, healthy, goodness from the land.” The water is promoted as chemical-free and “sodium-free with a naturally detoxifying pH and rich blend of calcium, magnesium and potassium.” For a deep dive, check out the company’s water quality report. Opened in 1969, Mountain Valley Spring Water of Asheville at 299 Haywood Road distributes to customers throughout Western North Carolina and select counties in South Carolina and Tennessee. More:Answer Man: Can beer caps, plastics that don't match be recycled in Buncombe County, too? The Asheville business offers other products, including Altamont and Carolina Natural Spring Water. Altamont line is bottled at a “protected source” in the Nantahala National Forest in North Carolina. The Carolina Natural Spring Water line is said to be sourced from a local spring that’s “straight from the Appalachian Mountains.” Mountain Valley Spring Water of Asheville is a local, woman-owned business led by Connie Scotchie, who’s the president of the company. Read more about how her family got into the water-distributing business at mountainvalleywaterasheville.com/our-story/. More:Answer Man: Asheville I-26 connector project update? (Hint: big news for the fall) On a personal note, my first time getting my hands on one of these distinctively branded green glass bottles was several years ago while visiting friends in Hot Springs, Arkansas. We were at a restaurant in the historic downtown when one of my friends said, “You have to try Mountain Valley. It’s our local spring water.” After that first clean taste, I thought, “Hmm. This is pretty good.” Ever since I’ve found myself buying a bottle if I see it in a retail store. With so many lines from the water company, I’m wondering if a taste test to see if a taste difference can be detected is in order? Also, I can say that the Ouachita Mountains are gorgeous and worth a trip, though it may be difficult to tear oneself away from the Appalachians. Tiana Kennell is the food and dining reporter for the Asheville Citizen Times, part of the USA Today Network. Email her at tkennell@citizentimes.com or follow her on Twitter/Instagram @PrincessOfPage. Please help support this type of journalism with a subscription to the Citizen Times.