Letters were being mailed on Monday to about 66,000 patients in New Orleans, notifying them that the debt they collectively owe to Ochsner Health — roughly $59 million in unpaid bills for doctor visits, hospital stays, medical procedures and other services, some of it dating back years — has… Entergy Louisiana's website showed outages for over 13,000 customers in and around Kenner on Monday afternoon, but the company says it was a glitch.   A New Orleans teacher was arrested Thursday after allegedly coercing a minor into traveling from Mississippi to Louisiana for commercial sex, according to the Department of Homeland Security.  Five years ago, the future seemed bright for a decrepit 19th-century shotgun house that was … BRG Hospitality is opening a new restaurant in the New Orleans Central Business District, an… Fried catfish seems like a simple dish to put on a bargain summer restaurant menu. But Palm … Both buyers and sellers in the New Orleans real estate market are highly familiar with disru… Banh mi are known for being a testament to food innovation. The sandwich, invented during Vi… Roland Morvant bought 6 acres of land in Waggaman nearly 20 years ago so he could build a ho… Murphy, a graduate student replacing five-year starter Sincere Haynesworth, made the move because he wants to win a championship.  Jayden Daniels recently went on LSU women's basketball star Flau'jae Johnson's podcast, "Best of Both Worlds", where he revealed all the jersey swaps he has planned out for his rookie season with the Washington Commanders.  How big was that 16-play, 95-yard scoring drive for first-team offense’s psyche? Is the defense shaping up to be dominant? Does QB2 even matter? Letters were being mailed on Monday to about 66,000 patients in New Orleans, notifying them that the debt they collectively owe to Ochsner Health — roughly $59 million in unpaid bills for doctor visits, hospital stays, medical procedures and other services, some of it dating back years — has… The inspection, which costs around $300, identifies aspects of a home that help reduce losses in the event of a windstorm. Carrita Tanner-Cloud never thought she’d be in business for herself full-time.  No city is flush with as much cash, per capita, as New Orleans. And none of them struggle mo… Suffering So Young: A child welfare system in crisis   The newspaper’s project examining the future of south Louisiana at a time of climate change,… Five years ago, the future seemed bright for a decrepit 19th-century shotgun house that was once home to a jazz legend. A New Orleans-born R&B star pledged to protect the vulnerable property by converting it into a recording studio and museum.  BRG Hospitality is opening a new restaurant in the New Orleans Central Business District, and it will mark John Besh's return to the public eye years after he stepped out of the limelight amid a sexual misconduct scandal.  Some pet owners approach cat care a little differently than dog care when it comes to visiting the veterinarian’s office. It's a myth, however, that indoor-only cats don't need to go to the vet often or get regular vaccinations.  The Fortified Roof Program stands as a beacon of practical and impactful governance in Louisiana. As a direct initiative by the state to reduce homeowners' insurance costs, its significance cannot be overstated. This program not only fortifies homes against the ravages of natural disasters b… The last thing we need here in Louisiana is for our lawmakers to support policies being backed by the socialist left and Big Pharma. Any bill that’s being pushed by drug companies and those who would rather see a universalized health care system than allow the free market to work on its own … Columnist Scott Rabalais deserves a gold medal for his brilliant coverage of the Summer Olympics! He brought everything together from Louisiana and the world to Paris. What a story! Masterfully presented. Every page is frameable. Congratulations on a job well done!  John "Lee" Grush, Jr., 74, of River Ridge, passed away on August 14, 2024. Born on April 5, … Herbert Williams, age 76, peacefully entered into eternal rest at his home on Saturday, Augu… Craig James Meche passed away at his home in Port Allen on Saturday, August 17, 2024, at the… George Alfred Hero III was born June 22, 1928 in New Orleans, the only child to George A. He… Deirdre Burke Provosty (93) passed away peacefully on August 12, 2014 at her home in Covingt… Patricia Gail West Moore, beloved Daughter, Mom, Grandmom, and friend, passed away peacefull… News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: