Mar 9, 2023 IRON MOUNTAIN — A proposed tax abatement for an expansion and redevelopment of Pine Mountain Resort is unsettled after Iron Mountain City Council tabled a request to concur with it. Storie Co. of Indianapolis has plans for a $25.5 million project that would be largely free of property taxes up to 30 years under a brownfield plan. While taxes would be paid on the existing facility, the council learned Monday there’s no provision for year-to-year inflationary increases. Mayor Dale Alessandrini said he can’t support having the property’s tax base stagnant for 30 years. “I’d like to gain something for the city,” he said. Talks will continue with the company, which acquired the 55-room ski and golf resort in December. Dickinson County Board has scheduled a public hearing on the brownfield plan for 6 p.m. Monday, as Storie Co. had hoped to begin construction this spring. The proposed development involves building 35 cabins totaling more than 14,500 square feet of space on the north section of the property. It also includes a mountain bike pump track, sledding hills, walking and biking trails and a community green space. Most of the work on parcels totaling more than 282 acres is within the city limits, but a portion is in Breitung Township. The brownfield activity — a small part of the project — calls for demolishing old maintenance buildings and addressing contamination underneath. It makes the entire development eligible for brownfield tax increment financing, whereby Storie Co. can recapture taxes from the increase in taxable value. Trinity Hart, Storie Co. chief product officer, talked to the council Monday by teleconference and pointed out benefits that include additional jobs, utility fees, enhanced tourism and preservation of a community landmark. Only four of the seven council members were present, so a no vote from any one of them could have shelved the plan. Alessandrini and council members Kyle Blomquist, Ken Clawson and Dave Farragh agreed to refer the matter to the city’s infrastructure committee. Absent were council members Nathan Zemar, Cathy Tomassoni and Pam Maule. City Manager Jordan Stanchina, who is on the Dickinson County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, noted the panel has approved the plan contingent on agreements from the city and township. The county board would also have to adopt it. The plan was first discussed with the city in October. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox FAITHORN — After the devastating loss of her son, Diane Hanna channeled her grief into something positive, ... ESCANABA — After eleven and three-quarters months, fair week is upon us again — “connecting agriculture and ... By NOAH JOHNSON

Escanaba Daily Press 

MENOMINEE — Menominee County voters decided a number of political races ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © The Mining Journal | https://www.miningjournal.net | 249 W. Washington, Marquette, MI 49855 | 906-228-2500 