After 19 years in Hillsboro, one of the country's top holiday week basketball tournaments is moving to downtown Portland The left knee injury to right guard Matthew Bedford and backup Dave Iuli still recovering from toe surgery creates a void that could be filled by Nishad Strother or Iapani Laloulu, who is still vying to start at center. The Pickles posted a 6-5 win over the Wenatchee AppleSox on Friday to capture their first WCL title in franchise history. Injuries have the Oregon Ducks’ interior offensive line somewhat in flux as game one sits on the horizon next week. Leavitt led the Lions to a state championship two years ago, and saw limited playing time with Michigan State.  The Kansas City star quarterback digs into his bag of tricks to pull off another eye-popping play on Saturday. Cornelius hosted a youth football event in his home neighborhood of Harlem, seeking to increase opportunities in football for kids who don't often have it. All three were named preseason second team All-American by the AP on Monday. A weekly segment where readers ask questions about Oregon State athletics, and The Oregonian/OregonLive's Nick Daschel gives an answer. For the second year in a row and third time in program history, Oregon volleyball will open the 2024 season in the top 10. The future Hall of Fame quarterback said the Los Angeles Chargers' star is "as talented as anybody." The rookie quarterback looked very good in a preseason game on Sunday. Oregon Sports Archives Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices