Last week as resources continued to arrive in Emmett to combat the Paddock Fire in northern Gem County, the Bureau of Land Management moved it… Barring any flare ups or new lightning strikes potential with a red-flag alert issues for Tuesday, containment of the Paddock Fire appears in sight.  That canal or ditch next to your back yard is not a convenient trash disposal system as a place to dump your lawn clippings, old tires, househ… Mosquitoes tested positive for West Nile Virus last week in two locations in Gem County according to Cody Johns, district manager of the Gem County Mosquito Abatement District.   Monday evening the Emmett School District Board of Trustees took action to put the District in line to receive as much as $9.2 million dollars… Teachers in the Emmett school district are spending this week in preparation for the arrival of students beginning, Monday, Aug. 19. A core of… The past couple of weeks there has been a marked increase in movement of rail cars through Emmett. Some of those movements have translated int… For eleven-year-old Kira Jo Bade, traveling around the county to play softball has been somewhat of a routine the last few years. The Emmett g… Late Monday the Motorplex at the Mill announced that is has cancelled NASCAR series race that was scheduled for this Saturday afternoon and ev… The August 12 projected date for the new artificial surface football field at Huskie Stadium… The next installment of the NASCAR regional series is headed to the Motorplex at the Mill in… More than 1,200 trucks made Emmett a gathering place last weekend at the annual Truck Invasi… The Boise National Forest is seeking public comments on proposed new and increased fees at m… Over the past couple of years a new sporting opportunity has come to the forefront for high … Sign up today for one of our great newsletters and get headlines right in your inbox every morning.
Sign up now! 1. Building/Zoning Department  Tuesday, August 6, dozens of Emmett kids got a chance to see police cars, ambulances and fire trucks up close and personal. Members of Emmett’… The Gem Senior Community Center is open on weekdays for a nutritious lunch. Dining room meal… 1. Building/Zoning Department  August is Idaho’s Farmers Market Month, and the Emmett Farmers Market invites you to celebra… Infrastructure work has been completed on two commercial developments in Emmett and has begu… The Gem Senior Community Center is open on weekdays for a nutritious lunch. Dining room meal… After a 33-year career as a classroom teacher, I am extremely concerned with the rhetoric from some of my GOP colleagues regarding public school funding.  Here’s something a little different:  Idaho’s Don Quixote has found another windmill to tilt. Attorney General Raul Labrador has just hauled off and, once again, sued one of his ow… We have heard recent claims that Idaho is being invaded by hordes of undocumented immigrants seeking to vote in Idaho elections and grab gover… America’s veterans were willing to give up everything to protect the freedoms we all enjoy, yet they are now seeing promises broken and blatan…  Supporting our localGem County Chamber of Commerce
http://www.emmettidaho.com Supporting our localGem County Chamber of Commerce
http://www.emmettidaho.com Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: