We’re asking our loyal readers to purchase a voluntary subscription because we need your support. Sending reporters to breaking news events, holding the powerful accountable through authoritative investigative reporting, producing journalism that’s relevant to you and reflects the strength, diversity and creativity of Clevelanders is an expensive proposition in the best of times. This is particularly true now. Just as the coronavirus pandemic has hurt other local businesses — and put many of our readers out of work — it’s affected cleveland.com dramatically, too. Advertising, our primary source of online revenue, has been hit hard and is unlikely to simply bounce back when things return to “normal.”  In order to keep doing what we’re committed to doing, we need readers like you — readers who visit cleveland.com frequently and rely on us for trustworthy local reporting — to support us by purchasing subscriptions. Here’s where to get yours. We’re grateful for your support. Just $10 a month. You will be charged monthly unless and until you cancel your subscription. You may cancel your subscription at any time by calling 216-999-6000 or by visiting myaccount.cleveland.com.  Introductory subscription offers are available to new subscribers only. New subscribers are those who have not subscribed within the past 30 days. As many as you want. For now, your support of cleveland.com is voluntary. Your subscription helps us underwrite the work of our reporters and editors. No. If you already subscribe to The Plain Dealer, we thank you for supporting our work. "Subscriber Exclusive" stories represent experienced reporting from a Northeast Ohio perspective you’ll only find on cleveland.com. It’s Ohio journalism about issues that matter to you. You’ll see the Exclusive label on many of the best cleveland.com stories. The number of those stories will change from day to day. Subscribe and log in with your credentials. Subscribers have unlimited access to read all Subscriber Exclusive stories. Please consider subscribing now to support reliable, trusted local journalism. We have heard you, and we have improved our web and app sign in system so it is faster and easier to sign in, and your sign in credentials will be recognized for a longer time. We have improved our compatibility with the password manager that is built into your browser. We have also added “Sign in with Apple” for users who would prefer to log in and purchase a subscription via their Apple account. These instructions will guide you through the login steps for Cleveland.com (direct login link): To create an account (direct create account link): These instructions will guide you through the login steps for the Cleveland.com app: If you have forgotten your password that goes along with your email address, visit this page and request a password reset: https://www.cleveland.com/requestpasswordreset We no longer support signing in using the Twitter or LinkedIn platforms. If your subscription previously used these platforms, please contact support at digitalservice@Cleveland.com, otherwise make a new account via the email, Google, Apple or Facebook options. After signing in with your account, if you visit a “Subscriber Exclusive” story and still cannot read the content, make sure you are signed in with the account that was active when you purchased your digital subscription. If you have signed in with an active subscription account and you are still being blocked from subscriber exclusive content, please contact us via email at digitalservice@Cleveland.com. Thank you for being a subscriber. While cleveland.com subscribers will continue to see some subscription messages initially, the on-site experience may change in the future. In the meantime, for us to know you are a subscriber while you are reading cleveland.com, you need to be signed into the site. To learn how to sign in, see the question above. If you are still seeing subscription messages after you sign in as a subscriber, you may need to clear your browser’s history, cookies and cache. Through its settings, each browser has a different way of clearing this data. Here are YouTube tutorials that show you the way to do it for the most common browsers: Internet Explorer | Chrome | Safari | Firefox. If, after clearing your cookies and cache, you’re still experiencing problems, please email digitalservice@cleveland.com or call 216-999-6000. Unfortunately, no. Our systems see each device you use separately. To enjoy the full benefits of your subscription, you must log in on each of your devices. To cancel, you can manage subscription online at www.cleveland.com/account. Your payment is non-refundable, and your access will continue until the end of your current subscription. To cancel your subscription to The Plain Dealer, please visit myaccount.cleveland.com. You may also call 216-999-6000. 
        Still not finding the answer to your question? Please email digitalservice@cleveland.com or call 216-999-6000 for further assistance. Your satisfaction with cleveland.com is our top priority.
     Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices