For nearly a century, one party has governed Mexico's most populous state. The Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, dominated political life in Mexico for decades by rigging elections, buying off labor unions and suppressing dissent. Even after its nationwide monopoly was broken in 2000, the party maintained a tight grip on power here in the state of Mexico. But in gubernatorial elections Sunday, what was long seen as unthinkable is now widely expected: The party will lose one of its last strongholds. "The extinction of the PRI," as the Mexican media have been putting it, seems in some ways the inevitable result of its long history of corruption and the self-enrichment of its leaders. Read more: Mexican authorities find 45 bags of body parts outside Guadalajara Multiple former PRI governors in other parts of the country have been convicted of graft in recent years, and a news report last week implicated the current governor of the state of Mexico in a $300-million embezzlement scheme. "They made themselves millionaires," said Vito Baltazar, a 66-year-old retiree. "They governed only for themselves." But perhaps a bigger factor in the demise of the PRI is the swift rise of Morena, the party that Baltazar said he plans to vote for. Founded less than a decade ago, the party has taken over much of Mexico. It boasts a wide majority in both chambers of Congress, and with a win in the race for governor here, the party and its allies will control 22 of Mexico's 31 states, along with the federal district of Mexico City. The PRI will probably be left with just two. Read more: Why is AMLO one of the world's most popular politicians? We took a road trip through Mexico to find out Morena has become so dominant that some critics warn that it is ushering Mexico into a new kind of one-party rule — or perhaps one-man rule. The party's success rests squarely on its founder, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, the populist widely known as AMLO whose vows to combat corruption and put the poor first have inspired a fervent following. "AMLO could put a sock puppet up as a candidate and the sock puppet would win," said Carlos Bravo Regidor, a professor at the Center for Economic Research and Teaching, a public institution in Mexico City. "This is obviously about AMLO and the intensity of his support." That seemed clear at a Morena campaign rally on a cloudy morning last week in Jilotepec, a small town north of Mexico City. The president's picture — tan skin, silver hair, prominent front teeth — was everywhere, printed on T-shirts, pins and bags. Vendors hawked AMLO dolls as attendees sporadically broke out into chants of "it's an honor to be with Obrador." Many in the crowd acknowledged that they didn't know much about the gubernatorial candidate, Delfina Gómez, a former schoolteacher and mayor who was once fined by election officials for docking the pay of city workers to raise cash for Morena. Still, polls show Gómez with a double-digit lead over Alejandra del Moral, a lifelong member of the PRI, which has held the governorship for 94 years straight. Gómez is running with a coalition of parties that once opposed the PRI, including the center-right National Action Party and the leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution. That three former enemies have now united in an attempt to defeat Morena says a lot about how the political landscape in Mexico has shifted since López Obrador swept into power in 2018. Read more: At Mexico’s gay cowboy conventions, men connect with each other — and their country's rugged past That year, his party won big nationally and made significant inroads at the local level in the state of Mexico. Morena won even in Atlacomulco, the municipality whose name has long been synonymous with a group of PRI elites, including former President Enrique Peña Nieto. “There have been a lot of presidents that have come from here, but what have they done for us?” asked Katy Montoya, 40, a street vendor of sweet bread in Atlacomulco who voted against the PRI for the first time in 2018 and who plans to support Gómez on Sunday. Like many Mexicans, her favorite policy change under López Obrador is a program that sends cash welfare payments to students, young workers and the elderly. "It's given them dignity," she said of older Mexicans. "With the money they get from the government, they can fix up their homes or come here and buy bread." Support for López Obrador tends to fall along class lines, which helps explain why Morena is so far ahead in polling in the state of Mexico. A sprawling patchwork of suburbs, urban slums, farmland and industry, the state is home to 1 in 8 Mexicans and is an economic powerhouse, contributing 9% to the country's GDP. Yet it is also plagued by crime and hardship, with nearly half of residents living below the poverty line and 9 in 10 reporting that they feel unsafe. "We obviously need a change," said Reina Isabel Reyes, a 22-year-old teacher who like many people here has been the victim of armed robbery on public transportation. "We just want peace." The PRI, meanwhile, has become a party of people who are fearful of the change that López Obrador seems to represent. Catalina Plata Arzate, a 71-year-old resident of Atlacomulco, said she would be voting for the PRI candidate Sunday "because I'm middle class." She suggested that López Obrador's expansion of entitlement programs was leading the country toward communism. “It’s all the people from the bottom who vote for him," Plata said. “They all think he’s the second coming. But we don’t want another Venezuela.” Read more: Mexico’s military gains power as president turns from critic to partner With the PRI likely headed for defeat and the opposition a shambles, many have wondered what it means that Mexico is again dominated by one party. "We do seem to be heading in a way towards a new hegemony," Bravo said. While noting that Morena has won its elections democratically, without the vote-rigging of the PRI, he and other analysts say that the lack of well-organized opposition isn't healthy for the country. Many of López Obrador's proposals have sailed through Congress largely unchallenged, including a controversial measure to keep the army on the streets until 2028, part of the president's larger push toward militarization. The only thing standing in his way on many issues is the Supreme Court, which López Obrador has relentlessly attacked as part of an antidemocratic "mafia of power" that rules in favor of the rich. It's a criticism he tends to levy against anyone, be it a journalist or member of civil society, who dares to critique him. The president's recent efforts to overhaul the country's electoral institute — which critics say would reduce its autonomy and concentrate power in the hands of the ruling party — prompted cries of authoritarianism. At a march in Mexico City opposing the changes, some people held signs calling López Obrador a dictator. Others compared him to the PRI. "I had to live when the PRI was the only party that governed, and we all suffered," said Rosa Maria Velazquez, a 52-year-old who manages a sports club. "AMLO is doing the same. He wants to return Mexico to an old, retrograde, undemocratic country where a single party ruled." López Obrador insists that he will respect Mexico's constitution — which limits presidents to a single six-year term — and will step down next year. The process of choosing Morena's presidential nominee could weaken the party, with followers of the three main hopefuls — Mexico City Mayor Claudia Sheinbaum, Foreign Secretary Marcelo Ebrard and Interior Secretary Adán Augusto López Hernández — already starting to split into camps. Still, polls suggest that a Morena victory is inevitable in 2024. A recent survey predicted that a Morena candidate would win 55% of the vote, compared with 22% for the National Action Party and 14% for the PRI, with the rest of the votes scattered among smaller parties. Jorge Zepeda Patterson, who recently wrote a book about López Obrador, told El Pais newspaper that he thinks the Morena primary process will, in effect, "be the presidential election in Mexico." And although Morena has a formal nominating process, there is no doubt that López Obrador is the one guiding it. "It is not that he is the leader of a party," Zepeda said. "It is that the party practically belongs to him." Cecilia Sánchez Vidal in The Times’ Mexico City bureau contributed to this report. This story originally appeared in Los Angeles Times. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.