Meritus Health is expanding access to care with the opening of a primary care office in downtown Hagerstown for residents living in the North Prospect Street area, according to a news release. The primary care office is part of a downtown "health hub" designed in partnership with Horizon Goodwill Inc., which owns the building. Other services also will be offered through Horizon Goodwill, including a full-service grocery store and more. More on the building:New grocery store on the way to Hagerstown's core; aims to ease 'food desert' The project was made possible through a $435,000 grant from the Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development SEED fund, according to the news release. A portion of the space also is being used for a job training facility, designated as the Pathways to Healthcare program that provides training and job placement made possible by Horizon Goodwill, Meritus and Maryland Physicians Care. “As we look to our ‘Bold Goals’ of significantly reducing health disparities in our community by 2030, we had to address the challenges faced by many downtown residents with access to healthcare,” Miranda Ramsey, vice president of physician services, said in the release. “We’re thankful for our partnership with Horizon Goodwill to be able to make this plan a reality." Meritus Primary Care — Prospect Street, is a walk-in clinic at 200 N. Prospect St. in downtown Hagerstown. For more information on primary care, go to MeritusHealth.com/PrimaryCare. This article originally appeared on The Herald-Mail: Meritus Health, Horizon Goodwill open ‘health hub’ in downtown New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.