IF you’re after a roarsome day out for your little Gruffalo groupie or Zog zealot, look no further. Ahead of the new Gruffalo And Friends Clubhouse opening in Blackpool in May, we have found the best places your little one can get a Julia Donaldson fix, while you take a break from reading the same book on repeat. And where better to start than Warwick Castle. You can’t really top the turrets of a fairytale fortress as the backdrop to a tale about a dragon who dares to be different — and that’s exactly what you’ll find at the Midlands attraction. It has a Zog playground, a trail of activities to win a golden star, the chance to meet the flying doctors and their dragon ambulance and even an outdoor stage show during the summer. It can be tricky keeping older children amused at an attraction aimed at toddlers, but because Warwick Castle has so much to do for all ages, it’s a full day out for all the family and my three boys aged three, eight and ten loved every moment. Make sure you catch the falconry and jousting shows if you decide to take a break from dragon school. For more information, see warwick-castle.com Only have an hour or two to spare but want to keep your little dragon devotee happy? Head to one of Forestry England’s new Zog trails at more than 20 woods around the country. They replace the Superworm ones that had my little one squirming and wiggling along with glee to discover which character and activity was around the next corner. The trails are a great way to get some fresh air and perfect for a stroll with older relatives and babies, thanks to the flat, buggy-friendly routes. See forestryengland.uk/zog for details. If you’re left groaning “Oh help, oh no, it’s the Gruffalo” every time your child reaches for their favourite book, take a visit to the Gruffalo Discovery Land at Twycross Zoo in the Midlands, which opened last summer. You enter the attraction through a butterfly house full of eye-catching insects that bring to life the deep, dark wood, before discovering the book’s characters along a path winding through a reptile house and past an aloof great grey owl, majestically surveying all who pass. But be warned, this attraction is firmly aimed at pre-schoolers, with not much to hold the interest of older kids until you get into the main zoo, which is included in the ticket price. The Gruffalo and Room On The Broom attractions at Chessington World of Adventures are both excellent for a first theme park experience. Take a gentle indoor boat ride with all the family to see Mouse, Fox, Owl and Snake discover there really is such a thing as a Gruffalo. If magic is more your thing, you can even be the star of your own film, thanks to an animated adventure experience near the Room On The Broom Magical Journey. See chessington.com. Keep an eye out for theatre shows aimed at pre-schoolers touring this spring. It can be nerve-racking taking little ones to the theatre, but these shows are designed to capture their imagination by staging a familiar story in a new way. I took my older two when they were both tiny and no-one bats an eyelid if they chat or or wriggle all the way through. This year, Tall Stories are touring with the Snail And The Whale and Room On The Broom, both of which we thoroughly enjoyed. I’m hoping to catch The Smeds And The Smoos show with my smallest in soon. Zog is currently winging his way around theatres across the UK.  And Stick Man will be back in London over Christmas, with the Gruffalo appearing on stage at Warwick Arts Centre in December too. So why not take your little bookworm on a storybook adventure this spring — before they are on to the next chapter of childhood? ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/