Last Thursday (May 11), Nafe Smallz dropped off a new single titled “Nostalgic.” Produced by Eight, Harry Beech, and Sean Murdz, the track sees the Luton star delivering melodic raps about his high-end lifestyle, a wild relationship, and more. “Two hours late, but I bet that she waited, I walk in the door, ain’t no question I’m faded, dressin’ impressive on every occasion, but she know I love it the best when she naked, she know I love it the best when she home, yeah, she know I love it the best when she moan, brand new chinchilla, that mink is on me, I hop out the Lamb’ with them blinkers on, we started f**kin’, she think she know me, bet she doesn’t know ’bout that s**t I’m on, I left the stress in the spliff, I traded my pain with the styrofoam…” The accompanying clip for “Nostalgic” comes courtesy of Kyerector and Atum Media and mainly takes place at a lavish residence with a driveway full of high-end cars. Throughout, viewers can see Smallz counting money at a table, hanging with his crew, and going through the ups and down with a love interest. Back in May of 2022, Smallz liberated his most recent body of work, Legacy, a 16-song offering with additional features from Young T & Bugsey, Lil Tjay, Unknown T, and D-Block Europe. Since then, he’s continued his momentum with quality cuts like “Sex On The Moon,” “Hypnotised” with Tiny Boost, and “Groupie” with Krept & Konan. Outside of his own work, the “Home Run” talent could also be heard on drops like ​wewantwraiths’ “Most Wanted,” Young Cardi’s “STARGAZING,” Lil Berete’s “I C Y,” Rita Ora’s “You Only Love Me (Zdot Remix),” and Nines’ “Different League.” Press play on Nafe Smallz’s “Nostalgic” video below. Trending Stories Ice Spice and Nicki Minaj channel "Princess Diana" in new visual Lil Durk announces the Durk Banks Endowment Fund with Howard University Drake responds to viral AI "Munch" cover New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.