Accused quadruple murderer Bryan Kohberger is driving one woman crazy — in love.  Brittney Hislope insists he’s the “perfect man” for her. “My love interest … is named Bryan and is accused of murder, and I just wish to connect with him above anyone else,” the 35-year-old Kentucky single mom of a 16-year-old son gushed in one of her many Facebook posts about Kohberger, whom she has never met or communicated with. “One way to describe my feelings for him over the last week or so … is kind of like being lovesick.” Hislope began posting publicly about her infatuation on Jan. 4 — just five days after Kohberger was arrested in the fatal Nov. 13 stabbings of four college students in Moscow, Idaho.  Hislope, who repeatedly points to her and Kohberger’s astrological signs — they are both Scorpios — and birth charts as explaining why he could be her “divine masculine counterpart,” isn’t just drawn to the former criminology PhD student for his smarts and quiet courtroom demeanor.  “When it shows the love making scene between the man and the woman that are two different characters in the movie, although it’s not very explicit, I’d want to be with my love interest Bryan in those ways,” she wrote, bizarrely referring to a scene in the 1987 vampire film “The Lost Boys” between actors Jason Patric and Jami Gertz. Kohberger isn’t the first jailbird Hislope has pursued, having previously pined for local convicted killer Cody Hall, 33, who fatally shot a 50-year-old man in Pulaski County, KY, in 2017, before attacking his sister and another woman with a machete.   ​​“I visited him, put money in his [commissary] account, wrote him letters, and I wanted to be in a loyal, commited [sic] relationship with him,” she reminisced in 2018 about Hall, who wound up blocking her from visiting him in jail. “When I say I was in love with him, I mean I was completely and truly in love with him.” In addition to her daily diaristic postings, Hislope claims to have sent letters to Kohberger in Latah County Jail about her amorous intentions along with pictures of herself dolled up. “With me being deprived of a love and sex life for so long, and only wanting one with someone I truly want wholeheartedly, with my feelings for Bryan I’ve had to be true to myself in reaching out to him,” Hislope wrote in a cringey post last month.  Capt. Shane Anderson of Latah County Sheriff’s Office declined to confirm whether Kohberger has received any mail from his not-so-secret admirer.  Kohberger is currently facing four counts of first-degree murder for allegedly killing Kaylee Goncalves, 21, Madison Mogen, 21, Xana Kernodle, 20, and Ethan Chapin, 20. He has yet to enter a plea deal, but one of his lawyer’s previously said that Kohberger “is eager to be exonerated.” He is due back in court on June 26.  Hislope did not respond to multiple requests for comment. Family members could not be reached for comment.  Advertisement