Fan behavior, but the good kind. Instagram/kourtney kardashian Kourtney Kardashian may look borderline unrecognizable in her latest Instagram post (thanks to her brand new honey blonde hair), but one thing remains for certain: She’s just as supportive to her husband Travis Barker as ever. On Sunday, the Poosh founder got over the Sunday scaries by sharing a glam photo dump with her 214 million followers detailing a weekend spent playing the slots in Las Vegas. While we could hardly see past Kourtney’s stunning new ‘do (courtesy of celebrity hairstylist Glen Coco Oropeza) that she originally debuted on her Instagram account just a day prior, her outfit refused to be ignored. In the snaps, Kardashian gave a subtle shoutout to Barker by posing in front of a slot machine in an oversized white Blink-182 T-shirt. Related:Kourtney Kardashian’s Latest Monochromatic Look Is Giving Latex Easter Peep She paired the slouchy tee with a black latex micro-miniskirt and knee-high black leather boots, and she added a pair of coordinating sunglasses (yes, even indoors) for the ultimate cool girl touch. The A-lister wore her aforementioned blonde chin-grazing bob down straight with a deep side part, and she opted for a bronzy glam complete with a pink lip. “Every now and then when your life gets complicated and the weasels start closing in, the only cure is to load up on heinous chemicals and then drive like a bastard from Hollywood to Las Vegas ... with the music at top volume and at least a pint of ether,” Kourt captioned the post, referencing the movie Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. Instagram/kourtney kardashian Finding the caption a bit confusing, Kourtney’s sister Khloé Kardashian quickly took to the post’s comments to voice what we all were thinking: “I have no idea what this caption means, but I love your hair with a side flip!” she wrote. For more InStyle news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on InStyle. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.