You will be able to share this link with anyone and everyone, even on social media.
* Please fill out the form below in order to receive your shareable link. You will be able to share this link with anyone and everyone, even on social media. * Please fill out the form below in order to receive your shareable link.   After getting his start in sports at ESPN, Shaw worked on sports partnerships at Groupon and at Amazon’s ticketing vertical before joining the Miami Marlins in 2018 to lead the team’s customer engagement strategy. He was recognized at the 2021 National Sports Inclusion Conference as one of the Top Diverse Leaders in Sports. The Marlins promoted Shaw to senior vice president and head of brand, experience and innovation in 2021, and he worked with Nike on the team’s popular City Connect uniforms. He joined the Dolphins in October and oversees the organization’s marketing, video, brand assets and creative strategies. In concluding your first season with the Miami Dolphins, how will you be leveraging your experience for 2023? I’m extremely excited about the present success and future opportunities for the organization. During the offseason, our marketing team will use content to deepen the connection between our players and the fans. We have an amazing opportunity to elevate the current buzz around our team in anticipation of the 2023 season. What’s been the highlight of your time so far with the Dolphins? The walk-off field goal to win and clinch our spot in the playoffs Week 18 at home in front of our fans was pretty special.  What is the biggest risk you’ve taken in your career? I worked with Nike to lead the inaugural MLB City Connect uniform design for the Marlins. I believe most fans were hoping and expecting a design inspired by their championship throwback uniforms. The throwback design would have been awesome — but it was expected. Instead, we highlighted the legacy of Latin America and baseball and honored the heritage of the Cuban Sugar Kings. The response from the fans was overwhelmingly positive. The jerseys sold out in days. I’m grateful that the city embraced the bold new look. What career advice do you have for a young person or student wanting to work in sports business? You cannot control outcomes but you can control your effort and intentions. Either win or learn. You only lose if you don’t learn from your experiences. Become passionate about adding value and helping others succeed. What sports business story are you watching most closely? Due to the changing landscape of the work ecosystem that allows more people to live in any market and work remotely, how sports teams market to the influx of new consumers in their area and/or how they stay connected to the fans who have moved away to another city and are now displaced and out of market. Age: 43
New title, organization: Vice President of Brand Marketing, Miami Dolphins, Formula One Crypto.com Miami Grand Prix, Miami Open and Hard Rock Stadium
Previous title, organization: Senior Vice President of Brand, Experience, Innovation, Miami Marlins
First job: After college — grassroots coordinator for a U.S. senatorial campaign in Chicago. First sports job — part of the programming and acquisitions group at ESPN (negotiated content agreements, managed professional league relationships, and assisted with the development of the NBA schedule on ESPN and ABC).
College education: B.A., business administration, with marketing minor, Middle Tennessee State University
Resides: Davie, Fla.
Family: Wife, Janice; pet, Cambridge (6-pound, mini Yorkie, 9 years old)   Venu Sports on hold; NASCAR shifts gear on the Clash and the USL Super League launches to solid crowds and reception 

 Shareable URL copied to clipboard! https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Journal/Issues/2023/02/13/People/closeup.aspx Sorry, something went wrong with the copy but here is the link for you. https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Journal/Issues/2023/02/13/People/closeup.aspx Register for a free SBJ account to unlock one extra article per month.  © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ weekly content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ daily content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: