No matter much her stardom grows, Tiffany Haddish continues to be the Groupon queen. After taking her Girls Trip co-stars on a Groupon swamp tour in New Orleans back in 2016, Haddish treated herself to a Groupon ghost tour while filming Disney's upcoming film Haunted Mansion. In an interview with Entertainment Weekly, the 43-year-old shared, "I did the haunted walking tour. I had got a Groupon. None of the cast went with me, but my team, my hair and makeup, my assistant." She added, "I do everything with a Groupon." >>> Sign up for Parade's Trending News newsletter and we'll keep you in the know on the viral pop culture moments and celebrity news everyone is talking about <<< We can only imagine the delight the guide must've felt seeing a Hollywood comedian show up with her entourage. The actress, who was interviewed alongside co-star Jamie Lee Curtis, was asked by the Oscar winner for more details on the excursion. "It was a walking one. It was five of us, it was only, like, $100," clarified the Afterparty star. Curtis responded in disbelief, remarking, "I'm sorry, I'm just going to go back: Tiffany Haddish did a Groupon ghost tour. I'm just saying, this is a reality show that I would pay good money to watch." Sadly, Haddish confirmed she didn't encounter any grim grinning ghosts on the tour, but her Haunted Mansion character is very familiar with the spirit realm. In the movie, Haddish portrays Harriet, a psychic hired by single mom Gabbie (Rosario Dawson) to expel the possessed home's ghosts. The flick hits theaters on July 26, 2023. Next: Tiffany Haddish Reveals Why She Turned Down a $10 Million Offer New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.