Amazon Prime is so much more than next-day delivery. With access to Prime Day, Prime Video, Amazon Music and exclusive deals, it’s an unbeatable service. Here are the best Amazon Prime deals available now. You probably know what Amazon Prime is all about by now. When you hear its name, your thoughts might first go to quick delivery or technology deals – but that’s just the tip of the iceberg. First launching back in 2005, Amazon Prime has become the standard by which many delivery and entertainment companies try to live up to, and it’s constantly innovating and changing what’s on offer. Its biggest draw is of course next-day and same-day deliveries, but there’s also access to hundreds of items and services that you can’t find anywhere else. At £8.99 a month, Prime members can also enjoy exclusive deals on technology and Amazon devices such as the Amazon Echo range. They can listen to over 2 million ad-free songs with Amazon Music, get access to a rotating selection of eBooks and magazines with Prime Reading, and watch hundreds of TV shows and movies on Prime Video. Amazon also recently added a free year of Deliveroo Plus to its roster, as well as two Odeon Cinema tickets for £10 and one year of free Hello Fresh delivery. You can even get unlimited photo storage and take advantage of the try-before-you-buy system on Prime Wardrobe. Below, you’ll find some of the best ways you can sign up for Amazon Prime for less. Whether you want to go through Amazon with the free trial, find cheaper subscription packages on offer, or go through another company to get your discount, we’ve got all the information you need. Sign up for Amazon Prime for £8.99 a month For more Amazon content, check out our guide to Amazon Prime Video, or take a look at the best Amazon Echo deals and Amazon Fire Stick deals.  What’s the deal: You can get a one-month free trial of Audible when you sign up to the service, which allows you to access thousands of the latest audiobooks and podcasts. Why we chose it: Audible normally costs you £7.99 a month, so this way you're saving £15.98 on all the best and latest titles. Get one month of Audible for free What's the deal: Good news for students and young people: you can now an Amazon Prime subscription for 50 per cent less, taking the monthly price down to £4.49 or £47.49 per year. Not only that, you'll get the first six months completely free. Why we chose it: This deal will get you all the benefits of Amazon Prime for half the cost. We're talking free next-day delivery, access to services like Prime Video and Amazon Music, discounted Odeon cinema tickets and more. Get 50% off Amazon Prime for 18-22 year olds What’s the deal: Sign up for Amazon Prime Gaming and you'll get your first month entirely free. Why we chose it: Games are getting increasingly expensive these days, so any ways you can save on the latest titles, from indie to Triple AAA, is a win in our book. Not only that, you can also reap a range of benefits, including playing games across your devices. Get a one-month free trial of Prime Gaming  What’s the deal: Anyone who wants to sign up for Amazon Prime can get a whole 30 days for free. To sign up, all you have to do is go to Amazon Prime and select 'Try Prime', then you simply have to fill in your payment and contact details. You can cancel the trial at any time, but if you don’t by the end of 30 days, your subscription will automatically renew and take £8.99 from your bank account. Why we chose it: If you’re not sure whether the Prime life is for you, you get a whole month to test it out and see if it really has an impact on your day-to-day. If not, you can always cancel it and go back to waiting three to five days for delivery. Get 30 days for free with Amazon Prime free trial For even more on Amazon, take a look at our Amazon Kids+ subscription guide. What’s the deal: Amazon has teamed up with Microsoft Surface to give students a whopping six months of Amazon Prime for free. With Prime Student, you can get exclusive deals aimed at university students, such as 10 per cent off textbooks and fashion. After six months, your subscription will automatically renew to a paid subscription, but even then it’s only £4.49 a month. But beware – to sign up you’ll need to show proof of your enrolment in higher education, and when your three years at university are over, it will upgrade to the £8.99 subscription. Why we chose it: Let’s be honest, university is expensive. With loans, accommodation and all the study materials, every penny you can save is a lifeline. So, with Prime Student, getting a whole six months for free before going on to pay less than £5 a month is an incredible bargain. Get six months’ Amazon Prime for free with Prime Student Students! While you're here be sure to check out the best university tech essentials and the best laptop deals.  What’s the deal: Simply choosing the Amazon Prime yearly subscription can get you a great saving. If you select the £8.99 a month plan, your yearly costs add up to £107.88, but with the annual plan you’re only spending £95. That’s an 11 per cent saving on everything Amazon Prime has to offer, including books, gaming, and fast delivery. Why we chose it: If you know you’re likely to stick with Amazon for a year then this is a great option for you. Save 11% with Amazon Prime yearly subscription What’s the deal: For £5.99 a month, you can subscribe just to Amazon Prime Video and have access to hundreds of movies as well as Amazon’s Original series. This includes the likes of Jack Ryan, The Rings of Power and Clarkson’s Farm, as well as a massive back catalogue of classic shows and films. For more information about Amazon Prime Video, check out our handy guide. Why we chose it: If you don’t need super-fast delivery and just fancy watching a bit of Good Omens, then this is a 30 per cent saving that gives you dozens of great watches and doesn’t lump you with any unnecessary add-ons. Save 30% every month with Amazon Prime Video What's the deal: If you want the latest deals, check out our Technology newsletter. Every fortnight we publish a round-up of the latest offers on streaming, gaming and hardware, including Amazon Prime. Why we chose it: What's better than a list of the latest deals and discounts delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up for our newsletter to receive the latest reviews, insights and offers, covering everything from TVs to new gaming tech. By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. What's the deal: Amazon Prime Video is now offering Discovery Plus Premium to all Prime members for an additional £30.99 a month. With this, you'll have access to all TNT Sports channels alongside Amazon Prime's own catalogue of live sport (which includes Premier League football and tennis). Plus, if you sign up to Amazon Prime and Discovery Plus Premium now, you'll get a 30-day free trial. Why we chose it: In one package you can access everything from Prime Video films to the latest rugby matches. And a 30-day free trial means you have time to decide if it's right for you. Sign up to Discovery Plus Premium through Amazon Prime What’s the deal: Looking for a gift for the person who has everything? Then why not give them everything with a £95 Amazon Gift Card? Once your recipient has their gift card, all they have to do is select "gift card balance" when paying for their Amazon Prime subscription and they’ll have a year of free Prime. Why we chose it: It’s a thoughtful present that gives your loved one a whole year of stress-free deliveries, Amazon video content and more. Give 12-month Amazon Prime Gift Card for £95 What’s the deal: If you choose from select O2 devices or switch to an O2 SIM-only plan, you can get six months of Amazon Prime for free. You can also choose to get Amazon Music Unlimited or Audible instead, all of which will automatically renew to their subscription prices after six months. Why we chose it: If you're on the lookout for a SIM or you're an O2 customer renewing, this is an easy way to bag yourself some free extras. Get six months’ Amazon Prime for free with an O2 SIM What’s the deal: Existing O2 customers can add Amazon Prime to their bill and get a £2 a month Airtime discount. It’s available for all those on Pay Monthly Refresh Tariffs and people with SIM-only 12-, 18- and 24-month contracts. Why we chose it: £2 a month might not seem like much, but in total it’s a 22 per cent saving on Amazon Prime costs. Save £2 a month on Amazon Prime for existing O2 customers What’s the deal: With select Vodafone phone plans and SIM-only deals, you can get an Entertainment plan which includes YouTube Premium, Spotify, or Amazon Prime. Right now you can get three months of Amazon Prime for just £1. Why we chose it: The entertainment plan is a great way to wrap up all your costs into one monthly phone bill. You can get a whole two years of Prime as well as unlimited data, 5G and a whole host of other benefits. Get three months’ Amazon Prime for £1 with select Vodafone plans What’s the deal: If you recommend the mobile phone network Voxi to a friend, you’ll both get up to £20 in vouchers for Amazon, PayPal or Just Eat. All you have to do is send the unique referral link you got when you joined Voxi to a friend, who will then use it to buy a SIM. Then, once your friend has been part of Voxi for two months, you’ll both get your choice of Amazon.co.uk, PayPal or Just Eat rewards emailed to you. Why we chose it: £20 can be used to take a chunk out of your Amazon Prime yearly costs. Or, if you and your friend pool your £40 together, that’s only £55 left to pay for an annual subscription. Recommend Voxi to a friend and get £20 Amazon Voucher What’s the deal: Groupon is constantly running discounts for Amazon. Whether it’s Prime, Kindle or baby products, there’ll be something useful for you on there. Why we chose it: There’s always something you can save money on, and with Groupon, you can stay on top of all the best Amazon savings. Get Amazon discount codes at Groupon For more great savings, keep an eye on our Technology section where we have everything from the best TNT Sports offers for this month to the best LEGO deals.  Try 10 issues for just £10! Sign up to our reader offer newsletters and be entered into a monthly prize draw. August's prize is a Roberts Play 11 radio. Rising house prices make equity release more attractive to homeowners. Get a free guide and find out if equity release could work for you. Sign up to receive our newsletter! By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time.