If you are in need of some relaxation and pampering this autumn, one "peaceful" spa just 30 minutes out of Glasgow is currently available to book for nearly half price. When you are feeling low or rundown, there is nothing like being pampered for a few hours. Fortunately, all across Scotland there are countless spas and leisure facilities that can melt your stress away. Some can even be booked for a bargain price, if you know where to look. One of these is Peak Spa near Glasgow, in the former industrial town of Airdrie. Around just a 30-minute drive from the centre of Scotland's largest city, it is perfectly situated for a day out. At the moment, a Spa Day with 30-Minute Treatment and Lunch for One can be booked through Groupon for £29.95 — 43 per cent off the standard price of £52.95. Meanwhile, the same deal for two can be nabbed for £56.95, which is a 46 per cent discount. Scotland's 'National Book Town' is peaceful spot perfect for autumn day out Included in the deal is a 30-minute spa treatment, a day pass to the spa, and a "delightful" lunch. The latter consists of a premium sandwich, any drink, and a snack from the venue's Peekaboo Cafe. Among the facilities at the spa are a jacuzzi, a steam room, a sauna, a lounge area, and an "endless pool". Treatments include full body exfoliations, facials, and massages. The Groupon page for the deal states: "Peak Spa is a hidden gem of tranquility and rejuvenation. This luxurious oasis offers a range of exquisite spa treatments designed to soothe the mind, body, and soul. "From invigorating massages to refreshing facials, our skilled therapists are dedicated to providing a personalised wellness experience. Whether you seek relaxation, revitalisation, or simply a peaceful escape, Peak Spa promises a serene haven for your wellness journey." More details about the deal can be found on the Groupon website. Meanwhile, for anyone keen for an even more luxurious treat this autumn, one Perthshire hotel has just been named among the best in the world.  Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our newsletter here.