Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Teena Jose
          

            Mar 16, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Lending Infratech and asset collateralization API Fintech Company Finsire' has raised $1.3M in seed funding from strategic investors. The round saw participation from iSeed, Spark Capital, Devx, 1947 Rise, Adept ventures, Portal Angel Investors, Purple Matters, DeVC India, Lets Ventures, Shashank Kumar and Harshil Mathur, (co-founders of Razorpay) and Mars Shot Ventures, (co- founder of M2P Fintech), MadhuR, Prabhu R and Muthu A, Lalit Keshre,( CEO Groww), Maninder G, (CSO, OYO), Justin Caldbeck, (co-founder Binary Capital), Abhinav Sinha, (COO and CPO, OYO), Mohan K, (co-founder and CEO, IppoPay), Pratekk Agarwal from Growthcap Ventures, Abhishek Goyal, (Tracxn, founder), Abhishek Rungta, (founder, Indus Net Tech), Rahul Mathur, (founder,Verak), Meet Semlani, (co-founder,Tartan), Amit Goel, (founder, Medici). "Excited to build the digitized secured infrastructure for India. Once in a lifetime opportunity for us; Indian households hold over 14 trillion dollars in assets, and global households' assets are over 400 trillion dollars. Today these assets are extremely hard to pledge. The idea is to allow the asset holder to do what they wish to do with these assets," Shreyans Nahar, CEO and co-founder of Finsire, Finsire is Lending Infrastructure tech to collateralize digital assets. The company focused on building and digitizing the Infra rails from various assets and innovating in this space with asset originators, depositaries and lenders. "Finsire is building the secured credit Infrastructure for India by collateralizing the vast majority of the assets available in the country. Digitizing these is a long game. I am super excited that Shreyans decided to move back to India to build Finsire from India," said Shiva Singh Sangwan, founder, 1947Rise. News Desk Reporter with Entrepreneur India 
          In a world where everyone is looking for the secret to success, the truth is there's no easy answer. A key is embracing a flexible mentality.
         
          Arsha Jones, founder and CEO of Capital City Mambo Sauce, wanted to satisfy a very specific craving — and it led to a seven-figure business.
         
          Taking your business idea from "what if" to "wow" requires trusting your instincts and embracing the failures. 
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          As an investor in both OpenAI and xAI, I continuously ask myself the ethical ramifications of this new technology, how intelligent it is and whether it is the best path forward for humanity.
         
          A new survey found sharp contrasts between what Gen Z, millennials, Gen X and Baby Boomers want to do when traveling. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
