Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Gabrielle Bienasz
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Jessica Thomas
              


            Feb 1, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   Keith Stonehouse wasn't paying attention — and 6-year-old Mason took advantage. The small resident of Chesterfield, Michigan, a township near Detroit, was hanging out with his dad on a Saturday evening in January when he obtained his phone. "He took my phone to play, and I wasn't paying attention. I was watching my show," Keith told FOX 2 Detroit. Mason ended up ordering nearly $1,000 worth of food, according to the outlet. Grubhub "got wind" of what happened and gave the family an equivalent gift card, the outlet wrote. He's hardly the first kid, accidentally or on purpose, to take advantage of tech-enabled solutions for ordering food or playing games. Uber Eats refunded a family whose 4-year-old son ordered over 1,000 Australian dollars in ice cream, per The Irish Times. Related: Toddler Accidentally Charges $2,000 at Walmart, Goes on Shopping Spree For Mason's part, he went on the Grubhub app and got cooking. He ordered shrimp from Happy's Pizzas (the restaurant has several shrimp dishes on its menu), chicken sandwiches from Shawarma Yes! Bar & Grill, and Leo's Coney Island ice cream, which is Keith's favorite, the outlet reported. Then, the orders started coming. Footage from the Stonehouse's Ring camera shows driver after driver bringing or dropping off deliveries, per FOX. Keith didn't think anything of it at first. "My wife has a bakery, and people are always dropping off stuff from weddings or events," he told the outlet. Then, it kept happening. "Cars are coming in the driveway while cars are leaving the driveway," he said, and then he saw a fraud alert from Chase inquiring about a $439 charge for Happy's Pizza. One thing could be unique about Mason's story: He tipped 25% on every order. After the incident, Mason said he had his piggy bank emptied from $115 to one cent. His lesson? "Only one," he told the reporter. "They took my money." "This is my lesson, first and foremost, and hopefully parents out there see and learn from this," Keith said. 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          Streamline operations, access AI updates, and stay secure with this duo.
         
          Generative AI can give us mountains of information on any topic under the sun in seconds — but is it any good at marketing? I had to find out.
         
          Save up to 90% on domestic and international flights forever.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          The former President reported the assets in a regulatory financial filing on Thursday.
         
          Implementing a major change to a business, used to happen once a decade, but with advancements in artificial intelligence and digital transformation, businesses are having to pivot frequently. Here's why it's important to consult with your front line employees. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
