e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 1. Postmates/Uber Eatspostmates.com; ubereats.comWhen Uber bought Postmates in 2020, it was while the company’s food delivery app, Uber Eats, was enjoying a 30-percent jump in customers during the first months of the COVID-19 pandemic. But regardless of who’s dropping the food at your door or office, readers placed them at the top of this year’s poll.Uber Eats might have already made the ultimately delivery, when it partnered with a Japanese billionaire and completed the first food delivery straight up, to the International Space Station in December 2021.The app’s main appeal is availability and the choices in restaurants, which is more than 6,000 restaurants in thousands of cities around the world. It’s also recently added options for alcohol — the company acquired Drizly in 2021 — and prescription drugs — in a partnership with Nimble — giving Uber Eats users the ability to have someone pick up and drop off their groceries, prescription meds, dinner and a Slurpee while they … do something else.Users can also get a ride and delivery services via the Uber One membership, which also includes free delivery on certain orders, discounted rides and various other perks. Postmates, which still exists as a brand, has its own version of this, called Postmates Unlimited, offering users free delivery on virtually everything for a monthly fee. Perks likely include discounts on Uber rides.— Shawn Price2. Door Dash

doordash.comDoordash remains the country’s most popular food delivery app, with an estimated 20 million users placing at least one order a month.Early during the COVID-19 pandemic, Doordash offered gloves and hand sanitizer to its drivers while changing its default drop off to a contactless delivery and saw its business explode. In late 2020, the platform was used by 450,000 merchants, 20 million consumers, and one million delivery drivers.The app uses an algorithm that can determine the best delivery route. The system can change parameters like the number of available delivery people, the time of day, and can even anticipate the amount of food likely to be ordered.DoorDash launched ProjectDash in partnership with various food security organizations to deliver food to the needy, and Main Street Strong in partnership with the National Urban League to help restaurants struggling during the pandemic.3. Grubhubgrubhub.comFounded in Chicago in 2004, Grubhub had revenue of nearly $2 billion in 2020, likely due in large part to the explosion of food delivery apps during the COVID-19 pandemic.About the same time, Grubhub had 19.9 million active users, with 115,000 associated restaurants in 3,200 cities in all 50 US states. The app allows users to order food or alcohol, and its Restaurant Strong fund supports local restaurants hurt by the pandemic.In February 2020, the company launch its Grubhub+ monthly subscription program, which offers unlimited free food delivery from participating restaurants, as well as other perks for one monthly fee.Amazon also partnered with parent company Just Eat to offer Prime customers free Grubhub+ membership for a year, allowing some to have doughnuts, dumplings and dishwashers all delivered to the door.The company has also partnered with Russian tech company Yandex to add robotic food deliveries at certain colleges. postmates.com; ubereats.com When Uber bought Postmates in 2020, it was while the company’s food delivery app, Uber Eats, was enjoying a 30-percent jump in customers during the first months of the COVID-19 pandemic. But regardless of who’s dropping the food at your door or office, readers placed them at the top of this year’s poll. Uber Eats might have already made the ultimately delivery, when it partnered with a Japanese billionaire and completed the first food delivery straight up, to the International Space Station in December 2021. The app’s main appeal is availability and the choices in restaurants, which is more than 6,000 restaurants in thousands of cities around the world. It’s also recently added options for alcohol — the company acquired Drizly in 2021 — and prescription drugs — in a partnership with Nimble — giving Uber Eats users the ability to have someone pick up and drop off their groceries, prescription meds, dinner and a Slurpee while they … do something else. Users can also get a ride and delivery services via the Uber One membership, which also includes free delivery on certain orders, discounted rides and various other perks. Postmates, which still exists as a brand, has its own version of this, called Postmates Unlimited, offering users free delivery on virtually everything for a monthly fee. Perks likely include discounts on Uber rides. — Shawn Price 2. Door Dash doordash.com Doordash remains the country’s most popular food delivery app, with an estimated 20 million users placing at least one order a month. Early during the COVID-19 pandemic, Doordash offered gloves and hand sanitizer to its drivers while changing its default drop off to a contactless delivery and saw its business explode. In late 2020, the platform was used by 450,000 merchants, 20 million consumers, and one million delivery drivers. The app uses an algorithm that can determine the best delivery route. The system can change parameters like the number of available delivery people, the time of day, and can even anticipate the amount of food likely to be ordered. DoorDash launched ProjectDash in partnership with various food security organizations to deliver food to the needy, and Main Street Strong in partnership with the National Urban League to help restaurants struggling during the pandemic. 3. Grubhub grubhub.com Founded in Chicago in 2004, Grubhub had revenue of nearly $2 billion in 2020, likely due in large part to the explosion of food delivery apps during the COVID-19 pandemic. About the same time, Grubhub had 19.9 million active users, with 115,000 associated restaurants in 3,200 cities in all 50 US states. The app allows users to order food or alcohol, and its Restaurant Strong fund supports local restaurants hurt by the pandemic. In February 2020, the company launch its Grubhub+ monthly subscription program, which offers unlimited free food delivery from participating restaurants, as well as other perks for one monthly fee. Amazon also partnered with parent company Just Eat to offer Prime customers free Grubhub+ membership for a year, allowing some to have doughnuts, dumplings and dishwashers all delivered to the door. The company has also partnered with Russian tech company Yandex to add robotic food deliveries at certain colleges. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group