Take-out food devotees who want plastic utensils and other freebies with their order-in meals will soon have to request them under a new law Mayor Adams approved on Wednesday. The so-called “Skip the Stuff” law, which was sponsored by Bronx Councilwoman Marjorie Velázquez, prohibits restaurants and any other businesses that deliver food from providing utensils, condiment packets, napkins or extra food containers unless those items are specifically requested when an order is made. The aim is to reduce unnecessary plastic waste, and the law’s main provisions are set to go into effect in six months. “Our goal is to constantly look at how do we to remove trash from our environment, and this is a brilliant way to do so,” Adams said in City Hall just minutes before signing the Council-approved bill into law. “This bill makes our city cleaner, more sustainable and waste free.” In addition to restaurants that run their own delivery operations, the new law covers apps such as Grubhub and Uber Eats that make food deliveries on behalf of restaurants and also makes them subject to the same fines take-out joints could be slapped with in the event of a violation. Under the law, app-based take-out delivery services are required to provide an option for customers to request utensils, condiments, napkins and additional containers to eat from. The default option must be that none of those items are provided unless requested. A first-time violation carries a potential fine of $100, with subsequent violations subject to $200 and $300 tickets. But the law also offers a grace period for violations that occur before July 1 of this year. How much of an impact it will have remains unclear, and advocates for a cleaner environment have described the challenge in daunting terms. But Velázquez and Eric Goldstein, an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said Wednesday that the law is a step in the right direction. “According to the Sanitation Department, more than 20,000 tons a year of unused, unwanted plastic foodware is discarded every year. Much of it goes to landfills and incinerators, which are environmentally troublesome,” Goldstein said. “The ‘Skip the Stuff’ legislation is an answer to that problem.” New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.