Affiliate links on Android Authority may earn us a commission. Learn more. Published onJuly 31, 2023 If you want to switch to a contract-free prepaid carrier in the US, Boost Mobile is one of the best options around. It has a wide range of premium and affordable smartphones available and provides many deals on devices and plans. The Sprint and T-Mobile merger resulted in one major change for the best Boost Mobile deals — the MVNO is now part of Dish Network. In other words, Boost is going to be around for a while. We still highly recommend the carrier and feel that now is a great time to sign up, as there are plenty of solid deals to be had this month.  Editor’s note: We’ll be updating this list of the best Boost Mobile deals regularly as new ones are announced. Boost wants your custom, and it has some tantalizing offers on plans right now to go about getting it. One of the most eye-catching deals is the $5 per month plan. New customers can pay just $15 to get three months of service on this plan. It’s usually priced at $15 per month, and that’s the price it reverts to after your trial period, but there’s no obligation to continue after you’ve enjoyed the savings for a few months. That means you’re saving 66% on the regular charge. Despite the low cost, the plan offers 5GB of 4G or 5G data, plus unlimited calls and texts. You’ll find a number of nice Android smartphones subject to significant discounts below, but we were particularly drawn to this offer on the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 3. Though not the latest Z Fold device anymore, it’s still a device that offers great aesthetics and functionality in equal measure. At $800 off in this deal, it’s worth considering.  The Galaxy Z Fold 3 is a premium phone with a massive 7.6-inch Dynamic AMOLED Infinity X display. It has a 6.2-inch cover display, the Snapdragon 888 processor, 12GB of RAM, and 256GB of storage. It also takes great shots thanks to a 108MP triple-lens rear camera, with a 10MP front-facing camera for selfies. It supports the S Pen and is future-proofed with Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.2 support. This deal doesn’t require signing up for any service contract, so while the phone isn’t fully unlocked, you’re not committed to Boost Mobile. If you do want to subscribe to one of the affordable prepaid plans, then you’ll be able to bring your old number to the carrier. Boost Mobile offers some impressive instant deals on smartphones, especially on Android phones. Here are some of the highlights: If none of the phones above match what you’re looking for, there are other Android options as well. You can see the complete list of devices on sale by clicking on the button below. If you prefer iOS, Boost Mobile has you covered with even more deals, although they don’t quite compete with the Android offerings. Some of these options may be out of stock, depending on when you check them out. If they are, contact your nearest Boost Mobile store to see if they have the device in-store. If you want to check out more Apple devices, click on the button below. There you have it — these are the best Boost Mobile deals currently available. We’ll update this post with new ones once they release.