Although pepper exports to the United States, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), India, Germany, the Netherlands, and the UK experienced a decline in March, exports to Singapore, Turkey, and Egypt markets witnessed three to four-digit growth. In the first quarter of the year, pepper exports to the US, Germany, Netherlands, and UK markets decreased, while pepper exports to the markets of the UAE, the Philippines, Turkey, and Egypt increased sharply. Experts pointed out that the global pepper price will not experience strong fluctuations moving forward, adding that an abundant supply source of pepper and rising import demand from China and several other markets are predicted to offset the decline of the US and EU markets. Vietnamese pepper exports are anticipated to rebound in the second quarter of the year thanks to an increasing demand from such markets as China, Papua New Guinea, ASEAN, and Turkey. Statistics indicate that in the first quarter of the year Vietnamese pepper exports reached approximately 76,200 tonnes, worth US$233.45 million, a decline of 6% in volume and 34.3% in value against the same period from last year. The country’s average export price of pepper also dropped by 34.3% to US$3,064 per tonne compared to last year’s corresponding period. First electric taxi service launched in Hanoi The GSM (Green - Smart - Mobility) Joint Stock Company – the first taxi service supplier using electric cars in Vietnam - launched its Xanh SM taxi service in Hanoi on April 14, reported Vietnam News Agency. All EVs in GSM's fleet are produced by VinFast, a member of the Vietnamese conglomerate Vingroup. The firm provides two kinds of service, the standard GreenCar using VinFast VF e34 model, and the high-end s LuxuryCar using VinFast VF 8. Initially, GSM's EV fleet comprises 500 VF e34 cars and 100 VF 8 cars in Hanoi. In the future, it will add VinFast VF 5 Plus model to its GreenCar fleet. Addressing the launching ceremony, Nguyen Manh Quyen, Vice Chairman of the People’s Committee of Hanoi, said that taxi service using EVs is one of the advanced solutions that are expected to benefit the community, contribute to reducing air and noise pollution, while saving energy and reducing costs for users. The launching of the service demonstrates the city’s determination to join hands with local firms in promoting sustainable transport and contributing to realising Vietnam’s commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. GSM General Director Nguyen Van Thanh highlighted the firm’s interest in contributing to the country’s climate change response efforts by reducing emissions from transportation vehicles. He said that the firm aims to form a green-smart travel ecosystem across Vietnam. From April 14, customers can order Xanh SM taxi via its hotline at 19002088 or the Xanh SM taxi application that is available on the App Store and Google Play Store. From May, customers can call Xanh SM taxi through the BeVinFast service on the multi-service consumer platform Be. As scheduled, GSM will launch its taxi services in Ho Chi Minh City also in April and will expand to at least five cities and provinces within this year. Vietnam attractive to foreign investors: Austrian newspaper Die Presse - a German-language daily broadsheet newspaper based in Vienna, Austria, on April 14 ran an article highlighting favourable conditions that make Vietnam more attractive to foreign investors, reported Vietnam News Agency. The newspaper also emphasised that the official visit to Vietnam by Austrian Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Alexander Schallenberg from April 16-18 will help promote Austria's cooperation with Vietnam and the region. According to the article, thanks to solid growth, trade agreements, and favourable investment conditions, Vietnam is increasingly attractive to foreign businesses who are looking to diversify their supply chains. As a regional growth engine, since the beginning of this millennium, Vietnam has consistently achieved an average Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of 6.2%, one of the highest growth rates in Asia. Vietnam has also overcome the COVID-19 pandemic without a recession, even last year, it recorded growth of over 8% - the highest growth rate in more than ten years. The article cited a report from the Pacific Basin Economic Council (PBEC), which said that Vietnam's market has recently become increasingly attractive to foreign investors as companies move their production to the country.  According to the article, export control measures and economic sanctions in the trade war, difficulties related to the supply chain as well as unpredictable consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic have forced businesses to consider diversifying the supply chain. Besides, lower production costs in Vietnam are also attractive to investors. In particular, many foreign enterprises, including Austrian firms, have to find new markets after withdrawing from Russia due to the conflict in Ukraine. In that context, Vietnam emerged as an attractive destination for investors.  According to Dietmar Schwank, Commercial Counsellor of the Trade Office of the Austrian Embassy in Vietnam, companies that are doing business in China will still keep their locations there, but they, with a geopolitical mindset, tend to seek new investment destinations rather than concentrating on just one country. The article mentioned that over the past decade, Vietnam has transformed itself from an agricultural product/footwear/garment exporter to an electronic component/computer equipment manufacturer. This is partly related to Samsung Electronics as half of this Korean company's mobile phones are manufactured in Vietnam and account for one-fifth of Vietnam's exports. Vietnam's participation to free trade agreements (FTAs), including the EU-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (EVFTA), makes the country different from other ASEAN nations. According to Schwank, this is special because so far, the EU has not signed an FTA with any other emerging countries.  It is the trade agreements that provide security for companies looking to find other reference markets, he said. The article assessed that the visit to Vietnam by Austrian Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Alexander Schallenberg and a business delegation led by Vice President of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (WKÖ) Philipp Gady will contribute to boosting Austria's export-driven economy.  According to Schallenberg, the Austrian Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs will take the lead and support Austria's exports to Vietnam, which will contribute to consolidating and diversifying Austria's relations with the region.  Meanwhile, WKÖ sees many opportunities for Austrian businesses in Vietnam, especially with industrial products. According to Gady, Austria can support the development of Vietnam's supply chain, such as machines for plastic processing, recycling or wood processing./. / 

Managing editor: 
Editor-in-chief: Dr. Nguyen Cong Dung   Register No 373/GP-BTTTT on on-line information service issued
by Ministry of Information and Communications. 

© 2015 by Communist Party of Vietnam Online Newspaper 



Head office: 381 Doi Can str, Ba Dinh dist, Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel: +8 048916/ +8 048161     Fax: +8 044175
E-mail: dangcongsan@cpv.org.vn