… …  MONROVIA – The Liberia Telecommunications Authority has warned Mobile Network Operators in Liberia to improve on their services to the country. The Chairperson of the Liberia Telecommunications Authority (LTA) Madam Edwina Crump Zackpah at meeting emphasized the crucial need for mobile network operators (MNOs) in the country to enhance the quality of services they provide to consumers, as there have been significant issues. Madam Zackpah commented during an acquaintance meeting held with top executives of MTN’s Management team at LTA’s Headquarters on Tuesday. “We take pride in ourselves for being reachable. We will always be here to work with you. It’s obvious that Liberia should not be left behind in reaching its full potential in this digital age” Madam Zackpah said. She also took the opportunity to reiterate her call to mobile network operators, civil society, students, and the public, in general, to contribute to the success of the Liberia Digital Transformation Project (LDTP). “We have embarked on the Liberia Digital Transformation Project and would appreciate your partnership. Not just funding. We want to sustain it. We seek participation in training, publicity, and recommendations from every institution we have officially reached out to. It is crucial for many institutions and people to join the movement and make it successful because the more people join, the more successful it will be. It’s not just LTA” she passionately said. Madam Zackpah thanked the CEO of Lonestar Cell MTN Mr. Rhaul De and the outgoing Vice President of MTN- Mr. Wim Vanhelleputte of West and Central Regions and also welcomed Mr. Stephen Blewett, MTN’s incoming Operational Executive for West and Central Regions and expressed LTA’s commitment to creating an enabling environment for all service providers in the country to flourish In response, the Management of Lonestar Cell MTN praised LTA for the meeting and promised to take necessary actions in improving the quality of service and also pledged to collaborate with LTA for the successful implementation of the Liberia Digital Transformation Project (LDTP) as they are already learning from countries that have undertaken similar programs in the region. Chairman Zackpah attended Tuesday’s meeting along with Commissioners, Cllr.Osborne Diggs Jr. (Licensing and Regulation) and James Gbarwea (Engineering and Technology).  
Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel. 