
  ALAN Sugar, who started a revolution in consumer electronics by introducing the mass-market personal computer, is preparing to sell out to hand-held personalised computer group Psion in a deal which will net him more than #82m.
 
  In a brief joint announcement yesterday morning, the two companies said Psion would offer at least 200p per share for Amstrad, of which Mr Sugar owns 34%, as well as an additional amount depending upon the success of certain litigation. They said the offer would be recommended by the Amstrad board.
 
  Market reaction was to push Amstrad shares 36p higher to 184p for a capitalisation of #215m, while Psion retreated 25p to 350p for a market worth of #248m.
 
  Amstrad is suing Seagate Technology for up to #200m. It claims Seagate sold it faulty hard disc drives for its PC2000 computers in 1988 and 1989 and that it was forced to write-off #20.4m against the machines. That case is being heard in the High Court in London this week, while a second action due to take place in the US next year will be against another components manufacturer, Western Digital.
 
  Amstrad is an acronym of Alan Michael Sugar Trading, and its founder's progress from East End beetroot boiler at the age of 11 to multi-millionaire is the stuff of legend.
 
  In 1988 his personal worth was around #600m, some of which was diverted into property. More conspicuously, he acquired effective control of Tottenham Hotspur in 1991 in association with controversial entrepreneur Terry Venables, the England soccer manager.
 
  Mr Sugar's achievement was to identify a marketing opportunity in electronics which would appeal to a mass audience and then sell aggressively. The breakthrough was in identifying cheap but professional home computers which were sold largely through Dixons.
 
  The company was floated in 1980 and its capitalisation soon approached #1000m. However, competitors arrived in ever greater numbers with technically superior products, while relationships with retailers deteriorated. In 1992 he tried to buy out the public holding for a total of #113m but missed by a narrow margin.
 
  Last December David Rogers, the first chief executive, resigned as Amstrad announced a major reorganisation had failed, and the group said it would concentrate on new businesses such as Viglen, which sells computers direct to the public, and mobile phone company Dancall.
 
  Amstrad also revealed a #5.4m interim loss due to the reorganisation.
 
  Psion was founded by South African David Potter in 1980 and grew on the back of the Series 3 palm-top personal organiser. Its profits last year jumped 78% to #11.7m on turnover of #90.5m.
 
  It is thought the Dancall mobile phone business is a major attraction for Psion, particularly the GSM mobile technology which would enable it to use radio to offer fully mobile data communications.
 
  See Comment
 
  It should have been a safe space for informed debate, somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day, but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse. 
 
  heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment.
 
  We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers, who occasionally find their way onto our site, to abuse our journalists and readers. We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland's conversation with itself.
 
  We are lucky at The Herald. We are read by an informed, educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories. 
 
  That is invaluable. 
 
  We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers, who tell us they don't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments, untruths and abuse.
 
  In the past, the journalist’s job was to collect and distribute information to the audience. Technology means that readers can shape a discussion. We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com
 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of  any comments you upload to this website,  so please act responsibly. We do not  pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to  our attention.  You can make  a  complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link .  We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 Comments are closed on this article 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.