A new Tudum One Piece teaser trailer has given fans their first look at the live-action iterations of the Straw Hat pirates in Netflix‘s new series. The trailer shows off Luffy, Zoro, Nami, Usopp, and Sanji in live-action form, as well as beloved supporting characters like Red-Haired Shanks and Buggy the Clown, ending with Luffy’s iconic Gum-Gum Pistol attack. Check out the live-action One Piece teaser trailer below: Based on Eiichiro Oda’s iconic manga of the same name, the story follows Monkey D. Luffy, who gains the powers to turn his body to rubber after eating a “Devil Fruit.” He ventures around a fantastical world of exotic islands and vast oceans in search of the legendary treasure known as “One Piece.” Netflix’s One Piece series will be led by Iñaki Godoy as Luffy, Mackenyu as Rorona Zoro, Emily Rudd as Nami, Jacob Romero Gibson as Usopp, Taz Skylar as Sanji, and Peter Gadiot as Shanks. Additional cast includes Morgan Davies as Koby, Ilia Isorelýs Paulino as Alvida, Aidan Scott as Helmeppo, Jeff Ward as Buggy, McKinley Belcher III as Arlong, Vincent Regan as Garp, Alexander Maniatis as Klahadore, Steven Ward as Mihawk, Craig Fairbrass as Chef Zeff, Langley Kirkwood as Captain Morgan, Celeste Loots as Kaya, and Chioma Umeala as Nojiko. The One Piece live-action series is written and executive produced by Steven Maeda (The X-Files) and Matt Owens (Agents of SHIELD), with Maeda set as the showrunner. Executive producers are Marty Adelstein and Becky Clements of Tomorrow Studios (Snowpiercer, Cowboy Bebop) along with original manga author Eiichiro Oda. The post One Piece Teaser Trailer Gives First Look at Live-Action Straw Hat Crew appeared first on ComingSoon.net - Movie Trailers, TV & Streaming News, and More. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.