
Global Banking and Finance Review is an online platform offering news, analysis, and opinion on the latest trends, developments, and innovations in the banking and finance industry worldwide. The platform covers a diverse range of topics, including banking, insurance, investment, wealth management, fintech, and regulatory issues. The website publishes news, press releases, opinion and advertorials on various financial organizations, products and services which are commissioned from various Companies, Organizations, PR agencies, Bloggers etc. These commissioned articles are commercial in nature. This is not to be considered as financial advice and should be considered only for information purposes. It does not reflect the views or opinion of our website and is not to be considered an endorsement or a recommendation. We cannot guarantee the accuracy or applicability of any information provided with respect to your individual or personal circumstances. Please seek Professional advice from a qualified professional before making any financial decisions. We link to various third-party websites, affiliate sales networks, and to our advertising partners websites. When you view or click on certain links available on our articles, our partners may compensate us for displaying the content to you or make a purchase or fill a form. This will not incur any additional charges to you. To make things simpler for you to identity or distinguish advertised or sponsored articles or links, you may consider all articles or links hosted on our site as a commercial article placement. We will not be responsible for any loss you may suffer as a result of any omission or inaccuracy on the website.
. London, UK – 16th May 2023 – GumGum, a contextual-first, global digital advertising platform, today announced that its leading contextual intelligence solution, Verity, will now be available in MediaMath’s demand-side platform (DSP) as the first MRC content-level accredited partner. Advertisers can now take a mindset-first approach across their programmatic campaigns within the MediaMath platform with GumGum Verity. By applying Verity’s accredited and advanced technology, advertisers are able to align their ad contextually with relevant content. This is proven to increase metrics like brand awareness and brand recall. Verity’s precision and accuracy allows brands to limit wasted ad spend and ad placements by putting ads only in the moments that matter. “We’re thrilled to integrate with MediaMath and expand Verity’s footprint to another leading DSP,” said Hailey Denenberg, interim Head of Verity. “Advertisers globally are planning on leveraging contextual targeting and that number will continue to grow as third-party cookies depreciate. Verity’s ability to analyse all digital environments in their entirety at the content level makes it an invaluable contextual solution for advertisers. No matter the environment — video, audio, images — Verity will ensure that an ad meets someone in the right moment and will only serve ads in safe and suitable environments.” Verity combines computer vision (CV) and natural language processing (NLP) to process all available signals within a digital environment. Verity is able to analyse text, images, audio and video to gain a comprehensive, human-like understanding of web, mobile, or CTV content. Recently, Verity became the first ad tech platform to receive content-level accreditation from the Media Rating Council (MRC) for contextual analysis, brand safety and suitability across CTV, desktop and mobile web. “We are excited to make the only MRC-accredited contextual provider for content-level analysis, GumGum Verity, available to our clients through the MediaMath platform,” said Dawn Valandra, Director of Ecosystem Activation at MediaMath. “Advertisers will now be able to easily apply GumGum Verity’s precise and accurate solution to their campaigns to ensure their ads are being placed in the moments that matter.” Verity is a cookieless solution that delivers strong results and can apply contextual targeting, brand safety and suitability segments at the pre-bid level. This integration is now available in North America, Latin America and Europe for display, native, connected TV and in-stream online video inventory across 12 languages. For more information, please reach out to [email protected]. About GumGum GumGum is a contextual-first global digital advertising platform that captures people’s attention, without the use of personal data. We believe that a digital advertising ecosystem based on understanding a consumer’s active frame of mind rather than behavior builds a more equitable and safer future for consumers, publishers and advertisers alike. Founded in 2008, GumGum is headquartered in Santa Monica, California and operates in 19 markets worldwide. For more information, please reach out to [email protected]. About MediaMath MediaMath is the leading technology pioneer on a mission to make advertising better. We deliver outstanding results through powerful ad tech, partnership and a curiosity for what’s next. We help more than 3,500 advertisers solve complex problems so they can deepen their customer relationships across screens and around the world.    Why waste money on news and opinions when you can access them for free? Take advantage of our newsletter subscription and stay informed on the go! Email (required) *  Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from Global Banking & Finance Review. (You can unsubscribe anytime)  Investment Management – How Real-Time Data Processing is Transforming Generative AI Trading Models – Interview with Fintech Expert Ardhendu Sekhar Nanda Restricted Property Trust: The Game-Changing Finance and Insurance Strategy Michael DiPascali Scholarship for Finance Students: A Prestigious Opportunity for Future Finance Leaders Dollar softens, yen set for weekly fall as US recession worries fade Global Banking & Finance Review® is a leading financial portal and online magazine offering News, Analysis, Opinion, Reviews, Interviews & Videos from the world of Banking, Finance, Business, Trading, Technology, Investing, Brokerage, Foreign Exchange, Tax & Legal, Islamic Finance, Asset & Wealth Management.
Copyright © 2010-2024 GBAF Publications Ltd - All Rights Reserved.