South Africa is likely to use China and Russia as “bargaining chips” in its dealings with the US after announcing a joint drill with the two countries in the Cape Route waters, defence analysts have said. The joint exercises dubbed “Mosi” – which means “smoke” in local Tswana language – will be held between February 17 and 27, the South African military announced on Thursday. It will be the second such exercise after a previous drill in November 2019. The United States, which has fostered a decades-long strategic partnership with South Africa, immediately expressed disapproval. David Feldmann, a spokesman for the United States Embassy in Pretoria, said the US noted “with concern” the plan to hold the exercise “even as Moscow continues its brutal and unlawful invasion of Ukraine”, according to the New York Times. “South Africa is going to play the Russia and China cards and try to achieve more bargaining chips when dealing with the United States, which failed to seek the African country’s support over the Russia-Ukraine war,” said Ni Lexiong, a political science professor at Shanghai University of Political Science and Law. South Africa has refused to join the condemnation of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which has triggered sweeping Western sanctions and repeated accusations of war crimes committed by Russia forces. “Both China and Russia are happy to accept the invitation issued by South Africa, as Beijing and Moscow were listed as key enemies of the US, while South Africa also wants to gain more financial support from Washington to revive its shuddering domestic economy,” Ni added. Ni described the joint naval drills as a “political show” amid the ongoing confrontations between China, the US and Russia, but said he did not think they would help China and Russia gain any real military influence in the Indian Ocean. 02:46 Hopes fade as search continues for survivors in Ukrainian residential block hit by Russian strike But other commentators said the exercise would help amplify Moscow’s claims about its military prowess. “The joint maritime exercises will not only help Moscow boost its military’s morale, but damage the morale of the Ukraine army and the Western defence alliance led by the US.” South Africa recently assumed the chairmanship of the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) grouping that aims to challenge the dominant US-and European-led global governance structures. Liang said it may aim to enhance its maritime security by turning the tripartite drill into a regular exercise. He said the country’s exclusive economic zones extend to the Prince Edward Islands, which are more than 2,000km [1,200 miles] from its mainland, but its navy is struggling to contain “increasingly rampant” attacks by pirates in the area. “China is happy to help the anti-piracy missions as the area is also part of the country’s oil and gas tanks shipping routes, while joining with Russia navy to conduct regular joint drills will decrease the Chinese navy’s logistical costs.” 02:05 Hundreds of Ukrainian civilians trapped in Soledar town by ‘heaviest’ fighting of the war  Zhou Chenming, a researcher from the Beijing-based Yuan Wang military science and technology think tank, said the three countries’ joint drill had been halted for three years because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “These kinds of joint drills will be increasing after the pandemic is over,” he said.