Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Occidental Petroleum, Halliburton, EOG Resources — Shares of oil and gas companies were higher Tuesday after Saudi Arabia earlier extended its one million barrel per day voluntary crude oil production cut until the end of the year. Occidental Petroleum gained about 2.5%. Halliburton added 2.7% and EOG Resources rose 1.8%. The cut, which led oil prices higher during the day, adds to other voluntary crude output declines that some members of OPEC have put in place until the end of 2024. Oracle — The software stock climbed 2.5% on the back of an upgrade to overweight from equal weight by Barclays. The firm said the company's cloud business should be helped by artificial intelligence. Airbnb — Shares rose 7.2% on the back of S&P Dow Jones Indices' Friday announcement that the stock would join the S&P 500 starting Sept. 18. The S&P 500 is widely tracked by large index funds, which could create buying pressure on Airbnb's stock in the weeks ahead. Blackstone — Shares of the asset management company gained 3.6% on news that the stock will join the S&P 500 before the open on Sept. 18, as part of a quarterly rebalance for S&P Indices. Warner Bros. Discovery — The media stock added 0.7% during Tuesday's trading session after Warner Bros. said it still expects to hit its net leverage target, despite taking a hit of $300 million to $500 million in its adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That puts its adjusted earnings in the full-year range of $10.5 billion to $11 billion. Warner Bros. said its adjusted full-year expectation assumes the financial effect of the writers and actors strikes will persist through the end of the year. NextGen Healthcare — Shares of the health-care company popped 6.3% Tuesday following a Bloomberg report Monday that the company was in late-stage talks with potential acquirer Thoma Bravo. Brady — The manufacturing stock gained 11.4% after the company reported quarterly results. Brady posted an adjusted $1.04 in profit per share for its fiscal fourth quarter, while analysts polled by FactSet forecast 93 cents. PulteGroup, Lennar — Homebuilder stocks took a breather Tuesday. The industry has been on fire in 2023, propelled by a shortage of homes for sale. PulteGroup and Lennar fell during the day's trading session, losing 5.7% and 4.9%, respectively. — CNBC's Brian Evans, Alex Harring and Hakyung Kim contributed reporting. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by