
                For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript.
                Here are the 
                    instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
                
 Sectors 



 Save to read list



                                        Published by Jack Roscoe,
                                        Editorial Assistant
                                        

Oilfield Technology,
                                Monday, 19 June 2023 14:22

 Halliburton Company and Nabors Industries has announced an agreement on leading well construction automation solutions. Under the agreement, Halliburton and Nabors will collaborate together on their technologies including the Halliburton Well Construction 4.0 digital surface and subsurface drilling technologies, the LOGIX Autonomous Drilling Platform, and the Nabors SmartRos universal rig controls and automation platform and RigCLOUD high-performance digital infrastructure platform. Initially deployed in Iraq, the companies’ technologies automate well construction services from planning to execution across both subsurface and surface equipment and environments. Halliburton and Nabors will engage on further opportunities to expand projects for other customers in countries across the globe. Steve Haden, Senior Vice President, Halliburton Project Management, said: “Halliburton’s and Nabors’ efforts will make it easier for customers to deploy Halliburton’s automation solutions that can enhance rig capabilities, lower well construction costs, and reduce operational risks.”  “This agreement brings together the drilling process automation and digital solutions of Nabors with Halliburton’s sub-surface expertise, resulting in a unique combination that will drive well construction efficiencies through repeatable and consistent outcomes,” said Subodh Saxena, Senior Vice President, Nabors Drilling Solutions. Read the article online at: https://www.oilfieldtechnology.com/drilling-and-production/19062023/halliburton-and-nabors-to-collaborate-on-new-well-construction-technologies/ 



 Global Energy Group (GEG) has been awarded a contract from Subsea7 Norway, to fabricate 134 Subsea Spools for the Aker BP-operated Yggdrasil Field Development in the North Sea. Embed article link: (copy the HTML code below): This article has been tagged under the following: 


                                                    Exploration news
                                                



                                                    Halliburton news
                                                



                                                    Oil & gas news
                                                

 
                            This content is available to registered readers of our magazine only. Please sign in or register for free.
                         
Register for free »
Get started now for absolutely FREE, no credit card required.
 Already a member? Sign in here 
                            Copyright © 2024 Palladian Publications Ltd. All rights reserved | Tel: +44 (0)1252 718 999 |
                            Email: enquiries@oilfieldtechnology.com
