
                
                    
                        Let Retail Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The company also brought on a president of North America and a chief strategy and transformation officer. Amid an ongoing transformation, Revlon on Friday announced three new leadership hires. All appointments are effective as of Sept. 5 and will report to Interim Chief Executive Officer Elizabeth Smith. Ted McCormick will serve as the company’s chief financial officer. He was formerly the CFO of Real Truck, The Bountiful Company and Roland Foods. He also performed in senior finance roles at Unilever. Will Cornock has been named Revlon’s chief strategy and transformation officer. Cornock most recently was a partner at the Boston Consulting Group and has nearly 20 years of corporate transformation, strategy and innovation experience, mostly focused in the consumer products industry. Geralyn Breig has been named Revlon’s president of North America. Breig has 30 years of experience in marketing, brand building and business model transformation. She previously led North America operations at Clarks Americas and Avon Products. Breig currently serves on the board of directors for HanesBrands and previously was on the boards of 1-800-Flowers and Welch Foods. “These executives will bring decades of relevant experience to their roles at Revlon, and attracting these seasoned leaders is a testament to the significant opportunities that lie ahead for the business following our emergence from the financial restructuring this past May,” Smith said in a statement. “With the support of our new Board, we will continue to work with our retailer, supplier and distribution partners to reignite the momentum of our iconic brands. We remain intently focused on driving Revlon’s next phase of growth.” At the start of August, Revlon announced that Debra Perelman had stepped down from the roles of CEO and president after more than two decades at the company, including five years as chief executive.  The company shed over $2.7 billion in debt as it exited bankruptcy this spring. In May, Revlon formed a new board of directors with former executives from companies including Bloomin’ Brands, Sephora, Gap Inc. and Walgreens Boots Alliance. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts CEO Tony Spring surprised the industry with a new tranche of 150 department store closures, 50 of which are shuttering in 2024. Here’s what that looks like. It’s been years since M.M. LaFleur shuttered its subscription service and closed all its stores. Now it’s recommitting to both. Subscribe to Retail Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts CEO Tony Spring surprised the industry with a new tranche of 150 department store closures, 50 of which are shuttering in 2024. Here’s what that looks like. It’s been years since M.M. LaFleur shuttered its subscription service and closed all its stores. Now it’s recommitting to both. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines