Sunny. Hot. High near 110F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 A few clouds. A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. Low 87F. Winds SW at 10 to 15 mph.  Updated: August 20, 2024 @ 10:37 am   In addition to several parties that are set to take to the town, big-name acts like G-Eazy, Shaq, Snoop Dogg and Cardi B are also set to roll into town to jazz up the parties. (Progress File Photo) With the Super Bowl set for Feb. 12 at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Scottsdale will be alive with live music, games, celebrity appearances, drinks and loads of activities counting down the days to the big game. Here are some of the big happenings around town.  WEDNESDAY, FEB. 8  Main Street Tailgate - Special performances by Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela and Pearl Ridge Duo As part of ESPNs on-site coverage throughout the week of the Super Bowl, live music will fill the airwaves in between segments with live performances by Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela along with daily roaming acts The Singing Cowboy, Johnny Hotshot and The Bronze Cowboy.  When: 11 a.m. Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. Pearl Ridge Duo Where: Old Town Scottsdale on E. Main Street and N. Brown Avenue, Scottsdale Cost: Free Info: experiencescottsdale.com Suits and Sneakers Feat. Rick Ross.  W Scottsdale will present ‘Suits & Sneakers’ in collaboration with Elevee Lifestyle and produced by Phoenix Fashion Week. Guests can join the dapper evening for a celebration of tailored suits and the latest in sneaker culture with celebrity athletes from the NFL, MLB, and NHL modeling on the runway. FOX Sports personality and NFL reporter Jay Glazer will host and emcee, along with an exclusive performance by rapper Rick Ross. When: 8 p.m. Where: The W Scottsdale 7277 E Camelback Road, Scottsdale,  Cost: Tickets start at $100 Info: cottontaillounge.com THURSDAY, FEB. 9 ESPN Main Street Tailgate- Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela duo and Chuck E. Baby Duo Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela return with the  Chuck E Baby Duo to provide a day's worth of music during the Main Street Tailgate. When: 11 a.m. Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. Chuck E. Baby Duo Where: Old Town Scottsdale E. Main Street and N. Brown Avenue, Scottsdale Cost: Free Info: experiencescottsdale.com Fred Minnick’s Bourbon Invitational Football legends will serve as bartenders at this two-day spirits tasting event from author and bourbon connoisseur Fred Minnick. A portion of proceeds will be donated to Phoenix Theatre Company. When: 2 p.m. Where: Grimaldi’s Pizzeria, 15147 N. Scottsdale Road, Suite H-135, Scottsdale Cost: Tickets start at $1,125 Info: fredminnick.com Superzona Kick-off - Steve Aoki Twice GRAMMY-nominated music producer and entrepreneur Steve Aoki will perform with his bassy, energetic blend of electronic music. Joining the fun will also be DJ duo The Lost Kings When: 7 p.m. Where: The Pool at Talking Stick Resort 9800 E. Talking Stick Way, Scottsdale Cost: Tickets start at $49 Info: talkingstickresort.com/superzona The W Super Week - G Eazy performance presented by Pepsi Zero Sugar Rapper G-Eazy will perform live at W Scottsdale’s Cottontail Lounge. Doors open at 9 p.m. where guests can enjoy the Pepsi Zero Sugar cocktail mixology experience and a lively atmosphere. When: 9 p.m. Thursday Where: The W Scottsdale 7277 E Camelback Road, Scottsdale,  Cost: Tickets start at $100 Info: cottontaillounge.com GameOn SuperBash Hosted by Babes and Ballers Super Bowl Party Max Events, LLC presents Game On SuperBash in collaboration with Babes and Ballers and will be hosted by Hall of Famer Terrell Davis with a special performance by DJ Paul Oakenfold. Expected celebrities include Stephen A. Smith, Christian Yelich, Larry Fitzgerald, Cam Jordan and others.  When: 9 p.m. Where: The Wasted Grain, 7295 E Stetson Drive, Scottsdale, Cost: Tickets start at $75 Info: gameonaz.eventbrite.com Tailgate Time Machine Feat. Baby Bash, Slim Thug, and Paul Wall. Rappers Baby Bash, Slim Thug and Paul Wall are set to get the walls of neighboring Old Town establishments Boondocks and The Hot Chick shaking with a night of bassy tunes, games and lots of drinks.  When: 9 p.m. Where: The Boondocks and The Hot Chick, 4363 N 75th St., Scottsdale  Cost: Tickets start at $99 Info: thehotchickaz.com/tailgatetimemachine. FRIDAY, FEB. 10 ESPN Main Street Tailgate- Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela duo and Desert Dixie Duo Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela return with the Desert Dixie Duo to provide a day's worth of music during the Main Street Tailgate. When: 11 a.m. Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela, 3 p.m. Desert Dixie Duo Where: Old Town Scottsdale E. Main Street and N. Brown Avenue, Scottsdale Cost: Free Info: experiencescottsdale.com Fred Minnick’s Bourbon Invitational See Thursday listing. Scottsdale’s pre-game art celebration Sports and arts converge for Arizona's most exciting weekend for ticket holders of the WM Phoenix Open and/or the Super Bowl — who will receive entry into the event.  Once inside, guests can enjoy an open bar and complimentary bites as they gawk at some of the finest art in Old Town, enjoy live music and flamenco performances.  When: 6 p.m. Where: 7106 E. Main St., Scottsdale. Cost: Free for ticket holders of either the WM Phoenix open or the Super Bowl.  Info: themarshallgallery.com Shaq’s Fun House NBA legend Shaquille O’Neal is bringing Diplo, Snoop Dogg and Myles O’Neal to the Valley for this part music festival, part carnival, described as “Big Game weekend’s most over-the-top event.” Shaq himself will even don his DJ Diesel hat for a performance. Expect oversized rides and attractions, circus performers, a Ferris wheel, food and drink, celebrity guests and more.  When: 8 p.m. Where: Talking Stick Resort, 9800 E. Talking Stick Way, Scottsdale Cost: Tickets start at $349 Info: 480-850-7777, shaqsfunhouse.com Rolling Stone Live This immersive experience brings together celebrities, athletes, VIPs and influencers together with live musical entertainment, in the name of raising funds for the American Cancer Society and its Crucial Catch: Intercept Cancer campaign. When: 9 p.m. Where: The Clayton House, 3719 N. 75th St., Scottsdale Cost: Tickets start at $1,000 Info: rollingstonelive.ticketsocket.com W Scottsdale super week: Hosted by Friday Beers with a performance by Cardi B Friday Beers, a comedy platform and lifestyle brand, will host the ultimate pregame party with a live musical performance by rapper Cardi B capped off with brews and more.  When:  9 p.m. Where: The W Scottsdale 7277 E Camelback Road, Scottsdale,  Cost: Tickets start at $400 Info: cottontaillounge.com Tailgate Time Machine Feat. T-Pain Rapper T-Pain is set to pull up to neighboring Old Town establishments Boondocks and The Hot Chick.  When: 7 p.m. Where: The Boondocks and The Hot Chick, 4363 N 75th St., Scottsdale  Cost: Tickets start at $129 Info: thehotchickaz.com/tailgatetimemachine SATURDAY, FEB. 11 Main Street Tailgate - Special performances by Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela and Harry Luge Trio When: 11 a.m. Mark Zubia and Jesse Valenzuela, 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. Harry Luge Trio Where: Old Town Scottsdale E. Main Street and N. Brown Avenue, Scottsdale Cost: Free Info: experiencescottsdale.com GQ Sports Style Hall Of Fame  The first class of inductees in the GQ Sports Style Hall of Fame, which honors athletes whose influence extends beyond the field of play. GQ is throwing an exclusive live event featuring on-stage conversations with these sports icons about their legendary careers and style.  When: 2:30 p.m. Where:  The Clayton House, 3719 N. 75th St., Scottsdale Cost: Tickets start at $300 Info: gq.com/style-hall-of-fame-23#Tickets Gronk Beach  Former NFL tight end and University of Arizona alumni Rob Gronkowski will be blaring a personally curated music festival featuring artists 21 Savage, Diplo, Bijou, DJ Irie and Somer Ray. When: Noon Where: Talking Stick Resort, 9800 E. Talking Stick Way, Scottsdale,  Cost: Tickets start at $249.99 Info: 480-850-7777, talkingstickresort.com Sports Illustrated The Party The Chainsmokers and Machine Gun Kelly are handling the music, with Wynn Nightlife hosting VIP table service. Big spenders can purchase combo tickets that allow access to Shaq’s Fun House and Gronk Beach.  When: 9 p.m. Where: Talking Stick Resort, 9800 E. Talking Stick Way, Scottsdale,  Cost: Tickets start at $799.99 Info: 480-850-7777, talkingstickresort.com. W Scottsdale Super Party Week: Playboy Party with musical guest Ludacris Playboy will present famed hip hop artist Ludacris playing a catalog stacked with hits. When: 9 p.m. Where: The W Scottsdale 7277 E Camelback Road, Scottsdale,  Cost: Tickets start at $200 Info: cottontaillounge.com SUNDAY, FEB. 12 Skybox Sunday Viewing Party Scottsdale will host the Skybox Sunday Viewing Party for guests to enjoy crafted cocktails and catch the game on a giant LED screen and additional screens poolside at the hotel’s electric WET Deck. When: 10 a.m. Where: The W Scottsdale 7277 E Camelback Road, Scottsdale,  Cost: TBA Info: For VIP Table Service email VIP@spellboundeg.com or call 602-405-0099 Big Game Viewing Party Watch the big game from the Casino Arizona Showroom. When: 3 p.m. Where: Casino Arizona, 524 N. 92nd St., Scottsdale Cost: Free Info: casinoarizona.com Michael Mina’s First Annual Tailgate Party at the Fairmont Scottsdale Princess Your tailgate expectations will be exceeded by a luxurious grand entrance, photo ops, interactive complimentary cocktail activation, lawn games, and a DJ.  When: 2 p.m. Where: Bourbon Steak A Michael Mina Restaurant at the Fairmont Scottsdale Princess, 7575 E. Princess Drive, Scottsdale. Cost: Tickets start at $95 Info: Scottsdaleprincess.com Sugar Jame The Southern Kitchen Watch Party The northern Scottsdale brunch eatery, bakery and bar will hold a buffet, cocktails and live music from a resident DJ. Where: 15111 N. Hayden Road, Scottsdale. When: 4-9 p.m. Cost: Tickets are $75. Info: sjsouthernkitchen.com. Never miss an issue. Sign up for free today.  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: