Every product was carefully curated by an Esquire editor. We may earn a commission from these links. It's only $10 and infinitely better than anything else out there. Shop $10, amazon.com Welcome toThe Esquire Endorsement. Heavily researched. Thoroughly vetted. These picks are the best way to spend your hard-earned cash. Alright, alright, alright, let's just pump the brakes. 'Cause if I see one more direct-to-consumer brand "revolutionize" the T-shirt, or another one of those "stealth wealth" lists mention a $200+ tee from another "quiet luxury" brand, I might do something drastic. Don't try to sell me a white tee that costs more than $10. Don't tell me I have to hand wash it or hang dry it. And absolutely don't tell me I can't bleach it.  Honestly, if it were up to me, new interpretations of the T-shirt would be banned. No one, here or abroad, is gonna come up with anything better than the Hanes Beefy-T. Sorry everyone! Find something else to do. The Beefy-T has an impeccable fit and the price is unbeatable. This is my only blank tee, and it should be yours too.  Shop $10, amazon.com Okay, to start the rundown of why the Beefy-T that makes every other T-shirt obsolete, I'll start by breaking down the fit. It's exactly what I want, but even in a way that's somehow versatile.  After buying the true-to-size Beefy-T, I instantly wash and dry it. The resulting fit is perfect. It's sung on the shoulders, chest, and arms, loose through the body. And it never loses that perfect shape because it just tightens back up with every wash and dry.  And look, it does have a boxier—dare I say beefier—fit, but I don't always want a T-shirt that's too tight. I'm sure y'all don't either. For me, on especially hot days or when I'm working out, I don't want all that cotton snug against my skin. After buying my size and washing it, it's perfect. If you want an even baggier fit, size up. It all results in the perfect tee: a boxy, loose-fitting T-shirt that allows movement and without looking as cheap as it really is. Shop $10, amazon.com The second core trait of the Beefy-T, is the weight, and the pure beefiness of its texture. The six-ounce cotton isn't offensively heavy and not the type of shirt you have to break in. After one wash, it feels like you've owned it forever. It's also not too light either. This is important because when I'm out in the world wearing a white tee, I don't want it to feel like I'm wearing an undershirt. If it's threadbare after a few years of wear, yeah fine. I don't need any help getting there.  The quality stacks up in the weight too, because you can throw it in the wash a million times without seeing a drastic change in thickness. You can beat it up, and it'll just keep looking good. It's made to withstand all types of wear and tear, and that's what good quality clothing should do.  Shop $10, amazon.com The most important detail of all is the price tag. Why would I ever spend more than $10 on a T-shirt when this one does the job? Thirty bucks on a white T-shirt? Insanity. It's going to get ruined no matter what you do. Why act like you've got the money to replace $50 white tees when you don't? But pound-for-pound, dollar-for-dollar, a Beefy-T is as good of a value proposition as it gets. I've tried competitors like Carhartt (a little pricier) and Gildan heavyweights (a little cheaper). Neither did it for me. Nothing compares to my Beefy-T. On fit, on weight, on price, it's perfect. Do not ask me to care about any other T-shirts.  Shop $10, amazon.com Photography by Philip Friedman. Prop styling by John Olson for Halley Resources. This Meat Thermometer Is My One Kitchen Essential There’s a Reason These Sneakers Are So Iconic Brooks Brothers Makes the Perfect Sweater The Best Sunglasses, Made Even Better Long Live the Mall Suit The Absolute Best Dress Socks I Own I Finally Found the Perfect Belt The Dopp Kit That Will Last the Rest of My Life The Best Travel Bag Is Under $100 I’ve Never Loved a Running Shoe More Than These The Best Damn Camping Accessory on the Planet The Best Looking Shoe Rack Ever Made A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.