Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly. A view of the corporate headquarters for Hanesbrands Inc. as seen from the parking lot. HanesBrands Inc. managed to reduce its overall earnings loss during the second quarter as it struggles with significant financial and operational turbulence. The basic apparel manufacturer reported a 1-cent loss in adjusted earnings, compared with an average projection of a 2-cent loss by three analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research. However, expectations of continuing lower U.S. and Chinese sales, particularly with its Champion brand, led the manufacturer Thursday to lower key segments of its fiscal 2023 financial guidance. In January, Hanesbrands forecasted fiscal 2023 in a net sales range of $6.05 billion to $6.2 billion, compared with fiscal 2022 sales of $6.23 billion. On Thursday, Hanesbrands lowered the net sales range to $5.8 billion to $5.9 billion, down about 6% from fiscal 2022. Operating profit from continuing operations was projected in January at a range of $446 million to $496 million, while adjusted earnings are in a range of 14 to 25 cents. On Thursday, operating profit from continuing operations was lowered to a range of $376 million to $426 million, while adjusted earnings are in the range of 16 cents to 30 cents. The third-quarter earnings projections were: net sales down slightly less than 8% year over year; adjusted operating profit in a range of $130 million to $150 million; and adjusted earnings between 7 and 13 cents. Investors responded to the lowered fiscal 2023 guidance by sending the share price down by as much as 9% in morning trading Thursday. The share price had recovered to being down just 1.1% by noon. HanesBrands reported a $22.5 million loss for the second quarter, compared with $92.1 million in net income a year ago. The biggest factor was HanesBrands having $74.6 million in interest expenses, compared with $33.7 million a year ago. Net sales were down 4.9% to $1.44 billion. There was an earnings loss of 6 cents, compared with 26 cents a year ago. Adjusted earnings were a loss of 1 cent when excluding 5 cents’ worth of Full Potential transformation expenses. “We reported second-quarter results in line with our outlook,” chief executive Stephen Bratspies said. “We also delivered sequential gross margin improvement, further reduced inventory, generated positive operating cash flow, and began paying down debt earlier than expected.” HanesBrands projects are paying down more than $400 million in debt in fiscal 2023. Bratspies said HanesBrands continues to be challenged by “the difficult apparel market, particularly in Australia and the U.S. activewear category, which caused us to adjust our second-half outlook.” Second-quarter innerwear sales were up 2.9% to $705.8 million. Activewear sales declined 19% to $267.5 million. International sales were off 3.9% to $407.7 million. The other category decreased 20.8% to $57.9 million. Champion sales were down 25% in the U.S., but international sales limited the overall sales decline to just 1%. “The brand is not where we expected it to be at this point in the U.S.,” Bratspies said. “Sales are going to remain pressured through the back half of this year. We’re seeing soft point-of-sale right now in a challenging category as we go forward. “I feel like we’re moving in the right direction, but it is taking us longer than we initially anticipated.” Bratspies said HanesBrands has responded by recently opening at least seven Champion pop-up retail outlets to sell off excess inventory. Nicole Ducouer, HanesBrands corporate communications director, said Thursday the separate retail store at Thruway Shopping Center in Winston-Salem is not one of the pop-up stores. Bratpsies said HanesBrands plans to keep the pop-up stores open through at least the end of the year and is considering opening more. CFRA Research analyst Zachary Warring responded to the earnings report by maintaining his 12-month share-price target of $6. However, he lowered his fiscal 2023 earnings estimate by 5 cents to 30 cents. He maintained a 75-cent earnings estimate for fiscal 2024. “Once a bright spot for HanesBrands, the company’s Champion brand continued its decline as management noted a challenging activewear environment,” Warring said. “We remain neutral on shares and believe HanesBrands still looks expensive even as share prices have fallen under $5, due to the company’s elevated inventory, large debt burden and underperformance of peers.” rcraver@wsjournal.com 336-727-7376 @rcraverWSJ Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly.   After hacking incident, United Healthcare comfirmed it paid Building renovations are under way at the former Old Salem Tavern property, with the new version projected to open by year’s end and serving l… The eyeglass retailer already has a store in Greensboro.  Truist Financial Corp. has been ordered to pay a combined $8.5 million in fines related to two federal regulators’ investigations into certain… As of Wednesday, collegiate sports recruiting and financial research group On3.com listed UNC men's basketball player R.J. Davis as 26th for N…  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.