Sunshine this morning. Increasing clouds with thunderstorms developing this afternoon. Storms may contain strong gusty winds. High 84F. Winds NW at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 60%..
                                 Clear skies. Low 62F. Winds NNW at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 6:00 am  Frederick, MD, August 22, 2023: Music & Arts, one of the nation’s largest musical instrument retailers and lesson providers, announces the recent opening of a brand-new store location in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. This is the 18th Music & Arts location in North Carolina. Primarily serving the band and orchestra community in the region, the facility is located at 949 Hanes Mall Blvd, Winston-Salem, NC 27103 (in the Hanes Commons Shopping Center). In addition to its extensive inventory, which includes a full range of band and orchestra instruments, guitars and keyboards, accessories and more, the Winston-Salem store offers premium instrument rental, lesson and repair services. The new store’s leadership team includes retail manager James Bailey alongside Senior Sales Associates Jerry Hurley and Zaire Price. Zach Haney, Music & Arts District Manager, noted, “There was an obvious gap in the geographical range of our stores in North Carolina, and we decided there was a great opportunity to expand into Winston-Salem and the surrounding region, which is known as the Piedmont Triad. Previously, customers from this area were often driving all the way to Charlotte or even Columbia, SC, but now they are served locally. Furthermore, our educational rep in the region had already fostered many personal relationships in the area, so it made sense for us to add another base of operations.” Jeff Gottlieb, Music & Arts President, stated, “Music & Arts is looking forward to joining the band & orchestra community here in Winston-Salem. Stop by and learn more about all our offerings. Our passion is musicians – from beginners to professionals, we are here for you. Whether it’s instrument sales, lessons or repairs, we have you covered.” More about these services: Lessons: With a community of nearly 2,000 university-trained, background-checked lesson instructors nationwide, students can find a teacher that suits their unique musical interests and availability. Lessons are available for every type of instrument, with location-specific instructor profiles online to aid in the selection process. Whether studying in person at a Music & Arts location or online using secure, private lesson links, student safety is a top priority that ensures they'll make progress and have fun in the process. Rentals: Music & Arts offers convenient, flexible rental plans for students of all ages. For each music program, Music & Arts professionals work closely with local educators to create a plan that offers students the right instruments and classroom materials. Free exchanges, returns, and the option to purchase are available at any time, making the rental plan a commitment-free solution. Repairs: Music & Arts repair technicians are well-trained professionals who deliver work that is affordable, timely, and unconditionally guaranteed. Whether it's repairing a violin bow, overhauling a flute, repadding a saxophone, soldering a brass instrument or reconditioning an entire tuba, Music & Arts repair technicians can handle any kind of instrument repair or restoration you need. To learn more about Music & Arts, visit MusicArts.com, and for more on this particular location, click here.     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Click here to read our PDF flip version 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
                                     
Error! There was an error processing your request.
                                       Growing up in the 1950’s we had one television set in the house, and most of the time Dad an… At about 1:45 p.m. this past Sunday, Joe Biden released a statement on social media in which… Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: