King of the Baggers racers round a corner at a recent competition. Back when I was putting my first miles on a street motorcycle, I was drawn to the sport not just for the fun, but also because of the racing. It was the early 1980s, and a new class of racing, with daredevil riders aboard a new crop of technically sophisticated and enormously powerful race bikes based on production machines from Japan and Europe, was peaking. Wayne Rainey in the 1980s. While unobtainable 500 cc two-stroke machines made by factory-backed racing teams were still the pinnacle of two-wheel motorsport, these new race bikes, called Superbikes, were based on high-powered machines you could actually buy at a dealership as street-legal bikes, and they had captured my - and many other riders - imagination. Behind the handlebars were my heroes, men like Eddie Lawson, Fred Merkel, Mick Doohan, Kevin Schwantz, Wayne Gardner, Randy Mamola, Bubba Shobert - and Wayne Rainey. This was long before the internet and streaming, and in the United States, motorcycle racing was nowhere near as popular as it was in Europe, so I devoured motorcycle magazines for race results (and bike tests) while catching the rare broadcast of a race when it happened to get picked up by Wide World of Sports or some other program. Rainey, Lawson and others eventually graduated from Superbike racing to battle in that 500cc GP top tier, but in 1993, reigning champ Rainey, aboard a screaming Yamaha, crashed while racing in Misano, Italy, and was paralyzed from the chest down. For most riders, confinement to a wheelchair would be the end of things, but for Rainey, a three-time Grand Prix World Champion and two-time AMA Superbike Champion, it just meant a new chapter began in a life still filled with motorcycle racing. In 2001, the 500 cc two-stroke era ended with the first championship for Italian rider Valentino Rossi, who would go on to dominate the early years of the new top tier motorcycle racing league, MotoGP. The colorful, affable, almost clown-like Rossi, so talented on the track he was nicknamed The Doctor, would become a top sports celebrity of the new millennium and help bring F1 levels of popularity to MotoGP, even in the U.S., where new tracks like the Circuit of the Americas in Texas began hosting MotoGP events. MotoGP racers ride 1,000 cc factory-built four-stroke machines more akin to production machinery, but mostly in appearances only as they are truly one-off exotics hand-built by factory race teams. Still, they strongly echoed production bikes seen in showrooms (and their tech would consistently trickle down to production bikes), much as had been seen in World Superbike, also known as SBK. With MotoGP now aping the success of the production-based Superbike series, SBK withered in MotoGPs shadow. Enter Wayne Rainey, and the birth of MotoAmerica. A superbike on the track at a MotoAmerica race. In 2015, Rainey became the President and high-profile figurehead for MotoAmerica, which had the backing of businessman and fellow motorhead Richard Varner, who serves as CFO. The timing of the formation of MotoAmerica was fortuitous. Polaris had just revived the Indian motorcycle brand, video streaming technology was mature, and an interesting new kind of motorcycle - the electric kind - was beginning to take shape. Today, MotoAmerica hosts nine different classes of racing, all based on production machinery, including a Junior Cup for riders as young as 14 years old and the Royal Enfield BTR league, featuring women racers battling on India-built P-twins. The typical two-day race weekends are packed with competition. Factory backed teams from Ducati, BMW, Yamaha and Suzuki all compete, with more big name factory teams considering involvement. Big media outlets including Fox Sports, NBC Sports Network, and motorsports streaming platform MAVTV now regularly show MotoAmerica racing, which continues to grow in popularity - especially after two new series were added to the roster, which includes 600cc - class and 1,000cc rosters of Supersport and Superstock machines that again reflect the bikes regular riders can buy at dealerships. It’s a return to the bar-banging, real-deal production-bike based racing that made Superbike so popular decades ago, but in the last couple of years, an unexpected and extraordinary new racing league has boosted MotoAmerica’s popularity like never before, drawing massive crowds, selling out camping and boosting attendance over 40% - so far. According to Rainey, who took time to chat with Forbes.com as this year’s season got under way, he had a crazy idea - so crazy that his MotoAmerica colleagues thought he was joking. “They laughed,” Rainey said when he floated the idea. The crazy concept: Race V-Twin powered touring motorcycles - known as baggers - out on the same tracks as the Superbikes. An Indian 'bagger' touring motorcycle in its natural habitat.  Understand that baggers (above), typically festooned with saddlebags, comfy seats, large windscreens, stereo systems and cupholders on the handlebars, are about as far from being “race bikes” as NFL football players are from being ballerinas. They’re most comfortable going 80 miles an hour, not 180. But racers will race anything with a motor or wheels, and with Polaris-revived Indian back in competition with arch-rival Harley-Davidson in flat track racing and in showrooms, the idea had a spark of genius to it. Would they be game for a bagger race? They would. An King of the Baggers race bike from the Indian team. Even linebackers can learn to plie, and the first bagger race, which was a one-off event with a slight sideshow scent to it, was an unexpected hit. It has now become its own series called the Mission King of the Baggers (or KOTB), and it has exploded in popularity, and also brought a whole new legion of fans - American big-bore V-Twin riders - to MotoAmerica race events. It has also captured the wider public’s attention as riders pilot these massive motorcycles - with windscreens and saddlebags attached - around challenging, technical racetracks made for the most elite of performance motorcycles. It’s Harley vs. Indian once again on a big stage, and it’s now dead-serious racing, with both factories and well-funded privateers in the mix. The racing itself has to be seen to be believed. Take a look: KOTB has also been joined by another new MotoAmerica series, the Super Hooligan National Championship first birthed by street rod customs creator Roland Sands. In Super Hooligan, riders compete on what’s known as “naked” or “hooligan” bikes, which were typically crashed sport bikes that garage builders stripped of bodywork and fitted with flat-track style handlebars, loud exhausts, slick tires and hot-rodded motors. The trend caught fire, and was picked up by manufacturers like Ducati, Indian and others. The race bikes feature two-cylinder engines and many are home-built efforts. They also allow electric motorcycles in Super Hooligan, which has given Italian electric motorcycle maker Energica a chance to compete against the gas-powered bikes - and even lead part of a race. The competition is fierce. But perhaps not as fierce as King of the Baggers has become. Rainey said the KOTB bikes are now closing in on traditional racebike lap times and crossed 180mph while flat out at Daytona. That has also had an interesting reverse effect for consumers: King of the Baggers race technology is now trickling back to production touring bikes, resulting in more power, better handling, improved aerodynamics and a better experience for riders, many of whom also own sport bikes and can appreciate a bit more pep and grace for their touring mounts. Tire makers and aftermarket companies like suspension maker Öhlins and brake maker Brembo are now turning out performance-oriented upgrades for 600-plus pound baggers, and the latest bagger models from both Indian and Harley-Davidson, while still touring models, have a definite tech and performance edge. Still, Rainey is most pleased with the growing popularity of motorcycle racing in the United States - and the new faces at the races. “A lot of the people who came to see King of the Baggers are now fans of Superbike racing,” Rainey said. He said he loves that Harley and Indian are back at it after a nearly 60-year absence for Indian, which shuttered shortly after World War II. He loves the new crop of young riders who compete as fiercely as he did in the 1980s and ‘90s - and are getting paid to race, rather than having to suffer for their passion. Wayne Rainey today, ready to ride a modified motorcycle. What might Rainey add to the roster next? He wouldn’t say but I suggested considering EUC (electric unicycle racing) racing, a nascent and quickly evolving sport that’s both unique and exciting. Whatever he chooses, Rainey’s focus is always on racing, and the former champ is back on the track to some degree as well, sometimes riding a customized bike that lets him use his hands for controlling the bike. Last year, Rainey was back aboard his infamous two-stroke Yamaha 500 championship-winning machine at the Goodwood Festival of Speed, taking a victory lap up the hill course with nemesis turned pals Mick Doohan, Kenny Roberts and Kevin Schwantz. For once (maybe), the goal wasn’t a race victory, but Rainey still led his friends to the finish line.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.