
  A Malvern pub has raised more than a thousand pounds for a children’s charity.
 
  The New Inn in Lower Howsell Road held a family fun day on Saturday, May 27.
 
  Landlords Lewis Daley and Kelly Bennett said the community came out in force, making the most of a sunny day to support the event.
 
  “We raised £1,195 for Acorns,” said Lewis. “A great day was had by all and the local community have outdone themselves with donations and support.
 
  “Mr Twists went down a storm and the most popular event was the tombola, hosted by two volunteers from Acorns.
 
READ MORE: Pub's new landlords celebrate five star rating
 
  “We hope to put on more events like this in the summer and raise even more.
 
  “We have also applied to the Marstons Charitable Trust to hopefully get a good donation from them.”
 
  Lewis and Kelly took over the New Inn in December and have been working hard to make improvements.
 
  The pub was awarded a five-star food hygiene rating in March following an inspection by the Food Standards Agency.
 
  And an investment in new garden furniture by Marstons saw the capacity of the New Inn’s garden increase to 222.
 
  Saturday’s charity fun day built on the success of the New Inn’s coronation celebrations, which included an evening of live music featuring local bands.
 
  It was followed by a charity raffle on Monday, May 29, in memory of Hayley Brewer. The event raised money for the children’s clinic at Worcestershire Royal Hospital.
 
  Acorns Children’s Hospice provides specialist palliative care for life-limited and life-threatened children and young people, as well as support for their families.
 
  It does this in people’s homes, in the community and at hospices in Worcester, Birmingham and Walsall.
 
  But this work doesn’t come cheap - and Acorns relies on the support of the community to continue.
 
  It gets the vast majority of its incoming from voluntary donations, fundraising and the profits of its charity shops around the Midlands.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.