Ken Bohn/San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance  A tiny Pacific pocket mouse named Pat earned a big honor on Wednesday. Pat — named after actor Patrick Stewart — resides at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park, and at 9 years and 210 days old, he is the oldest mouse in captivity. On Feb. 8, he was officially recognized as the "oldest living mouse in human care" by Guinness World Records, according to the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance. "This recognition is so special for our team, and is significant for the species," Debra Shier, the associate director of recovery ecology at San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance (SDZWA), said in a news release. "It's indicative of the dedication and incredible care we as an organization provide for each species, from the largest to the very smallest." Shier established the organization's Pacific pocket mouse conservation breeding program. The species is endangered due to human encroachment on its habitat. RELATED: Tiny Mouse Deer Born at England's Bristol Zoo Stands at the 'Height of a Pencil' Once a vibrant part of the ecosystem stretching from Los Angeles to the Tijuana River Valley, the species was thought to be extinct until a small remnant population was discovered in 1994 in the Dana Point headlands of Orange County, according to the SDZWA. The mice typically live no further than two miles from the ocean in coastal scrublands, dunes, and riverbanks. "This acknowledgment is also a symbol of appreciation for species that people don't know much about because they're not charismatic megafauna, but are just as critical for ecosystem function," Shier said. "These overlooked species can often be found in our own backyards—like the Pacific pocket mouse." Ken Bohn/San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance  RELATED: Woodpecker Stores 700 Lbs. of Acorns in Walls of California Home: 'Bit of a Hoarder' The smallest mouse species in North America, the Pacific pocket mouse, gets its name because it uses the pockets or pouches in its cheeks to carry food and nesting materials. They are beneficial to the environment because the animals disperse seeds of native plants and encourage plant growth through their digging activities, SDZWA said. Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. Pat, who weighs about the same as three pennies, was born on July 14, 2013, in the first year of the Pacific pocket mouse conservation breeding program at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park. Last year, SDZWA bred a record 31 litters (117 mouse pups) during the spring and summer seasons. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.