The Detroit Lions returned to Ford Field to square off against a team that was chalk full of offensive weapons, as well as a defense that was playing well to start the season under new defensive coordinator Ryan Nielsen.  Detroit was seeking to rebound after a tough loss in its home opener, as questions started to arise regarding the defense and how Dan Campbell's squad would perform after suffering a plethora of injuries.  Aidan Hutchinson's sister, Mia Hutchinson, kicked off the festivities with a rousing rendition of the National Anthem.  Detroit's defense accepted the challenge of the coaching staff and unleashed its frustrations on a team playing its first road game of the season.  After 60 minutes, Detroit improved its record to 2-1, with a 20-6 victory against the Falcons.  Here are six takeaways from the Lions' dominant home victory.  Lions' pass-rush comes alive early The talk all week was about Detroit's inability to secure sacks against its first two opponents.  Against the Falcons, Detroit's defense was flying to the football early.  After linebacker Alex Anzalone secured a tackle to force the Falcons into a three-and-out on their first offensive drive, the defense was stout again on the next drive.  Wideout Drake London was able to secure a solid reception to extend the drive, but back-to-back sacks electrified the crowd and abruptly ended Atlanta's drive.  Benito Jones burst through the line to bring down Desmond Ridder, followed by a sack on the next play by linebacker Derrick Barnes. The Lions finished the first half with four sacks, including the first in Jack Campbell's NFL career. Detroit Lions linebacker Derrick Barnes Lon Horwedel, USA TODAY Sports Sam LaPorta has chemistry with Jared Goff, shines in win  One of the primary reasons the Lions selected tight end Sam LaPorta in the second round was because of his ability to secure yards after the catch.  Early against Atlanta, the talented tight end secured four receptions, assisting the Lions' offense in battling against the Falcons' stifling defense.  One reception got the crowd off its feet, as LaPorta powered through multiple defenders to secure a first down.  Then, in the second quarter, he was the beneficiary of broken coverage from Atlanta, and secured a 45-yard touchdown reception from Goff. It capped off a five-play, 75-yard drive, and gave the Lions a 10-3 lead.  The connection between the veteran signal-caller and rookie is expected to only grow, as the Iowa product becomes increasingly acclimated to Detroit's offense. Goff gets into early rhythm, leads offense Detroit's veteran signal-caller was able to pick apart the Falcons' defense, finding his groove after the team's first possession.  Even thought the deep attempt to an open Kalif Raymond was overthrown, Goff took what was given to him and moved the football.  Just prior to the half, Goff, who appeared to be "in the zone," led the team on a 13-play, 67-yard drive that milked 8:00 off the clock.  Riley Patterson gave Detroit a 13-3 halftime lead, with a 24-yard field goal.  Goff finished the first half with a passer rating of 114.8, and was 15-for-21 for 188 yards and a score.  Not much room for Jahmyr Gibbs early, lanes open up later  With the bulk of carries, Gibbs struggled to find many running lanes against the Falcons' defensive line in the first half.  In the first half, the Falcons' stout defensive line clogged the middle, and stuffed any attempt the rookie made to secure additional rushing yards.  Unfortunately, right tackle Matt Nelson left the game with an ankle injury, resulting in Dan Skipper, who only returned to the team this week, to fill in at tackle.  After getting stifled early, Gibbs was able to break some runs against a worn down Falcons defense, including a 21-yard burst early in the fourth quarter.  Dan Campbell takes more measured approach Throughout the last seven days, Campbell's decision-making against the Seahawks has been dissected, especially late in the game.  Against Atlanta, Detroit's third-year head coach took a more measured approach.  Campbell has been applauded for his aggressiveness, but the defense's performance likely made it easier to take a less aggressive approach on offense.  Early in the game, Detroit's offense did not go for it on fourth down, instead accepting that the Falcons' defense held firm and calling upon kicker Riley Patterson.  Early in the third quarter, Campbell elected to punt the football, after the offense failed to convert on third down-and-short.  The defense held firm, as the Falcons missed a field goal attempt on its next offensive possession.  Offensive line battered Entering the game, the Lions were expecting to be without two of their starting linemen, in Taylor Decker and Halapoulivaati Vaitai. However, they would be down two more by the conclusion of Sunday's game.  Matt Nelson left the game in the first quarter, while Dan Skipper played a handful of snaps before leaving with an injury of his own. That left rookie Colby Sorsdal to get his first meaningful snaps.  It was a struggle at times for the Lions to get going as a result. Goff took plenty of hits from the Falcons' pass-rush, and appeared frustrated at times.  The Lions' front five was also penalized four times, including two penalties called on Penei Sewell and one on Frank Ragnow. The run game struggled, too, as Gibbs couldn't live up to the hype.  Detroit's lone rushing score came on a Jared Goff 3-yard run in the fourth quarter.  John Maakaron is a Detroit Lions Insider who covers the team for FanNation. 