Copyright © 2023 Infosys Limited  Thank you for subscription. Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts Spotify SoundCloud Infosys TechCompass Gen AI Radar – Life sciences Gen AI Radar – Financial Services Gen AI Radar – Manufacturing A strategic view of how technology evolves over time and the trends that drive their adoption Spending on generative AI by the Life sciences industry is set to grow 36% in 2024 from the $470 million spent in 2023. Spending on generative AI by the Financial Services industry is set to grow by 164% in 2024 from the $1 billion spent in 2023. Spending on generative AI by the Manufacturing industry is set to grow by 103% in 2024 from $1 billion spent in 2023. Navigate your business decisions by adopting trends that guide toward a Live Enterprise How technology adoption creates a new minimum standard for companies to meet Creating a continuously evolving and learning organization Explore enterprise metaverse, hyper-productive humans, and human-centric design Effective Agile drives a faster chance of growth by as much as 63% Boosting profits and enabling a competitive edge with cloud  In this episode of The Professionals, host Samad Masood from the Infosys Knowledge Institute interviews Richard Evans, the Head of Risk and Assurance at Crowe. Join us as Richard shares his 25-year journey in professional services, starting from his early days at Deloitte to his current role at Crowe. Discover the challenges and triumphs of building a risk services team from scratch, the importance of human interaction in audit and risk, and how technology like AI is reshaping the industry. Tune in for an engaging discussion on navigating career transitions, maintaining enthusiasm, and the evolving landscape of professional services.  AI is not replacing humans in the workplace but redefining their roles. Organizations that navigate the synergy between AI and humans successfully will thrive.  Agricultural chemicals and the associated businesses and services (agrochem) will play a key role in improving crop yields and ensuring global food security.  Infosys implemented a proactive and efficient customer experience center for a semiconductor client, leveraging advanced ServiceNow capabilities.  A quarterly report surveying the largest banks globally to benchmark their key technology priorities, performances, spend, and talent changes.  In this video, we explore Explainable AI (XAI) and its importance in making AI systems transparent and trustworthy.  In this episode of The Professionals, host Samad Masood from the Infosys Knowledge Institute sits down with Mark O'Connor, a partner and global co-chair for the technology sector at law firm DLA Piper. Mark shares his fascinating journey in tech law, from the early days of the internet boom in the '90s to the current AI revolution. Learn about the importance of building diverse and motivated teams, and how AI is reshaping the legal profession. Whether you're a budding lawyer or a seasoned professional, this episode offers valuable lessons on thriving in the ever-changing landscape of technology and law.  The discussion highlights the risks in cybersecurity, including VPN-based access, cloud misconfigurations, data protection, and OT security.  Thank you for subscription. Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts Spotify Company Subsidiaries Programs Support Connect with us Copyright © 2024 Infosys Limited