The screen printing arm of a local nonprofit is being disbanded after “careful consideration.”  After almost eight years of screen printing services Ambrose at the West Michigan Center for Arts and Technology (WMCAT) is being phased out.  WMCAT  President and CEO Jamon Alexander said in a statement the organization will no longer continue Ambrose, its screen printing service that has sent products to local Meijer locations.  “As a social enterprise of the West Michigan Center for Arts + Technology, Ambrose at WMCAT has been making T-shirts count since 2015, setting clients apart with creative custom designs and screen printing while positively impacting our community,” Alexander said.  “Over the past eight years, Ambrose has provided apparel for companies, events, schools and more; elevated youth voice by inking original work by teen artists on shirts sold across the country for Black History Month; and spurred on movements for neighborhood placemaking and local business support with the screen-printed messages ‘I Am West Side’ and ‘Bound As One.’ “And yet, it has been a persistent challenge to balance the successful operation of a commercial print shop with Ambrose’s original desire to engage young people in creativity, entrepreneurship and apprenticeship opportunities. After careful consideration and with incredible gratitude, we have decided to conclude commercial screen-printing services and phase out Ambrose at WMCAT.”  Ambrose was at the center of last year’s Black History Month apparel at WMCAT, as teens designed T-shirts and sweatshirts which were available to purchase across all Meijer supercenters and market format stores in February 2022, generating revenue and public interest in the organization.  According to WMCAT, Ambrose will continue to accept orders requiring custom design work through Feb. 15 and will continue to accept orders with print-ready artwork through Feb. 28, as capacity allows. Printing will continue until these orders are filled.  This story can be found in the Mar. 6 issue of the Grand Rapids Business Journal. To get more stories like this delivered to your mailbox, subscribe here. Staying current is easy with CGR's news delivered straight to your inbox, free of charge. Click below to see everything we have to offer. Crain's Grand Rapids Business launched in 2023, bringing together MiBiz, the Grand Rapids Business Journal and Crain Communications to create the top source of business news, analysis and information in West Michigan. 

   CONTACT US

161 Ottawa NW,  Suite 173
Grand Rapids, MI 49503
833-830-7446
Staff
Contact Us
Help Desk RESOURCES
About Us
Reprints
Ad Choices
Crain's Grand Rapids Jobs
 ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Classified Advertising LEGAL
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Privacy Request