 The Science and Technology Innovation Program (STIP) serves as the bridge between technologists, policymakers, industry, and global stakeholders. The Wilson Center's Technology Labs provide the knowledge foundation for core science and technology policy topics through a six-week seminar themes series. The Serious Games Initiative communicates science and policy complexities through the world’s most dynamic medium: gaming.   As our dependency on space technology grows, it’s clearer than ever: space matters. The Wilson Center’s Across Karman project takes you across the Karman Line for an in-depth look at how space systems impact our daily lives. Hack the Future is a new series of events organized by SeedAI in partnership with the Wilson Center's Science and Technology Innovation Program to drive AI learning, assessment, and engagement deeper into communities traditionally left out of technological change. The Wilson Center’s 5G Beyond Borders project explores how the U.S., Canada, and Mexico can work together to maximize the benefits of 5G and related technology through informed policy solutions.  The project offers an overview of the landscape of 5G technology around the globe, while also focusing on the impact of 5G on North American business, and smart manufacturing. Cross-border collaboration between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico is essential to a secure transition. 5G Beyond Borders explores not only 5G security, but how North American cooperation can reduce risks, maximize economic gains, and ensure an efficient 5G rollout.Learn more Technological tools are today a vital component of modern statecraft.  Nations hack into each other’s computer networks to collect intelligence, prepare the battlefield, and carry out sabotage.  They also invest heavily in technologies that promise to fundamentally change the way we communicate and that will automate major functions currently conducted by humans.  Drawing upon existing regional programming, our Serious Games Initiative, a diverse network of Fellows and strong alliances with the private sector, this effort evaluates the risk of miscalculation in the digital age, identify possible solutions and investigate policy options for addressing future challenges.Learn more According to CitizenScience.gov, "In citizen science, the public participates voluntarily in the scientific process, addressing real-world problems in ways that may include formulating research questions, conducting scientific experiments, collecting and analyzing data, interpreting results, making new discoveries, developing technologies and applications, and solving complex problems."Learn more The Wilson Center’s Digital Assets Forum has a mission to present reliable unbiased information concerning the evolution in blockchain technology and cryptocurrency.  We provide a realistic assessment of the future and opportunity of increasing focus on metaverse-related technology. Learn more Global health is more than healthcare: it combines politics, human behavior, and economics within the boundaries of scientific theory and practice to illustrate the impact of health and well-being on a successful global strategy.Learn more Subscribe for updates about new events, articles, videos, and more from the Science and Technology Innovation Program One Woodrow Wilson Plaza1300 Pennsylvania Ave. NWWashington, DC 20004-3027