 Search the news, stories & people Personalise the news and stay in the know Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN By Petria Ladgrove Topic:Evolution Topic:Fossils When a UK palaeontologist examined rocks collected from rural west England in the 1990s, he found something unexpected: a tiny fossil with a perfectly preserved penis.  Topic:Astronomy (Space) Topic:Science and Technology Topic:Space Exploration Topic:Astronomy (Space) Not many speed daters expect to take a whiff of potential lovers as an introduction, but in the name of science that's what happened at a Sydney speed-dating event as part of National Science Week. Topic:Relationships The Altar Stone, long believed to have come from Wales, may have been transported via sea from Scotland, according to new research from an Australian team. Topic:Ancient History The dark night sky has special meaning for Krystal De Napoli, an astrophysicist and Gomeroi woman, but light pollution is erasing constellations from view that have guided her peoples' connection with Country since time immemorial, she writes. Topic:Perspective Mars may have enough water hiding in the cracks of underground rocks to form a global ocean, new research suggests. The lead scientist on the project says it means some environments could possibly be habitable on the Red Planet.  Topic:Astronomy (Space) They may seem like just a beautiful blue bird, but under the surface the social dynamics of the splendid fairy-wren is anything but simple.  Topic:Birds What's filled you with awe in the night sky? We've narrowed it down to an incredible 10 things that have stunned and inspired you from auroras to shooting stars. Now it's time to vote! Topic:Astronomy (Space) Neighbourhood lights can disrupt the lives of animals that are active during the day or night, but there are steps you can take to help them out. Topic:Environmental Impact Cosmos Magazine's use of a Walkley Foundation-administered grant to publish AI-created content has drawn the ire of contributors and former editors, including its co-founders. Topic:Artificial Intelligence CrowdStrike releases its analysis of last month's global IT outage, revealing an "embarrassing" mistake experts say first-year programming students are taught how to avoid. Topic:Information Technology Industry Smartphones are now advanced enough to take photos that were once only possible using bulky cameras. Here's our guide to snapping a stunning shot of the Milky Way. Topic:Photography The discovery of a 700,000-year-old arm bone fossil and two teeth on the Indonesian island of Flores is shedding light on how the tiny, now-extinct human Homo floresiensis evolved. Topic:Archaeology The astrophysicist and artificial intelligence expert joins Nate to chat all things AI — aiming to debunk some of the myths around the technology. Topic:Science and Technology It's Science Week, which means it's time to ask Australia an important question: What's filled you with awe in the night sky? Auroras, lightning sprites, the Milky Way, meteor showers … start voting now! Topic:Astronomy (Space) Scientists are harnessing the Tetris effect, a phenomenon described by people who play the classic 1980s video puzzle game, to help unlock dreams and treat post traumatic stress disorder. Topic:Mental Health The 2,500-year-old mummy — dubbed the Screaming Woman — was "virtually dissected" by an Egyptian research team. Topic:Archaeology Plans for a major wharf upgrade for Australia's Antarctic icebreaker have been scaled back after the initial $515 million cost estimate was deemed "exorbitant", an inquiry has heard. Topic:Science and Technology It might be chilly, but Australia's night sky puts on a dazzling show at this time of year. Rug up and use our guide to see if you can spot some of our winter wonders. Topic:Astronomy (Space) Talking about sex isn't the taboo it once was, and people with disabilities say pleasure — and technology that can help them achieve it — is an access issue.  Topic:Disabilities The Tasmanian Mounted Search and Rescue team has been operating for 50 years. Its tactics and technology have evolved, but it still relies on maps and compasses when modern methods fail. Topic:Emergency Services Most people in the world live under light-polluted skies. Our interactives show you how even simple changes can bring the stars back into view. Topic:Astronomy (Space) We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)