Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World Read our research on: Full Topic List Read Our Research On: Some 72% of high school teachers say that students being distracted by cellphones is a major problem in their classroom. New findings, delivered monthly All Publications TikTok users under 30 see its impact on democracy more positively than older users, with 45% of this group saying it’s mostly good for American democracy. Some 72% of high school teachers say that students being distracted by cellphones is a major problem in their classroom. X stands out as a place people go to keep up with politics. Still, some users see political posts on Facebook, TikTok and Instagram, too.  X is still more of a news destination than these other platforms, but the vast majority of users on all four see news-related content. 64% of Americans live within 2 miles of a public electric vehicle charging station, and those who live closest to chargers view EVs more positively. A quarter of all webpages that existed at one point between 2013 and 2023 are no longer accessible. High school teachers are more likely than elementary and middle school teachers to hold negative views about AI tools in education. 85% of U.S. teens say they play video games. They see both positive and negative sides, from making friends to harassment and sleep loss.  Most Americans are wary of social media’s role in politics and its overall impact on the country, and these concerns are ticking up among Democrats. Still, Republicans stand out on several measures, with a majority believing major technology companies are biased toward liberals. 62% of U.S. adults under 30 say they use TikTok, compared with 39% of those ages 30 to 49, 24% of those 50 to 64, and 10% of those 65 and older. Roughly four-in-ten Americans have experienced online harassment, with half of this group citing politics as the reason they think they were targeted. Growing shares face more severe online abuse such as sexual harassment or stalking Two-thirds of parents in the U.S. say parenting is harder today than it was 20 years ago, with many citing technologies – like social media or smartphones – as a reason. From distractions to jealousy, how Americans navigate cellphones and social media in their romantic relationships. Majorities of U.S. adults believe their personal data is less secure now, that data collection poses more risks than benefits, and that it is not possible to go through daily life without being tracked. 901 E St. NW, Suite 300Washington, DC 20004USA(+1) 202-419-4300 | Main(+1) 202-857-8562 | Fax(+1) 202-419-4372 | Media Inquiries ABOUT PEW RESEARCH CENTER Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world. It conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, media content analysis and other empirical social science research. Pew Research Center does not take policy positions. It is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts. © 2024 Pew Research Center