Interested in advertising with us? Advertise with us Tell us your opinions and views on what we cover Copyright © 2020 The Stray Ferret Ltd, All Rights Reserved Site by Show + Tell To continue reading this article, subscribe to the Stray Ferret for as little as £1 a week Already a subscriber? Log in here. 21 Jan 2023 by Newsroom 0  This story is sponsored by Ashville College.At Ashville Acorns Pre-Prep and Ashville Prep School, passionate and experienced teachers provide an encouraging and safe environment where children can be creative and curious, discover their strengths and interests, and are known and appreciated as individuals.Parents with children aged two to 11 are encouraged to come along to the Acorns and Prep School Open Doors event on Tuesday February 7, 2023. Here are just some of the ways we help children to thrive:1. We take the classroom outsideAshville’s pioneering Outdoor Learning programme gets kids out into the fresh air, makes tricky curriculum topics easier to understand, and teaches problem solving and teamwork skills for life. Outdoor Learning Specialist Teacher and Consultant, Mr Paul Oldham, said:  2. We provide confidence-boosting opportunitiesWhether it’s taking part in an informal music concert, representing the school as part of the Swim Squads, or getting creative for a good cause in Charity Club, children get the opportunity to boost their confidence and shine in the areas they enjoy the most.Pupils can choose to take on positions of responsibility from a young age, such as House Captains and members of the Prep School Parliament, helping to develop their leadership skills and appreciation for the ideas and opinions of their peers.3. Pupils are part of a wider communityAshville Acorns Pre-Prep and Ashville Prep School are part of Ashville College, an all-through school up to the age of 18. A sense of community is nurtured from the start; from enjoying lunch together in the Dining Hall to cheering each other on at numerous Competitive House events.There are regular vertical links between Senior School and Prep School for the delivery of subjects such as Modern Foreign Languages, Music and PE, and achievements are celebrated, such as the Head Teacher Award, for pupils who go over and above in their contributions to the Ashville community. 4. Regular, memorable experiences aren’t a one-off thingWhether it’s the classroom being transformed into Willy Wonka’s chocolate factory, taking part in a real-life magic trick, toasting cinnamon-coated apple slices around a fire pit, or a trip to the Leeds Playhouse, no two school days are the same at Ashville.You only go to school once, and the teachers ensure that each lesson is fun, stimulating and memorable, to nurture that love of learning every day.5. Pupils love their SchoolWhen you see pupils skipping down the corridor for break, or getting involved in a learning activity, they exude positivity. From our youngest pupils in Little Acorns to our most ‘senior’ Prep pupils in Year 6, you can tell they’re happy to be here. Mrs Charlotte Cryer, Head of Ashville Acorns Pre-Prep, which covers ages two to five, said: Mr Asa Firth, Head of Ashville Prep School, added: We would love to see you on 7 February. Take a tour, see our pupils on a normal teaching day, meet the staff, and find out more about how to apply. To sign up, click here.