We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Guidance, support and policy documents for education providers on the use of technology in education. The guidance and reports on this page: DfE is setting digital and technology standards for schools and colleges. You should use these standards to support your school or college to use the right digital infrastructure and technology. We will be adding more digital and technology categories to the service. Meeting these standards can help you make more informed decisions about technology, which will lead to safer, more cost-efficient practices and new learning opportunities for students. Changing use of technology may require schools and colleges to modify how they fulfil their data management and safeguarding responsibilities. The National Cyber Security Centre has further information on: DfE guidance and tools to help schools and colleges keep people safe, and data secure. Advice on specific buying processes and finding quality-checked suppliers for schools. Buying for schools has advice on how to plan and buy what schools regularly need. Recent research, commissioned by DfE, to build the evidence base on technology in education. Policy papers and speeches from the Department for Education (DfE), about the use of technology and digital services in education. Added 'Generative AI in education: educator and expert views' to the 'Evidence and research' section. Added 'Technology in schools survey report: 2022 to 2023'. Added 'Connect the classroom' to the 'Guidance for education providers' section. Added 'EdTech Demonstrator programme evaluation for 2021 to 2022', 'The education technology market in England' and 'Education technology for remote teaching' to 'Evidence and research'. Updated some links, headers and language to improve usability and accuracy. Added 'Assistive technology training pilot evaluation' to research section. Added a research section with link to assistive technology stakeholder reports. First published. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      