No option but to succeed: Yunus Election after vital reforms: Yunus Six banks still in shortfall despite BB support Tables turn, but police stick to old tricks A group exhibition Bridging Cultures: Celebrating 50 years of UAE-Bangladesh diplomatic relationship through art was inaugurated on 20 May, at American University in Dubai (AUD), by His Excellency, Mohammed Abu Zafar, Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates and Permanent Representative to IRENA. An Art camp was also held during the day with 10 Bangladeshi artists at the same venue. Both events have been organised by the Consulate General of Bangladesh, Dubai and Northern Emirates, in association with Bangladesh Art Week and American University in Dubai (AUD). The title itself celebrates the existing friendship between two countries UAE and Bangladesh. UAE was the first Gulf country to recognise Bangladesh and establish diplomatic relations after its independence. Bangladesh opened its embassy in Abu Dhabi on 23 March, 1974. Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman visited the UAE in 1974 and laid the foundation of the relations between the two countries. The most important visit from the UAE side was that of Shaikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan in 1984. In celebrating this unique moment of friendship, Bridging Cultures features 11 Bangladeshi artists and 5 Emirati artists.  Participating Bangladeshi artists are: Jamal Ahmed, Kanak Chanpa Chakma, Shahjahan Ahmed Bikash, Jamal Hossain Anisuzzaman, Dulal Chandrow Gain, Nazia Andaleeb Preema, Abida Hossain, Hasura Akhter Rumky, Md Sajedul Islam, and Suborna Morsheda. The participating artists from UAE are: Dr Mohamed Yousif, Nujoom Alghanem, Jassim Al Awadhi, Afra Salman Al Suwaidi, and Rashid Abdalla Almulla. This show was curated by Bangladesh Art Week Founder Niharika Momtaz and coordinated by Imdadul Haque Soofi. Members of this group have exhibited in prestigious events such as Venice Biennale, Documenta, Alliance Francis Dhaka, etc. These artists represent the burgeoning, vibrant, socially conscious and bold community of artists that live and work throughout Bangladesh and the UAE. As well as the artists' considerable facility with materials, their strength emerges through the diverse forms of representation that their work encompasses; whilst reflecting their own distinct perceptions of a unique geographical environment. The event was closed by Mohammed Mahtabur Rahman (Nasir) CIP, Chairman of Al Haramain Perfume and industries and NRB Bank on 24 May. HE B M Jamal Hossain, Consul General of Bangladesh, Dubai and Northern Emirates mentioned, "We assure you this is the first of many more such events to come." While Niharika Momtaz, curator and founder of Bangladesh Art Week said, "Bangladesh Art Week is very happy to be part of this event to celebrate the golden jubilee of our diplomatic relationship through art. We have a diverse group of 15 talented artists of which 35% are women." ১৯ জুলাই সায়েন্সল্যাব এলাকায় আইনশৃঙ্খলা বাহিনীর গুলিতে নিহত হন সাংবাদিক তাহির জামান প্রিয়। 