| Written by  Choosing a unique name is one of the first steps when forming a limited liability company (LLC), and conducting an LLC name search allows you to check if your desired business name is available before registering it. In this guide, we’ll share how to perform a business name search, provide an overview of common LLC naming rules, and briefly walk you through the registration process. Let’s get started! Secure Your LLC Name Now Northwest Registered Agent will register your business name when they form your LLC for $29 (plus state fees). Checking if your desired LLC name is available involves a few key steps. Here is an overview of what you need to do: To see if your preferred LLC name is available, you’ll need to search your state business entity database. Find your state’s LLC name search guide below: To perform an LLC name search in your state, visit your Secretary of State’s website (or other applicable department). Under the department’s “Business Services” section, look for an option to search active and inactive names. Type in your desired LLC name and hit search. Try different variations like abbreviations, LLC vs. Ltd, or slight name changes. For example, search for “Blue Sky LLC,” “BlueSky LLC,” “Blue Skies LLC,” etc. Review all results with your search criteria carefully – is your name already taken? Are there similar names that could cause confusion? Print or save your search results for reference. If your preferred name appears to be available, double-check on a local level as well. Some states require registering an LLC name at the county or city level, too. When choosing a business name you’ll need to find out whether or not a good web domain name is available. Having a URL that clearly matches your business name is important. This small step can make a big difference in how prospective customers find your business. The best way to determine if your desired URL is available is to search for it using your preferred domain registry. Domain Name Search What if my LLC name is already taken? Our free AI-powered LLC name generator will give you thousands of new ideas. Naming requirements vary for each state, but some of the most common ones for limited liability companies include the following: An LLC name becomes officially registered when you complete your LLC formation by filing the Articles of Organization in the state you conduct business in (sometimes known as a Certificate of Formation or Certificate of Organization). The Articles of Organization include your LLC’s name, registered agent, business purpose, and other key details. Filing these documents creates your company’s legal existence. Ready to register your LLC name? Use our Form an LLC guide to get started. Have a Professional Service Form Your LLC TRUiC readers can access Northwest’s LLC services for just $29 plus state fees (75% discount) Registering a DBA (doing business as) name is a separate process that requires filing with either your state, county, or city of business. Most states allow you to reserve your LLC name before you register it. Your name reservation can last anywhere from 30 days to 12 months.  To reserve an LLC name, you’ll need to file a simple name reservation application with your state. This requires providing your proposed name, contact information, duration for the reservation, and a small filing fee (usually $10-25). Once approved, you’ll receive confirmation that your name is reserved. Make sure to file your Articles of Organization before the reservation expires. To learn how to file for a business name reservation, check out our LLC Name Search state guides. A trademark search lets you check if your business name or logo is already trademarked. Head to the United States Patent and Trademark Office’s (USPTO) online system and search for potential matches. Even if your state LLC name is available, make sure your brand elements don’t infringe on existing trademarks. For additional help, visit our review of the best trademark services for startups. Alabama Secretary of State Business Entity Search Alaska Department of Commerce, Community, and Economic Development Corporations Database Arizona Corporations Commission eCorp Business Entity Search Arkansas Secretary of State Business Entity Search California Secretary of State Business Search Colorado Secretary of State Business Database Search Connecticut Secretary of State Business Records Search Delaware Department of State: Division of Corporations Business Name Search Florida Department of State Sunbiz Division of Corporations Entity Name Search Georgia Secretary of State Business Search Hawaii Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs Business Name Search Idaho Secretary of State Business Search Illinois Secretary of State Corporate and LLC Search Indiana Secretary of State Business Search Iowa Secretary of State Business Entities Search Kansas Secretary of State Business Filing Center – Name Availability Status Search Kentucky Secretary of State Name Availability Search Louisiana Secretary of State Business Filings Search Maine Secretary of State Corporate Name Search Maryland Department of Assessments and Taxation Business Entity Search Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth Business Entity Search Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs Business Entity Search Minnesota Secretary of State Business Filings Search Mississippi Secretary of State Business Search Missouri Secretary of State Business Entity Search Montana Secretary of State Business Search Nebraska Secretary of State Corporate & Business Search Nevada Secretary of State Business Entity Search New Hampshire Department of State Business Search New Jersey Department of the Treasury, Division of Revenue and Enterprise Services Business Entity Name Search New Mexico Secretary of State Business Search New York Department of State Corporation and Business Entity Database North Carolina Secretary of State Business Entity Search North Dakota Secretary of State Archived Business Records Search Ohio Secretary of State Business Name Search Oklahoma Secretary of State Business Entities Search Oregon Secretary of State Business Name Search Pennsylvania Department of State Business Entity Search Rhode Island Secretary of State Business Entity Search South Carolina Secretary of State Business Name Search South Dakota Secretary of State Business Information Search Tennessee Secretary of State Business Name Availability Search Texas Secretary of State or Comptroller of Public Accounts Taxable Entity Search SOSDirect Name Search Utah Division of Corporations and Commercial Code Business Name Search Vermont Secretary of State Business Name Search Virginia State Corporation Commission Business Entity Search Washington Secretary of State Corporation Search Washington D.C. Department of Licensing and Consumer Protection CorpOnline Business Search West Virginia Secretary of State Business Organization Search Wisconsin Department of Financial Institutions Corporate Records Search Wyoming Secretary of State Business Entity Search You can check with your state regulator to see if your preferred business name is available. Most states have a searchable, online database of existing business names. Read our free state guides to find a link to your state’s search tool. Business name regulations and restrictions vary by state. Some states prohibit two businesses from having the same name while others don’t.  However, it’s strongly recommended that you choose a unique name for your company regardless of your state’s rules. Read our state-specific LLC naming guides to learn more about the rules in your state. Restricted words for business names vary by state and some states have stricter naming rules than others.  However, business names generally can’t include words that imply the company is a banking or financial institution or that it’s affiliated with a local, state, or federal government agency. Learn more here: How to Name a Business If you’re having trouble choosing a name for your LLC, a business name generator can help you come up with some ideas. A brand name is a name a company gives to a product or line of products. It can be the same as the company’s name or something different. Most states require you to include “limited liability company” or one of its abbreviations (e.g., LLC or L.L.C.) in an LLC’s legal name. Rules about renewing business names and registrations vary by state. You can refer to our state-specific LLC naming guides for information about your state’s LLC naming rules. Some companies choose to operate under a name that’s different from their legal name. This can either be called a business name — a “doing business as” (DBA) name — or something else, depending on the state (e.g., assumed name, fictitious name, trade name, etc.). Different states have different rules, but you’ll generally need to register with the state to use a name that’s different from your LLC’s official name. Your LLC doesn’t need a DBA name unless it plans to do business under a name other than its legal name. Read our state guides about filing for a DBA for more information. How to Pick the Right Business Domain Name How to Name an LLC Choosing a Business Structure What is a Registered Agent? Best Registered Agent Services What is an EIN? Cost to Form an LLC Topics to Explore Browse Tags reviews Best LLC ServicesBest Registered Agent ServicesBest Banks for StartupsBest Website BuildersBest Business Plan SoftwareBest Press Release ServicesBest Incorporation ServicesBest Payroll Services startups Company ProfilesTop Startups to WatchStrategy StoriesFeature NewsPodcast how-to guides Start a StartupStart a Small BusinessStart an LLCStart a CorporationGet a DBAStart an S Corp topics Startup IdeasStartup ResourcesStartup FundingStartup LeadershipStartup Marketing connect with us! sign up for ournewsletter © 2024 TRUiC, All rights reserved About Us | Terms of Use | FTC Disclosure | Privacy Policy | Contact Us This website is meant to be opinion and information based, not legal advice of any kind. We spend hundreds of hours per month updating and refining our content as things change, but to be used as-is. For questions while starting a business, we recommend consulting with an attorney or accountant. Names, trademarks and logos mentioned all belong to their respective owners. Some of the links may be affiliate links, earning us a small commission if you decide to use them, allowing us to continue creating content.