MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  ANALYSIS The case stems from two distinct issues: the FTC’s interest in maintaining investigative power via litigation and the authority state legislatures wield when immunizing deals from federal scrutiny via the state-action doctrine. May 03, 2023 at 03:53 PM  7 minute read Regulation The ink on the deal between two Louisiana hospital systems was barely dry before the Federal Trade Commission claimed the state legislative process that allowed the merger to skirt antitrust review violated federal law.  “Louisiana Children’s Medical Center (LCMC) and HCA Healthcare (HCA) flouted their Hart-Scott-Rodino Act obligations by failing to report their transaction and then consummating it, without filing the required premerger notification and without a cognizable justification or exemption,” wrote FTC Bureau of Competition attorney Neal Perlman in an April 20, 2023, filing in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Maria Dinzeo By Maydeen Merino By Sulaiman Abdur-Rahman By Sulaiman Abdur-Rahman 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder Presented by BigVoodoo  The National Law Journal honors attorneys & judges who've made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in the D.C. area. The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. 
                                        SALARY/STEP INCREASES 3% Annual Across the Board Salary Increases on February 2025/2026 (Salary Increases contingent upon assessed values fo...
                                 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join National Law Journal now! Already have an account? Sign In Breaking news and trends for law firm and legal departments about the evolving federal regulations in a volatile political climate. The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.