ASHEVILLE – The six specialty cancer surgeons who were recently fired by GenesisCare have found a new home. Novant Health, the nonprofit health care conglomerate with more than 800 locations in North Carolina and South Carolina, will open a new facility at 80 Peachtree Road, just south of Biltmore Forest, a Novant spokesperson confirmed. The facility will open Nov. 8. “We’re excited to confirm our plans to partner with six local surgeons to open Novant Health Surgical Partners next month,” Novant spokesperson Ashton Miller said in an Oct. 24 statement to the Citizen Times. “We’re committed to serving the Western North Carolina community and will continue to look for ways to expand our services and offerings to increase access to quality healthcare.” Paul Ahearne, a surgeon with the practice, told the Citizen Times Oct. 24 that staff that was previously employed by GenesisCare is now in training with Novant. The physicians will be employed by Novant, he said. “We are very excited that we’ve been able to find a party to stay in town and continue to provide services for the region,” Ahearne said. “We’re looking forward to opening our doors when we can get the upfit finished.” Novant, which is based in Winston-Salem, will increase health care competition in Western North Carolina, which has been reconciling with the growing imprint of HCA Healthcare, the for-profit institution that bought the Mission Health system for $1.5 billion in 2019. This is not Novant’s first foray in the region. The nonprofit group acquired three urgent care clinics in Asheville and Black Mountain in May and submitted a certificate of need application for the 67-bed acute care hospital in Buncombe County. Novant told the Citizen Times in April that it had dropped out of the pursuit of the new hospital, which was preliminarily awarded to AdventHealth, pending an appeal from Mission.  Mission Health is embroiled in multiple antitrust lawsuits, one brought by individuals living in the area and another brought by the city of Brevard. The city of Asheville, Buncombe and Madison counties, joined as plaintiffs on the latter case. The surgeons received pink slips from GenesisCare in letters dated Aug. 4, giving them 180 days of notice. Their timeline was accelerated Aug. 14, when they learned their practice would close in the middle of October. They have not been able to operate since late September because they need to be available for follow up. The surgeons specialize in colon and rectal cancers, as well as melanoma and other thyroid procedures. They are among the only surgeons in the region to perform these specialties, referring doctors said.  Prior to joining GenesisCare, the surgeons were employed by HCA. They left HCA to join GenesisCare in April 2021 to increase choices for physicians who did not want to be employed by the for-profit giant, Ahearne previously told the Citizen Times. Concerns with how HCA operated Mission and flexibility to operate at other locations were among the other reasons for the change, Colin Bird, a colorectal surgeon with the group, previously told the Citizen Times. More: 6 Asheville cancer surgeons fired amid corporate private equity-backed bankruptcy More: Patients arrive at Mission Hospital in ambulances, then the waiting begins According to Novant’s 2022 financial statement, the nonprofit entity brought in $7.6 billion in operating revenues during the 2022 calendar year. Its Chief Executive Officer, Carl Armato, made about $4.5 million in 2021, according to Novant’s 2021 tax form. Mitchell Black covers Buncombe County and health care for the Citizen Times. Email him at mblack@citizentimes.com or follow him on Twitter @MitchABlack. Please help support local journalism with a subscription to the Citizen Times. This article originally appeared on Asheville Citizen Times: Fired GenesisCare surgeons find new Asheville home with Novant Health New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.