 Log In Charlotte, North Carolina-based Motor Supply Co announced March 28 that Tom Petersen is the company’s new Chief Marketing Officer. Petersen, who started working at Motor Supply Co in early February, will lead the company’s marketing strategy and initiatives to increase revenue and build brand presence within the automotive aftermarket industry, the company said. The company said Petersen has more than 20 years of experience in strategy and innovation from his eCommerce and retail career to the Motor Supply Co team. “We are thrilled to have Tom join us,” said John Wiesehan III, President and CEO of Motor Supply Co. “We are always striving to provide our customers with the best experience technology can provide. We were seeking a world-class leader to elevate our marketing efforts — someone who understands changing markets and isn’t afraid to take new approaches to get the job done. Tom understands how important the customer is and how important it is to adapt our solutions and approach to their needs through technology. His successful track record within startups and rapidly changing business environments will give us the speed and skills needed to support our continued growth.” Petersen previously served as Vice President of Merchandising at GameStop. Before that, he worked on leadership teams with eCommerce companies such as Wayfair, Chewy, Zulily and Boxycharm, Motor Supply Co said.   Changes also include a newly redesigned logo, new website and a complete building renovation, the… Craig Frohock accepted the opportunity to join Dayco Aftermarket and Belts as its new Chief… Nickels is the second addition to Tompkins’ leadership team this year. You must be logged in to post a comment. Read the latest articles and see your reports. The MDM update newsletter is your best source for news and trends in the wholesale distribution industry. Wholesale distribution news and trends delivered right to your inbox. Sign-up for our free newsletter and get: 2 articles left Subscribe today and get: Log in MDM Premium Subscribers get: Log in 1 article left Subscribe to MDM Premium to get unlimited access. Your subscription includes: Log in Join other distribution executives who use MDM Premium to optimize their business. Our insights and analysis help you enter the right new markets, turbocharge your sales and marketing efforts, identify business partners that help you scale, and stay ahead of your competitors. Log in Back to MDM.com By providing your email, you agree to receive announcements from us and our partners for our newsletter, events, surveys, and partner resources per MDM Terms & Conditions. You can withdraw consent at any time. Δ Δ