
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us OMD has added a Head of Digital (HOD) to its Asia Pacific (APAC) regional leadership team with the hiring of Dileep Raj Singh. Singh is a digital native and brings with him a wealth of experience across product, media agencies and client side in APAC, North America and the United Kingdom.   His last 10 years have been spent building diverse digital marketing teams covering areas like performance marketing, digital media planning, ad/martech, product marketing, branding and measurement.  As HOD, he will accelerate the agency’s digital leadership agenda, rooted in helping clients address their business challenges and digital ambitions. He will be supporting the local teams in APAC on operational excellence, digital transformation frameworks and roadmaps; and the development and implementation of our digital leadership agenda. He will also be working hand in hand with both our regional and global networks to initiate complementary workstreams for our clients in APAC.  “We will continue to invest and win in digital as part of our wider goal to be our clients’ most trusted business transformation partner,” said Charlotte Lee, CEO of OMD APAC.   “It is our global ambition to continue our leadership position in digital, data and technology.  In line with this ambition, we are excited to have Singh come on board the OMD APAC leadership team.  His background of agency, in-house and start-up experience positions him perfectly to understand and address our clients’ business needs,” added Lee.  “Digital media and access to our audience, as we know it, is changing quite rapidly around us.  This puts most of us in a delicate but remarkable position, a position from which we can shape and contribute to conversations about the next evolution of digital media.  As we embark on this journey, I want to leverage the strength of the OMD network – people, technology, data, tools and platforms – to help our clients pivot and navigate through all the new and evolved possibilities in digital media.  With this, I aim to position OMD as an unrivalled partner for our current and future clients; to dominate and succeed in this incredibly competitive and multifarious digital realm,” said Singh. Singh will report to Lee, and work closely with the team including Chief Strategy Officer (CSO), David McCallen, and Chief Client Officer (CCO), Sadhan Mishra, to drive and support APAC local markets as well as regional clients on digital, data and technology needs.   Mishra was promoted to CCO of OMD APAC recently in June 2023.  He will continue to be CEO of OMD Singapore, a position he was promoted to last August. Mishra has been with the agency for over 13 years and in his concurrent new role as CCO, he will focus on key client relationships, understanding their business needs and ensuring we remain a critical partner on their transformation journeys.  McCallen was elevated to the role of CSO of OMD APAC in April 2022, and was previously the CSO of OMD New Zealand for five years where he helped the agency to attain the top place in the market for new business, overall billings and award wins. Since starting in the APAC role, his focus has been on connecting and elevating strategic best practices across the region, building capabilities across a range of strategic outputs, and supporting new business growth both regionally and locally.  Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    