Mazzulla replaces former head coach Ime Udoka Mazzulla replaces former head coach Ime Udoka The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Mazzulla replaces former head coach Ime Udoka The Boston Celtics on Thursday named Joe Mazzulla as the 19th head coach in franchise history and have agreed upon a contract extension with him.  The terms of the deal were not disclosed.   “As he has shown, Joe is a very talented coach and leader,” said Brad Stevens, Boston Celtics President of Basketball Operations. “He has a unique ability to galvanize a room around a mission. We are thankful for the work he has done to help get us to this point and excited that he has agreed to lead us into the future.” "It's just been a real pleasure to see Joe work as interim head coach and see how the team has come together and supported him and they've all, you know, teamed up together to now have the best record in the league," Celtics owner Wyc Grousbeck said in an exclusive interview with WCVB's Naoko Funayama. "We're a team that's playing very well and is clearly very well coached. They're motivated and he's getting production from eight, nine, ten guys a game, you know, serious production," Grousbeck said.  Watch extended one-on-one interview with Celtics owner Wyc Grousbeck The Celtics currently have the best record in the Eastern Conference at 42-17.  "Joe has really stepped up," Grousbeck said. "It was a battlefield promotion and just a few days before training camp. We had high, high hopes for Joe. And today is a day where we're reflecting on success so far and hoping to, you know, make more happen." Mazzulla, a native of Johnston, Rhode Island, was recognized as the NBA Eastern Conference Coach of the Month for games played in October and November after leading the team to a league-best 18-4 record.  He was also named the NBA All-Star Head Coach on Jan. 30 and will coach Team Giannis in Salt Lake City.  Mazzulla becomes only the third first-year head coach over the last 24 seasons to helm an All-Star team, and is the eighth coach in Celtics history to earn the honor. Mazzulla replaces former head coach Ime Udoka, who was suspended last year over unspecified violations of team rules. Mazzulla has had the title of interim head coach since September.  An NBA source tells SportsCenter 5's Duke Castiglione this announcement was in the works for some time.  "He has, obviously, really impressed the Celtics with the job he's done," said Castiglione. "He did a great job getting the best out of his players when at times he dealt with injuries. He's got his guys to play hard. They have the best record in the NBA." Video below: Mazzulla answers questions at Media Day, shortly after being named interim head coach Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.