0 By clicking the button, I accept the Terms of Use of the service and its Privacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data. Don’t have an account? Signup  
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us Swati Balani After being associated with AutumnGrey (Autumn Worldwide) for nearly eight years, Swati Balani has moved on to join Sideways Consulting as Creative Head-Digital.  Announcing the new move through a LinkedIn post, Balani stated, “After seven and a half years at AutumnGrey (Autumn Worldwide) where I had the honour of working with the best minds and growing to amazing heights, I’ve decided to take up a new challenge in a new city!” “I’m also super excited to share that I’m starting a new position as Creative Head-Digital at Sideways Consulting! Super pumped for this new challenge,” the post further read. https://www.linkedin.com/posts/swati-balani-b11a2948_work-team-digital-activity-7021003962975731712-skNU?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop Commenting on her new role Balani also mentioned, "With the exponential rise in India’s digital audience and multiple platforms, businesses and brands have the opportunity to find their distinct way to interact with their audience. The one-size-fits-all approach doesn’t work anymore. It’s important to explore newer technologies, platforms, and tech-first approaches and think Sideways.” She also went on to add, “With Sideways’ unique proposition of being India’s first ‘creative problem-solving agency’ and their multi-talented team of tech experts, creative experts and strategic partners, I am thrilled to drive unique innovative and creative solutions for brands in the digital space!" During her stint at AutumnGrey, Balani worked as a Creative Director- Copy for the first three years and was then elevated to the role of Executive Creative Director in April 2018. Apart from this, Balani had also started her own venture ‘Beaten and Baked’ in May 2021. Previously, she has also been associated with Mullen, Draft FCB ULKA and DDB in different copywriting roles and Ogilvy and Mather as a Management Trainee. Commenting on her appointment, Abhijit Avasthi, Founder, Sideways, said, “With digital being a mainstream lever in business now, we needed a solid experienced hand who understands the nuances of this domain and can impact visible outcomes. In Swati we found such a person- besides being an able team builder.” Sameer Sojwal and Nilay Moonje, ECDs and Creative Heads of Sideways, while welcoming Balani also said, “Swati joins the Sideways team to further strengthen our digital offering. She brings with her deep understanding of the digital world and the experience of handling multiple brands and teams across digital and mainline agencies. We are super happy to have her and look forward to seeing more Sideways thinking in the months to come.” Info@BestMediaInfo.com  Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    