Tuesday, August 20, 2024 By M4G Bureau - May 11, 2023 A passionate marketer and experienced business leader, Ritu brings a wealth of experience in brand building, business strategies, marketing, among other verticals.  Ritu Mittal, Head of Digital & Marketing, Bayer, joins the esteemed jury for the Outdoor Advertising Awards (OAA) 2023.   A driven business leader and an award-winning brand builder, Ritu has 19+ years of experience working with various segments such as FMCG, consumer health and tech. In her current role, Ritu heads marketing and digital for Bayer Consumer Health where she is responsible for leading innovation, commercial sustainability, and digital transformation for the division. In addition to this, she is responsible for nurturing agency partnerships, designing brand strategy, shaping e-commerce strategy, and fuelling innovative design among other duties.  “The Outdoor Advertising Awards contest serves as a catalyst for promoting creativity, innovation, and excellence in outdoor advertising”, said Ritu when speaking of the awards. “Winning an OAA is a mark of distinction that acknowledges the campaign's impact and effectiveness. The recognition bestowed by this contest motivates industry professionals to push the boundaries of their creativity and strive for better results”.  In her professional roles, Ritu has been responsible for diving innovation, and she hopes to see the same at this year’s awards. She said, “With the increasing challenges of capturing consumers' attention, the entries are expected to be innovative, memorable, and aligned with the brand's objectives. The jury will be keen on assessing the effectiveness and creativity of the campaigns, looking for work that leaves a lasting impression”.  Having been part of the OAA Jury last year, Ritu describes her experience as “enriching”. She recalls, “It was a privilege to be among a group of creative professionals who shared the same passion for outdoor advertising. The process of evaluating entries and deliberating on scores was a fascinating one. Being a jury member also carried a sense of responsibility to recognise and reward the best work in the industry, which was a humbling experience. Overall, the experience helped me grow as a professional and appreciate the nuances of outdoor advertising better”.  Meanwhile, the final date of awards entry submission is fast approaching. Entries to be submitted before or on May 15, 2023 at www.oacasia.org/awards Stay on top of OOH media trends Basant Rathore, SVP, Brand and Business Development, Jagran Prakashan joins OAA 2023 Jury Jaikishin Chhaproo, Head Media & Brand PR, ITC joins OAA 2023 Jury Promoflex takes up Associate Sponsorship of OAC 2023 to be held in Delhi on July 28-29 World Out of Home Organization adds 9 new members from three continents OOH body AMLI joins hands with JICAF to showcase Indonesia's largest OOH Art Gallery on Independence Day Time for a new perspective on OOH, says Ashish Mishra, CMO – ACKO Subscribe to receive the latest OOH industry updates Copyright © 2024 media4growth. All pages of the Website are subject to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You must not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, resell or exploit any material on the Website for any commercial purposes.