There's a lot happening in the world and in Pensacola. Stay informed and be one of the first to learn about breaking news with personalized news alerts, flip through a digital replica of the print paper, access exclusive deals and more with a subscription to the Pensacola News Journal. Play a vital role in supporting local journalism you and your community can trust. With your subscription, you can help our journalists hold those in power accountable. With a subscription to the Pensacola News Journal, you will receive full access to the work done by our journalists and photographers as they head out every day to help inform and explain the important issues affecting your community. Our staff also reports on local dining and entertainment news, offering an insider's guide on things to do around town and where to go. And let's not forget our coverage of the Blue Angels! With our special sale you can get unlimited access to our content. Here are the deals. Here are eight reasons you will benefit by becoming a subscriber of the Pensacola News Journal. Subscribers have unlimited access to our journalism. Once you log in, you'll be able to view our investigative, in-depth news stories, along with the best local recommendations on where to dine — and what restaurants failed their inspections — and what to do this weekend. Our journalists work hard to ensure you always know what's happening in Escambia and Santa Rosa counties. Here are examples of some of our subscriber-only journalism: Restaurant news Cask and Flights may face shutdown after Pensacola says there's too many bars on the block New restaurants in Pensacola area: 5 new restaurants opened in January, here they are: Pensacola dive bars: Where can you find the diviest bars in Pensacola? Right here: Sports PNJ Midseason Football Report: Who's in contention for PNJ's All-Area Superlative Awards High school volleyball: Escambia's Abbie McNair battling 'silent disease.' It makes her fight harder. Year of the Chiefs: A look back at Northview's 2012 Class 1A state football title Growth and development Pensacola asked to chip in $1.5M for Waverly housing/grocery store project downtown Luxury real estate in Pensacola area: The 10 most expensive homes sold in 2022 Entertainment Looking for things to do? Here are the top 5 things to do in Pensacola this weekend: Crime Dozens of people allege Escambia contractor took their money but never fixed their homes Rev. LuTimothy May alleges Lumon May involved in illegal attempt to seize church land FDLE loses secret court fight to force Escambia County judge candidate to register as sex offender Your neighbors Surfside rescuers heard her voice, tried for hours to save her. Then officials buried her story. Freebies and deals 12 Days of Giveaways, just for subscribers The News Journal app also gives you access to the USA TODAY Network. Watch videos, view photos and read stories you want to see from Tallahassee, Sarasota, Cape Canaveral and more than 100 other properties throughout the United States. PNJ offers two apps: PNJ and the PNJ Print Edition. Each can be set up the way you want. The PNJ app allows you to save your favorite stories, adjust the size of the text and set the news alerts you want. The PNJ Print Edition gives you easy and quick viewing of the eNewspaper, the digital replica of the print edition, every day. Customize your alerts by selecting the ones you want to receive: breaking news, top stories, entertainment, weather, traffic, sports and business. Don't want to be disturbed in the office or awakened at night? You also can schedule quiet times. With your digital subscription, you can access the "print edition" daily on your computer, cellphone or tablet via Pensacola's eNewspaper. The eNewspaper, formerly known as the e-Edition, is a full electronic replica of the print newspaper published daily, with local news, sports, advertising and features such as comics and puzzles. Subscribers get expanded eNewspaper access to newspapers across the USA TODAY Network, including USA Today and its popular crossword puzzle. ➤ eNewspaper apps for iPhone and Android How to access your eNewspaper: Your Pensacola News Journal subscription includes digital copy Great stories aren't just great writing. Make your experience personal with unlimited access to our videos, photo galleries and interactive data visuals. Want to go out to eat? Check our online database to find out the latest restaurant inspection reports. Thinking about a day at the beach? Click on our interactive maps to see if there are any reports of red tide or blue algae. Busy? We'll email the top five articles to your inbox each day in the form of The Daily Briefing newsletter, complete with photos and article summaries. Have time for more? Click through to the articles straight from your email. The Daily Briefing Newsletter is one of many we offer. Our newsletters range from Storm Watch for the latest news updates during an emergency to Obituaries, Legal Notices and news cartoons. Or jump into Inside Politics for a weekly roundup of the top local political news happening in Florida. If you're a history buff, take a peek at Florida Time, your weekly fix of Florida history, nostalgia myths and more. Sign up for all you're interested in. Right now, we have a special offer for a subscription. Visit our subscription page to take advantage of this limited-time offer. This article originally appeared on Pensacola News Journal: Digital benefits of a Pensacola News Journal subscription New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.