41
New Articles








 
New Articles On July 21, 2023, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced a final rule, which will be officially published on July 25, 2023, that will provide eligible employers filling out the Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 an optional alternative to the in-person physical document examination method that employers have followed as part of the Form I-9 process. DHS explained, “This rule responds to lessons learned during the COVID-19 pandemic, which demonstrated the substantial practical benefits of an optional alternative to the physical documentation examination procedures required by the employment eligibility verification regulations.” Only employers who are enrolled, and participating in good standing, in E-Verify, will be eligible to use this optional alternative I-9 process. In addition to the requirement that employers use E-Verify, the optional alternative verification process requires the following to occur within three business days of the first day of employment: In the event of a Form I-9 audit or investigation by a relevant federal government official, the employer must make available the clear and legible copies of the identity and employment authorization documentation presented by the employee for document examination in connection with the employment eligibility verification process. The new rule also provides relief for certain employers who completed I-9 forms virtually during the COVID-19 pandemic. Employers who were participating in E-Verify and created cases for employees whose documents were examined virtually during COVID-19 flexibilities period (March 20, 2020, to July 31, 2023) may choose to use the new alternative procedure starting on August 1, 2023, to satisfy the physical document examination requirement by August 30, 2023. Employers should not create a new case in E-Verify. This accommodation is available to employers who were participating in E-Verify during the COVID-19 pandemic. Employers who were not enrolled in E-Verify during the COVID-19 flexibilities must complete an in-person physical examination by August 30, 2023. Qualified employers may choose to offer the alternative procedure for remote hires only, but employers must continue to apply physical examination procedures to all employees who work onsite or in a hybrid capacity. Employers must adopt the virtual I-9 process in a non-discriminatory manner. Qualified employers must retain clear and legible copies of all documentation presented by the employee seeking to establish identity and employment eligibility for the Form I-9 through the alternate procedures. On the other hand, E-Verify employers who do not apply the virtual I-9 procedures are only required to retain a photocopy of the required documents with an employee’s Form I-9. New Form I-9 and Form Instructions: In addition to the final rule on optional alternatives to in-person document examination, DHS also announced a new version of Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Form, which will be officially published on July 25, 2023, to be consistent with DHS final rule. The new form introduces certain changes including a checkbox to indicate that an employee’s Form I-9 documentation was examined using a DHS-authorized alternative procedure. The new version of Form I-9 [with a version date of “(Rev. 08/01/23)”] will be available for use from August 1, 2023. Employers may use the current version of Form I-9 (Rev. 10/21/19) until October 31, 2023. After October 31, 2023, the prior version of Form I-9 will be obsolete and no longer valid for use. Beginning November 1, 2023, employers who fail to use Form I-9 (Rev. 08/01/23) may be subject to all applicable penalties. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) will implement certain changes on the newly updated Form I-9 and form instructions, including the following: DHS further clarifies that, employers do not need to complete the new Form I-9 (Rev. 08/01/23) for current employees who already have a properly completed Form I-9 on file, unless reverification applies after October 31, 2023. Starting on August 1, 2023, employers may download the new Form I-9 (Rev. 08/01/23) from the USCIS website.   Sign Up for e-NewsBulletins   You are responsible for reading, understanding, and agreeing to the National Law Review's (NLR’s) and the National Law Forum LLC's  Terms of Use and Privacy Policy before using the National Law Review website. The National Law Review is a free-to-use, no-log-in database of legal and business articles. The content and links on www.NatLawReview.com are intended for general information purposes only. Any legal analysis, legislative updates, or other content and links should not be construed as legal or professional advice or a substitute for such advice. No attorney-client or confidential relationship is formed by the transmission of information between you and the National Law Review website or any of the law firms, attorneys, or other professionals or organizations who include content on the National Law Review website. If you require legal or professional advice, kindly contact an attorney or other suitable professional advisor.   Some states have laws and ethical rules regarding solicitation and advertisement practices by attorneys and/or other professionals. The National Law Review is not a law firm nor is www.NatLawReview.com  intended to be a referral service for attorneys and/or other professionals. The NLR does not wish, nor does it intend, to solicit the business of anyone or to refer anyone to an attorney or other professional.  NLR does not answer legal questions nor will we refer you to an attorney or other professional if you request such information from us.  Under certain state laws, the following statements may be required on this website and we have included them in order to be in full compliance with these rules. The choice of a lawyer or other professional is an important decision and should not be based solely upon advertisements. Attorney Advertising Notice: Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Statement in compliance with Texas Rules of Professional Conduct. Unless otherwise noted, attorneys are not certified by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization, nor can NLR attest to the accuracy of any notation of Legal Specialization or other Professional Credentials. The National Law Review - National Law Forum LLC 2070 Green Bay Rd., Suite 178, Highland Park, IL 60035  Telephone  (708) 357-3317 or toll-free (877) 357-3317.  If you would like to contact us via email please click here. Copyright ©2024 National Law Forum, LLC