Published on Canada has experienced the worst wildfire season on record, with more than 10 million hectares burned across the country since January, surpassing the previous high of 7.3 million hectares in 1989. The fires have displaced more than 150,000 people and killed a firefighter. Most of the fires have occurred in remote forests, but they have also affected air quality and wildlife habitats. The fires have been fueled by severe drought, warm temperatures and lightning strikes. Scientists say that climate change has increased the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events in Canada, which is warming faster than the global average. “We are now experiencing a new reality,” said Canada’s Natural Resources Minister Jonathan Wilkinson. “The climate signal is very strong. We are seeing both a larger area burned, and more severe fires,” said Robert Scheller, professor of forestry at North Carolina State University. Wildfires also contribute to greenhouse gas emissions, which in turn worsen climate change. Emissions from the Canada wildfires in May reached 54.8 million tonnes, which is more than double the annual emissions of Norway. Spring in Canada has been much warmer and drier than usual, creating a tinder-dry environment for these vast fires. In Halifax, in the eastern province of Nova Scotia, temperatures last week reached 33C, around 10 degrees higher than normal for the time of year. “We find ourselves this year with figures that are worse than our most pessimistic scenarios,” said Yan Boulanger, a researcher at Canada’s natural resources ministry. “The vegetation in the forests is exceptionally dry,” said climate scientist Daniel Swain at UCLA, which has meant that a higher fraction of lightning strikes has resulted in forest fires. Experts link the high temperatures to record-breaking spring heat seen in other parts of the northern hemisphere, including Spain, Portugal, Morocco, Algeria and Siberia. Last year scientists concluded that high temperatures exacerbated by climate change made drought in the northern hemisphere more likely. The impact of the fires is being felt hundreds of miles away, most keenly in Toronto and New York, where smoke has created hazy skies and health warnings. “The modern practice of trying to totally suppress fires can stop forests creating natural firebreaks that would historically have reduced wildfire spread,” said Georgina Rannard, climate and science reporter at BBC News. Experts say that better forest management, such as thinning trees and conducting prescribed burns, could help reduce the risk and severity of wildfires. They also call for more action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and limit global warming, which is making wildfires more frequent and destructive. Relevant articles: – Canada wildfires burn a record-breaking 10 million hectares, Le Monde, July 15, 2023– Is climate change fuelling Canada’s wildfires?, BBC News, June 8, 2023– Canada’s wildfires are part of our new climate reality, experts and officials say, The Guardian, June 7, 2023– How wildfires affect climate change — and vice versa, The Conversation, May 18, 2021 Your daily dose of trending topics! To get email updates from Today News. © Trendy Digests LLC Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive. 

								Type your email…							
  







 
								Subscribe							
 Continue reading