ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT GLYNDON, Minn. — When one's passion involves scanning the heavens for distant objects in the name of science or a hobby, a dark night sky is a must. Matt Craig has spent many an evening doing just that in the observatory at the Minnesota State University Moorhead Regional Science Center, adjacent to Buffalo River State Park. But research by the professor and his students in the MSUM Physics and Astronomy department is increasingly affected by a bright glow to the west — the “light dome” over Fargo-Moorhead. ADVERTISEMENT “It’s never dark in that direction,” Craig said. The phenomenon of “light pollution,” created by improper or excess use of artificial light at night, is gaining attention for its impacts not only on science, but on the health of humans, other animals, birds, insects and agriculture. Patrick Sommer is advocating for dark sky restoration locally as a delegate for the International Dark-Sky Association, 
    
      soon to be known as Dark Sky International, the leading organization fighting light pollution.
 He’s also associated with Starry Skies North Dakota and Starry Skies North IDA, a nonprofit based mainly in Minneapolis and Duluth. In those roles, he was recently able to persuade Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney and Moorhead Mayor Shelly Carlson to sign a joint proclamation in April in support of 2023 International Dark Sky Week in North Dakota and Minnesota. Sommer, an amateur astronomer, said the issue may be complex, but the solutions are fairly simple, technologically feasible and inexpensive. “It's not like we're going to try and shut down an entire segment of the energy sector. We're just going to dim or lower the light levels a little bit,” he said. ADVERTISEMENT The National Audubon Society is another major ally in the fight against light pollution, 
    
      with its Lights Out for Birds campaign aimed at businesses and residents.
 Meghan Carter-Johnson with Audubon Great Plains said the effort is meant to give birds a safer passage during migration periods, the spring time frame of which runs from March 15 through May 31. “This, of course, not only will prevent bird collisions but also can help save money on electric bills,” Carter-Johnson said. Sommer outlined four types of light pollution that can impact people, animals and migrating birds. Glare is light that makes it difficult to see, like a white LED light at night or headlights from an oncoming vehicle. Skyglow is the brightening of the night sky over cities, like Fargo-Moorhead, or highly lit areas like the Bakken oil fields in western North Dakota. Light from the Bakken and surrounding cities that grew exponentially during the major oil boom years can be seen from space. ADVERTISEMENT “It's a bigger footprint than the Twin Cities metro,” Sommer said. Other contributors to skyglow include businesses like car dealerships and gas station/convenience stores, which are often highly lit all night long. While some may need to keep lights on overnight for insurance purposes, Sommer said, they don’t necessarily have to be so bright. A third form of light pollution is clutter, caused by bright or excessive groupings of light sources, for example: a mix of parking lot lights, digital display boards, headlights and streetlights encountered along a busy street. Lastly, light trespass is light shining from a house or business onto or into a neighboring house or yard, in some cases forcing people to use blackout curtains in order to sleep. When it comes to reducing light pollution, Sommer emphasized, it’s aimed at making the sky, not the ground, dark. Outdoor light at night is necessary for business, recreation, entertainment and public safety, but Craig wonders why so much of it is being directed up into space. ADVERTISEMENT “At the end of the day, you're throwing away half of the energy you're using,” he said. Flooding a particular area with light doesn’t mean crime goes down, either, Sommer said.  “The funny thing is, criminals actually can use a little extra light to see what they're doing, too,” he said. A dark night sky is helpful for the two primary areas of research by Craig and his students in the MSUM Regional Science Center observatory. The university is part of an extensive NASA project looking for planets outside our solar system, including those that could support life. NASA launched the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite known as TESS in 2018. Craig also studies variable stars, or those that change in brightness over time. Because of skyglow over Fargo-Moorhead, points west of the observatory, especially lower in the sky, are hard to see, making brightness measurements difficult. ADVERTISEMENT “Looking at targets in the direction where there is more light pollution would just be harder to see the small changes we’re looking for,” Craig said. Light pollution can also impact agriculture, Sommer said, as many crops like soybeans are diurnal, or active during the day and inactive at night. The same is true for humans, as light pollution may contribute to things like insomnia, diabetes and mental health issues, he said. Most profoundly affected, however, are migratory birds. Approximately 75% of all bird species in the U.S. and Canada are migratory and navigate at night, Carter-Johnson said. The birds need cues from the night sky in the scramble to get to their breeding grounds, and brightly lit cities don't help. “Unfortunately, light pollution has drowned out the stars, and that leads to the birds being confused and disoriented, often in urban areas,” Carter-Johnson said. ADVERTISEMENT They end up hitting buildings or circling them until they collapse from exhaustion, she said, resulting in the loss of about a billion birds every year. As an example, Sommer cited scrutiny of the Tribute in Light memorial in New York City to represent the twin towers of the World Trade Center and remember the victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. In recent years, volunteers have kept a close eye on bird counts in and around the light beams. If the counts get too high, the light beams are turned off for a while to allow the birds to disperse, Sommer said. Outdoor lighting should have a clear purpose, be targeted only where needed, be no brighter than necessary and be controlled, according to Dark Sky International principles. Sommer said the worst type of outdoor fixture for light pollution is the globe style, where light shines in all directions. The best is one where light is fully shielded downward and is on a timer or motion sensor. Select warmer color lights where possible, he said. Individuals and businesses can also make a difference by turning off or dimming interior home lights and turning off or dimming lobby and atrium lights when not needed. Cities can make a major impact by switching out their municipal lighting grid to newer technology that operates on dimming systems, Sommer said. Dark sky advocates were initially viewed in an adversarial light by some in the lighting industry, he said, but that has changed as the effects and solutions for light pollution are fully understood. Reducing light pollution goes hand-in-hand with climate issues, Sommer said, especially in states that rely heavily on fossil fuels. “You’re going to save not only dollars on your utility bill but also some emissions that you might not even be thinking about,” he said. Beyond the negative effects on night sky research, light pollution is affecting the average person's ability to take in nighttime phenomena including the aurora borealis, or the northern lights. What if the skies were darker within city limits? “People would notice more things going on in the sky and enjoy them,” Craig said. ADVERTISEMENT