This summer has brought the heat – literally.  Over 160 million Americans were under an excessive heat alert last week. It's so hot that rescue helicopters are unable to fly to find afflicted Americans in remote national parks. Record high and overnight low temperatures are being broken. A New York bridge stopped working due to extreme heat. How can you protect yourself while it's sweltering? Here are some things you can do to help you stay as safe and cool as possible.  Plan The first step to protecting yourself from the heat is to plan. Dr. Christopher Pullins with the Mayo Clinic reports that it takes about 30 minutes for water to get into your system, so it is crucial to drink plenty of water before you are in the heat.  If you are dehydrated, it takes about 45 minutes for water to get into your system, so having extra water and drinking ahead of time is a smart potential preventative to any heat-related illness, said Dr. Pullins.  Stay hydrated Although it sounds simple, staying hydrated is one of the best ways to protect yourself from the effects of the sun.  Sweating causes you to lose not only the water in your system but electrolytes. Drinking liquids such as water and electrolyte-heavy drinks can help rehydrate you – but you cannot let your body get behind or you will soon be dehydrated, said Pullins. Dress appropriately You want to have a breathable, looser-fitting outfit if you have to be outside in the extreme heat. While most people think short sleeves and clothing that show your skin will help you stay cooler, you are more prone to sunburn with less clothing, which can raise your heat body temperature, Pullins explained. Covering your skin with a breathable long sleeve, or even a UV protective outfit will help protect you from the effects of the sun, as well as wearing a sun hat or other hat to protect your face.  Find a shady/cool spot One of the simplest ways to avoid the effects of extreme heat is to find a place where the sun cannot touch you, according to Pullins. If you do not have access to air conditioning, finding a spot under a shaded tree is a great protective option. If you are able to find a local building with air conditioning, like a library or shopping mall, take the time to step inside and cool down.  If you get to the point where you are feeling nausea, body/muscle cramps, weakness and headache, you may be experiencing heat exhaustion, according to the National Weather Service.  If that is the case, find a spot to sit in the shade, drink water, and loosen your clothing to let the heat get away from your skin. Additionally, putting frozen or cold water in your armpits and groin will help cool your body heat, according to Pullins. If your symptoms continue or you begin to throw up, call 911. These procedures go for you or those around you, according to the National Weather Service. When you begin taking any sort of medication, talk with your physician or pharmacist about the side effects of your medication. Some medications are more prone to causing heat exhaustion, such as blood pressure medication, reported Pullins. Protect your car from heat damage:Precautions for extreme temperatures USA TODAY is exploring the questions you and others ask every day. From "Can flamingos fly?" to "How to lucid dream?" to more information on water and how much water you should drink. We're striving to find answers to the most common questions you ask every day, so head to our Just Curious section to see what else we can answer for you.