Jimmy Butler is either in his feelings, or again trolling the public with another new hairstyle before the 2023-24 NBA season. Butler, the Miami Heat star, showed up to the team’s media day at Kaseya Center on Monday with his hair relaxed and in an all-black outfit, featuring a trench coat and black boots, with piercings on his lip, nose and left eyebrow. And the new look surely made the rounds on social media – just like his dreadlocks did during last year’s media day. "Don’t make me break character," Butler said as he entered the Heat’s interview room for media day Monday. "I’m emo – leave me alone." Even though the hairstyle received plenty of attention, Butler delivered another declaration on the Heat’s prospects this season after falling short to the Denver Nuggets in the NBA Finals last June. All things Heat: Latest Miami Heat news, schedule, roster, stats, injury updates and more. "It's always been about a championship to me. It will always be about that," Butler said. "This is the year. This is the one." One thing is clear by Butler’s appearance: He’s in tune with himself. "This is my emotional state," Butler said. "I’m one with my emotions. So, this is what you get." Maybe, Butler has a reason to be emotional. The Heat were considered front-runners to land Damian Lillard, who was instead traded to the Milwaukee Bucks last week. Butler quickly released a video asking the NBA look into the trade because of tampering. Then the Boston Celtics landed guard Jrue Holiday from the Blazers, as Portland agreed to trades that made both Eastern Conference teams stronger before the season. "It’s a new year. It’s a new season. We came up short. I didn’t do my job. We didn’t do our job as a whole last season. But it’s a new season and I’m excited for it," Butler said. "We’ll see y’all in the Finals in June. This is our year. This is the one. And this one’s gonna feel real good." Butler still has faith in the Heat’s 2023 roster, which features the 2021-22 Sixth Man of the Year Tyler Herro, who was the subject of the Lillard trade rumors. The Heat made a run to the Finals last season as the eighth seed in the Eastern Conference behind a core of Butler, Herro, center Bam Adebayo, and role players such as Kyle Lowry, Duncan Robinson, Caleb Martin and Kevin Love. Second-year forward Nikola Jovic, of Serbia, and rookie Jamie Jaquez Jr. from UCLA – both of whom were also involved in Lillard trade package rumors – could provide contributions to the Heat’s run this season. "We straight," Butler said. "I know what I’m capable of. I know what my guys are capable of. We’ll continue to play basketball as a unit, as a team. And somehow, someway, end up in the Finals. This time, we’re going to win it."