If he’s needed, Burnie will be there. The Miami Heat mascot, after reportedly taking a trip to the emergency room after being punched by MMA fighter Conor McGregor during a promotional stunt on Friday night, is available for Game 6 of the NBA Finals. “That’s the Miami Heat toughness that we’re talking about,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said, laughing, on Sunday from Denver. “He should have been allowed to take the first swing. We won’t reveal who that is, but yeah, he can take a punch and get back up. He’s not going to miss any time.” During the third quarter of the Nuggets’ win in Game 4 on Friday night, Burnie was on the court with McGregor to help him promote a pain relief spray. Burnie squared up with McGregor while wearing a pair of fake boxing gloves when McGregor knocked him out with a left hook. Once Burnie was down on the court, McGregor hit him in the head a second time before spraying him with the pain spray. Burnie was eventually dragged off the floor by Heat staffers. Conor McGregor KO'd the Heat mascot 😅 #NBAFinals pic.twitter.com/IRAKzuMKp2 — SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) June 10, 2023 The man who plays Burnie was then taken to the emergency room briefly to receive treatment and pain medication, per The Athletic’s Sam Amick. Though it was a promotional stunt, McGregor appears to have taken it too far. It’s unclear if he’ll face any consequences as a result. McGregor hasn’t fought since 2021, when he broke his tibia in the first round of a rematch with Dustin Poirier. He has just one KO since 2016, and has fought in the UFC only four times since then. He is currently set to take on Michael Chandler next. The Nuggets beat the Heat 108-95 on Friday in Miami to take a 3-1 series lead. They’ll host the Heat on Monday night in Game 5, where they can win their first NBA title. If Miami wins, Game 6 of the series will be on Thursday night in South Florida ... where Burnie awaits. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL.