Jimmy Butler's offseason didn't go as planned. After his Miami Heat lost out on the Damian Lillard sweepstakes, is he wearing his emotions ... on his head? The Heat All-Star showed up with an unexpected new look at media day Monday. Nobody does Media Day like Jimmy Butler does Media Day pic.twitter.com/mjCCblN2rz — Miami HEAT (@MiamiHEAT) October 2, 2023 "I'm emo," Butler said of his new do. " ... This is my emotional state. "I'm one with my emotions. So this is what you get." Butler didn't elaborate much more on his new hairstyle. Nor did he say how long the look would last. He similarly showed up with a new style to last season's media day, sporting what he described as dreadlocks. They didn't survive the season, but lived on in his media headshots. In fact, when ESPN stopped using his media day photo, he kindly requested last season that they continue to do so. “I don’t think it’s right,” Butler told USA Today last season. “I think I should be able to wear my hair however I want to wear my hair. You’re supposed to be using my media day picture. “Put my hair back the way that it was because I love that hairdo on me.” Note to photo editors. As for Lillard, Butler said he was "happy for Dame to be somewhere he is wanted" despite that not being on Butler's Heat team. “I am happy for Dame … but I’m gonna go beat Dame, Giannis, and Adrian Griffin on our way to a title.”Jimmy isn't worried 😤 pic.twitter.com/iGkSRWhVww — Bleacher Report (@BleacherReport) October 2, 2023 "I am happy for Dame to be somewhere he is wanted, where he has a chance to win a championship. I am also happy for Adrian Griffin because to be a first-year head coach and have some guys like you have, good for you," Butler said. "But you know I am still gonna be me. I am still gonna beat Dame, Giannis and Adrian Griffin on our way to a title like I've said every single year. I mean it this year, like I mean it every other year." He was asked if he thought the Heat had done enough to build around him to compete for a championship. “Yeah, we’re straight," Butler said. "Like I always say, I know what I’m capable of. I know what my guys are capable of. So we’ll continue to play basketball as a unit, as a team and somehow some way end up in the Finals. "This time we’re gonna win it. And y’all will say we got lucky.” Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their kicker rankings for the 2024 NFL season. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.