It’s time for another episode of Fratello Talks! This week, you join Nacho, Daan, and first-time podcast guest Morgan (Fratello’s photographer) for a chat on GADA watches. This topic has been on our minds lately, with most editors writing articles on their GADA watches. These are the pieces in their collections with which they’re not afraid to go anywhere and do anything. We get deeper into the topic today, discussing some hypotheticals, including our “grail GADA” watches and the future adventures we’d love to take our watches on. Tune in; it’s a good one! But first…   If you have a wrist, you know we’ll check it. And we make no exception for the guys joining today’s podcast. We kick things off with Morgan, who is wearing the new Omega Aqua Terra Worldtimer in titanium (ref. 220.92.43.22.99.001). Daan wrote a full review of this watch alongside its steel counterpart here.  Daan is wearing his Jaeger-LeCoultre Reverso Duoface on a Casa Fagliano textile/leather strap — a perfectly summery way to dress down the classic Reverso. Combined with the watch’s silvery-white dial, it’s a tall, refreshing drink on a sweltering summer’s day.  Finally, Nacho is wearing his Omega Speedmaster Professional. Back from a bit of maintenance at the Omega mothership in Biel, he’s thrilled to have it back on his wrist. On this particular day, he wore it on a gray NATO strap.  You have likely already read about Morgan’s, Daan’s, and Nacho’s GADA watches. If you haven’t, you should definitely take a look. In this episode, we give a brief overview but quickly get into the peripheral topics. We discuss the GADA watches we’d get if money were no object, as well as where we’d love to take them. The elephant in the room makes himself heard too, and we do not ignore him. It was not lost on us that selecting a Rolex as a GADA watch would not be everyone’s choice — a fair point to be sure! For all this and more, check out this week’s episode. Remember to tune in next week for a new episode of Fratello Talks! Your Comment* Your name *  Your e-mail address (will not be published) *   

  Δ 
Post with fratello account
Login
 
Don't have an account yet?
Create one here, it'll only take 20 seconds
 Ah for Pete’s sake…
just choose something you like, stop babying your watches and wear them. For Pete’s sake, of course we choc whatever we like, why would we do otherwise?? Of course we baby our watches, we are watch enthusiasts, watch lovers, we have emotional connections with them, it’s not hammers or trousers we are talking about here. I sit in the middle camp; ultimately, watches are tools and one should always take care of one’s equipment. That said, if a watch can’t accompany me on my adventures, it’s not of much use to me. When I say babying, I don’t mean not wearing. Watches are to be worn, obviously, fully working. Babying doesn’t mean keeping them in a safe. But because we–I assume–love the watches we have, we obviously “baby” them. If ‘babying’ means Keeping them in a relatively safe place, avoiding magnetism and giving them the odd clean, then yeah, I guess I do. By “babying” I basically mean really carrying for them but obviously wearing them–otherwise, what’s the point of having them?:-) Avoiding magnetism… is that even doable nowadays?;-) I meant avoiding obvious, high sources such as speakers, enclosed headphones, not resting them alongside laptops etc. It’s one of the reasons I still prefer quartz when working or using the laptop. Zero instances of magnetization so far, so I must be doing something right. Why would you not have an emotional connection to a hammer or trousers?
These are also inanimate things.
Personally, I have emotional connection to my tools, they will save me when time comes.
What do you take with you to an abandoned island, some wrist jewelry or a well sharpened knife/axe/saw? Of course we can! I have a friend who is very attached to his axes! There is a guy in Canada I think who makes $5K handmade planes, and if I was crazy enough to get one I’d feel very attached to it. It’s just in this case, on this website, we are watch-folk, hence it is the watch-connection I am referring to. That’s it. I never use hammers on my trousers. Not even when when wearing them ? Love hurts, but not as much as hammers! Those three watches together might make for a great GADA collection. The JLC for more formal occasions. The Omega Speedmaster for casual outings. And the Omega Aqua Terra Worldtimer for wet environments – like the pool or beach. Three beautiful watches and as someone has already stated, a perfect three watch collection. One thing I could never warm to is the Nato strap. I have tried to like them and have bought a couple, but I just think they look bloody awful on your wrist, all this stuff hanging out the sides of your wrist. But hey, if you like them that’s all that matters. Totally agree. NATA straps are about the worst for me. Way to bulky and things sticking out everywhere. With that said, the single-pass C&B Chevron strap is very comfortable and not at all bulky. It’s the look of a NATO, without the bulk and discomfort. What kind of lifestyle do you have for a Reverso to be your GADAW? It works well for me, I work in IT and live a thousand miles from the ocean. Lol just thinking the same thing….when I’m thinking of a GADA watch, the Reverso isn’t close to being on my radar I have been looking for a …how can I put it?…a watch that is absolutely a GADAW, is well made and accurate, but has absolutely no baggage to it at all. No Brand Kudos, no caché, no possibility of showing off.
I’m thinking of the Citizen Eco-Drive diver
BN0150 28.
https://www.citizenwatch.com/us/en/product/BN0150-28E.html I think it was recently reviewed here I’ve got an Eco-drive titanium diver from a few years back (not the square one). At only 12mm thick and roughly 41mm before crown guards, it fulfills that role well. It’s my second-string swimming watch and occasional pub diver. I’d suggest a Damasko on their hardened bracelet for a mechanical version meeting your criteria. I paid 1k used with zero wear. Is this whole series not just an advertorial for expensive mainstream brand watches?
My own GADA is a watch I built myself out of scrap parts with a new Seiko NE35C movement. Cost about $100 to build; has all the features I wanted; I had a lot of fun building it, and it’s of sufficiently low value (and fully waterproof) that it needs no babying whatsoever.
That’s what I call a GADA watch! Because brands pay for articles that feature multiple (competing) brands in one article? And discontinued watches? Sure. I’m not suggesting the brands are directly paying for these adverts.
What I mean is that I’m getting bored with seemingly endless “my (expensive) Rolex, my (again expensive) Omega, my (equally expensive) JLC (or other Richemont brand) is the perfect GADA watch.
Im sure it is for those folks featured, but come on guys, a $100 Seiko5 or equivalent is equally capable of being a GADA watch. Why the need to endlessly feature these few specific “luxury” brands as if they’re the grail of watch enthusiasts world? I find it boring and rather sad.
But perhaps that’s just me….. Therein lies the difference. These articles are about the perfect GADA for the authors. Not the perfect GADA watch in general. Each author has different requirements from their watches to suit their everyday lifestyle, but also different budgets. We can only ever write from our own personal points of view with these topics – we don’t mean to suggest these watches will suit everyone in the same way. Hope that makes sense? A GADA watch is different to each and everyone. I am not saying a 100 USD can’t be a GADA watch, it’s just not a GADA watch for me. Thor, for example, picked a G-Shock: https://www.fratellowatches.com/thors-gada-watch-casio-g-shock-gmw-b5000rd-4/ The reality is that large brands, by virtue of being large, make tons of watches. Making tons of watches with few defects at scale means (1) they produce extremely resilient watches at (2) reasonable prices.  Coincidentally, both of these are requirements for a great GADA watch! You want something resilient that’s not too precious to take a beating. I would be helpful if you could at least explain what an acronym means before you use it in an article? Not everyone reading the article would know what GADA means. Not knowing makes the article a bit frustrating. Hi Marlon, A “Go Anywhere, Do Anything” watch, we explained it in our series where the authors picked their GADA watches. I love 3 GADA watches and none are on a bracelet. Too many consider a bracelet a must for a GADA, which I totally disagree. Especially if one doesn’t actually like steel watches on bracelets. What’s more important to me on a GADA is the ability to switch bracelets, straps etc. easily and quickly. Quite a while since last time they did, but these days there are some decent % off Certinas (30% for the 43 tianium on bracelet, and 15%+ for 43 steel). What did I get? The one still selling full retail. Just can’t picture the others versatile with straps, and bargains doesn’t matter for the wrong option. Will still be wrong. I’m a big fan of the argument that a GADA watch isn’t supposed to be your ‘One Watch’, but a watch that makes you want to push boundaries (and go anywhere, do anything). Separating the GADA conversation from the One Watch conversation makes it more interesting and really emphasizes utility. With that in mind, my Sinn EZM2 is the best choice in my collection and probably what I’d pick even if I didn’t have one. For less money, the Marathon steel Navigator is another great choice. © 2004 – 2024 Fratello Watches BV
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy