The 36mm Rolex Explorer has been a favorite of mine ever since I got into watches. But it still took me quite some time before I decided to buy myself one. I even bought and owned various similar kinds of watches before I finally went for it. It’s almost like I was avoiding getting one. But it looks like the old saying “in the end, you want a Rolex” was true. Let me tell you how my Rolex Explorer and I finally found each other and what it’s like to own one after all this time. As I mentioned, the Rolex Explorer ref. 114270 had been on my mind for quite a while. A few months into my collecting journey, I even considered buying one when I thought it was time to buy my first Rolex. At that moment, it lost the battle against a 1974 Rolex Datejust ref. 1603. As it turned out, though, that watch with its fragile Jubilee bracelet and blue pie-pan dial just wasn’t for me. I sold it, and with that money, I bought my Cartier Santos Galbée ref. 2823, which is still one of my favorite watches. But for some reason, the Explorer kept chasing me during the following years.  It was definitely not like I was ignoring the fact that I had feelings for it. Somehow, though, I didn’t want to give in to those feelings. Instead, I tried to convince myself that a similar type of watch would do the trick just as well. So I bought the Tudor Black Bay 36, the typical watch for Explorer dodgers. It too has a great Oyster-style bracelet, a glossy black dial, white hour markers, and a handset full of character. But in many ways, it’s also very different. Although the Black Bay case shows some resemblance to Rolex’s Oyster case, it definitely has a bit more of an aggressive stance on the wrist. And yes, the typical dive-watch layout on the dial looks great, and it works even better with those bold Tudor snowflake hands. In the end, however, it comes nowhere near the Explorer’s magical 3-6-9 formula in combination with the classic Mercedes hands. At that time, I didn’t want to admit that the Explorer was the reason I sold my Black Bay 36, so I told myself it was because the watch didn’t have a clear identity.  A few months after I sold my Black Bay 36, the Explorer made another guest appearance. On our way back to Amsterdam from a Christmas trip to Spain, I sat next to a very fashionable woman on the plane. She was dressed in all black with a big black hat, and I immediately saw that she had a Rolex Explorer 114270 on her wrist. It suited her style so well. I complimented her on the watch, and we started talking about watches a bit. She had bought the Explorer in the early 2000s, and since then, she had never had it serviced or polished. I advised her to get it serviced and recommended a watchmaker she could go to. I also asked her if I could take a wrist shot with her watch for my Instagram. She kindly agreed, but what I didn’t foresee was that the watch was going to feel so good on my wrist. Naturally, I quickly gave her the watch back after I took the shot, but I mentally replayed that short moment with her Explorer on my wrist several times after that. I didn’t immediately decide to go out and buy one for myself, though. As befits a true dodger, I told myself to take some time to properly think it through. Ultimately, that helped to hold off the purchase for another year or so.  During that year, I even published an article about how not every watch enthusiast needs to own a Rolex. I mean, how bad can a person be in denial? Now, it’s not that I don’t still agree with the reasons why you might not want to get a Rolex. However, with a neo-vintage Explorer, I feel that you can circumvent some of those reasons. Crucially, there are no waiting lists on the secondary market, and since the Explorer is still one of the more affordable Rolex sports watches out there, the premium isn’t that high. It’s also not the most recognizable Rolex there is, so I hope that safety won’t be as big of an issue as it might be with some of the other models. And even though Rolex watches might be a bit boring, I still got quite excited when I tried on the one on the plane.  I admit, just like any watch enthusiast out there, I know perfectly well how to find excuses to justify getting another watch. But in this case, the watch had already been on my mind for such a long time that I just couldn’t avoid it any longer. However, in the meantime, Rolex had also introduced the new 36mm Explorer ref. 124270. I was positive that I wanted a 36mm Explorer, but now I had to decide between the new model with lume on the 3, 6, and 9 numerals or the older model without it. Don’t worry; I won’t go through all the differences here because I already did that in one of our installments of Sunday Morning Showdown. Please read that article if you’d like to know everything about why I chose to go for the older 114270.  For now, I can cut a long story short by saying that one day of trying out the newer model made it very clear to me that I wanted the earlier version of the 36mm Explorer. It was Morgan’s Explorer that I wore that day. He was in the office to try out for a job as our new photographer, and he knew that I was interested in the Explorer. And although (or maybe even because) the new one feels more refined and solid, I found that I like the more primitive 114270 better. Maybe the fact that it was the watch I had been looking at for quite a while might also have had something to do with it, of course. At the end of that day, I shared my findings with the other colleagues in the office. Gerard also listened to my conclusions, and then he said, “Well now, you should try my 114270 to see if you really like it that much.” The next day, he brought the watch to the office with the box, papers, booklets, and tags. I tried it out for a full week, and I was sold. The 114270 just felt like my kind of Explorer. It’s lighter than the new one because of the hollow center links, and I prefer the proportions on the dial. It also wears a bit less elegantly because of the wider bracelet. I think those are the most important reasons why I prefer the older reference.  After a week, I brought the watch back to the office and shared my findings with Gerard again. I wanted to thank him for lending it to me, but then he said, “Don’t you want to keep it if you like it so much?” And after a short negotiation, at the end of the day, I walked out of the office with my “new” Rolex Explorer. It has now been about six months since I bought it, and I’m still very happy I did. The Explorer is such a nice mix between a friendly and tough-looking watch. It wears effortlessly on my 17cm wrist, yet it still has a lot of presence. That is, of course, because of the iconic Oyster case with its flawless bracelet. Combine that with the 3-6-9 dial, and the watch has a very strong attitude. I also love how the milky-white edge of the raised sapphire crystal matches the white details on the dial. And yes, I have to admit, there’s just something special about wearing a Rolex.  The watch just oozes confidence. I got it serviced right after I got it, and it has been running within COSC parameters ever since. I also had it checked for water resistance, so now I can really take it anywhere. And that’s exactly what I do. I just wore it non-stop on a recent vacation to Turkey, and even now that I’m back, I’m still wearing it very frequently. The Explorer is indeed a bit of a boring watch, but it’s so good at being boring in the best ways possible. After all, sometimes you don’t want to stand out with your watch. You just want to wear a comfortable, reliable, and damn-good-looking watch. Well, that’s exactly when the Explorer is at its best. As you hopefully have noticed, I’m still very much enjoying my time with the watch. That’s why Morgan — yes, he is our in-house photographer now — and I thought of doing a little bit of a different photo shoot for this article. Our inspiration was an old Rolex Explorer ad from 1964. We tried to recreate the ad, and we explored the premises around the office a bit. We hope you enjoy the shots; we certainly enjoyed ourselves while taking them.  What do you think of the 36mm Rolex Explorer? Is it indeed boring, or is it the ultimate tool watch? And what watch had you been avoiding for a while before eventually buying it? Let us know in the comments below. You can also find and follow me on Instagram: @fliptheparrot Your Comment* Your name *  Your e-mail address (will not be published) *   

  Δ 
Post with fratello account
Login
 
Don't have an account yet?
Create one here, it'll only take 20 seconds
 Always enjoy your stories. That last pic sums up the beautiful insanity of this hobby ? I am a 214270 mk2 man myself, and know the joy of an Explorer all too well. Glad you finally gave in to the Green side. Enjoy in good health. Agree ? And agree. Can’t wait to try the new 224270. Hope they didn’t made the bracelet and clasp too massive. If the 21mm bracelet tapers to 16mm and they used the same claps I would assume the proportions are even better on the 40mm version. I saw a display model last week at an AD in Chicago. The case on the 40mm is better proportioned than the 39mm, but…. It still wears large, looks and feels more like a 41mm. The bracelet lug width makes it look disproportioned a little bit. IMO there was no need to design the case lugs 21mm. Perhaps Rolex doesn’t want people to mix and match bracelets with other references, and or, they don’t want anyone wearing Rolex watches on straps. Don’t get me wrong most casual watch guys will not notice the 21mm lug size. However, as a OCD watch nut, you will notice. Having said that the 40mm or the old 39mm are perfect for guys who like a large Explorer. Perfect for guys with wrists over 7 inches. I have a weird relationship with the Explorer. Its the most boring watch. There are a million alternatives that look (almost) equally good for way less, without being too much of a homage Yet I can also imagine selling all my watches, calling it a day and live happily with a sole Explorer unbelievably spot on comment! Perhaps the Explorer is simply Plato’s Form of a wristwatch. Congratulations, Daan! The 36mm Explorer is a great watch. Enjoy yours in all of life’s adventures. I had the 124270 but my wife has commandeered it. Now it’s one of her favourite watches. We both love the simplicity and look of the watch. Is it boring? Kind of, but that’s the appeal – at least to us it is. My wife has resized the 36mm Explorer bracelet for her smaller wrist so it doesn’t fit me anymore. But now I have her permission and full support to buy a replacement for myself. It’s a win-win for us. ? My wife wants te wear my explorer as well. Such a shame you can’t essay adjust it so we can enjoy it both… Like many watch greats, the Explorer is greater than the sum of its parts. Any 36mm ref is wonderful, each with pros and cons for the prospective owner to weight up. Ideally, I’d have the 124270 dial and bracelet (but in 20mm), with the longer lugged 114270 case… And a 1016… Hair splitting: whatever 36mm version you pick, its a watch at home in nearly every situation, that uniquely in my experience, never feels like a compromise. Many GADA, versatile watches are ‘not bad’ in every situation, The Explorer is ‘great’ in every situation. In the field it never snags a line or interferes with outdoor clothing and equipment; it will take a lifetime of hard work without complaint: my everyday for field and forest day-to-day. In town it is always discreet, legible and quietly spoken. No exhibitionist, but boring is as boring does. When I return to my bigger sports watches they feel clumsy, when I return to dressier options they feel unnecessary: the only watch in my collection I miss when it’s off my wrist. I know this feeling I bought the 214270 first but the 39mm never really worked for me … I had a sub gmt and airking (40mm) so wasn’t a size thing despite slim wrists. But then the new explorers came out and I ended up with the 124270 and the very marmite (love or hate no in between) 124273 bicolour version too ….. plain one gets most wear until that gold bling dies down a bit …. An oyster case and oyster bracelet are just perfect. If it ain’t broke don’t fix it. Good design works when you don’t notice it working well. It just gets on with the job. 34-36mm will always work for me. Love the occasional behemoth diver etc. but everyday greatness comes in 34-36mm. Nice write-up and although I am not a rolex fanboy, the model you chose is also my favorite, I think it is the most elegant! Now make sure nobody chops off your arm to get your prized possession! Great watch, perfect size. I think I want one. Truly a great watch and the GADA standard. Excellent choice! This is an article I can relate to. I have not owned an Explorer but it has always been a watch I have been very fond of. I have come close several times to purchasing one, definitely a 114270 for me as well, but for one reason or another, I have yet to do so. I’ve admired the Explorer for the past two plus decades without giving in to buying it but it seems I am prolonging the inevitable. It is one of those watches that is easy to overlook and dismiss but the longer you’ve been in this hobby the more you begin to realize that sometimes less is more. Now, I am going to look over the interwebs for preowned 114270’s…for the 671st time. Great article, and I love the climbing photo at the end. The Explorer was my dream watch for years and years. I finally got one last year, 214270 MK2, and loved it, although I never felt right wearing it. My father loved it even more, and I gave it to him. They are great watches, but perhaps they are for people different from me. I need to be more refined to wear one and pull it off. It is great that you were able to get one finally. I hope you wear the hell out of it. I love the Explorer (as any watch enthusiast should.) I don’t own it but i do own the Tudor BB 36 which I love as well. How can you not respect these tough, elegant little tool watches. I read your article though and thought “ouch, he just dissed my lovely piece.” I love the Explorer (as almost any watch enthusiast will.) I don’t own it but i do own the Tudor BB 36 which I love as well. How can you not respect these tough, elegant little tool watches. I read your article though and thought “ouch, he just dissed my lovely piece.” Ugh!
Gush alert! Can you we just calm down please?!! And for the record I far prefer the BB36.
I have no problem with those who prefer the Explorer, but can we stop equating the move to some sort of religious conversion?? What I love now is that there are so many Explorer options available for people to choose the best option for THEM, with multiple 36mm options, 39mm and now 40mm. A 36mm explorer was always my grail but I wanted a modern Rolex so after owning (and subsequently flipping) around 15 watches in 5 years I was sure that the 124270 would be for me but for some reason it just didn’t do it for me. I sold it and bought the watch that I wanted all along – the 114270 and I love it for all the reasons you mentioned. For me – better proportioned dial, more comfortable (lighter) bracelet and other subtle things like what seems to be a slightly thinner bezel which all together seems more balanced for me. I’m going on my 3rd yr w 214270, and it’s still perfect all around; it doesn’t wear 34 like 36 does and doesn’t look like a bloated plastic surgery patient (40). Please cease Tudor by KENISSI BB or Rancher comparisons, leave that for IWC by Baume/Mercier. P.S. 39 XPLR – Nothing compares, nothing compares, 2uuuuuuuuuuuuuu. Loved this article. Very relatable as I purchased my 114270 a year ago and love it. I don’t wear it as much as I should but this article prompted me to put it on and yep , I still very much enjoy it !! I just need to wear it more The 36mm Explorer (of whatever vintage) seems to slide into that same category of watch as a Speedmaster Professional in that it is not the most exciting timepiece out there, but it is widely regarded as being a classic and always garners nods of approval from pretty much everyone. It also has that same characteristic in that if it the watch that you want, nothing else will quite do. You can’t really go wrong. Enjoy it in good health Daan? Maybe those are the ones left when the excitement wears off and the core is up for judgement day?  Not always the case, but in many cases I’d argue that the true qualities are revealed by the “base references”? Whatever is added to the base may or may not be more exciting or interesting, but also more prone to the perils of fashion and so on.  If the base model is good, I’m sure there’s a lot of fun to be had with their offspring. If it’s not, whatever is done could (justifiably) be viewed as improvements, but will also serve to mask shortcomings. I believe the Explorer is the kind of base model that would hurt from added excitement, and benefit from getting som personal provenance beaten into it. I’m the proud owner of a 226570 (Polar) and recently have been longing to complete the set with an Explorer I. I personally like the fit and feel of modern Rolex and so my journey begins, 36mm, 39mm or 40mm? This totally resonated with me. I was very close to getting the new BB36 with the in-house movement. But I knew it wouldn’t scratch the itch. So I went even older with the 14270, tritium. Enjoy in good health! I recently got myself a 124270 and absolutely love it.  I have ummed and arrred about whether or not to take the plunge for maybe two years? I bought a 36mm Smiths Everest and loved it but ultimately every time I looked at it, it reminded me that I didnt have the explorer. I considered the BB36 and decided that by the time I had bought that, had a similar experience to the Smiths I would end up at the same conslusion.  So here I am, wearing my new explorer proudly. Great article btw! I have an ‘A’ series (1999) 14270 and love it. Perfect combination of old and new. I sold my first Exp1, a 1993 model, many years ago and always missed it. Bonus points for the photos. Especially those showing You “exploring”…:) © 2004 – 2024 Fratello Watches BV
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy