Australian surfer and ocean explorer Matt Cuddihy was paddling and enjoying the surf off Noosa, a beautiful coastal town in the Australian state of Queensland, when he spotted something unusual. “I was just snorkeling around the same areas I normally go to in Noosa, and there seemed to be a bit of sand that had shifted and exposed more rocks than normal. I found seven surfboard fins wedged between rocks. Looking over, I noticed a Rolex Submariner with its band caught under a rock. The glass was partially frosted over from the sand moving around it for so long.” It is not the first time a sea-debris-encrusted dive watch has appeared off the Australian coastline. Recently, Citizen brought back a Promaster model based on a watch found on an Australian beach, which Nacho wrote about here. Now it’s a vintage Rolex Submariner’s turn.   The Australian surfer couldn’t believe his luck. “I took a photo with my GoPro, and I instantly laughed and thought it must have been a Bali knock-off,” Cuddihy explains. He posted images of the Rolex watch he had found on Instagram, revealing a watch encrusted in ocean debris from what must have been a lengthy period underwater. The Rolex, which looks to be a Rolex Submariner reference 14060, still runs. Correction: It’s a Submariner ref. 5513 with a later dial. “When I bought it in from the ocean, I washed it in some fresh water, and a lot of the sand, salt, and organisms came off. It smelt pretty bad and had some major corrosion to the bezel but the second hand was still moving. The crown is jammed, so it technically still tells the time but not in my time zone,” he explained. Another example of a Submariner 5513 An appreciator of Australia’s wild coastlines, Cuddihy often ventures into the ocean to pick up detritus, including broken-off surfboard fins. “It was just another beautiful day in Noosa, and for many years, I have been snorkeling around the points when there is no surf. Mostly just looking at fish and visiting the local turtles, I started noticing an influx of things that shouldn’t be there. So now I try to snorkel once a week with a mesh bag and fill it with garbage that ends up wedged in the rocks. Mostly surfboard fins and fishing lures,” he said.  It is not the first time the surfer has found a watch. Recently, he also reunited an Apple watch he found on the seafloor with its owner. “I normally post my treasures on Instagram, and through that, I have reunited one surfboard fin to a guy that had lost his at the same spot that I found one which was in perfect condition. Then a few weeks back, [I reunited] an Apple Watch with a local guy that lost his in a recent swell,” he said. So what will he do with the Rolex now? Mr Cuddihy said it is with a friend who collects Rolex watches. “He is getting it evaluated and checked out by some people that actually know what they are looking at.” Rolex Submariner 5513 (for illustustration purposes) As a regular explorer of the ocean, Mr. Cuddihy said that he hoped that by bringing attention to the random objects he finds and cleans off the seafloor, people will be more mindful and appreciative of keeping the ocean environments as pristine as possible. “Everyone has different experiences in nature, and for me, growing up in a place that is surrounded by national parks and beautiful beaches has shaped my life to where I am today. Taking care of the wild places is everyone’s responsibility, and I’m just stoked to be able to try do my part so future generations can have the same appreciation,” he said. Continue reading this story and its ending here! You can find me on Instagram: @onhenryswrist Your Comment* Your name *  Your e-mail address (will not be published) *   

  Δ 
Post with fratello account
Login
 
Don't have an account yet?
Create one here, it'll only take 20 seconds
 Wow! What an amazing find for Matt. Wonder how much it would cost to restore the watch to its previous glory. That would be a real shame!!! According to the article, the watch is getting evaluated and checked out by people who know what they‘re looking at. I am assuming the new owner is checking out his options to include restoration. Alternatively, he could leave it untouched and wear it as is to include the barnacles, corrosion, rust, ratty Velcro strap, incorrect time, water in the case, jammed crown (and likely jammed hour and minute hands. He’d have to wear another watch to tell time though but it would look cool. ? He said it’s running in the article. Barnacles are already off. It’s just the crown and bezel that are jammed. A little soak with PB Blaster might be enough to fix that. I think It looks great and is a great story. Would be a shame for it to have a bunch of unnecessary parts replaced and look like every other shiny 5513 out there.  Gaskets, spring bars, nato, maybe a new crown and bezel if absolutely needed and done This article is ilustrated with pictures of a Rolex Submariner that clearly does not match with the one that has been found by Mr Cuddihy. It seems like the author just wanted to fill it in with random Submariner pics. Look’s like every watch brand will find their watch in the ocean…or somebody would like money for commercial… No bro, it’s the same model, and it also clearly says in the caption FOR ILLUSTRATION PURPOSE ONLY. So what’s your gripe? You think found some smoking gun? Quit being so effing annoying and enjoy the story I’m sure that with a replaced bezel, case and caseback, new gaskets, crown, crystal, and movement this watch will be fully restored to it’s prior glory! Yes, and a new Rolex bracelet. Likely a new dial and hand set too. That’s basically an entirely new watch — might be less expensive and less hassle to buy a new Rolex Submariner. Rolex restoration is not cheap. True, but the story on how it was acquired is priceless The most fortunate about the entire story: The was no surfer or diver attached to the watch upon discovery ;o) ? I’m sure whoever wrote it is happy he got to the surface before the watch did! I don’t see what the big deal is.. I found a Timex on the ocean floor and nobody made as big as a fuss.. And it looks like the watch could be a Rolex 5513, not the 14060. Any Rolex experts I’d welcome your confirmation on this one! Yeah, it says 200m on the dial. Pretty sure all 14060 are rated to 300m. Wonder how long it’s been down there. Hi, Im intrigued since I agree 200 m indicate a 5513, but the lumes have surrounded gold which doesnt belong to 200mts??? Perhaps an altered or service dial? Yeah, it seems to be a late-model 5513 with white gold surrounds, so mid 80’s-ish. I agree. The watch appears to have a plexiglass dome,which precludes it from being a 14060. I have a 5512 with a 5513 service dial that looks just like this. It’s most likely a later 5513 (200m + white gold around the hour markers). What an amazing find, I’d love nothing more than to see that watch in person. Beyond the waterproof watch keeps water out story what’s with the surf dude velcro strap that let surf dude down? & when we’ve answered that – what are the chances that if you’d lost your Rolex you’d have tried A. Claiming for it on your insurance or B. If not insured, offering a reward for the person finding it if you couldn’t find it yourself? In short, this watch’s owner is going to show up, be it the insurers or in person surely? Final question then – how much of a reward is it worth – a percentage of it’s cleaned up & serviced value or as is to Rolex’s marketing people? The reward is the story. Great article! It’s possible that watch had only been submerged for a couple of months possibly less than a year. Aluminum steel and saltwater make oxidation pretty fast. Bingo ,observation spot on . And why are these watches so oxidized?
As I understand it, this is Oystersteel, which belongs to the 904L family of steel alloys, widely used in high technology, space and chemical industries where maximum corrosion resistance is required. For what I see the mostly oxidated part is the bezel insert which is aluminium hence more than normal. Also consider the rest can easily be some form of marine life (algae or other critters) which can attach to steel (whatever material without an anti- proliferation paint on). About the bezel and marine life forms. This is true. It is a pity that they did not show us the reverse side of this watch. Gonna make you reconsider your Rolex purchase and their advertising fanfare about how tough/durably they are maybe?It’s a fair comment, but testament to to the power of nature beyond the hype of these watches perhaps. At least it still runs they say! I might buy a Rolex, but I would try not to drop it in the Pacific Ocean. Although everything happens in life. This only adds to the durability aspect.
Many watches would stop working as water seeps inside and rust out the internals.
The sea life was living on the outside, wasn’t damaging it.
The non original band failed, should have kept the original band? I believe that model is made of 316 stainless, the 904l came later. It’s a ref. 5513 whose dial and hands have been replaced during service (swapped with genuine Rolex parts and no longer original to the watch itself). The Luminova still glows. Although this greatly affects the value of the watch from the collector’s perspective, it has, on the other hand, been made valuable by the beautiful story attached to it. It’s the kind of narrative Rolex fans live for. I don’t agree with anything you have said – where is your evidence? There is nothing to suggest it is true. No one cares if you dont agree, Pete! Educate yerself dude! LOL I have a 5512 from 1962 that was sent to Rolex in the 80s and the dial was replaced with a 5513 dial. Back in the day Rolex wanted all their watches looking new, not vintage or patinad. Incredible find! I used live in Noosa and regularly swim and snorkel this area. I clearly wasn’t looking hard enough. Good on ya for finding it. Wait a minute, I lost a Rolex in Noosa ! ?? Rolex copying Citizen [fujitsubo]. So much for 904L steel being corrosion resistant 😉 I don’t believe that specimen displays any evidence of 904L corrosion ;o) ….other parts like springbars (which may very well be from any source) and the “crown spindle” might (will) be of a different material, so would likely the bezel inlay “base”, thus galvanic corrosion chewing the less noble metal and so on.  I never considered industrial stainless steel to be 100% sealed, it can be (is) porous and pitting may occur. Have been handling plenty of sulphuric acids, which becomes very corrosive in concentrations less than 90% at 20C. Seawater at 30C is quite corrosive too, in particular where breaking waves ensures high oxygene saturation.  Further, there are microorganisms at work and so on…. I was 100% joking. Was well aware that could be the case. These models were made from 316 steel. 904 came later. When I read the article, it was claimed to be a 14060, which is made from 904L. I see now they changed the reference number to an earlier model. I buy cheap, and never lose my watch Surfing. The Great White ate the Surfer and spit out his Watch! 🙂 Think real news is Mr. Cuddihy and the work he does there. If the Rolex were DOA we might have missed out. Interesting culture shock… In east Asia, we are told do not use/wear artificially-made that was picked from underwater, because maybe that is a test from higher level life form like fairy, detiy. Wear this watch may cause curse, punishment or calling ghost of pre-owner back. It has a serial. The owner will be notified and is going to want it back. Yes
True Dat!
ALL Rolexes are registered and if not formally re-registered they are considered STOLEN.
(BTW Fake Rolexes are Confiscated by Rolex dealers if they are brought in for servicing)
He should ask for a $100.-$500. ‘Finders Fee’ and call it a day. :/ This is not entirely true. They’re only considered stolen if they are reported stolen by the owner. And Rolex or Rolex AD might or might not really do anything with that data if someone brings it in for an authenticity check or whatever. It kind of just depends on your luck I do not believe a jeweler has the authority to confiscate a supposed copy. To confiscate forged watch or a stolen one, they would have to be police officers, under US law. They should call the police to confiscate anything. If it turns up as real, the dealer is going to owe more than the cost of a wristwatch. You can’t take property without probable cause and warrant in some instances. You’re right TacoPants. The property room of police departments is loaded with fakes and the like. They end up destroyed later. I’m no lawyer, but I believe digging up an old watch off the sea floor falls under the Finders Keepers clause. Those Turkish fakes are pretty sturdy! How could it still be running?? It is self winding and needs movement to wind. I smell BS Never underestimate octopussies, Dung Beetles, sudden moves and ocean waves… ? Brother, you must not have been the around the ocean much. The sea floor and the sea in general are in perpetual motion, non stop shifting pushing and pulling currents, breaking waves and rip channels keep the ocean floor in the lineup moving pretty much non stop ….and there’s a mechanical watch making some sort of sense from that surfing perspective too… https://www.ballwatch.com/global/1/collections/roadmaster—94/ocean-explorer—dm3120c-scj-be—3007.html Wow the lengths people go to to get their hands on a Rolex This should go into the Rolex museum, assuming they have one. There is a good chance of one of 2 things. 1 Rolex will swap it for a new Sub of similar looks. 2 Rolex will service it for free and use it as ad an on there website etal. Maybe it’s the remnant of a shark attack, which would explain why a secure NATO strap failed. I found a beer can in the ocean once There’s a Citizen 150m rated watch on the reef at Stent Rd, Taranaki NZ. if anyone’s interested. Been there since 1976. Do not restore!
You can make a huge return. Once it’s replaced with a good pre-owned or new sub you’ll have a piece that’s perfect for virtually all occasions. This one is a good conversation piece with value approximating zero. Did you see the accompanying video where a crab crawls out of the case? The watch looks good with out any damage. Amazing story, sounds out of a Rolex advertisement… Hey! I lost a rolex years ago on the same spot! hey matt if that watch has a special inscription on the back it is mine . I contacted the police after lost it and Rolex to see if it was found and cleaned up I might be able to get it back because it has very special memories for me . Cool story! I must say the odds of this watch being mine are absolutely positively NOT in my favor as I have never been in the ocean nor have I ever owned a Rolex, but should it finally reach a coin flip I shall take heads and promise to love it forever 🙂 © 2004 – 2024 Fratello Watches BV
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy