Welcome back to another episode of Fratello On Air. This week, we discuss a recent visit to the Swatch Group in the Frankfurt area. We also respond to a listener’s question about the beloved Omega Speedmaster. Enjoy! Yes, Balazs and I were on the move and managed to visit the Swatch Group offices near Frankfurt. We’ve also received a number of reader questions that we’ll attempt to answer over the next several episodes. Our first question is about the Speedmaster, and it’s a good one.  We begin our episode with some sneaker talk as Balazs mentions an upcoming re-release of the Nike Huarache that Kobe once wore. Mike mentions the newly announced Yema Urban Field, a cool series of field watches with loads of optionality. Next, we get to the Handgelanks Kontrolle and Balazs is debuting his new Ming 17.09 in burgundy! Mike is wearing his vintage Gruen Ocean Chief on a Forstner Klip bracelet.  Our visit to Swatch Group was truly a pleasure. The fine folks in Eschborn shared a number of watches with us from Rado, Hamilton, Tissot, Mido, and more! We share the highlights while remarking that it’s always nice to see watches in person. Finally, we answer a listener’s question about the Omega Speedmaster. The question is simple — what’s the big deal about the Speedmaster anyway? Thank you for listening and as always, if you have any ideas for future shows, don’t hesitate to contact us! Your Comment* Your name *  Your e-mail address (will not be published) *   

  Δ 
Post with fratello account
Login
 
Don't have an account yet?
Create one here, it'll only take 20 seconds
 Great podcast =)
Cool that the Swatch people gave you that 2 hour tour of the new watches.
You mentioned that back when #speedytuesday was started, not much of the things we know now was well documented.
Was it the fanbase (or maybe Fratello) that started documenting the things or was it Omega that suddenly realised that the owners would be interested (or maybe both)?
Perhaps you could write an article of how the “documentation” of the Speedmaster changed within the last decade. I would find that very interesting. And I agree, people wearing Speedies are usually more humble and I will definitely ask the question “why did you pick that specific watch” the next time I see someone wearing a Speedmaster Pro? Stopped listening after 11 minutes about beer & Nike. © 2004 – 2024 Fratello Watches BV
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy