The G-Shock Master of G collection is a favorite in the Fratello offices. Something about this series of ultra-functional G-Shocks makes it super impressive. These watches were created to withstand the most extreme conditions on land, in the air, or at sea while offering you an impressive set of functions. The G-Shock Mudman is part of the “On The Land” series that also features the Rangeman. But for the latest G-Shock Mudman watches, the designers went back to the drawing board and came up with something entirely new. We had a chance to check out the modern Mudman range, and it feels as competent as ever. Straight out of the box, the new Mudman watches look completely different from their predecessors. Seeing them alongside the old models makes you realize that the previous generation needed an update. While instantly recognizable and satisfyingly familiar, they look a bit dated. There will definitely be people that prefer the old looks, and I get that. But I get that the people at G-Shock were keen on updating the Mudman, and it’s far more than a cosmetic update. As the Mudman is part of the purpose-driven Master of G collection, everything had to be rebuilt from the ground up.  First, here are some necessary basics before we get into the details. There are three new models that all come with the GW-9500 reference number. The first is the black GW-9500-1, the second is the green GW-9500-3, and the last is the black and orange GW-9500-1A4. As mentioned, G-Shock completely redesigned the case construction. The new models all come with an impressive 56.7mm × 52.7mm × 14.8mm case that is water resistant to 200 meters. As always, they are large watches, but that’s what we have come to expect from G-Shock. It’s part of their charm, if you will.  The new case construction features the now-familiar Carbon Core Guard structure with a bio-based resin outer case and bezel. These three models are so-called “triple-sensor” Mudmans with a shock- and mud-resistant construction. The “triple-sensor” designation refers to the sensor buttons on the right side and front of the case, which were specifically designed to be operated in the toughest conditions.  These buttons are also protected by cylindrical stainless steel components and are specifically designed to drain mud and water if they somehow get in. To prevent any outside elements from entering, though, the button shafts are all fitted with heavy-duty gaskets.  The three buttons on the right and the large one on the front operate the digital compass, barometer/altimeter, and thermometer. The left side of the case features two “regular” buttons that control a wide variety of additional functions.  The watches all feature a new dual-layer LCD, with the top layer displaying the compass graphics. The second layer displays the time and all the remaining functions over three lines. Despite the dual-layer construction, the engineers managed to keep the display fairly thin so it would not impact the overall construction too much.  As you can see in the pictures, the black version features a positive display, while the green and black/orange versions come with a negative display. The display uses large numerals and letters, and it also includes a LED Super Illuminator backlight/auto light so you can read it in any condition. Once again, this is a purpose-driven design meant to serve you in any challenging situation you might find yourself in.  So, let’s talk functions. The new Tough Solar Mudman range is powered by Casio’s 3553 module. This module boasts an overwhelming number of functions to either prevent you from getting into trouble or help you get out of it. As mentioned, the digital compass, barometer/altimeter, and thermometer are key functions for the wearer when you are out in the wild. On top of that, the watch comes with a world-time function that can display the time in 31 time zones and 48 cities. It also allows you to switch daylight saving on and off.  Furthermore, it features a stopwatch, five alarms, multiple countdown timers, a fully automatic calendar, and a power-saving mode, and it can also display the time in 12-hour and 24-hour formats. After just one full charge of the rechargeable battery, the watch could operate normally for six months without any further exposure to light. While perhaps unrealistic, that is impressive nonetheless. When kept in complete darkness with the power-saving mode on, though, the watch will remain active for 26 months after just one full charge. This module provides an accuracy of ±15 seconds per month without calibration to a radio signal. But as the new G-Shock Mudman watches feature Multiband 6, the time will usually just sync automatically.  It goes without saying that these watches are big on the wrist. Having said that, they are light at 81 grams, and the resin strap makes them easy to wear, as is typical with larger G-Shocks. Now, I could tell you all about how the watches look on the wrist, but that would feel a bit strange. To me, the Master of G models are the ultimate tool watches that are here to do a job. That’s why I tend to appreciate them just for that and not because they have to compete with the looks of any other watch, even other G-Shocks. Then again, you buy this because you need a competent watch first and, potentially, one that looks good second.  Quite simply, if I were to go on an adventure on land in the wilderness, the Mudman would be a pretty damn awesome watch to accompany me. Once on the wrist, it looks confident and feels comfortable. I quickly started playing with the different functions, testing whether they were easy to find and use. And I must say that the regular functions are not surprising if you own a G-Shock. They are indeed easy to find and operate. As mentioned, the digital compass, barometer/altimeter, and thermometer are easy to operate with the buttons on the right. As you can see, the bezel shows you exactly which button controls what function, so no worries there.  Once you have activated one of the three, you can use the multiple functions of the specific instrument. It’s interesting to use the digital compass as it is visible over the regular functions. That in itself is fun to watch. But all three instruments come with plenty of functions that will help the wearer in situations when they are needed. Obviously, the big question is whether many of the new G-Shock Mudman watches actually see the wilderness. I’d like to think they do because, in the short time I spent with the watches, I was seriously impressed by their functionality and how easy they are to wear.  As I alluded to, I don’t find these Mudman models too visually stunning. But that’s also not the reason I would buy one. Furthermore, I don’t think that many fans will buy a Mudman based on looks alone. The new G-Shock Mudman models are the ultimate tools that the brand produces to handle extreme land conditions. And that’s exactly what I would expect these new Mudman watches to do, even more effectively than their predecessors did. So in that sense, the new and improved G-Shock Mudman is even more impressive than it already was. Each of the three models will be available for €379, which is serious value for money considering what you get. I know what watch I’d buy for my future adventures. The G-Shock Mudman is the only right answer. For more information, visit the official G-Shock website. Let us know in the comments section which of these three models you would pick. Your Comment* Your name *  Your e-mail address (will not be published) *   

  Δ 
Post with fratello account
Login
 
Don't have an account yet?
Create one here, it'll only take 20 seconds
 Great article, Jorg! Always liked G’s. Always will. This one looks to be a nice update of the Mudman. One thing is for certain. G-Shock makes the toughest watch on the planet! I hear you abut the looks. Form follows Function. This would make a great world travel watch for those who travel off the beaten path. “One thing is for certain. G-Shock makes the toughest watch on the planet!”
I wouldn’t be too sure about that, no matter how giddy you are about that brand. There are more serious watchmakers who use stainless steel, titanium and carbon instead of plastic: https://youtu.be/xHsh4DmEpKY
https://youtu.be/h0RP4C9jq08
https://youtu.be/KHpOjPS5aqk That’s 3 tests out of 130. Without the protective bumper on it. And available with their paracord strap:
https://youtu.be/o5-CGFqlVeI?t=176 The Apple Watch you see worn by the teenage girl at Starbucks has many times more adventurer-serving functions than the archaic, cheap G-Shock…and it’s still tough even before you put on a protective case:
https://youtu.be/E9zZuz7UhJQ?t=163
https://youtu.be/A72Ckh990j0 Those 130 tests are false and completely useless. Nice try I suspect these might be too big for me, but of course Casio are masters at making watches wearable that should be ridiculously large.
My carbon Frogman fits despite mind-boggling on-paper specifications.
Still, I strongly want Casio to significantly reduce the size of their core range. Casio indeed has pretty well mastered the art of ergonomics. I’m a little guy at 66″ (1.65m). Wrist size is 8.25″ (20.95cm). I have no trouble at all with my GPRB-1000 Rangeman. I do agree with you that it is time for Casio to begin to downsize many models within their core range. But I hope they do not trade away the robustness that has made them so famous. I don’t know, I prefer female mudwrestling and these would be too big for them
otherwise the screws are too small A spectacular piece of kit. I’d have to change my fairly sedentary lifestyle to get the best out of it though. This doesn’t mean I’m not tempted to own one. How are ‘Darth’ and ‘Murph’ doing? Rocking away quite happily. I’m actually surprised how much wear I’m getting out of the MT-G. The Murph is operating comfortably within COSC. I may get a softer strap for it at some point though. Good to hear! I received a reply to my inquiry re the MR-G ‘Gassan’. Not 100% sure yet. Dealer needs a few more days to see what his local clientele are going to do. If still remaining unsold, then I will be bringing that one out of Japan and into the Old Fart Odd Duck™ stable for a little bit below MSRP, which would make me very happy. Saw one on Chrono24 for $14K. Pirates! I don’t ever pay more than list. Nothing in life I would ever want bad enough to pay more than retail . . . Wear ‘Darth’ and ‘Murph in good health! I just bought a Rangeman for my trip to Iceland last month. Used this out on our hikes. I wish the new Mudman came out earlier! Based on how you describe it, it looks easier to use.
Wonder if they will update the Rangeman too?
Regarding function, the new Mudman seems to do just as much or more than the Rangeman. Most assuredly the Rangeman will be updated within the next year or two. Which Rangeman do you own? GW-9400 or GPRB-1000? They should do a cartoon collab like Omega has done with Snoopy etc.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles would suit their brand and design perfectly. In fact I looked for the TMNT branding on them immediately when I saw those, that’s how much they look like ridiculous childrens’ trinkets.
Or maybe a G-Shock x Tonka Toys collab? Aside from the uniqueness factor I never understood negative displays. While trendy their utility is severely hampered by the difficulty of reading the display in certain lighting conditions. Perhaps it’s time for this trend to end and do something different. Perhaps colored filters to give a positive display more color options. You would be surprised to see just how bright the negative displays using MIP technology can be. Overall, I agree with you. That is why I do not have any negative displays in my stable with the exception of my Big Rangeman. I have bought….”many” Gs and I will never buy another negative display. It looks Amaizing , The Mudman G Shok , Awsome It looks Amaizing , The Mudman G Shok , Awsome , I will like to know the price and where can I get it Its basically a ProTrek in a party frock or a rebranded RANGEMAN. I love G Shocks, I have a collection of 47 including all current RANGEMAN/ MUDMAN models but this dissapoints me because its nothing we haven’t seen already & Casio are trying to cash in on it. If the negative display on the green model is legible unlike the awful mk1 RANGEMAN then Ill take a look. I always liked the Mudmaster collection, but I have to say that I am not a fan of the new case design. Why switch from an organic to a geometric design? My current reverse display GD-350-1B is readable in most situations and I expect the Mudman to be equally so.
Soldiers are expected to wear watches in muted colours and if I was ever to serve again I chose a digital Mudman over the analogue Mudmaster with the green as my first choice. © 2004 – 2024 Fratello Watches BV
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy