Bank of America Securities analyst Ronald Epstein maintained a Hold rating on HEICO (HEI – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $220.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $176.56. According to TipRanks, Epstein is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 4.7% and a 57.09% success rate. Epstein covers the Industrials sector, focusing on stocks such as Boeing, Triumph Group, and HEICO. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for HEICO with a $189.33 average price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Based on HEICO’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending April 30, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $687.84 million and a net profit of $115.06 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $538.81 million and had a net profit of $93.11 million
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 52 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is positive on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders buying their shares of HEI in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. HEICO Corp. engages in the design, manufacture, and sale of aerospace, defense, and electronic related products and services. It operates through the Flight Support Group and Electronic Technologies Group segments. The Flight Support Group segment designs, manufactures, repairs, overhauls, and distributes jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts. The Electronic Technologies Group segment designs and manufactures electronic, microwave, and electro-optical equipment and components, three-dimensional microelectronic and stacked memory products, high-speed interface products, high voltage interconnection devices, high voltage advanced power electronics products, power conversion products, underwater locator beacons, electromagnetic interference shielding, traveling wave tube amplifiers, harsh environment electronic connectors and other interconnect products, communications and electronic intercept receivers and tuners, crashworthy, and ballistically self-sealing auxiliary fuel systems for military rotorcraft, RF and microwave amplifiers, transmitters and receivers, satellite microwave modules, and integrated subsystems primarily for the aviation, defense, space, medical, telecommunications, and electronics industries. The company was founded in 1957 and is headquartered in Hollywood, FL.  Read More on HEI: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks