As part of efforts to ensure an all-round development and modernisation of the country’s aviation sector, the Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI) has met with the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika to discuss areas of collaboration and partnerships between the two organizations.
MOFI’s chief executive officer Dr Armstrong Takang led the delegation to the minister’s office on Tuesday where he made the case for additional investments for the crucial overhaul of the country’s Aviation sector.
The MOFI MD highlighted stated that the Ministry of Aviation is one of the biggest supervisors of Nigeria’s assets through the agencies under its supervision. He underscored the need for government to ensure it derives maximum returns on its assets and investments through the recent approval by President Buhari for the creation of a national asset register by President Buhari.
President Buhari had directed the creation of a comprehensive national asset register by aggregating, profiling, and managing all national assets and investments. The aim is to strengthen Nigeria’s fiscal and economic realities and the optimization of investments and assets.
Dr. Takang said it was important that all assets of the Ministry of Aviation are captured in the register in a sustainable partnership to support sundry economic activities in all the nation’s airports.
The MOFI CEO also commented that the development and modernization of the country’s airports are crucial for socio-economic development and that while the Ministry had made positive improvements, they believe that more capital investment was required to attract more passengers, cargo movement, and facilitate trade.
Dr Takang indicated that MOFI was interested in supporting the Ministry’s efforts in airport development and modernization, including upgrading existing infrastructure and constructing new airports where necessary.
Sirika in a response, commended the new board of MOFI and gave assurances that MOFI would be included in the National Aviation Roadmap in no distant time.
“We have the concession of the airport. We have the airlines. We have the cargo, we have the MRO, and ALC; those are the legs of the roadmap. Ministry of Aviation will ensure that MOFI is integral to these plans. He concluded by saying that the Ministry remains committed to ensuring that President Buhari’s mandates are adequately delivered,” he stated.  © 2024 Leadership Media Group - All Rights Reserved.  © 2024 Leadership Media Group - All Rights Reserved.