In a report released on July 27, Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs maintained a Buy rating on Textron (TXT – Research Report), with a price target of $100.00. The company’s shares opened today at $76.86. According to TipRanks, Poponak is a 3-star analyst with an average return of 3.2% and a 51.37% success rate. Poponak covers the Industrials sector, focusing on stocks such as Boeing, HEICO, and Spirit AeroSystems. Currently, the analyst consensus on Textron is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $84.08, representing a 9.39% upside. In a report released on July 28, Citi also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $95.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> TXT market cap is currently $15.4B and has a P/E ratio of 17.56.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Textron, Inc. is a multi-industry company, which leverages global network of aircraft, defense, industrial, and finance businesses to provide customers innovative solutions and services. The company operates its business through the following segments: Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial, and Finance. The Textron Aviation segment manufactures sells, and services Beechcraft and Cessna aircraft. The Bell segment supplies military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts. The Textron Systems segment product lines consist of unmanned aircraft systems; land and marine systems; weapons and sensors; and a variety of defense and aviation mission support products and services. The Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products under the Golf; Turf Care and Light Transportation Vehicles; Fuel Systems and Functional Components and Powered Tools; and Testing and Measurement Equipment product lines. The Finance segment consists of Textron Financial Corp. and its consolidated subsidiaries, which provides finances primarily to purchasers of new Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters. The company founded by Royal Little in 1923 and is headquartered in Providence, RI.  Read More on TXT: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks