Researchers have identified the biggest ever solar storm – when the sun emits huge bursts of energy – using ancient tree rings. The event happened 14,300 years ago, according to the analysis of ancient tree rings found in the French Alps. This radiocarbon spike was caused by a massive solar storm, the experts said, adding that a similar storm today could potentially wipe out satellite systems and cause massive electricity grid blackouts, costing billions of pounds. The academics argue it is important to understand solar storms to protect future communications and energy systems and help build resilience against their effects. For the study, an international team of researchers, including from the University of Leeds, measured radiocarbon levels in ancient trees on the eroded banks of the Drouzet River, near Gap, in the Southern French Alps. The tree trunks, which are subfossils – when the fossilisation process is not complete – were sliced into tiny single tree rings. By looking closely at the individual rings, researchers found an unprecedented spike in radiocarbon levels occurring precisely 14,300 years ago. They said the spike was most likely caused by a massive solar storm that would have ejected huge volumes of energetic particles into the Earth’s atmosphere. Edouard Bard, professor of climate and ocean evolution at the College de France and lead author of the study, said: “Radiocarbon is constantly being produced in the upper atmosphere through a chain of reactions initiated by cosmic rays. “Recently, scientists have found that extreme solar events including solar flares and coronal mass ejections can also create short-term bursts of energetic particles which are preserved as huge spikes in radiocarbon production occurring over the course of just a single year.” Tim Heaton, professor of applied statistics in the school of mathematics at the University of Leeds, said: “Extreme solar storms could have huge impacts on Earth. “Such super storms could permanently damage the transformers in our electricity grids, resulting in huge and widespread blackouts lasting months. “They could also result in permanent damage to the satellites that we all rely on for navigation and telecommunication, leaving them unusable. They would also create severe radiation risks to astronauts.” Nine such extreme solar storms – known as Miyake Events – have now been identified as having occurred over the last 15,000 years. The most recent confirmed Miyake Events occurred in 993 AD and 774 AD. This newly-identified 14,300-year-old storm is the biggest yet – roughly twice the size of the most recent two. Experts have never seen a Miyake Event in action and say there is still have much to learn about the behaviour of the sun and whether such events can be predicted. Prof Bard said: “Direct instrumental measurements of solar activity only began in the 17th century with the counting of sunspots. “Nowadays, we also obtain detailed records using ground-based observatories, space probes, and satellites. “However, all these short-term instrumental records are insufficient for a complete understanding of the sun. “Radiocarbon measured in tree rings, used alongside beryllium (metal) in polar ice cores, provide the best way to understand the sun’s behaviour further back into the past.” But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend Nina and James, a boomer couple, face financial struggles after unexpected emergency expenses despite retiring with pensions in 2012.