Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Meredith Whittaker took a top role at the Signal Foundation last year, moving into the nonprofit world after a career in academia, government work and the tech industry. She's now president of an organization that operates one of the world's most popular encrypted messaging apps, with tens of millions of people using it to keep their chats private and out of the purview of big tech companies. Whittaker has real-world reasons to be skeptical of for-profit companies and their use of data — she previously spent 13 years at Google. After more than a decade at the search giant, she learned from a friend in 2017 that Google's cloud computing unit was working on a controversial contract with the Department of Defense known as Project Maven. She and other workers saw it as hypocritical for Google to work on artificial intelligence technology that could potentially be used for drone warfare. They started discussing taking collective action against the company. "People were meeting each week, talking about organizing," Whittaker said in an interview with CNBC, with Women's History Month as a backdrop. "There was already sort of a consciousness in the company that hadn't existed before." With tensions high, Google workers then learned that the company reportedly paid former executive Andy Rubin a $90 million exit package despite credible sexual misconduct claims against the Android founder. Whittaker helped organize a massive walkout against the company, bringing along thousands of Google workers to demand greater transparency and an end to forced arbitration for employees. The walkout represented a historic moment in the tech industry, which until then, had few high-profile instances of employee activism. "Give me a break," Whittaker said of the Rubin revelations and ensuing walkout. "Everyone knew; the whisper network was not whispering anymore." Google did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Whittaker left Google in 2019 to return full time to the AI Now Institute at New York University, an organization she co-founded in 2017 that says its mission is to "help ensure that AI systems are accountable to the communities and contexts in which they're applied." Whittaker never intended on pursuing a career in tech. She studied rhetoric at the University of California, Berkeley. She said she was broke and needed a gig when she joined Google in 2006, after submitting a resume on Monster.com. She eventually landed a temp job in customer support. "I remember the moment when someone kind of explained to me that a server was a different kind of computer," Whittaker said. "We weren't living in a world at that point where every kid learned to code — that knowledge wasn't saturated." Beyond learning about technology, Whittaker had to adjust to the culture of the industry. At companies like Google at the time, that meant lavish perks and a lot of pampering. "Part of it was trying to figure out, why do we get free juice?" Whittaker said. "It was so foreign to me because I didn't grow up rich." Whittaker said she would "osmotically learn" more about the tech sector and Google's role in it by observing and asking questions. When she was told about Google's mission to index the world's information, she remembers it sounding relatively simple even though it involved numerous complexities, touching on political, economic and societal concerns. "Why is Google so gung-ho over net neutrality?" Whittaker said, referring to the company's battle to ensure that internet service providers offer equal access to content distribution. Several European telecommunications providers are now urging regulators to require tech companies to pay them "fair share" fees, while the tech industry says such costs represent an "internet tax" that unfairly burdens them. "The technological sort of nuance and the political and economic stuff, I think I learned at the same time," Whittaker said. "Now I understand the difference between what we're saying publicly and how that might work internally." At Signal, Whittaker gets to focus on the mission without worrying about sales. Signal has become popular among journalists, researchers and activists for its ability to scramble messages so that third parties are unable to intercept the communications. As a nonprofit, Whittaker said that Signal is "existentially important" for society and that there's no underlying financial motivation for the app to deviate from its stated position of protecting private communication. "We go out of our way in sometimes spending a lot more money and a lot more time to ensure that we have as little data as possible," Whittaker said. "We know nothing about who's talking to whom, we don't know who you are, we don't know your profile photo or who is in the groups that you talk to." Tesla and Twitter CEO Elon Musk has praised Signal as a direct messaging tool, and tweeted in November that "the goal of Twitter DMs is to superset Signal." Musk and Whittaker share some concerns about companies profiting off AI technologies. Musk was an early backer of ChatGPT creator OpenAI, which was founded as a nonprofit. But he said in a recent tweet that it's become a "maximum-profit company effectively controlled by Microsoft." In January, Microsoft announced a multibillion-dollar investment in OpenAI, which calls itself a "capped-profit" company. Beyond just the confusing structure of OpenAI, Whittaker is out on the ChatGPT hype. Google recently jumped into the generative AI market, debuting its chatbot dubbed Bard. Whittaker said she finds little value in the technology and struggles to see any game-changing uses. Eventually the excitement will decline, though "maybe not as precipitously as like Web3 or something," she said. "It has no understanding of anything," Whittaker said of ChatGPT and similar tools. "It predicts what is likely to be the next word in a sentence." OpenAI did not immediately respond to a request for comment. She fears that companies could use generative AI software to "justify the degradation of people's jobs," resulting in writers, editors and content makers losing their careers. And she definitely wants people to know that Signal has absolutely no plans to incorporate ChatGPT into its service. "On the record, loudly as possible, no!" Whittaker said. WATCH: AI hype is real Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by