MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More with our comparison partner, HomeService Quotes Faith is a writer whose work has been featured in EcoWatch and Today’s Homeowner. She holds economics and English degrees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and likes to collect books and spend time in nature in her free time. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Karsten Neumeister is an experienced energy professional with subject-matter expertise in energy policy and the solar and retail energy industries. In addition to previous roles with the Retail Energy Advancement League and Solar Alternatives, he has written for EcoWatch and National Public Radio (NPR). We’ve thoroughly researched the top solar battery options on the market, reviewing each model’s warranty, power rating, capacity, longevity and more. Our picks for solar batteries are SunPower, Tesla Powerwall and SonnenCore+, but the best battery for you will depend on your energy needs and preferences. Solar batteries store excess energy from your solar panels to use at night, on cloudy days or during power outages. See how adding them to your solar system allows you to use more of the energy you’re generating in this guide to the best solar batteries.  *In July 2024, SunPower notified dealers it would be halting all new shipments and project installations. The company also noted it would “no longer be supporting new Leases and PPA sales nor new project installations of these financing options.”  See our list of top solar providers based on in-depth research. Select the provider that best fits your needs. Get a free, no-obligation quote for your home. Integrating a solar battery into a new or existing solar panel system almost always requires professional installation. Select one of our top solar companies from the panel above to get connected with a solar battery installer. See how our top-rated solar batteries compare on key metrics and see which one of our trusted installers can add them to a new or existing system. Below are our top six solar batteries: SunPower manufactures some of the best solar panels on the market in terms of efficiency and durability. The SunPower SunVault battery complements any SunPower system with a large energy capacity of 13 kWh and an above-average continuous power rating of 6.8 kW. It also includes an excellent warranty that doesn’t limit the number of cycles your battery can discharge like some other companies.
The SunPower SunVault is our top choice for homeowners who already have SunPower solar panels or are planning to install a SunPower system. Unfortunately, SunPower SunVault is not compatible with non-SunPower brand solar panels. Photo courtesy of SunPower SunPower offers two models of its SunVault battery system: the SunVault 13 and the SunVault 26. The SunVault 13 offers 13 kWh of battery power, while the SunVault 26 offers 26 kWh. The SunVault 26 system consists of the SV-BASE13-12-A and SV-ENERGY13-12-A models to expand the amount of power a system can hold. The SunVault 12 only consists of the standard SV-BASE13-12-A model. *SunPower guarantees its batteries will retain at least 70% of their initial energy capacity by the end of the 10-year warranty period. This percentage may vary based on the manufacturer.  SunPower manufactures its solar products and uses certified partners to install batteries and other solar equipment in all 50 U.S. states. Blue Raven Solar is another popular solar company that installs SunPower SunVaults. If you’re interested in the SunPower SunVault, click below for a free, no-obligation quote. The Tesla Powerwall is one of the most popular solar batteries available, featuring a sleek design with strong performance and efficiency. The Tesla Powerwall 2 is also compatible with any solar panels, not just Tesla systems. Due to its popularity, the Tesla Powerwall is frequently on backorder and only comes in one size. However, you can add more Powerwalls to expand your system. Photo courtesy of Tesla The Tesla Powerwall comes in two models, both with 13.5 kWh of storage capacity: the Powerwall 2 and the Powerwall+. The key difference is that the Tesla Powerwall 2 is just a solar battery, while the Tesla Powerwall+ is both a solar battery and inverter. The Powerwall+ is ideal for new solar installations, while the Powerwall 2 is more suitable for retrofitting into an existing solar system. Although you can order a Powerwall directly through the Tesla Website, the company requires that Tesla Certified Professionals install all batteries. Several nationwide solar panel companies, including Sunrun and Palmetto, install the Tesla Powerwall. You can also use the search tool on Tesla’s website to find an installer in your area. Sonnen offers a variety of battery models that can adjust to your energy needs and budget. For example, you can adjust the energy capacity of your Sonnen ecoLinx by 2 kWh increments up to a massive 30 kWh battery. However, the high price point is out of reach for many customers. The SonnenEvo and SonnenCore+ are more standard batteries available in 10 kWh and 20 kWh sizes. Plus, the SonnenEvo is alternating current or AC-coupled, meaning you can use it as an energy storage device whether or not you have solar panels. Photo courtesy of Sonnen  Compare Sonnen’s solar battery models: Sonnen partners with solar companies throughout the U.S. to install its solar batteries like, but our top recommended installers are Elevation, Trinity Solar, and Sunnova Solar. You can find more Sonnen solar battery installer on the Sonnen website. Enphase manufactures a variety of solar energy products, including solar panels, microinverters, and of course, solar batteries. With a 96% round-trip efficiency and a 100% depth of discharge, Enphase offers some of the most efficient batteries available today. The standard Enphase IQ battery setup offers 10.08 kWh of battery storage, though it can be expanded. Photo courtesy of Enphase  Several top solar providers install Enphase solar batteries, including Freedom Solar Energy and Semper Solaris. Click below to speak with a solar professional about your Enphase solar battery installation today. The Generac PWRcell is outfitted with a cabinet that protects your solar battery from the elements and can help extend its lifespan. You can expand your battery cabinet by adding additional battery modules or cells. You can achieve up to 18 kWh of storage from a single battery cabinet — or twice that when you add another. Photo courtesy of Generac Generac customers can choose from four different system capacities. Each system is built with 3 kWh battery modules. If you want an even larger battery bank, you can install more than one PWRcell cabinet, expanding your Generac energy storage system up to 36 kWh. Major solar companies installing Generac’s PWRCell battery include Powered by Elevation, Trinity Solar and Sunnova Solar. Aside from these providers, Generac also has a large network of local dealers that install its solar battery. LG stopped making solar panels but still manufactures its state-of-the-art line of solar batteries. LG’s solar batteries are compact and, thanks to a direct current (DC) system, have an industry-leading round-trip efficiency of 95%. One downside of the LG RESU is that only the RESU prime models guarantee 70% battery capacity after 10 years. The standard models — the RESUL Gen2 — only guarantee 60% capacity under a limited warranty. Photo courtesy of LG Compare LG’s solar battery models: LG requires that a qualified professional install its solar batteries. Sunrun, one of our top-recommended solar providers, installs LG solar batteries. You can also find an LG solar battery installer in your area by inputting your zip code on the LG website. When choosing a solar battery, it’s important to consider factors like storage capacity, power rating, cost and other specifics. 
        Storage capacity is measured in kilowatt-hours (kWh) and refers to the amount of energy your solar battery can store for later use. The amount of battery storage capacity you need depends on your average energy usage and preferences. For example, consider how long you would need to run your home on backup power in the case of an outage. 
       
        Power rating refers to the rate at which your solar battery can discharge or release stored energy. A higher power rating means your battery can deliver more power at once and meet higher energy demands. 
       
        Cost is a major consideration when choosing a solar battery — a single solar battery can cost $10,000 or more. Keep in mind that solar battery installation, additional parts and shipping can add several thousand dollars to your final cost. We recommend getting a quote from a solar provider tailored to your home for the most accurate pricing. 
       
        Performance metrics like a battery’s depth of discharge (DoD) and round-trip efficiency are also important considerations. DoD is the amount of energy you can use from your battery before it needs a recharge. Round-trip efficiency refers to how much of a battery’s stored energy you can use as output energy. The higher your round-trip efficiency and DoD, the more you’ll be able to take advantage of your battery’s capacity. 
       Batteries make up a significant portion of a solar system’s cost. However, solar battery costs have dropped significantly over the past years, making them a preferred addition to most home solar systems. Based on our research, a typical solar panel and battery system costs between $25,000 and $35,000, depending on your location and system size, type and complexity. Adding an energy storage system to an existing solar panel system may be more expensive as a solar battery alone can cost between $12,000 and $22,000. That price range reflects the typical cost of lithium batteries, the preferred solar battery technology in the industry. However, choosing more traditional lead-acid batteries can help lower the cost. When shopping for solar energy storage, it’s important to know the pros and cons of each type of battery technology before making a decision. Up until almost the past decade, lead acid batteries dominated the solar battery market. Lead acid batteries are simple, affordable units with a basic modular design. However, the advantages of lithium batteries has made that technology the market leader and preferred choice for home solar systems. Let’s look at and compare both options. For many years, lead-acid batteries were the most common battery type for all applications — from home energy storage systems to car batteries. Lead-acid batteries are generally the least expensive and useful for simple applications, but are heavy and require regular maintenance. They also have a shorter lifespan. For these reasons, solar experts may not recommend lead-acid batteries for home solar systems. Lithium batteries are significantly lighter and safer than their lead-acid counterparts. They have a much longer lifespan or battery cycles and require no ongoing maintenance. Today, most solar battery manufacturers use lithium batteries for residential applications. These batteries come with sleek designs and a variety of smart features. While lithium batteries are more expensive, they are recommended for small- to medium-sized solar arrays used to power homes and businesses. One of the major milestones in the adoption of solar batteries is their application in commercial or large-scale installations. Although the cost of batteries can limit their application to small and medium-scale installations, large-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) are now increasingly common. Typically, commercial solar battery banks come in large sizes rated in megawatt-hours (MWh). These systems generally use lithium batteries, thanks to their low maintenance, long life and safer operation. However, most manufacturers design and build commercial-scale battery units too large to be installed in residential systems. Yes, you can add solar battery storage to your existing solar power system. However, not every solar battery is compatible with every solar array. For example, Enphase and SunPower brand batteries are only compatible with Enphase and Sunpower brand solar panel systems, respectively. On the other hand, Tesla Powerwall and Sonnen solar batteries are compatible with almost any solar array. You can also retroactively connect either brand of battery to your renewable energy system. If you already have a solar system with a solar battery, but your energy needs have increased or changed, you can typically expand your battery backup system by connecting more units. We recommend speaking with your solar installer to decide which solar energy storage solution best fits your needs. If you are seeking energy independence, solar batteries are worth it, especially when paired with solar panels. Solar batteries are an optional accessory homeowners can add to their solar system to store excess energy generation for later use, or to power their home during a blackout. The ability of solar batteries to deliver energy independence and resilience, particularly in the face of power outages, is a major advantage. Batteries also help save money on energy bills in areas with time-of-use pricing. Overall, we think solar batteries are a wise investment in most cases. However, if you live in a state with favorable net metering policies, you may not need a battery. We suggest speaking with your solar installer to help determine if a battery would be beneficial to you. It depends. If your state does not offer net metering credits at the retail rate or you are subject to a time-of-use energy payment program, you’ll save the most on your electricity bill when you install a solar battery. But you probably won’t save as much if your utility offers a good net metering program that pays you for any excess energy your panels generate. Yes! If you connect your solar battery to your solar panel system, you are eligible for renewable energy equipment incentives. That includes the 30% federal solar tax credit. Your state may also offer other incentives for solar battery systems. No, you do not necessarily need a solar battery to power your electric vehicle charger. You can directly power the charger using your solar panels, or connect the charger to the energy grid and use net metering to offset the cost of the electricity you use outside of peak sunlight hours. It depends. The upfront cost of a solar battery is high enough that most people will not see enough electricity bill savings to cover the cost of the battery over its lifetime. However, even if you aren’t saving money with a solar battery, solar batteries allow you to use stored energy during power outages or on cloudy days. However, the solar industry has been advancing rapidly, reducing costs and making solar batteries more financially viable for homeowners. We closely evaluate solar installation companies with a focus on the factors most important to homeowners like you. We based our solar company methodology on input from multiple homeowner surveys, discussions with industry experts and research into the renewable energy market. Our review process involves assessing each company on the following criteria, which we then use to calculate a rating out of 5 stars. 

Cost and payment options (20 points): Cost is one of the most important factors when installing a solar energy system. Solar providers that offer cash purchases and in-house loan financing earn full points in this category. Companies also receive bonus points for offering solar panel leasing or power purchase agreements (PPAs).
Services (20 points): In addition to solar installations, companies offering backup battery and electric vehicle charger installations, energy efficiency audits and system monitoring earn the most points in this category. Companies can also receive points for completing installations in-house, as opposed to using third-party contractors.
Reputation (20 points): To assess the reputation of each company, we consider Google star ratings, Better Business Bureau (BBB) scores and reviews, and NABCEP certification status. We also look at customer complaint rates on sites like the BBB and weigh how the company responds.
Warranty (15 points): We verify that each company offers workmanship, product and performance warranties on all of its solar installs. A provider earns more points for extending warranties that meet or exceed industry standards, including 10 years for system workmanship and products and 25 years for panel performance.
Customer Support (10 points): Solar companies that offer virtual consultations, a mobile app, 24/7 customer support and high customer satisfaction with backend support earn the most points in this category.
Industry Experience (10 points): Providers with 10 or more years of experience in the solar installation industry earn a perfect score in this category.
Sustainability (5 points):To measure sustainability, we assess each company based on whether it shares a detailed sustainability statement or ESG disclosures on its website. We also conduct research to see if companies offer end-of-life panel disposal programs or have eco-friendly community partnerships.

 If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Faith is a writer whose work has been featured in EcoWatch and Today’s Homeowner. She holds economics and English degrees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and likes to collect books and spend time in nature in her free time. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Karsten Neumeister is an experienced energy professional with subject-matter expertise in energy policy and the solar and retail energy industries. In addition to previous roles with the Retail Energy Advancement League and Solar Alternatives, he has written for EcoWatch and National Public Radio (NPR). Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.