News and resources on cloud strategy, selection, build, migration and operation for banks and fintechs. This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. FS-ISAC, the member-driven, not-for-profit organisation that advances cybersecurity and resilience in the global financial system, announced today that Google Cloud has joined its Critical Providers Program, designed to strengthen the security of the financial sector’s supply chain. 
17 March 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. The partnership will focus on reducing third-party cyber risk to avoid service disruptions within the financial sector and foster a community of transparency as critical service providers increasingly host, connect, and protect a substantial percentage of financial institutions’ infrastructure. “Financial institutions are increasingly relying on cloud-based technology, highlighting the need to bolster cloud computing services and the greater financial sector’s protections and preparedness against sophisticated cyber threats,” said Teresa Walsh, Global Head of Intelligence of FS-ISAC. “Our partnership with Google Cloud will foster continuous collaboration and information sharing between our member firms and this key provider to the sector, including allowing for the dissemination of timely security information and remediation in the event of a large-scale incident.” “Google Cloud’s partnerships with key organisations in critical infrastructure sectors, such as FS-ISAC, are vital to ensuring our customers are protected and educated amidst a complex and evolving threat landscape,” said Phil Venables, Chief Information Security Officer at Google Cloud. “We are already a long-standing supporter of FS-ISAC and are excited to be the first major cloud provider in the Critical Providers Program. We look forward to sharing our resources and unique insights with FS-ISAC to build a more secure and resilient financial system.” The Critical Providers Program is an official conduit for non-financial organisations providing network infrastructure and services to share sensitive, timely, and industry-specific security information. During large-scale cyber incidents or threats, providers can leverage the dedicated communication channels to expedite the dissemination of accurate information necessary to address the immediate risks and keep the financial industry safe. The Program was launched in 2022 with Akamai as a founding partner. Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre