This boot camp is a self-paced course that can be completed 100% online There is a heavy reliance on software engineers in today’s technology-rich climate—and this need for skilled tech professionals is only expected to grow. In fact, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) expects 189,200 job openings for software engineers each year through the year 2031.  Today’s software engineering professionals must have knowledge in both front-end and back-end development. This Software Engineering Boot Camp takes a holistic approach—teaching both front-end and back-end technologies to help you achieve a successful career as a software engineer or full stack developer. You will master the use of Python, JavaScript, React.js, Redux, Node.js, Bootstrap, HTML, and CSS while preparing for an IT career with average salaries ranging from $70,000–$145,000 and gaining the knowledge necessary to successfully earn the CompTIA ITF+ certification. The need for skilled professional software engineers grows daily. The BLS reports that jobs for software engineers are expected to increase by 25% nationwide through the year 2031. This is five times higher than the average rate of growth expected across all occupations. According to Indeed, the mean yearly salary for a software engineer is $108,722, with professionals with less than a year of experience making an average of $101,591. In contrast, professionals with six to nine years of experience earn an average of $119,384. In our Software Engineering Boot Camp, you will explore: Zsolt Nagy has a Master of Science degree in IT Engineering. He is also certified in Front-End Web UI Frameworks and Bootstrap 4. He has several years of relevant professional experience and is currently working as a Senior Engineering Manager in a leading software company. Previously, he has served as the Head of Front-end Engineering at a global ad tech company. This boot camp is a self-paced course that can be completed 100% online—no prerequisites required. Open enrollment means you can register and start the boot camp whenever you are ready. Access to your boot camp can take 24-48 business hours. ©2024 University of Houston. All rights reserved.