The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Daphne Berryhill or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Daphne Berryhill,
                                                    Justin Houman, M.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is not just for women. While it’s true that men don’t experience the same dramatic hormonal shift in midlife as women typically do, after age 30, their testosterone levels do start to gradually decline.[1]Hypogonadism in Men. Endocrine Society. Accessed 9/30/23.  Chronic health conditions, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes, can also cause a testosterone decline. More than a third of men over 45 are estimated to have low testosterone (“Low-T”), but it can occur at younger ages, too[2]Hypogonadism [StatPearls Internet]. Accessed 9/30/23. . When it’s severe, it can change how you function and feel across different areas of your life. Read on to learn about HRT options for men and how to find out whether testosterone therapy might benefit you. As the primary male hormone, testosterone is critical for sexual health, muscle maintenance, exercise performance, mood and bone density. Testosterone is almost entirely produced in the testes, but the process depends on chemical signals from the brain’s pituitary gland. Problems or changes in either the pituitary or testes can disrupt testosterone production. HRT for men focuses on raising testosterone in the body. Most commonly, this is done directly with medications that contain testosterone. But this isn’t recommended for men who hope to maintain fertility. Taking any form of testosterone results in suppression of sperm production, explains Dan Williams, M.D., a urologist at UW Health and professor of urology at UW School of Medicine and Public Health in Madison, Wisconsin. While sperm production may recover after testosterone treatments are stopped, he notes that permanent effects on fertility are possible. Because of this, interested individuals should speak with their doctor and be fully informed about this risk. Manufacturer labeling for many testosterone products warns that permanent loss of fertility is a possible risk with use. Longer-term studies are needed to understand this risk better, according to the American Urological Association AUA. “The important message here is that men—in particular men of reproductive age—need to be counseled about this prior to starting T [testosterone] treatments,” notes Dr. Williams, “and when needed, sperm cryopreservation prior to conventional T treatments can be offered.” In addition, he says, alternative testosterone therapies are another option for men wanting to protect their fertility. A variety of medications target the signaling pathway that stimulates testosterone production without decreasing sperm production, he explains. A total testosterone level below 300 ng/dL (nanograms per deciliter) in adult males is considered low, according to AUA guidelines. Though there are a growing number of at-home testosterone test options, Robert E. Brannigan, M.D., andrologist and urologist at Northwestern Medicine in Chicago, still recommends traditional blood draws, noting that insurance companies often require a repeat testosterone test via an in-person lab appointment to confirm. For testosterone testing, Dr. Brannigan recommends having blood drawn soon after waking, usually before 10 a.m. Additional blood tests may include a lipid panel and tests on liver function and levels of other hormones that impact testosterone. But more important is a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test to screen for prostate cancer and a complete blood count to assess risks for blood clots. These should be checked and a physical exam performed before starting testosterone therapy, he says. “In some cases, it’s important to check free and bioavailable testosterone,” mentions Dr. Williams, pointing out that low-T symptoms can occur if these levels are low, even when total testosterone is normal. Blood tests, however, are not reason alone to start testosterone treatment. In addition to low testosterone levels, Dr. Williams says an individual needs to have symptoms of low testosterone to be a candidate for testosterone therapy. Low testosterone can cause a wide range of symptoms, including: Over time, low testosterone can also lead to body composition changes—less muscle mass, more body fat and weaker bones. Other possible outcomes include anemia and breast enlargement. Low testosterone is also a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Rare conditions present at birth can cause testosterone deficiency. Medications, injuries and cancer treatments are also possible causes. But chronic health conditions are the most common cause, aside from age. Managing conditions, such as obesity, may improve testosterone production and provide other health benefits, according to the Endocrine Society. Factors unrelated to testosterone levels can also cause low-T symptoms. Dr. Brannigan mentions depression and thyroid issues as common culprits. It’s important to consider underlying causes and assess overall health, he explains. A person’s symptoms and quality of life concerns are important considerations when it comes to hormone therapy, notes Dr. Brannigan. “Some men are accustomed to having higher levels [of testosterone],” he says, adding that the normal testosterone range for males is very broad—300 to 1,000 ng/dL. Men who are symptomatic, but have normal testosterone levels (especially in the low-normal range) may still benefit from testosterone therapy in some cases, he explains. Dr. Williams agrees that some individuals with low-normal testosterone levels may benefit from a trial of hormone therapy. “We rarely know what an individual man’s T levels were when he was younger or when he was feeling better,” he adds, explaining why a trial may be appropriate in these cases. Keep in mind, the Endocrine Society warns that testosterone therapy may be harmful to your health if used to boost levels above normal ranges for athletic or appearance reasons. There are two types of testosterone therapy: direct and alternative. Direct therapies deliver the same form of testosterone your body naturally makes. This treatment approach is considered first-choice when maintaining fertility is not a concern. Alternative therapies are a group of medications that stimulate your body to produce more testosterone. One or more of these medications might be an option for individuals wanting to preserve fertility. Testosterone is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treating low testosterone. Some testosterone products contain a modified “ester” form of testosterone that gets converted to testosterone in your body. Testosterone undecanoate is an example. The AUA recommends commercially available prescription testosterone products rather than ones from compounding pharmacies, which make custom-made products without FDA oversight. Testosterone comes in a variety of forms, including: “Each [form] has unique advantages and disadvantages,” says Dr. Williams, “and because of this, some men prefer certain modalities over others.” Topical products can cause skin irritation, he notes, but pain, bleeding and infections are possible side effects of injectable or implantable forms. Oral testosterone can cause stomach discomfort, he adds. Though Dr. Williams has his patients choose their preferred form after discussing the pros and cons with him, he says that an individual’s insurance coverage can limit options. Most of the patients Dr. Brannigan sees in practice use injectable or topical gel forms of testosterone. This reflects national prescribing data. In 2020, more than 80% of testosterone prescriptions were written for one of these two forms.[3]Testosterone: Drug Usage Statistics, United States, 2013-2020. ClinCalc.com. Accessed 9/30/23.  According to manufacturer labeling, children and women should strictly avoid contact with testosterone, including unwashed or uncovered application sites of men using topical products. Medications that raise testosterone production are not specifically FDA approved for low testosterone but may be prescribed off-label for men concerned about preserving fertility. The three types of alternative testosterone therapies mentioned in AUA guidelines are: “The goal of using these is to boost T production while maintaining sperm production,” explains Dr. Williams. In some cases, combinations of medications are used, but he points out that they’re not always effective in improving low-T symptoms. Transparent Labs Vitality- Testosterone Optimization Formula Transparent Lab's Vitality is formulated with premium ingredients to protect Leydig cells that comprise the testicles and augment luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone which govern testosterone production and fertility. On Transparent Lab's Website Response varies from person to person, but testosterone therapy may help: Many men “globally feel better with normal T levels,” says Dr. Williams, noting improved energy, mood and cognitive function. He says some notice a difference soon after starting testosterone therapy, but it may take weeks or even months to see a change. Dr. Brannigan sees similar outcomes in his practice. He estimates that about 70% of patients report a benefit when he follows up with them one to two months after starting therapy. For those not seeing an improvement in their symptoms, a higher dose may be recommended if their total testosterone blood level is below the target range of 450 to 600 ng/dL (established by the AUA), notes Dr. Brannigan. However, testosterone treatment is only continued in individuals noticing a benefit, he says. Possible risks of testosterone therapy include: Direct testosterone therapies are generally well tolerated, says Dr. Brannigan, noting some people notice oilier skin or fluid retention. Side effects with alternative testosterone therapies, he says, are more common and depend on the specific medication(s) used. Testosterone therapy may increase blood pressure, raise estrogen levels in individuals with obesity and worsen urinary symptoms in men with enlarged prostates, according to Dr. Williams. Both the AUA and Endocrine Society say there’s no evidence that testosterone therapy causes prostate cancer. Testosterone use, however, is contraindicated for individuals with prostate cancer, according to manufacturer labeling. Individuals should be appropriately screened for prostate cancer before and during treatment, Dr. Brannigan says, because testosterone could promote the growth of an existing cancer. Some doctors may still prescribe testosterone for those with a personal or family history of prostate cancer, but only after carefully weighing the risks and benefits with them, he says. Current testosterone product labels include warnings for blood clots, heart attacks and strokes. But according to both the Endocrine Society and AUA, testosterone therapy hasn’t been found to increase cardiovascular risks. Dr. Brannigan points to a recent randomized controlled trial in The New England Journal of Medicine that included 5,246 men 45 to 80 years old with existing cardiovascular disease. The results were reassuring, he says, given that no overall increase in heart attacks or strokes was found in the testosterone treatment group. “A couple of things that actually did have a higher incidence in men on treatment were atrial fibrillations, acute injury and pulmonary embolism,” he says, but it’s unclear whether they were linked to testosterone treatment.[4]Lincoff AM, Bhasin S, et al. Cardiovascular Safety of Testosterone-Replacement Therapy. N Engl J Med 2023; 389:107-117.  To be safe, the AUA guidelines recommend a three to six-month waiting period after a cardiovascular event before taking testosterone. Both doctors stress the importance of continued follow up while taking testosterone. After the first year, Dr. Williams generally recommends annual appointments for checkups. If you have concerns about low testosterone, talking openly with your doctor is a good place to start to find out if hormone therapy is an option for you. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Daphne Berryhill is an oncology pharmacist and freelance writer. She loves the collaborative process of creating health content. Her goal as a writer is to offer information that’s meaningful, transparent, and based on the best available sources. Her bylines can be found in GoodRx Health, The Midst (Jumble & Flow), and on her Substack newsletter. She calls Madison, WI home with her husband and four children.
			 
				Dr. Justin Houman is a board certified, fellowship-trained urologist and men’s health specialist in Los Angeles whose mission is to enhance men’s quality of life by improving their sexual, reproductive and hormonal health. Dr. Houman’s focus is on making a difference in people’s lives through state-of-the-art, compassionate and personally tailored care.
			