 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Get the right program to track your finances 
Accounting software is an essential tool for managing business finances, and it can be useful for tracking personal or family finances as well. For businesses, accounting software can keep income and expense data organized, assist with budgeting, track inventory, manage accounts receivable and accounts payable, and help prepare for tax season. For families, accounting software is helpful for household budgeting, tax return preparation, retirement planning, investment tracking, and bill payment management.
 
Whether you're self-employed or own a small business, one of the most important features of accounting software is expense tracking. By automating the process of tracking expenses, it's easier to collect and categorize tax-deductible expenses, which allows for major tax savings each year.
 
We examined 13 software companies and rate QuickBooks Online as the best overall accounting software. That's thanks to its excellent reputation and user friendliness, in addition to its robust customer support services. We also gave honors to four runner-up software solutions. Key factors of consideration included cost, ease of use, reputation, and functionality.
 
QuickBooks Online was chosen as the best overall because of its reputation, usability, and strong customer support options. Business owners can access their financial reports and collect payments from customers easily using the app or website.
 User-friendly and customizable Scalable for business growth Full-service mobile app ProAdvisor program for accountants and bookkeepers Quickbooks Community forum for support Monthly subscription required Limitations on the number of users 
QuickBooks Online, owned by Intuit, is the leader in accounting software for small businesses. It was founded in 2001 and has over 7 million customers. There are four levels of online cloud-based software available:
 
QuickBooks offers a 30-day free trial. Alternately, accountants who are registered with QuickBooks are able to offer their clients preferred subscription pricing. The fee varies, depending on whether the client or the accountant is billed. All plans can be used online through a web browser and on the QuickBooks mobile app.
 
The Simple Start plan is a great entry point for basic small businesses. As a business grows and has more needs, it is easy to upgrade to the next level. The upgraded levels offer features like more users, bill management, time and project tracking, inventory, more customizable reporting, and more automation for efficiency.
 
QuickBooks Online also offers three levels of a payroll add-on, which can be accessed on the same dashboard as the accounting software. Additionally, there are third-party apps that can integrate with QuickBooks Online to share data seamlessly.
 
The ProAdvisor Program allows accountants and bookkeepers to participate in QuickBooks training courses and become a certified ProAdvisor. Customers can search the ProAdvisor Directory to find someone in their area for accounting assistance. There is also a QuickBooks Community forum where users can ask questions and find answers to common questions. 
 Quicken 
Quicken is the best solution for individuals because of its robust features. This software is scalable and can support a household’s financial needs as they grow more complex over time. 
 
With Quicken, a household can manage and pay bills, track retirement and investment accounts, and design customized budgets. There is also a rental property management feature that allows individuals who own rental properties to track rental income and expenses. 
 Strong reputation Bill pay feature Retirement planning Robust budgeting and investment-tracking tools No third-party app extensions like Quickbooks 
Since 1982, Quicken has offered management and tracking tools that allow individuals and families to be financially organized and prepared. Quicken can be used for household budgeting and income/expense tracking, which can help individuals prepare for tax season.
 
There are four levels of software plans available:
 
A 30-day free trial is available. The software is downloaded onto a computer, and data is stored locally; however, most key features can also be accessed using a web browser or the Quicken mobile app.
 
The Simplifi plan allows users to track and categorize transactions and manage bills. The more advanced plans add features such as investment, loan, and retirement tracking; bill pay; and even basic business invoicing and tracking. The business features can be accessed through the Home & Business plan and can run Schedule C as well as Schedule E tax reports and manage lease terms, rental rates, and security deposits.
 Wave 
For service-based businesses with simple business structures, Wave provides a free starting point for bookkeeping and invoicing needs. Businesses can always move to more comprehensive accounting software as they grow, but Wave is a great cost-saving option and is the best in our review for businesses. 
 Free Simple and easy to use Mobile app Invoicing and accounting software included in the free version Payroll add-on available Limited integrations Not as widely used by accountants as its competitors Payment processing fees of 2.9%–3.4% and $0.60 
Launched in 2010, Wave began as a Toronto-based startup offering accounting software. By 2019, though, Wave’s workforce had grown to 250 employees, and the company was acquired by H&R Block. Entrepreneurs and freelancers are the company’s target audience. This free accounting software is available online and through its mobile app. The free features include income and expense tracking, financial reports, invoicing, and receipt scanning.
 
Wave offers credit card and bank transfer payment processing, which costs 2.9% plus 60¢ per transaction for Visa, Mastercard, and Discover; 3.4% plus 60¢ per transaction for American Express; and 1% per transaction ($1 minimum fee) for bank transfers (ACH).
 
A monthly subscription for payroll services is also available but has some limitations. For $40 per month plus $6 per employee or contractor, Wave offers full-service payroll in 14 states. Cost in all other states is $20 per month plus $6 per employee or contractor for limited-service payroll, which means that Wave will calculate the payroll tax cost, but the user is required to pay and file payroll taxes on their own.
 
QuickBooks Solopreneur is perfect for independent contractors who use TurboTax to prepare their annual tax returns but need an expense tracking and invoice-sending solution throughout the year. This software is our top pick for micro-businesses and freelancers because it's easy to use and provides straightforward financial reporting.
 Inexpensive Connects directly to TurboTax Mobile app Mileage tracking Limited customizations & reporting No inventory feature Data cannot be migrated to higher-level QuickBooks Online plans when upgrading 
QuickBooks Solopreneur, owned by Intuit, is a basic online and mobile app designed primarily for freelancers or independent contractors who file a Schedule C for tax purposes. Key features include tracking mileage, categorizing business expenses, excluding personal expenses, full integration into TurboTax, and estimated quarterly tax payment calculations.
 
QuickBooks Solopreneur costs $20 per month or $120 annually for your first year. Intuit Quickbooks' other self-employed tools include QuickBooks Money (pay per transaction) and QuickBooks Simple Start ($30 per month).
 
Investopedia collected and analyzed several key data points from over 13 companies to identify the most important factors for readers choosing accounting software. We used this data to review each company for cost, ease of use, reputation, functionality, and other features to provide unbiased, comprehensive reviews to ensure our readers make the right financial decisions for their needs. Investopedia launched in 1999 and has been helping readers find the best accounting software since 2020.
 Accounting software is an automation tool that reduces the need for manual data entry by syncing and categorizing transactions on a single financial reporting platform. Individuals can use accounting software in their homes for budgeting, bill tracking, retirement planning, investment tracking, and personal tax preparation. Businesses can use accounting software for income and expense tracking, invoicing, bill payment, financial reporting, inventory management, and corporate tax preparation. The key features that all accounting software offers are bank and credit card transaction syncing, transaction classification, and basic profit and loss statements. More advanced subscriptions add detailed customization options. Paid add-ons include payroll services, more comprehensive financial reporting, bill pay in addition to bill tracking, and invoice payment options. The first step is determining whether you need accounting software for either business or personal purposes. Next, decide how complex of a financial situation you have.  If your activity is very simple, it’s best to start with free software and scale up as needed. If you are a small business owner, simple accounting primarily includes small service-based businesses without inventory. For individuals who do not own businesses and have minimal investments, free software provides basic bookkeeping options with reconciliation features. If you have a more complex situation, it is important to make a list of the specific functionalities you will need so that you can inquire about those capabilities with an accounting software company prior to your purchase. For businesses, complex accounting could include inventory, payroll, and loans. For individuals, complex accounting could include investment accounts, business ownership, and rental properties. Accounting software ranges from $0 to $100 or more per month, with many different options in between. The average cost of personal accounting software for comprehensive household budgeting is around $50 per year. The average cost of fully functioning business accounting software for a small business is around $50 per month. Payroll services are the most common add-on to business accounting software, which can range from $30 to $150 per month depending on the number of employees or contractors. 
After looking at 13 different accounting software companies, we used factors like cost, usability, integration options, and reputation to narrow our list down to the five best software programs. We also specifically researched free software versus paid software and determined the best free software for personal use and for business use, in addition to the best paid software for each.
 Eva-Katalin / Getty Images Intuit. "QuickBooks Online Advanced." Intuit Quickbooks. "Plans for Every Kind of Business." Intuit. "QuickBooks ProAdvisor Program for Accountants | Intuit." Crunchbase. "Quicken - Crunchbase Company Profile & Funding." Quicken. "Find the Right Plan for You." Crunchbase. "Wave - Crunchbase Company Profile & Funding." Wave. "About Wave - Wave Financial." Wave. "Wave Payments Processing Fees and Timelines – Help Center." Wave. "Payroll Software That Pays Off." Intuit Quickbooks. "QuickBooks Solopreneur." Intuit Quickbooks. "Manage Your Business Money."