 Got a handful of bank accounts, a college savings account for your 6-year-old, and 401(k)s from a few past jobs out there somewhere? How about if you’re an options trader but also want to track other investments you have? It can be tough to reign it all in, and that’s where the best portfolio management software comes in handy.  Portfolio management software can track your portfolio against the rest of the market and can help you stay on top of your finances by giving you a comprehensive overview of your full portfolio. Just think of it as a bird’s eye view from an advisor whose office you don’t need to visit. Portfolio management software is different from trading software and is worlds apart from what your online broker can offer. Read on and discover which software might be best for you, find the product you prefer and look at PPM principles that can take your investments to the next level.  We researched and reviewed several of the best portfolio management software options on the market. If you can, request a demo so that you can see the portfolio management tools in action.  As you hunt for a portfolio management system, you will discover that every platform has its own schtick. With Domain Money, you will uncover a range of crypto portfolios that are easy to use, offer quality returns and help you make wise decisions.  Domain Money offers the following digital asset management styles: These actively-managed portfolios offer you the mix of investments that you want, and Domain Money does the rest. This management software works behind the scenes to ensure that the portfolio you’ve chosen performs well. Plus, there are no lockups, minimums ranging from $100 to $500 and a 1% annual management fee. You can save money and pour your cash into crypto, but Domain Money will do the work. Pros Cons Interactive Broker is a comprehensive investment platform that offers affordable prices and access to a wide range of assets. IBKR makes it easier to invest by giving you access to: When you trade with IBKR, you can buy into stocks, ETFs, mutual funds, forex, options and futures. You can also invest in bonds, spot gold and cryptocurrencies, helping you build a more diverse portfolio that is safer to manage long into the future.  Features of this financial technology platform include: Pros Cons If you’re after a large financial snapshot, you can get that for free with Personal Capital. You’ll get a comprehensive real-time overview of your net worth, a spending analysis, retirement planners and portfolio performance — all free on Personal Capital’s dashboard.  The spending analysis gives you a comprehensive overview of you where and how you spend your money (restaurants, grocery stores, etc.). This can be especially helpful for those who depend on consistent investment performance in the present for their income. The Retirement Planner can pinpoint exactly where you are relative to your retirement goals. Personal Capital can give you a portfolio performance which shows you how your assets are performing. This investment advisor can provide you with a customer experience that is both simplified and easy to manage.  The Fee Analyzer shows you how much you’re spending on fees and where you can save thousands, particularly if you have mutual fund fees. You can even anticipate future expenses, such as planning for college, getting married or any other upcoming life event. This form of strategic portfolio management helps keep as much money in your pocket as possible.  In terms of wealth management, Personal Capital offers robo-investment services as well as real human financial advisors. Its annual fee is 0.89% and you need a $100,000 minimum in your account to get a personalized investment strategy. It’ll help you take the guesswork out of your goals and plug any holes for any future “what-ifs” that can come your way. If you want a transformative experience and a quick way to analyze and build your net worth, there’s seemingly no end to the financial services Personal Capital can offer. Pros Cons When your family has a range of investments that are both preparing for the future and potentially generating income in the present day, you might need a little help keeping track of all that cash. Where is it, what’s it doing and are you reaching your financial goals? Personal finance depends on this sort of “snapshot” information that can guide your business strategy or life decisions.  An account with Vyzer can help you analyze all your financial documents, integrate with financial platforms online, generate reports and track transactions made from these accounts. In short, you always know where the money is and it’s much easier to control the purse strings. Because your portfolio can spread all over the place, this is the perfect solution. You don’t need to consolidate and close accounts when it’s much easier to connect them all here. Plus, you can integrate all your accounts and forget all spending hours checking them all when one look at your dashboard on Vyzer is enough.You even have the option to manage your investments through the Vyzer app on your Apple or Android device.  If your family is investing with others, managing several large investments and generating income at the same time, wealth management tools from Vyzer ensure that your virtual office tells you how your money is performing, the structure under which each investment was made and more. Plan for cash flow, set up distribution schedules, review your cash flow and preview scenarios that might cause you to adjust your investments.  Pros Cons The Delta Investment Tracker is a mobile app designed to give you access to 7,000 cryptocurrencies that you can trade in over 300 exchanges. The app allows you to sync up to 5 devices when you sign up for Pro, making it great for private investors and money managers. Plus, you can see where all these tokens are moving, organize them as you like and review pricing in your native currency. You may also track all sorts of assets on this platform like stocks, ETFs and more. This means that you can start with, for example, some tokens you bought many year ago and add in your stocks or other investments. Download the app today for free and see how it looks when all your holdings are condensed into one easy-to-use platform.  Pros Cons Simply Wall St is not just a tool for stock research; it's a robust portfolio management software designed to optimize your investment strategy. Trusted by over 6 million retail investors, it provides everything you need to manage your portfolio effectively: The platform is dedicated to providing an independent, fact-based analysis, helping you manage your investments objectively. With a free-forever plan and additional features available in Premium for $10 per month and Unlimited for $20 per month, Simply Wall St equips investors with the tools needed for effective portfolio management. Pros Cons Link your investment accounts to benefit from Ziggma's suite of portfolio monitoring and optimization tools. Create a Ziggma account for free, and its Portfolio Manager will automatically monitor your key parameters.  You can set the Smart Alerts within seconds to receive notifications for limits breached on portfolio risk, price, yield, PE ratio and more. With your personalized alerts in place, you'll have more free time to focus on research or any other prep to keep your portfolio where you want it. And Ziggma's account aggregation means you can easily link your brokerage account to the Ziggma Portfolio Manager. Ziggma works with Plaid. Recently acquired by VISA, Plaid is a market leader in account aggregation working with virtually all U.S. banks. Plaid's encryption technology means you can expect the best data security. Link your investment portfolios to Ziggma today to benefit from its tools where it matters most. Pros Cons Fund Manager portfolio management software runs on Windows 10, 8.x and 7. It’s compatible with both 32- and 64-bit versions of Windows. Fund Manager can track your stocks, mutual funds, options, bonds, cash and other investment types.  More specifically, you can track the following:  Fund Manager’s Personal version includes extensive portfolio management features for most individual investors. The Professional version is meant for active traders and adds advanced features such as trailing stop-loss alerts, technical analysis, real-time quotes and advanced statistics.  Fund Manager can access funds directly from your broker, import funds from other formats or you can enter them manually.   You’ll get 48 customizable graph types and 21 available report types.   Fund Manager prices include $99 for a new version and $39 for an upgrade. It’s $295 for a new Professional version. You can upgrade from Personal to Professional for $260 and $89 if you upgrade to an already-existing Professional software.  Pros Cons Stock Rover makes portfolio management that much simpler by offering over 650 screening criteria, allowing you to tap into any segment of the market at any time. Free accounts are available, and you can dig into the platform by taking advantage of: With robust customer support and a powerful learning center, you can try Stock Rover today, track your investments and make wise decisions.  You can even read through weekly market briefs and watch educational videos that give you more insight into how the market is performing and how you should respond. Set your own equations as you use the screener application, use the device on a mobile phone and even enjoy Stock Rover on a tablet as you work remotely.  Pros Cons Web-based financial planning software and portfolio trackers like Personal Capital are popular. You can connect your finances by linking your accounts to an online portfolio tracker. But online portfolio management can’t do quite as much as a software-based portfolio manager.  We’ve featured both options here so you can choose how in-depth you’d like to get with your portfolio.  The software offers much more powerful reporting, sophisticated technological elements and a spot-on ability to calculate gains and losses. In short, the software should offer a plethora of reporting tools and options, no matter the securities you own.  Most portfolio management software operates similarly. Typically, you’ll download and install the portfolio management software on your computer. Then, you’ll import or enter historical transactions or enter starting positions of all of your accounts.  Your portfolio management software should be able to connect to the internet and automatically obtain your data. You’ll be able to see detailed graphs, in-depth reports (which are usually customizable) and modify transaction data for all your investments. A few characteristics to look for as you choose the best portfolio management software include user-friendly features, a wide variety of reports and support for all of your funds. How well can the software handle your personal needs? Can you easily operate the software? These are a couple of questions that might be at the forefront of your mind.  You might not want to spend weeks configuring and learning the program, so get a taste beforehand of whether each program has a bit of a learning curve. Several programs offer demos so you can try them out for yourself before you buy.  The portfolio management software you choose should have a number of options available to you. It should offer thorough investment tracking, accounting, reporting, communication tools, analysis tools, customizable reports and more.  You should have access to tools that can help you understand your investments and even connect you to 3rd-party sources if you need to import specific market information. You may even want to manage your cash through a client portal where you can buy and sell. Ultimately, it’s important to make sure the features you want are there. The portfolio management software you choose should be able to help you manage stocks, bonds, mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) but in addition to the basics, a vast number of other types of trading and investment vehicles should be supported.  Some software supports options trading, for example, so be sure that the portfolio management software you choose can support every type of trading you do. You may have already decided that you need a portfolio management tool, particularly if you feel like your portfolio is scattered among 6 different brokers. Organize your finances now, and choose among Benzinga’s top portfolio management solutions. Just be sure to do some testing ahead of time so you’re positive that the software you test and ultimately select is a great match for you.  After all, if you don’t like the way a particular software’s report generator showcases your portfolio, you could be stuck staring at the same grainy pie charts and graphs for years. Do yourself a favor ahead of time and check out the demo options built into many portfolio management software options.   Luke Jacobi is a distinguished professional known for his role as President at Benzinga, a renowned financial media outlet. With a background in business operations and management, Luke brings valuable expertise to his position, overseeing various aspects of Benzinga’s operations. His contributions play a crucial role in the company’s success, ensuring efficiency and effectiveness across different departments. Prior to his role at Benzinga, Luke has held positions that have honed his skills in leadership and strategic decision-making. With a keen understanding of the financial industry and a commitment to driving innovation, Luke continues to make significant contributions to Benzinga’s mission of providing high-quality financial news and analysis.