A giant size Hershey THE PATRIOT-NEWSTHE PATRIOT-NEWS Hershey Canada plans to purchase a 700,000-square-foot facility in Smiths Falls, Ontario that it sold in 2007. Canopy Growth Corporation, a cannabis and consumer packaged goods company, has entered into an agreement to sell its facility on Hershey Drive facility to Hershey Canada Inc. for approximately $53 million (CAD currency). The completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions. “This project is a strategic acquisition and is another step in our continuing investment in our supply chain network to enable our leading snacking powerhouse vision,” Todd Smith, a spokesperson for The Hershey Company, said in an e-mail. “The facility provides us with the flexibility to support growth across the CMG (candy/mint/gum) portfolio.” Smith said it’s too early to say when the facility will reopen or how many people will work at the facility. The Derry Township-based Hershey Company has manufacturing plants in 10 countries, according to its website. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices