Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Now and then some cars are created purely out of a sense of humor - there is simply no other logical reason for them to exist. These cars usually have no business having as much power as they do, and they might have crazy body styling or unique decals. Some of those cars are rental cars of all things, despite their reputation for being some of the most abused models on the road. The rental company Hertz has a history of partnering mostly with American manufacturers to create unique and insanely cool rental cars. This 2014 Ford Mustang Hertz Penske GT is a perfect example, and it is currently for sale on Cars and Bids.
      RELATED: The Internal-Combustion Ford Mustang Era May Be Ending Earlier Than Previously Reported
                      The "S197," or fourth-gen, Mustang GT was fairly exciting from the factory. The 5.0-liter 24-valve coyote V-8 is rated at 420 horsepower and 390 pound-feet of torque. However, the Hertz Penske version was modified with MagnaFlow mufflers, a JLT Performance Series 2 cold air intake, oil catch cans, a throttle body spacer, and the intake manifold from a Mustang Boss 302, so it is probably capable of a bit more than the standard car. Especially when you account for the 4.10 rear-end gearing. Power is sent to the rear wheels via a six-speed automatic gearbox and a limited-slip differential.
                         In terms of straight-line performance, the base 2014 Mustang GT could go from 0-60 mph in about 4.8 seconds. A suspension package is also included, however, the changes and modifications that make up that package are not specified. Even if it does not handle much better than the standard GT it will stop better as a result of Brembo brakes on the front wheels. Part of what made the Hertz Penske Mustang so special is that it was rare, only 150 were ever made, and this specific one is No. 62.
      RELATED: The Ford Mustang Saleen Yellow Label Is The Blue Oval's Hellcat Redeye
  Most of the changes made to the Hertz Penske GT were visual. The most prevalent visual changes were the bright yellow graphics that read "Hertz Penske GT" in a strip along the side skirts and a stripe that runs from the bottom of the front bumper to the bottom of the rear bumper. The body received several modifications as well, including Ford Racing front chin splitter and rear fascia, Roush side skirts, tinted windows, wheel center caps, 19-inch painted wheels and the rear spoiler from the Shelby GT500.
      Interiors have never been a Mustang strong suit, but they sure tried with the Hertz Penske GT as it had Recaro charcoal black leather seats and upholstery. The cabin also sports a series of badges and branded floor mats, a shaker audio system, a Ford Mustang Laguna Seca gauge package, and a special navigation system unique to the Hertz Penske GT. While the dynamic capabilities of this Mustang are nothing to scoff at, we think the main allure here is that it is such a rare collectors item.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. This convertible version has an engine that was derived from the CanAm racing series, and it is the only one in existence The relatively affordable C8 Corvette can smoke tons of high-dollar exotics and look great while doing it. The new 2.0-liter four-cylinder could surpass the current most powerful production four-pot, made by Mercedes-AMG. Exhilarating speed, acceleration, and cutting-edge technology are at the forefront of the EV era, and here are the 10 mainstream EVs to do it best.  There are plenty of EVs from the 2000s and 2010s that wouldn't feel dated amongst the current crop of modern EVs, and here are 10 of them. Here's the sleek Korean hybrid rewriting fuel efficiency rules with unbelievable driving range, impressive tech, and eco-friendly performance. 