

Thursday, December 15th 2022

Reporter: Wuri Setyaningsih

Translator: Nugroho Adibrata

610
 
                        (Foto: Nugroho Sejati)
                     Jakarta Acting Governor, Heru Budi Hartono, supported and appreciated the program and achievement of the Gerakan Ciliwung Bersih (Clean Ciliwung Movement).


                          The Ciliwung River condition is getting better                        

The statement above was conveyed by GCB Chairman, Peni Susanti Dipi after meeting with the Jakarta Acting Governor at Jakarta City Hall, Thursday (15/12)."His (Mr. Governor) response was very responsive after listening to our programs and achievements," she expressed.In the meeting, the Governor would support the facilities, until the event that would be held by his party in order to realize Ciliwung Bersih as an eco-tourism and education center. in the future."In our office, there is also a program to recycle waste at river schools," she explained.According to her, in 2020, the Environment Ministry gave a second-class assessment of the Ciliwung River since it was declared polluted in 1989."The Ciliwung River condition is getting better. PDAM installation in Pejaten with 200 liters per second capacity which can serve around 16,500 residents will be opened. Not only that, in Ciliwung, there have also been river biota ranging from lobster to fish that are quite rare," she concluded.Positive response to treat and preserve Ciliwung, the Acting Governor had been shown before while   he attended the Ciliwung Rowing Festival initiated by the Ministry of Public Works and Public Housing (PUPR) last Sunday (12/4).After rowing the Ciliwung from Pasar Rumput area, Manggarai, South Jakarta until BNI Airport Station, Central Jakarta, he revealed that the river is an asset that must be maintained and addressed together.Besides minimizing floods, rivers could also be used for sports, entertainment, and other."We must take care of Ciliwung and fix it together. Let's support the normalization of the Ciliwung River," he asserted.   Jakarta Acting Governor, Heru Budi Hartono, supported and appreciated the program and achievement of the Gerakan Ciliwung Bersih (Clean Ciliwung Movement).  The statement above was conveyed by GCB Chairman, Peni Susanti Dipi after meeting with the Jakarta Acting Governor at Jakarta City Hall, Thursday (15/12).  "His (Mr. Governor) response was very responsive after listening to our programs and achievements," she expressed.  In the meeting, the Governor would support the facilities, until the event that would be held by his party in order to realize Ciliwung Bersih as an eco-tourism and education center. in the future.  "In our office, there is also a program to recycle waste at river schools," she explained.  According to her, in 2020, the Environment Ministry gave a second-class assessment of the Ciliwung River since it was declared polluted in 1989.  "The Ciliwung River condition is getting better. PDAM installation in Pejaten with 200 liters per second capacity which can serve around 16,500 residents will be opened. Not only that, in Ciliwung, there have also been river biota ranging from lobster to fish that are quite rare," she concluded.  Positive response to treat and preserve Ciliwung, the Acting Governor had been shown before while   he attended the Ciliwung Rowing Festival initiated by the Ministry of Public Works and Public Housing (PUPR) last Sunday (12/4).  After rowing the Ciliwung from Pasar Rumput area, Manggarai, South Jakarta until BNI Airport Station, Central Jakarta, he revealed that the river is an asset that must be maintained and addressed together.  Besides minimizing floods, rivers could also be used for sports, entertainment, and other.  "We must take care of Ciliwung and fix it together. Let's support the normalization of the Ciliwung River," he asserted.    © copyright 2001 - 2024 All Rights Reserved 