
                    Friday, 30 Dec 2022
                 A mannequin decorated for the Christmas and New Year season is seen at a textile shop in Jakarta. - Reuters JAKARTA (The Jakarta Post/Asia News Network) After a two-year absence, the Jakarta administration is set to resume public New Year’s Eve celebrations, with the main event set to take place in the newly renovated Taman Mini Indonesia Indah (TMII) in East Jakarta. But with potentially unfriendly weather on the horizon, authorities are cautioning citizens to be wary of a repeat of 2019. Interim Jakarta governor Heru Budi Hartono revealed these plans in a recent press conference at City Hall. “The main event will be held at [TMII], but there will also be similar events held at [each of] Jakarta’s municipalities and other public places," said Heru as quoted from the Jakarta administration's official channel. The selection of TMII represents a change in venue as New Year’s Eve celebrations before the Covid-19 pandemic were held at the National Monument (Monas) in Central Jakarta. Although Jakarta initially considered closing Monas to visitors for the festivities this year, authorities eventually decided to entertain visitors with Monas' dancing fountain and light shows. Head of Jakarta Tourism and Creative Economy Agency Andhika Permata said TMII was chosen mainly to help reintroduce the theme park to the public, which had undergone renovations from January to October of this year. “TMII is Jakarta’s premier tourist destination and since it was just reopened, we wanted to use this opportunity to [revitalise] the park," he said. The event will also feature some bands, including Bandung-based indie pop band Mocca. Initially, the Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysical Agency (BMKG) predicted a medium-to-heavy downpour across Jakarta on New Year's Eve, with authorities cautioning citizens of the potential for flooding, reminiscent of the 2019 end of year celebrations.     
Tags / Keywords:
Indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                new
                                                                ,
                                                                                                year
                                                                ,
                                                                                                celebrations
 


 Report it to us. Thank you for your report!  Copyright © 1995-
            

 Star Media Group Berhad [197101000523 (10894-D)] Best viewed on Chrome browsers.  We would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion. Kindly fill the form below We hope you enjoy this feature!