

Friday, June 23rd 2023

Reporter: Aldi Geri Lumban Tobing

Translator: Nugroho Adibrata

784
 
                        (Foto: Istimewa)
                        Some 59 ambassadors and their representatives attended the Reception for Jakarta's 496th Anniversary at Balairung, Jakarta City Hall, Thursday (6/22). During the event, they enjoyed Jakarta's signature snacks, from bir pletok (ginger drink) to Betawi soup.  Upon entering Balairung, the entourage of the ambassador and their representatives were also greeted by a typical Jakarta art, the Lenggang Betawi Dance. Not only culinary and arts, Jakarta Acting Governor, Heru Budi Hartono also presented a souvenir in the form of a book entitled "Asal Usul Nama-nama Tempat di Jakarta" (The Origin of the Places Names in Jakarta) by writer Rachmat Ruchiat.  "In this book, we can review the history of the origin of regional names in Jakarta based on important events, topography, community leaders, flora and fauna, to the unique characteristics of the area," he expressed, as quoted by Jakarta PPID's press release.  Moreover, the book also provides an overview of the historical development of Jakarta as a city that is rich in various cultures and historical traces from the 15th to the 20th centuries. Thus, the transformation of Jakarta is illustrated both geographically, demographically, socially, culturally, politically, and economically.  By reading the book, he hoped that the audience would get to know Jakarta better, which will transform from the nation's capital into a global-scale business city that is resilient and livable for all residents.  "You may have heard of Menteng, it is an area named after many fruits that grow there. How about Monday? It is known as a market that initially only sells on Mondays. By reading this book, you will learn the story of this city and connect with its journey," he furthered.  Finally, he thanked the ambassadors for the good cooperation to advance Jakarta. He was committed to continuing close cooperation and synergy with various countries. "Once again, thank you for your contribution in making Jakarta a world-class city," he closed.   © copyright 2001 - 2024 All Rights Reserved 