DBS analyst Suvro Sarkar maintained a Hold rating on Hess (HES – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $145.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $143.31. Sarkar covers the Utilities sector, focusing on stocks such as Keppel Infrastructure, Chevron, and Conocophillips. According to TipRanks, Sarkar has an average return of 0.0% and a 43.48% success rate on recommended stocks.  The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Hess with a $164.33 average price target, which is a 14.67% upside from current levels. In a report released on April 28, Citigroup also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $159.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> HES market cap is currently $44.41B and has a P/E ratio of 20.83.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 54 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of HES in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Hess Corp is an exploration and production company, which engages in exploration, development, production, transportation, purchase & sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas with production operations. It operates through the following segments: Exploration and Production and Midstream. The Exploration and Production segment explores for, develops, produces, purchases and sells crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas. The Midstream segment provides fee-based services including crude oil and natural gas gathering, processing of natural gas and the fractionation of natural gas liquids, transportation of crude oil by rail car, terminaling and loading crude oil and natural gas liquids, and the storage and terminaling of propane, primarily in the Bakken shale play of North Dakota. The company was founded by Leon Hess in 1920 and is headquartered in New York, NY.  Read More on HES: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks