
UPDATED 15:15 EDT / JANUARY 12 2023

 
	                    		                        by 
Victor Dabrinze

 Three trends have shaped up to dominate the incoming future of computing: cloud (including its hybrid and multicloud flavors), data analysis, and the edge. Edge computing, in particular, will be an influential junction for enterprise security and data connectivity operations. “With the edge, this is where we see the connectivity and security requirements really connect, because that edge information is so important and critical to stay secure,” said Keith White (pictured), executive vice president and general manager of GreenLake at Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co. “And so folks want to pull that into their cloud environment and then make decisions and analyze that data.” White spoke with theCUBE industry analyst John Walls at the recent AWS re:Invent conference, during an exclusive broadcast on theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestreaming studio. They discussed the edge computing and critical value areas it’ll drive for enterprises. (* Disclosure below.) The COVID-induced supply chain difficulties highlighted the need for edge data points in enterprise cloud infrastructures. Companies can then collate the information from the edge and, using tools such as HPE GreenLake, analyze the data to make decisions. “You’re seeing companies like Auckland Transport … basically do an AI-enhanced video feed to optimize their transport routes,” White explained. “As you think about supply chain, public transportation and the big challenges that we’re seeing today and providing information with respect to customers, how do you take and get all that information pulled together and then make decisions from these various edge points throughout?” Another application for real-time edge data is autonomous driving. And Volvo Cars has leveraged HPE GreenLake’s high-performance compute to scale and expand the technology’s capabilities, according to White. “What we’ve done with GreenLake is we give them that ability to easily scale up, to grow capacity, to get access to that hundreds of petabytes of data,” he said. “And then, basically, take and make analytics and AI models and machine learning capabilities out of that in order to direct and fuel their mission to develop that next-generation software to support autonomous driving.” Here’s the complete video interview, part of SiliconANGLE’s and theCUBE’s coverage of AWS re:Invent:
  (* Disclosure: Hewlett Packard Enterprises Co. sponsored this segment of theCUBE. Neither HPE nor other sponsors have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) THANK YOU Supercharging AI infrastructure: How Celestial AI's Photonic Fabric is shaping the future of accelerated computing Pure Storage CEO lays out vision for the future of AI and data centers Texas Instruments wins $4.6B in CHIPS Act financing for three new fabs Redefining AI performance: SambaNova's Dataflow Architecture transforms high-performance AI chips for enterprises Riding the semiconductor boom: Arm positions itself for continued chip design leadership Transforming AI infrastructure: The role of networking in high-performance computing Supercharging AI infrastructure: How Celestial AI's Photonic Fabric is shaping the future of accelerated computing AI - BY BRIAN NJUGUNA . 1 DAY AGO Pure Storage CEO lays out vision for the future of AI and data centers INFRA - BY VICTOR DABRINZE . 1 DAY AGO Texas Instruments wins $4.6B in CHIPS Act financing for three new fabs INFRA - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 1 DAY AGO Redefining AI performance: SambaNova's Dataflow Architecture transforms high-performance AI chips for enterprises AI - BY BRIAN NJUGUNA . 2 DAYS AGO Riding the semiconductor boom: Arm positions itself for continued chip design leadership AI - BY VICTOR DABRINZE . 2 DAYS AGO Transforming AI infrastructure: The role of networking in high-performance computing AI - BY SEAD FADILPASIC . 2 DAYS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.