ThaiPR.NET 
 Finance24 มี.ค. 66 15:412023-03-24  GABLE files for an IPO of 175 million shares for SET listing within this year, proclaiming its position as the leader of information technology and digital solutions service businesses to be the number one “Tech Enabler” digital technology company in Thailand. Mr. Somphob Keerasuntonpong, President of Finansia Syrus Public Company Limited, as the financial advisor and underwriter for the sale of common stock of G-Able Public Company Limited, or GABLE, revealed that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) start counting day 1 for the registration statement and draft prospectus of G-Able on March 25, 2023. The IPO of no more than 175 million shares at a par value of 1 Baht per share, representing 25% of the number of issued and paid-up ordinary shares after the IPO, is planned to be traded on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) under the information and communication technology business sector. G-Able is a service provider of information technology and digital solutions, focusing on enterprise solutions and services covering significant digital technologies. The company has strengths in comprehensive technology and digital solutions in a variety of industries, as well as a good relationship with customers and product owners that are leading technology companies around the world. Additionally, the proportion of recurring income is significant and tends to rise concurrently with the annual rate of new installations. G-Able Group is the owner of technologies and software platforms with a high growth rate that generates as much as 32% CAGR (between 2020 and 2022), which is one of the key factors in its superior competitive differentiation over the competitors. Dr. Chaiyuth Chunnahacha, Chief Executive Officer of G-Able Public Company Limited, or GABLE, disclosed that “G-Able plans to expand investment to support growth opportunities to reach the goal of being the number 1 digital technology company in Thailand, with the objective of the fundraising being to prepare for investments in high-potential related businesses to increase competitiveness and create long-term added value for the company, as well as repay the loans from financial institutions to reduce financial costs and use as working capital.” G-Able Group provides three main service categories, namely: 1. Enterprise Solutions and Services Business, which provides consultation, design, installation, and distribution services as well as maintenance and other related services. These services can be divided into five product categories that include solutions for cybersecurity, cloud and data center modernization, data management and analytics, digital business and applications, and information technology system management. This service category accounted for approximately 76% of the main income in 2022. 2.Value-added Distribution Solutions Business: operates a business in information technology systems distribution through First Logic Co., Ltd. subsidiary of G-Able, which is the main distributor for various leading products of Oracle and Veritas, technology developers of enterprise applications that have been well known and recognized by users around the world for a long time. 3. Software Platform Service Business, which originated from the extension of technologies within the organization to create added value and develop into a new business that became a platform software service business category. At present, there are 3 company-owned software platforms that are available to customers, namely: 1. a comprehensive digital marketing technology platform; 2. a big data management platform; and 3. a rental space management platform. With over 33 years of experience, G-Able is a leader in “Tech Enabler” that helps elevate businesses to the digital technology era (Digital Transformation) and provides comprehensive services in information technology and digital solutions through its expertise in integration and offering solutions that can meet the needs of business organizations to increase operational efficiency and reach success according to the set goal with a team of more than 1,000 experienced personnel who have served over 30,000 projects, as well as good relationships with world-class customers and product owners such as Oracle, Dell Technologies, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, F5, Huawei, etc. With customers’ increased competitiveness in the digital age in the past, G-Able is trusted by leading corporate customers in a variety of industries, such as the financial business sector, telecommunications business, service business, manufacturing business and energy business, and various educational institutions, etc. In 2022, the group’s revenue from sales and services was 4,731 million Baht, its gross profit margin increased from 19.0% in the previous year to 21.2%, and its net profit was 268 million Baht, an increase of 9.4% from the year before. This is in line with the group’s business plan, which focuses on solutions with higher margins. The software platform category is considered a ready-to-grow growth engine with company-owned software platforms that are in market demand and have high growth, be it a Blendata’s big data management platform, InsightEra’s digital marketing platform, or MVerge’s rental space management platform. These platforms were created as a direct result of the knowledge obtained through working on projects for clients, and as a result, they directly address client needs. This is just the beginning of these platforms’ development into a “new growth engine” that will generate income in the future. Source: IR PLUS IR PLUS Copyright © 2024 Dataxet Limited (บริษัท ดาต้าเซ็ต จำกัด). All Rights Reserved. เว็บไซต์นี้มีการใช้งานคุกกี้ ศึกษารายละเอียดเพิ่มเติมได้ที่ นโยบายความเป็นส่วนตัว และ ข้อตกลงการใช้บริการ