Our website is temporarily unavailable in your location. We are working hard to get it back online. Fresh plans have been drawn up that could bring Liverpool's super club back to life. When it came to nights out in Liverpool during the 90s or early 00s there was only one place to go - 051 nightclub.  Based on Mount Pleasant, the site has stood vacant after closing its doors in 2005. Now, in a bid to bring club nights back to the landmark location, a premises licence application has been launched with Liverpool Council. As part of attempts to get 051 raving again, an application has been made for a premises licence to be granted. Under the fresh proposals, subject to the city council signing off, 051 would open from 9am to 4.30am daily, with alcohol to be supplied from 11am to 4am. READ MORE: Connor Chapman accepts 'getting rid of all my clothes' after Elle Edwards murder With the plans causing much excitement with those who used to visit 015 nightclub, we've rounded-up the images below from the 1990s and early 2000s to give readers a blast from the past and help them remember the club at its peak. The pictures show the packed dance floor, with clubbers throwing shapes and revelling in the incredible atmosphere. You can also spot some of the signature fashions that were prevalent during the 1990s and 2000s. Baggy jeans, oversized t-shirts, dreadlocks, maxi dresses, crop tops, bucket hats, and bralets are all the rage in this gallery. Liverpool's 051 was popular in the 90s  In throwback pictures, typical 90s hairstyles can be seen on the women dancing inside The venue was big enough to hold around 2,000 people Friends posing for a photograph inside the 051 nightclub In its heyday, the nightclub would be packed every weekend People would party all night inside the nightclub No doubt many people will be hoping for more great nights like this Every Friday and Saturday night the dance floor would be full There have been 051 reunions in the past as people tried to keep the memory of the nightclub alive Groups of friends would regularly meet up in the 051 In throwback pictures, the straight 90s hairstyle look is all the rage  The nightclub had a balcony area 