Back in the late-1990s heyday of the Jacksonville Lizard Kings, who gave the First Coast a first taste of ECHL hockey, the team's long-running commercials depicted a lizard-tongued home goalie denying an opponent's shot. For the Jacksonville Icemen in 2023, replace that lizard with a three-headed ice monster in the net. In Parker Gahagen, Olof Lindbom and Charles Williams, the Icemen enter the stretch run with a goaltending combination that's brought stability and consistency entering Friday night's ECHL hockey against the Savannah Ghost Pirates at VyStar Veterans Memorial Arena. With only 14 of 72 games left to play, the Icemen have limited opponents to 162 goals, fourth-fewest in the league. Only Idaho (126), Toledo (142) and Maine (160) have conceded fewer. Icemen coach Nick Luukko often stresses that defensive solidity is a team-wide mission. But that doesn't take anything away from the goaltenders' importance during Jacksonville's rise from the division cellar at the start of December. "We're really fortunate to have three really good goalies for us right now who have all been playing outstanding," Luukko said. Golden legacy: In first UNF edition, Bob Hayes Invitational Track Meet highlights legend Jacksonville's track meet honoring world's fastest man began 59 years ago Comeback kings: Late-game surges carry Jacksonville Icemen into ECHL hockey contention In the ECHL, goaltending is often a revolving door, and for some of their early years, the Icemen were no exception. Jacksonville cycled through seven goalies in the 2020-21 season amid COVID-19, and used five each in 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. That's closer to the norm for the ECHL. The Cincinnati Cyclones have employed two goaltenders, and Indy and Worcester have each used three, but every other club in the 28-team league has turned its net over to four or more during the current season. Adirondack, Iowa, Maine, Reading and Wichita have all shuffled through seven. The Icemen's stability is unusual — and, for teammates, much appreciated. "You know that you have a goalie that'll have your back if you make a mistake, it definitely brings confidence, not just for defense but the team in general," defenseman Brandon Fortunato said. At the moment, the hottest of the hot gloves belongs to Gahagen. "You get peaks and valleys and stuff," the 29-year-old said. "So I think I'm just at one of those peaks right now, and I'm just trying to maintain that." Up until Wednesday's 4-3 loss to the South Carolina Stingrays, Gahagen had completed his last six periods without allowing a goal, including a 3-0 shutout of the Greenville Swamp Rabbits and a shootout loss after 67 minutes of scoreless hockey against the Savannah Ghost Pirates. That earned him the ECHL's goaltender of the week award, the fifth time he's received the honor. For Gahagen, a Buffalo-area native who grew up watching the NHL's Sabres and started playing in the nets while around age 8, it's been a winding road to the professional game. He played college hockey for four years at West Point, and that path at one time looked set to lead him into the San Jose Sharks' system. But by the time he graduated, the service academies had amended their policies, which moved Gahagen directly into a military career. "Obviously, there's a lot of distractions when you're going to school at Army, and there's a lot of demands on you," he said. "It definitely makes you appreciate the game, and kind of forces you to enjoy it." Military status placed his pro hockey dreams on hold. However, through the Army's World Class Athlete Program, he was able to play under an amateur tryout agreement with the American Hockey League's San Jose Barracuda while training for a potential roster spot for the United States at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Then, in 2020, the coronavirus pandemic arrived and threw the game into limbo again. Over the last two years, though, he's found regular playing time, first with the Florida Everblades — he was part of the Estero club's roster winning the Kelly Cup last spring — and now with the Icemen. "It definitely took a lot of perseverance, trying to figure out how to make [professional hockey] work," he said. Pick a goalie, any goalie. Based on the numbers, the results please Icemen fans more often than not. Gahagen, Lindbom and Williams all rank better than the league averages in goaltending, although Williams tops the group with a 2.28 goals-against average in his 12 appearances. The most experienced goalie with the team and probably the most familiar with Icemen fans going back to the 2020-21 season, the 31-year-old has played 79 career games with the club, and he's less than a month removed from his own goaltender of the week award. "He's always been a reliable vet, who can come up and step in and start any game," Luukko said. The wild card has been Lindbom, making his North American debut in October as a 22-year-old from Stockholm, Sweden. He endured a bit of a rocky start, with a goals-against average of 3.34 in his first month, but he's since shown signs of the promise that made him a second-round draft pick (No. 39 overall) of the New York Rangers in 2018. "His first time in North America coming over from Sweden, it just took some time to adjust, not only on the ice but off the ice," Luukko said. "So around Christmas time, that's when you could really see it start to click." Whichever goaltender is in the net, the Icemen have reason for confidence. And they'll need it, too, with the South Carolina Stingrays, Florida Everblades and Greenville Swamp Rabbits all within four points of the top. Atlanta, the first team outside the playoffs, is only eight points back. "Since Christmas, we've basically been playing playoff hockey just because our division is such a gauntlet," Luukko said. "I think the great thing to see for our team is we find ways to win games in any sort of way. We've scored goals, we can shut it down defensively and play a tight checking game, we can run and gun."