CANANDAIGUA, NY – Now, the most attention a weathered stanchion jutting from the waters of Canandaigua Lake, about 15 feet from its north shore near the Canandaigua Lady dock, gets is a quizzical, What the heck is that?   Soon, perhaps, this remnant of the amusement park that once drew visitors to the lake for decades may be resurrected as the “Ghost of Roseland Park.”  That’s the pet name given by artist Benji Carr of Cohocton to the public art project he and his backers hope will bring to life the park’s heyday, although at a much smaller scale.  Roseland Park, Carr said, deserves some sort of recognition for the joy it provided visitors from its opening in 1925 up until it closed in 1985. That includes Carr, whose parents took him once when he was “in single digits.”  The visit, as well as watching 8-mm movies and enjoying old photographs of the amusement park posted online over the ensuing decades, made an impression on Carr, who turns 69 next month.  Who else remembers spinning round and round on the carousel, screaming for joy – or terror! -- aboard the Skyliner roller coaster and the Satellite chair lift that took riders over a small part of Canandaigua Lake? Carr left the park that day in awe.  “Like most people, Roseland brought a lot of joy and it’s just … gone. It didn’t get the recognition that it deserves,” Carr said. “This park didn’t get any thanks for that and I think it needs a monument in itself.”  Carr wants to create a small-scale metal sculpture of Roseland, which would be erected atop the stanchion over the water.  Made of metal, the artwork will sport five attractions, all of which would move slowly at the same time, driven by hydraulics and an electric motor. A carousel, Ferris wheel, and other rides, atop a roughly 8-foot base, would call to mind those long-lost days of summer, only in miniature. He plans to have a speaker will play carnival noises, such as calliope, roller coaster and children laughing.  “Very faint and not overwhelming,” Carr said.  Sometimes words don’t do justice to what he’s trying to do, so Carr created a 1-inch-to-1-foot scale model to show rather than tell what he’s trying to accomplish.  “I can’t wait to get started on this,” said Carr, who estimates it will take him and two others committed to the project about 8 months to complete.  Once he’s done, Carr plans to let it operate for about a month at his studio to "road test the thing,” he said. Then, he will disassemble the work, load it up in his truck, and install it on the water.  Because the piece would be part of the city’s Lakefront Park, City Council’s approval is necessary. The idea passed muster with Council’s environmental committee, which on Jan. 17 passed it along to the full City Council for a vote. City Council meets Thursday night. A “yes” vote also allows the city to cross off an item on its comprehensive plan to-do list, which is to recognize the historical significance of Roseland Park in this area, according to City Manager John Goodwin.  The hope is the artwork will be in place in 2024. This is a really cool project, Councilmember Stephen Uebbing said at the committee meeting, which was a sentiment echoed by others, including Councilmember Renée Sutton.  “I can almost hear the ‘hee-hee!’ of people on roller coasters,” Sutton said.  Converting the stanchion from blight to public art has long been a goal of Ellen Polimeni, who now serves on City Council and was former mayor, and Judi Cermak, of the Ontario County Arts Council, and others in the Canandaigua area’s arts community. Public artworks such as murals on Coach Street and at the Canandaigua Farmers Market pavilion on Mill Street, as well statues around the city, are among the examples of how Canandaigua made a name for itself in the local arts scene. Cermak expects the Ghost of Roseland will be a draw if for nothing else than it moves and will be on the water. "I always felt that when the city has artwork in it, it shows it’s a healthy city," Cermak said. "I really feel that’s important. It’s not only for the city but for the Finger Lakes area." The group is seeking donors to make it happen, and the project will be funding through the Finger Lakes Area Endowment, Polimeni said. Fundraising efforts are underway. “It’s not going to be easy,” Polimeni said. “I think we can probably raise the funding.”  What helps is they are finding out that so many people had real experiences there, either as children going to Roseland or working there as a kid, Cermak said. Cermak said it has been a pleasure to work with the artist, who also recognizes the importance of the project. “When this is finally up and installed, this will definitely be an attraction for people to come to Canandaigua,” Cermak said. “Here is a wonderful sculpture and also having this young man who is really a great sculptor being part of this, we’ve got a good thing going.”  Back in the 1970s, Carr's mother – Margaret Carr, a fabric artist who taught at the Rochester Museum and Science Center and gave private lessons at her Victor home in addition to teaching middle school -- told him to go to an arts and craft school in Naples, where he did maintenance work, grabbed a seat in any class that interested him and basically found his calling for art generally and blacksmithing specifically.  “What’s neat about it is, it’s like going to college for cheap, for me. In the winter, when they shut down the school, hey, the place was mine,” Carr said. “I would do blacksmithing in the studio all by myself.”  Over time – and after an eight-year stint in the service -- he built a studio in Cohocton, which is where he created another of his public artworks, The Denizen.   Since 2019, the 18-foot-tall dandelion stretches to the sky in front of the Cobblestone Arts Center in Farmington. That, too, is a kinetic work of art.  Now in its winter mode, the flower’s many delicate pedals are closed up, so that it looks like a dandelion in a closed position before the sun opens it up.  Come warmer weather, that will change. With a flick of a switch, it takes 30 seconds to open the petals and 30 seconds to close them, powered by a motor 4 feet below ground in a concrete bunker, Carr said.  Carr, who also does foundry work, fabricated fireplace fixtures, tables and more, said people are quite happy with it.  “It gets a lot of giggles and a lot of attention,” he said.  And he expects the same for the Ghost of Roseland Park.  “This is the biggest kinetic piece I’ve made,” Carr said. “The dandelion is a little taller but this has so much motion – it's going to be a fun project.”  -