     Quin Ivy worked as a disc jockey at WLAY radio, owned a recording studio in Sheffield during the heyday of Muscle Shoals music, then became an accounting instructor at the University of North Alabama.  Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. russ.corey@timesdaily.com or 256-740-5738. Twitter @TD_.RussCorey     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 
 
 Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. 
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist As it develops, sent straight to your inbox. Would you like to receive our daily news? Sign up today!  Receive a daily newsletter containing a list of the day's funerals and obituaries. Receive a weekly newsletter every Thursday about restaurant reviews and health ratings in the TimesDaily area. Sign up to receive links to the Monday comics and puzzles pages. Help Select Player of the Week and get results Thursday & Saturday. Imported List: Living 50 Plus Shoals - Marketing Imported List: Living 50 Plus Shoals E-Edition  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.