
  Fears have emerged that the deal lined up for a supermarket giant to take over a prominent city centre unit has fallen through.
 
  Multiple sources have cited concerns that Morrisons is no longer taking over the empty former Topshop site in Haymarket.
 
  Work started on the prospective supermarket, which sits in close proximity to the also empty former Debenhams department store, in July 2022.
 
The former Topshop site in Haymarket, Norwich in April 2023  (Image: Casey Cooper-Fiske)
 
READ MORE: Plans for swanky new flats above Morrisons in former Topshop site
 
  Attempts to clarify the status of the build with Morrisons have been made, but a spokesman declined to comment.
 
  It comes as Hay Hill's regeneration got under way last week and work continues to fill empty city centre units, such as the former Mindoro dessert parlour in Westlegate.
 
  Before Covid, Norwich had a vacancy rate of between 10 and 12pc which grew to 15 to 16pc in 2021 after lockdown.
 
The former Topshop building in Haymarket, Norwich, which will become a new Morrisons food store  (Image: Ben Hardy)
 
  Valentine Quinio, senior analyst at thinktank Centre for Cities, explained: "Things will have changed again in the year ending 2022 - it could be a slightly brighter prospect now.
 
  "High streets are doing pretty well and we've seen returns in terms of footfall and spending to city centres - and Norwich is seeing that bounce back.
 
  "People are returning to the city centre, which shows it plays a role in attracting people from the wider catchment area in terms of the amenities they offer.
 
Valentine Quinio  (Image: Centre for Cities)
 
READ MORE: What is moving into the old Mindoro dessert parlour - and when?
 
  "Norwich's challenge is to adapt to changing nature of demand and it has all the tools it needs to bounce back."
 
  Morrisons was previously expected to sign a 15-year lease in February ahead of a likely June opening date, but speculation has swirled around the city about the site in recent weeks.
 
  Ms Quinio continued: "If you take the example of cities with grocery stores in city centres, a lot of their midweek customers are office workers.
 
  "Is this big enough in Norwich to fuel demand for the sector in that space?
 
Topshop in Haymarket, Norwich  (Image: Archant)
 
  "It's about making sure there is a balance in the offering of the city centre. Attracting businesses will create demand for local services.
 
  "That's the challenge, but it's a maintainable goal."
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.