The world's biggest half marathon will return this weekend where 60,000 runners will take on the iconic journey from Newcastle to South Shields Get the latest news from Newcastle straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Newcastle straight to your inbox We have more newsletters The Great North Run is back this September for its 42nd outing in the North East, which will see 60,000 determined runners make that iconic journey across the Tyne Bridge. The largest half marathon in the world takes place in the region each year, with participants taking on the 13.1-mile course from Newcastle city centre to the finish line in South Shields. The jam-packed weekend will also see the Junior and Mini Great North Runs take place on the Quayside for younger runners on the day before the main event. Since its first outing in June 1981, the Great North Run has become famous around the world and is undoubtedly one of the biggest events in the region's calendar. From all the timings on the day to the full route, here's everything you need to know if you're taking part or are planning to cheer someone on in the Great North Run this year. READ MORE: Ashington dad to run Great North Run with tumble dryer on his back in extreme charity challenge The Great North Run takes place on Sunday, September 10 this year. The provisional starting time for the Elite Men group and public runners is 11am, and live coverage will be running on the BBC from 10am until 2pm on the day. If you are taking part in the Great North Run this year, your running wave, assembly and start time will be confirmed on your run number. The provisional timetable for the day according to organisers is as follows: The iconic 13.1 mile route begins in Newcastle city centre on the central motorway. After crossing the starting line, runners will continue down the A167, passing Jesmond, Haymarket, Monument and Central Station before arriving at the Tyne Bridge.. Cheered on as they cross the river into Gateshead via the bridge, participants will be directed on the A184 to make their way towards Heworth. On route, runners will pass Gateshead Stadium and will continue on the A184 until the beginning of mile six where they will be taken onto the A194 into South Tyneside. On the A1300 runners will be taken past Whiteleas and Centenary Avenue before changing on to the A183. On the home stretch in South Shields, they will be greeted by views of the sea as they embark on the last mile on Prince Edward road. There will be a meeting point at the finish line for friends and family - look out for the large A-Z banners and stand by the one that corresponds with the first letter of the runner's surname. Run numbers (with timing chip) start to arrive approximately two weeks before the event, so you can expect them towards the end of August. Once you have your run number, you're all set for race day - simply attach with safety pins and head for the start line.  If your run number doesn't arrive before race day, don't worry; you can visit the information point to collect a replacement. The location and opening times of the information point will be published closer to the event. If you're taking part in the Great North Run, this year, here are a few dos, don't and need-to-knows from the organisers that are worth being aware of: The Junior and Mini Great North Runs will take place the day before the main event on Saturday, September 9 on Newcastle's Quayside. The Junior run is for ages nine to 16, and the Mini is for kids aged three to eight - entries are still open on the , but there are currently fewer than 200 places left. Mini runners must be accompanied by an adult around the 1.2km course, while Junior runners have the option of running by themselves or with a parent/guardian around their 4km course. Entry to the Mini run costs £12.50, while Junior run entry costs £22.50 - all participants will get a finisher's bag and a well-deserved medal at the end. Join our Great North Run WhatsApp community for all the latest news and essential info on this year's run, sent direct to your phone. To join you need to have WhatsApp on your device. All you need to do is choose which community you want to join, click on the link and press 'join community'. No one will be able to see who is signed up and no one can send messages except the ChronicleLive team. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose 'exit group'. If you’re curious, you can read our privacy notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN 