Hybrid working has created a huge culture shift within organisations, leaders have no choice but to adopt this new way of working. Hybrid is no longer just an employee perk but an employee expectation, according to Ranjit Atwal, senior director analyst at Gartner. He said, “Many employees started to partially return to the office in 2022, but the hybrid workstyle will remain prominent in 2023 and beyond. “To adapt, employers have been implementing a human-centric work design – including flexibility, intentional collaboration and empathy-based management – which suits hybrid employees.” Nick Arnott, sales manager ANZ, at HiBob spoke to Digital Nation about a contemporary approach for leaders to take for the future of work. He said the number one thing that we all understand is remote work is here to stay and hybrid work is here to stay. “Progressive businesses have recognised that and they're adapting their technology, they're adapting how they interact with their people and what's the focus,” he said. “The biggest thing that we hear is how can we build a culture? How can we have a positive employee experience, while we have disparate teams all over the world.” Arnott noted that technology is the means to accomplish it.  “If you're not doing that now, you're going to be a little bit behind,” he said. Arnott explains how HiBob tackles hybrid work within their organisation. “It starts for us from a human capital management (HCM) standpoint, through the onboarding process. You're built bringing people in, you're making them feel welcome, you're making them feel a part of a culture,” he said. “Regardless if they live in Sydney or Amsterdam it's about being able to connect with people on a personal level. If I love to DJ in Sydney and I'm able to connect with a buddy over in Amsterdam that wants to DJ as well, you know that before you start,” he said. “Having an inclusive company culture that also embraces our diversity, our differences, but also is a technology that people want to use as a positive experience, that is HiBob.” To learn more about the impact of digital on HR, read the Digital As Usual report today. 