The Lebanon County branch of the NAACP will be holding its third annual Juneteenth/Freedom Day Celebration on Saturday, June 17. The event, free to the public, will be held at Monument park at 8th and Lehman Streets, 1-5 p.m. Its new location, moving from South Hills Park, came from a need as the NAACP has seen increased interest for the festival since its inception and needed more room, according to chapter president Tony Fields. The rising interest, as well as the centrality of Monument Park, suggests to Fields that turnout will be better than ever. In the case of inclement weather, the event will be moved across the street to St. Mark's United Church of Christ at 426 N. 8th St. The celebration will include music, food, games spoken word performances, African dance and drumming and yoga for families and more, along with presentations on the history of the holiday. Wheels up, guns down': These Lebanon students want you to hear them The history, Fields said, is the point. "One thing we promise to do as a unit is to educate people," Fields said. "We had the African American Heritage event a couple of months ago, now we're doing this. We want to continue to remind people of who we are and also remind people of the rights they have because of the independence and freedom that was given to them. We have a right to continue to proclaim, to understand, equal justice, political equality, rights of citizenship, the rights to vote." "We hope, on this day of celebration, that people will celebrate, but after the celebration, they go home and think about what it means to live in a community with each other." A sense of community in Lebanon County is something that needs to be worked on, Fields said. While there are plenty of community organizers and resources, they need to start working together. Juneteenth was made a federal holiday in 2021 and commemorates the end of racialized slavery in the United States. Sometimes called Freedom Day, Emancipation Day, and Juneteenth Independence Day, the name Juneteenth stems from combining June and 19th, the day in 1865 in which Union Army General Gordon Granger arrived in Galveston, Texas, to inform enslaved African Americans that the war had ended and they were free, over two months after Confederate General Robert E. Lee surrendered at Appomattox, ending the Civil War, and more than two and half years after President Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. "I know a lot of people get caught in, 'it's a Black thing,' but it's not a Black thing. It's a human thing. For humanity," Fields said. "I want you to really understand that it's a human thing. As humans, to find ways to live in harmony with one another. I think that's what we need..." "...All the stuff that's been happening here lately in our community, this a good time for us to come together and try and find answers and live together. Listen, we are hurting together, why can we heal together?" Daniel Larlham Jr. is a reporter for the Lebanon Daily News. Reach him at DLarlham@LDNews.com or on Twitter @djlarlham This article originally appeared on Lebanon Daily News: Lebanon NAACP hosts third annual Juneteenth celebration. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.