
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- PR Newswire)  Empowering HR Pros with Choice and Fueling Business SuccessNEW YORK and LONDON, Sept. 28, 2023 /PRNewswire/ --HiBob , the company behind HR platform Bob is excited to announce a tremendous achievement in its journey of transformation and growth, with the recent addition of its 102th tech partner. Bob now integrates with manifold tech solutions that cover the entire employee lifecycle providing integrations that power optimal efficiency across an organization without compromising data security, visibility, or governance. Continue Reading
  
HiBob celebrates 100+ tech partner milestone
 
Bob is an essential digital tool for globally distributed organizations, seamlessly integrating with a range of tech solutions. From applicant tracking to benefits administration and cross-company collaboration, Bob streamlines processes, providing a unified platform for all employees, regardless of location or time zone. This ensures efficient operations and a centralized source of information for the organization.

HiBob's dedication to enhancing HR capabilities is exemplified by their extensive marketplace of integrated tech partners. This achievement signifies a collaborative effort to revolutionize HR operations and elevate the functionality of the Bob platform.
"The integration of these carefully curated tech partners ensures that HR professionals using HiBob have access to a plethora of specialized solutions at their fingertips. This leads to enhanced efficiency, streamlined processes, and ultimately, elevated employee experiences. Each partner brings a unique offering to the table, creating a synergy that empowers HR teams to tailor their strategies, adapt to changing landscapes, and stay ahead in the race for talent', says Yoav Gur, VP Business Development at HiBob.This achievement strengthens HiBob's growth potential, offering new opportunities for expansion and innovation. It reflects a strategic focus on not just technological advancement, but also on creating value for users and stakeholders in their journey.  About HiBob  HiBob is at the forefront of HR innovation, transforming the way organizations operate in the modern world of work with its award-winning HCM 'Bob'. HiBob's modular approach supports multinational companies with agile technology and robust analytics for distributed workforces, enhancing hiring, talent retention, upskilling, and employee experience.More than 3,500 global businesses serving hundreds of thousands employees worldwide - including The Josh Bersin Company, The&Partnership, and VaynerMedia - appreciate its ease of use, high configurability and the ability to customize based on business requirements.For more information about HiBob, visit  .Photo -  SOURCE HiBobMENAFN28092023003732001241ID1107157929  NEW YORK and LONDON, Sept. 28, 2023 /PRNewswire/ --HiBob , the company behind HR platform Bob is excited to announce a tremendous achievement in its journey of transformation and growth, with the recent addition of its 102th tech partner. Bob now integrates with manifold tech solutions that cover the entire employee lifecycle providing integrations that power optimal efficiency across an organization without compromising data security, visibility, or governance. 
Bob is an essential digital tool for globally distributed organizations, seamlessly integrating with a range of tech solutions. From applicant tracking to benefits administration and cross-company collaboration, Bob streamlines processes, providing a unified platform for all employees, regardless of location or time zone. This ensures efficient operations and a centralized source of information for the organization.
 Bob is an essential digital tool for globally distributed organizations, seamlessly integrating with a range of tech solutions. From applicant tracking to benefits administration and cross-company collaboration, Bob streamlines processes, providing a unified platform for all employees, regardless of location or time zone. This ensures efficient operations and a centralized source of information for the organization. HiBob's dedication to enhancing HR capabilities is exemplified by their extensive marketplace of integrated tech partners. This achievement signifies a collaborative effort to revolutionize HR operations and elevate the functionality of the Bob platform. "The integration of these carefully curated tech partners ensures that HR professionals using HiBob have access to a plethora of specialized solutions at their fingertips. This leads to enhanced efficiency, streamlined processes, and ultimately, elevated employee experiences. Each partner brings a unique offering to the table, creating a synergy that empowers HR teams to tailor their strategies, adapt to changing landscapes, and stay ahead in the race for talent', says Yoav Gur, VP Business Development at HiBob. This achievement strengthens HiBob's growth potential, offering new opportunities for expansion and innovation. It reflects a strategic focus on not just technological advancement, but also on creating value for users and stakeholders in their journey.   About HiBob   HiBob is at the forefront of HR innovation, transforming the way organizations operate in the modern world of work with its award-winning HCM 'Bob'. HiBob's modular approach supports multinational companies with agile technology and robust analytics for distributed workforces, enhancing hiring, talent retention, upskilling, and employee experience. More than 3,500 global businesses serving hundreds of thousands employees worldwide - including The Josh Bersin Company, The&Partnership, and VaynerMedia - appreciate its ease of use, high configurability and the ability to customize based on business requirements. For more information about HiBob, visit  . Photo -   SOURCE HiBob MENAFN28092023003732001241ID1107157929 MENAFN28092023003732001241ID1107157929 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN