Information Age 
					Insight and Analysis for the CTO				 Great satisfaction: benefits driven by artificial intelligence has led to an upturn in tech talent confidence compared to last year. Alongside increased involvement of AI in administrative and creative tasks, job satisfaction among tech staff has seen an upturn compared to last year, with the number of workers feeling unhappy in their role going down from 35 to 15 per cent. 63 per cent said they have no plans to leave their job in the foreseeable future, while 48 per cent of those surveyed said they’re “very satisfied” with their role — contrasting with a disillusioned sector rife with a so-called ‘Great Resignation‘, made evident twelve months prior. The growth of generative AI innovation and partnerships over the past year, kickstarted in part by the public launch of OpenAI‘s ChatGPT in November 2022, has led to new ways to gain data insights, and produce creative projects at speed. How AI specialists will be the future of business — With artificial intelligence capabilities continuing to grow, specialists dedicated to maintaining AI systems could prove crucial to business success. “The young generation is signaling a clear message: beyond competitive salaries and benefits, they’re in search of workplaces that resonate with purpose and empower them with the necessary resources to thrive,” said Ronni Zehavi, co-founder & CEO of HiBob. “Companies that understand these needs will succeed in making young people feel more secure, and less likely to leave. ” Research into the possible impact of artificial intelligence on jobs, such as Goldman Sachs‘ prediction of 300 million roles becoming completely automated, had pointed to a potentially threatening landscape emerging for tech talent. However, 70 per cent of respondents believe AI will boost productivity, efficiency and creativity, while only 11 per cent say they never plan to use AI tools. Looking nationally, confidence levels are highest in the UK, where over 85 per cent of young tech workers are “somewhat” or “very confident” about the advances in AI and tech, while, the percentage of staff in Ireland and Spain is lower, at 75 per cent each. Davor Hebel, managing partner at research partners Eight Roads Ventures, commented: “It’s heartening to see confidence recover amongst the tech’s youngest workers. Despite the ongoing economic uncertainty, today’s young professionals are proving just how resilient and adaptable they can be. “Not surprisingly, they are the fastest generation to embrace AI, seeing it as a strong productivity lever, and not a threat. AI is one of the most significant innovations of our time, and it’s great to see younger people so engaged with it.” The second annual Young Generation in Tech survey from HR software provider HiBob surveyed 2,000 tech workers aged 20 to 30, from across Europe. AI could add $500bn to value of SMEs globally — SMEs either creating AI for enterprise organisations or embedding AI in their own businesses will add billions of dollars in value, says boutique tech bank DAI Magister. 
				Aaron Hurst is Information Age's senior reporter, providing news and features around the hottest trends across the tech industry.				
				More by Aaron Hurst				
 AI & Machine Learning Find out about the ways that AI Security Posture Management (AI-SPM) can safeguard artificial intelligence within your organisation Generative AI AI is fighting customer frustrations and driving efficiency in insurtech, explains Nick Martindale, but it should augment, not replace, humans AI & Machine Learning Rob Woods, fraud expert at LexisNexis Risk Solutions, tells Charles Orton-Jones why behavioural data and AI are a powerful fraud-fighting combination Cybersecurity An increased use of AI within organisations could spell a rise in cyberattacks, explains Nick Martindale. Here's what you can do Helping you grow your business is our number one priority, if you would like to take your business to the next step just sign up! sign up now Cybersecurity Jason Haworth, Chief Product Officer at Botguard, urges businesses to take steps to avoid falling victim to the next big data breach Cybersecurity Nick New, CEO and founder of Optalysys, walks us through the opportunities and challenges in implementing Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) Cybersecurity Here is why digital forensics and incident response (DFIR) is a crucial part of today's cybersecurity ecosystem Cybersecurity Ransomware as a Software (RaaS) lowers the barriers to entry for attackers and has increased competition between criminal groups We provide general intelligence for technologists in the information age. We support CTOs, CIOs and other technology leaders in managing business critical issues both for today and in the future.