ITM is the field dedicated to supporting business data needs, addressing complex problems, and enabling innovation using technology. The fast-paced IT field is growing as organizations of all sizes adopt a global perspective and increasingly conduct business electronically with customers, suppliers, and partners, anywhere in the world. Students interested in IT need twenty-first-century skills, including strong communication skills, understanding of business functions and specialization in one or more technical areas. ITM majors complete a set of common core classes that provide a background in the functional areas of management, marketing, finance, accountancy and economics. IT is a designated STEM program. International students who graduate from this program are eligible for extended 36 month OPT. ITM BBA program qualifies for Idaho LAUNCH. Idaho LAUNCH by Next Steps Idaho, is an education and training grant program that provides Idaho students a one-time scholarship for 80% of the tuition and fees for select in-demand career programs – up to a maximum amount of $8,000. ITM graduates step into roles such as business analyst to identify the information needs of organizational users, application developers who integrate these needs using appropriate and current technology. Other graduates become database administrators to capture and manage the huge amounts of data an organization generates or collects, or move into network management roles to manage the networks and systems which store or move the data, or become security specialists to protect organizational systems and data. In this rapidly-changing field, the key to success is the ability to keep pace with the changing technologies that will evolve throughout your career, and understand how IT can be used to support organizational goals and drive innovation. Continuing education and building a professional network of associates are keys to success. The ITM program prepares students to be successful by providing the critical thinking and problem solving skills to learn new technology as it arises, and with the confidence and knowledge to network with others in their field. Learn more about ITM with like minded students — join the ITM Club. Based on your interests and skills you can target your information technology management learning. Choosing an emphasis area can jumpstart your career and increase the likelihood of job satisfaction and success. Not sure what path is right for you? Contact ITSCM@boisestate.edu for guidance. Driven by data? Mine and model data in the analytics emphasis for careers in business intelligence, database administration and consulting. Inspired to create? Build apps and tackle the cloud in the development emphasis for careers in software, system design and technology administration. An eye for the big picture? The managerial track allows you to mix-and-match courses to gain a broad range of knowledge. *This is our recommended sequence only. You can select any 3 electives in the managerial track.  ITM majors fill various positions in business or government. Examples include: The median income for a IS manager with five years of experience is $159,010 in May of 2021 as reported by the Occupational Outlook Handbook. They predict a 16% growth for the profession from 2021-31. US News & World Report ranks the top ten technology jobs for 2022 with median incomes from $103,590 for a Information Security Analyst up to $151,150 for an IT Manager. According to the Hanover Research JobsEQ Employer Hiring Trends – H2 2021
report, “Computer and Information Systems Managers have the second highest projected job demand.” View the requirements for a minor or bachelor of business administration degree in Information Technology Management:
ITM BBA
ITM Minor Get help with deciding on a major, course planning and semester schedules from advisors focused on business and economics students. 

					    © 2024 All Rights Reserved
						 Boise State University.
					
