News Back Events Back Events Visit this section Media Pack Back Media Pack Visit this section Author: Advanced Published: August 15th 2023 Share this article The public sector must always deliver good services to its citizens even with limited resources. This can be difficult to do when utilising old ways of working. That’s why many public sector organisations are now looking at innovative solutions that can boost their operations and help them achieve more. One of the most promising solutions is the Cloud. The Cloud isn’t just a technology, it’s a completely new way of working, enabling organisations to access, store, and process data over the internet (rather than using on-premise servers/hardware). The Cloud offers many benefits for the public sector, such as scalability, flexibility, security, and cost-effectiveness. But the Cloud isn’t just a technical solution, it’s also a transformative tool that enhances the ways organisations perform. And there's one department that can have a big role in leading and enabling this change – finance. Finance is far more than just numbers and reports. Finance provides insights to the leadership team so they can conduct effective decision-making and guide the organisation in the right direction. The finance team is also responsible for ensuring compliance, accountability, and transparency in the use of the public purse. The Cloud empowers them to fulfil their roles more efficiently. By moving to the Cloud, finance teams can: The Cloud is not a one-size-fits-all solution. Each organisation will have its own needs, goals, and challenges. This means finance teams must be proactive and strategic when assessing how the Cloud can benefit their organisation (and how to implement it successfully). Finance teams need to: The Cloud is not a destination but a journey, allowing organisations to be flexible and adaptable as the world around them changes. Finance teams must embrace this change and become champions of innovation/transformation in their respective organisations. The Cloud is not only a necessity but an opportunity for the public sector. And with the government’s 2022 to 2025 Roadmap for Digital and Data, finance teams are in a unique position to drive this transformation. By adopting the Cloud, finance teams can future-proof their roles, and shift from a back-office function to a strategic powerhouse. Discover how to migrate to Cloud-based accounting in the public sector by downloading your copy of our Step-by-step guide to adopting the Cloud in finance teams  Find out more about Advanced’s solutions for the public sector here: https://www.oneadvanced.com/solutions/public-sector-software/?partnerref=PSE   Image credit: iStock Share this article 
PSE April/ May 2024
 Dive into our latest edition for April/May 2024!   
Five areas of London will be benefitting from investment from the Mayor’s Civic Partnership Programme, which aims to transform areas in need of...
 
The Department for Science, Innovation and Technology has announced that the government is boosting broadband speeds across rural communities, to...
 
Transport connections are integral to delivering economic growth, job opportunities, and improved outcomes for communities around the country. Whilst...
 
Manchester City Council has today published its State of the City Report for the last year. This report comes as the council works on its ‘Our...
 
Swansea Council is seeking feedback on the plans for its new public sector hub in the city centre, with the aim of the development being to drive new...
 
Funding from the government has been allocated to Devon County Council, to support research into how carbon emissions can be reduced. Investment comes...
 
Homelessness data released by the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government has revealed that there is now a record number of households...
 
West Yorkshire Combined Authority has confirmed that it is supporting the education of young people in the ‘deadly consequences’ of knife crime...
 
Darlington is set to expand its role as a government centre with the approval of a new five-storey office building. The 10,000 square metre hub, to be...
 
Presenting
 In partnership with our community of public sector leaders responsible for procurement and strategy across local authorities and the wider public sector, we’ve devised a collaborative calendar of conferences and events for leaders of industry to listen, learn and collaborate through engaging and immersive conversation. All our conferences are CPD accredited, which means you can gain points to advance your career by attending our online conferences. Also, the contents are available on demand so you can re-watch at your convenience. 
Public Sector Executive Podcast
 From government policies and public administration to education, healthcare, and infrastructure, we explore the challenges and innovations shaping our communities.   Join us as we speak with industry leaders, policymakers, and frontline professionals, providing you with valuable insights and perspectives to stay informed and engaged with the issues that matter most.  The need for impactful reskilling and onboarding programs for the public sector is more important than ever. 
 
With the next generation of employees coming into the working world, how does the public sector look to capitalise on new talent and nurture the future of their workforce to answer the questions to come?
 
 
 Phase 3 of the Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme is providing £1.425 billion of funding over the 2022/23-2024/25 financial years.
 
There are concerns about the UK’s ability to deliver on the 2050 Net-Zero target. Time is running out for the climate and there must be a concerted effort to achieve these targets, so what can be done to reach these milestones?  
 Copyright Cognitive Publishing Ltd 2020