LONDON, April 5, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The EY organization today announces an alliance between HighRadius, a leading financial technology enterprise software-as-a-service company, and Ernst & Young LLP (EY US) to help clients transform their finance processes with an integrated AI-powered solution. Today, clients want to unlock long-term value from digital transformations that will help create efficiencies that are broader and more holistic than point solutions. The EY-HighRadius Alliance combines EY US Finance and Technology transformation knowledge with HighRadius' market-leading platform in autonomous receivables and treasury to provide an integrated digital solution, extending the office of the CFO's capabilities. As part of its consulting offerings, EY US helps clients transform their finance function to be a more effective collaborator to the business by providing strategic insights, outlining a finance function of the future, mitigating risk and driving efficiency through technology innovation, process and reporting. Andres Leguizamon, EY-HighRadius Alliance Leader, Ernst & Young LLP, says: "With the advent of AI and ML as central optimization drivers and customers' pressing need for timely and accurate management of working capital and liquidity, this alliance with HighRadius is an important complement to the EY technology capabilities. EY US is focused on building a better working world by providing innovative and integrated solutions to the market." Vikram Gollakota, Global Head of Channels and Alliances at HighRadius, says: "By combining EY US' experience and knowledge in finance transformation projects with the power of HighRadius' AI-powered autonomous platform, we are poised to deliver innovative solutions that will impact working capital strategies and operational transformations for the office-of-the CFO." For more information, visit ey.com/alliances. About EY EY exists to build a better working world, helping to create long-term value for clients, people and society and build trust in the capital markets. Enabled by data and technology, diverse EY teams in over 150 countries provide trust through assurance and help clients grow, transform and operate. Working across assurance, consulting, law, strategy, tax and transactions, EY teams ask better questions to find new answers for the complex issues facing our world today. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. Information about how EY collects and uses personal data and a description of the rights individuals have under data protection legislation are available via ey.com/privacy. EY member firms do not practice law where prohibited by local laws. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. This news release has been issued by EYGM Limited, a member of the global EY organization that also does not provide any services to clients. About HighRadius  HighRadius offers cloud-based Autonomous Software for the Office of the CFO. More than 800 of the world's leading companies have transformed their order to cash, treasury, and record to report processes with HighRadius. Our customers include 3M, Unilever, Anheuser-Busch InBev, Sanofi, Engie GBS Solutions, Kellogg Company, Danone, Hershey's, and many more. Autonomous Software is data-driven software that continuously morphs its behavior to the ever-changing underlying domain transactional data. It brings modern digital transformation capabilities like Artificial Intelligence, Robotic Process Automation, Natural Language Processing, Connected Workspaces and LiveCube, a No-code Platform, as out-of-the-box capabilities for the finance & accounting domain. Barbara DimajoEY Global Media Relationsbarbara.dimajo@ey.com Logo - https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1721690/EY_Logo.jpg   View original content:https://www.prnewswire.co.uk/news-releases/ey-announces-alliance-with-highradius-to-give-clients-streamlined-access-to-a-comprehensive-and-integrated-o2c-cloud-platform-301790184.html