UK Edition For the jobbing actor Walter Hall the founding of his Basement Theatre company in the early 1970s in a cellar beneath a restaurant in Greek Street, Soho, proved a handy platform for him. Its concept was to provide “lunchtime theatre” with a sandwich; it also gave Walter and his co-founder Carl Forgione free rein on what and who to put on stage. Plays by Tennessee Williams, Harold Pinter and Samuel Beckett were performed as well as emerging talents such as Mike Leigh. Walter had been a contemporary of Pinter’s at the Central School of Speech and Drama and in 1962 had played Petey in The Birthday Party at the Nottingham Playhouse. It was to the future Nobel prizewinner that Walter turned when he needed extra funding for the company. The cheque was duly written but first, according to Walter, Pinter asked him “to say sorry to my wife”. The details of the apparent misdemeanour were never fully grasped by Walter but he did as he was asked. For many actors the Basement Theatre was an early foot through the door. Although the duo rejected a play by Bob Hoskins, they allowed Steven Berkoff to appear in Hot Pants. Alan Rickman, who was at the Royal College of Art before Rada, sent in a CV in such elaborate copperplate that Walter commissioned him to design the company’s posters. Years later, bumping into Rickman in the street, he apologised for not having used him as an actor. Walter was born in 1930 in Gillingham, Kent, the youngest of four. It was not until he was in his seventies that he realised his parents were never married and that his father, Walter, an engineer, had a wife in Yorkshire. His mother Harriet (née Spendiff) ran the home. It was a surprise to Walter’s parents, who expected him to go into engineering, when he entered the Central School of Speech and Drama. He joined an Elizabethan theatre company and played Sebastian in Peter’s Hall’s production of Twelfth Night. Roles in weekly repertory followed. There were also bit parts in films and TV series such as Z Cars. After Basement Theatre came to an end, Walter returned to writing and adapting plays for radio, including by Bennett. In the 1990s he was at the National Theatre in The Wind in the Willows, Long Day’s Journey into Night and Murmuring Judges and he acted for the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Royal Opera House. In between acting Walter took on odd jobs, meeting Shirley Hart when they were both working in a travel agency in Oxford Street in the 1950s. They married and raised Sean, a university lecturer, and Natasha, a semi-professional dancer. Walter took delight in regaling friends and family with anecdotes about theatre life involving now-famous actors, as well as his own cheeky misdemeanours. He liked to describe how he was once approached in Marks & Spencer by Bennett carrying a bag of sandwiches and full of nerves about his show that evening. Duly reassured by Walter, Bennett went confidently on his way. thetimes.co.uk/static/terms-and-conditions https://www.thetimes.com/static/terms-and-conditions/  © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.