Vice President Donna Ranello, left, and President Annamarie Kaplon, of the Staten Island Blind Society, pose with Lauren Calvo at the brunch on May 18, 2023. (Courtesy of Annamarie Kaplon)(Courtesy of Annamarie Kaplon) STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. -- Lauren Calvo, a visually impaired eighth-grade student at St. Clare School, is on the road to Xaverian High School, thanks in part to a scholarship she received from the Staten Island Blind Society. On May 18, the Staten Island Blind Society hosted a brunch at the SSG Michael G. Ollis VFW Post 9587 in Oakwood. It was here that the society awarded Calvo the Arlene and Charles Graham Memorial Scholarship. Charles Graham played a large role in the society during its formation in the 1960s, helping start the group, which is dedicated to providing information, guidance, educational services, and recreational activities to Staten Island’s blind or visually impaired community. The move to support Calvo comes after the Xaverian hopeful submitted a letter to the Society. In it, Calvo details her experiences as a young woman living with a visual impairment. According to the letter, Calvo has been visually impaired since she was a baby; though her right eye retains some functional vision, her left does not. As a result, to complete assignments she must utilize technology at her disposal, such as a Braille Sense Polaris, a CCTV, and an iPad. Unfortunately, the loss of vision also limits her participation in team sports. Lauren Calvo is surrounded by her parents, Kim, left, and  and Tom, at the Staten Island Blind Society brunch on May 18, 2023. (Courtesy of Annamarie Kaplon)(Courtesy of Annamarie Kaplon) However, despite these apparent challenges, Calvo earned herself a spot on the National Junior Honor Society, is working with her classmates to put together this year’s yearbook, participates in Girl Scouts, and enjoys the arts. As indicated in her letter, Calvo takes voice and piano lessons at D Sharp Studios, and has performed in several Musical Theatre productions at Spotlight Theatre. “My favorite part of participating in all these extra-curricular activities is being able to meet new friends and learning new fun things,” Calvo wrote in her letter. From the left, Vice President Donna Ranello, President Annamarie Kaplon, Lauren Calvo, and Treasurer Joe Cavallo participate in the Staten Island Blind Society brunch on May 18, 2023. (Courtesy of Annamarie Kaplon)(Courtesy of Annamarie Kaplon) In looking to the future, Calvo aims to become a child life specialist, who helps guide children through the difficult process of navigating a hospital setting and the trauma that can come with it. “The main reason I would like to pursue this job is because many of these specialists have helped me with the hard hospital experiences that I have had over the years,” Calvo noted in her letter. “They have inspired me to give back to others what they gave to me. I would also like to write music some day and continue to perform in musical theater shows throughout my life.” For more information on the Staten Island Blind Society, contact Annamarie Kaplon (917) 853-7327 or Donna Ranello (718) 273-8083. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices