
			Hugo Burnand, a favourite photographer of the Royal family, took the official wedding pictures for Charles and Camilla in 2005
		 A former society photographer for Tatler magazine has been selected to take the official portraits of King Charles and Queen Camilla at the Coronation, it has been reported. Hugo Burnand, 59, is a favourite photographer of the Royal family and took the official wedding pictures for Charles and Camilla in 2005 and William and Kate in 2011. He is now facing the most important commission of his career as the official photographer of King Charles and Queen Camilla when they are crowned at Westminster Abbey on May 6, according to The Times. The images will play an important role in capturing the historic event and will inspire comparisons to the famous portraits of the late Queen Elizabeth II taken by Cecil Beaton at her coronation in 1953. Mr Burnand is known for his portraits of high society characters and was Tatler’s society photographer for over 20 years. Previous Royal commissions have also included photographing Princess Anne to mark her 70th birthday. He has previously said he spent three weeks preparing for the wedding of William and Kate, including three days setting up in the Throne Room of Buckingham Palace. His secrets to making everyone smile include “being a chatterbox” because that “keeps the people you are photographing engaged, and if you are talking it stops them talking, which is essential”. The Coronation service at Westminster Abbey in May will blend centuries of royal tradition with what Buckingham Palace has said will be the “spirit of our times”. King Charles III will be anointed with consecrated oil and enthroned as the nation looks on. A Coronation emblem, unveiled by Buckingham Palace on Friday, was inspired by the King’s love of nature and the “happy optimism” of spring. The emblem features the four flowers of Home Nations – the rose of England, thistle of Scotland, the daffodil of Wales and the shamrock of Northern Ireland – in the shape of St Edward’s Crown. The King is understood to have been consulted at all stages of the design process for the emblem, which will feature throughout the celebrations and will be used on official merchandise.