Save on Bills aims to help business owners in the care and hospitality sector save on energy bills As the cost of living crisis continues to make homeowners and businesses face tough spending decisions, there is one company that is aiming to provide some light at the end of a very dark tunnel. Energy comparison business Save on Bills was founded in 2014 and has been helping UK homes and businesses reduce their outgoings ever since. The company discovered in 2016 that Ofgem reported 72% of people were on the standard variable tariff, which meant they were paying more for their energy bills.  Deciding something needed to be done, Save on Bills created a business energy comparison tool that allows you to compare energy suppliers, aiming to help you save money within minutes. With over ten years of experience, Save on Bills has helped a number of businesses to save money on their bills, and yours could be next. As world events such as the Russian-Ukrainian war continue to push up energy prices, inflation remains at a staggeringly high rate of 8.7%. With no sight of coming down in the near future, energy and mortgage rates are two of the hardest hit bills. Because of this, businesses in the hospitality and care home sectors have seen a dramatic increase in their outgoings.  In places like care homes, affordable business gas and business electricity are crucial to ensure that residents are comfortable and cared for. With the care home energy prices continuing to rise, many care homes could limit services and even close.  To help keep care homes and the hospitality sector afloat, Birmingham-based entrepreneur Sumit Kumar, launched the initiative to help these businesses save money on their bills. Mr Kumar has over 20 years of experience in business consultancy and, alongside Save on Bills, aims to help businesses find cheaper deals. The Switch and Save business energy price comparison available from Save on Bills can be completed online in a few minutes and could help you save up to 60% on commercial gas and electricity. Once you choose to help lower your bills with Save on Bills, you will have access to the UK's biggest providers, excellent customer service and a dedicated account manager. To make things even easier once you have found a new, cheaper supplier, Save on Bills will start the switching process for you, getting in touch with your old supplier and contacting the new one. Step one - Enter your postcode As gas and electricity prices vary by region, simply enter your postcode on the Save on Bills website and the specially designed algorithm will show you the best value energy deals in your area. Step two - Find a new tariff Within just a few minutes you can browse through energy suppliers and tariffs and find the right plan for you and your business. It's quick and easy, with no hassle. Step three - Switch and Save Once you have chosen the cheaper tariff that is right for you and your business's needs, simply sit back and relax, as Save on Bills will start the switching process for you. To find out more about how you could lower your energy bills, and to get a business energy quote, visit the Save on Bills website here.