What does a day in the life of an architect mean, and how can I describe it in one sitting? When visiting with students at my son’s Career Day, I recently faced this question. There’s enough pressure to pitch my expertise to potential clients who expect me to be a competent professional worthy of a design commission. But encapsulating my 25-year career with all my unique experiences in a way that could inspire young people to explore a future in architecture offered a meaningful and essential opportunity. My answer to these students was more complex than anticipated because each day is different. There’s no prescriptive approach to being an architect; each project and client bring something new to a typical workday – especially in a quickly-evolving world. As a Workplace Leader and licensed architect in the 21st century, our clients expect more than my talent and the highest understanding and application of our practice. They expect me to listen, engage, synthesize, and quickly produce precise results that support their present and future success. Before the digital age of design, architecture was all accomplished by hand with manual drafting, mylar overlays, and blueprinting, requiring several months to document a project. Today, we can develop three-dimensional models programmed to incorporate inherent specifications and data through modern software tools like Revit. Features can be automated with machine learning so that we can focus on advancing our drawing process and helping integrate our model with other trades to produce a coordinated, holistic design. We’re also making headway with artificial intelligence, “big data,” and further research and development applications to help inform elevated design solutions. With tremendous technological breakthroughs, parts of our jobs have become more automated to speed up work that used to take hours longer, allowing us more time and capacity to focus on creative elements early in the design process.  So, how do we prepare aspiring designers for a career in this fast-paced industry that is increasingly committed to the health and well-being of the public? By providing a breadth of hands-on experience, working with student interns and young design professionals to adopt soft skills like how to work effectively in teams and communication, and showing them the importance of business acumen: fostering a company vision and culture, navigating a budget, and work strategies. These are all parts of the puzzle that create a well-rounded architect. It’s essential that they understand the ins and outs of the profession to direct their potential, but more importantly, identify and challenge themselves to progress in growth areas. As leaders in real estate, we must educate emerging architectural professionals and others in our industry about our experiences so they can enter the workforce ahead of where we began our careers. By the time they enter the workforce, they should be ready to take on the challenge to innovate and optimize our design methods to develop even more elevated solutions. Our responsibility is to be proactive with training and mentorship so we can expose students to the best of our field at an early age. If they’re exposed to our craft when they’re so deep into their collegiate education, they may not be able to explore alternative or complementary career options or interests. Where will the next generation of designers come from? We must shed light on a path they may have never considered by interacting with them at career fairs, professional workshops, speaking opportunities, and volunteering events. It is not only our duty but should be our succession plan.   Jonathan Grefaldon is principal of DLR Group. Attractions Bars and Clubs Shops Restaurants Making Dallas an Even Better Place 
750 North St.Paul St.
Suite 2100
Dallas, Texas 75201
 
Tel: 214.939.3636
               
              Fax: 214.748.4579
