LOUDONVILLE — Devon Hickey utilized her lightning-quick speed to its fullest potential Saturday morning at Loudonville as the Crestview sophomore connected for a hat-trick in leading the Cougars to a 4-0 girls soccer victory over the Redbirds in Mid-Buckeye Conference action. Crestview is now 1-2 in the MBC and 4-8 overall. It’s the first time Hickey scored three goals in a game, with the trio coming at the 23:38 and 7:46 marks in the first half and at the 33:45 juncture of the second half. “It was amazing, but I couldn’t have done it without my teammates,” Hickey said of her accomplishment, also talking about her second goal when she initially took the shot, had it blocked by Loudonville goalkeeper Quinn Morris, only to see the ball go back to her for the score. “I was scared, I thought she was going to get it and I saw the opportunity and I took it.” Crestview assistant coach Pete White was pinch-hitting for head coach Elizabeth Webb, who was out of state attending a family funeral. “Devon is blazing fast, she’s starting to work on her first touch and her turning,” White said. “And once she gets that down, along with her blazing speed, she’s going to be a very nice weapon up top to have.” Crestview made it 4-0 with 24:46 left in the game when sophomore forward Olivia Grant scored on a breakaway play, also using her speed as a weapon. White says the Cougars are starting to pick up the pace as the season winds down. “The past couple of weeks we had a couple of injuries and every team goes through that but we’ve really been working on our mental toughness, getting tough more mentally than physically,” White said. “It’s starting to come around, we’re starting to put both of them together and starting to look good.” Hickey is one of a number of younger players who have helped Crestview this season, and talked about playing on varsity as a sophomore. “It’s pretty amazing because not a lot of people get what I get so I’m very thankful and lucky to be where I am right now,” she said “And we’ve been doing well, we really have grown this year, and we all group up and work together.” Loudonville has had a problem scoring this season after losing two of their top-of-the-line scorers from last season, as the Redbirds are now 0-3 in the Mid-Buckeye Conference and 0-12-1 overall. “We graduated two of our better all-time program players last year, so this year, it’s been a tough season, we’ve just had challenges being offensive, having challenges scoring the ball,” said Loudonville coach Roy Templeman. “They do everything we ask as a team, we coach them up and when we ask them to do something thy go and do it, it’s never an effort issue, it’s just sometimes you just don’t have the horses to compete the way you need to compete, and that’s keeping them energized, keeping them coming back every day and practicing hard. “And they’ve been showing up and doing that so it’s just looking for that one day we get 80 minutes and get a victory.” Crestview has played solid defense this season. “Our back line is the strength of our team,” White said. “We’ve got two captains (senior Gracie Dinsmore, junior Lily Cline) who do a great job back there and Haili (Benedict) also does a great job back there. They’re good enough that we can get away with only having three back there.” Loudonville continues to build for the future with most of the team underclassmen, but seniors Grace Fogle, Maggie England, Emma Templeman, Alayna Zeigler and Emma Carney have proved to be true leaders for their younger teammates. “The seniors knew it was going to be challenging for us offensively but they’ve been great leaders, great examples,” coach Templeman said. “They’re the first ones there at practice, they work hard, they are setting examples for our program going forward. It may not show up on the scoreboard, it may not show up on our record, but our program will be better off because of those five seniors, and the leadership they’ve given our team this year.” This article originally appeared on The Daily Record: Girls Soccer: Hickey's hat trick leads Crestview over Loudonville Our editors will email you a roundup of their favourite stories from across AOL Advertisement Advertisement Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Advertisement