Top Nav Q&A with Jaspher Respicio,
Security Engineer, Hawaiian Telcom     How have your most important projects and plans for 2023 progressed to this point? In 2023, Hawaiian Telcom celebrates our 140th year of serving Hawai‘i. We are proud to continue King David Kalākaua’s legacy of innovation by investing in new technologies to improve connections across the state. Statewide fiber expansion continues to top Hawaiian Telcom’s list of critical projects, and we are making great progress. We recently reached an important milestone of completely enabling the island of Lāna‘i with fiber. We are on track to meet our 2023 goal of enabling an additional 60,000 homes and businesses with broadband service, topping the more than 55,000 locations we enabled in 2022. As more homes and businesses have broadband access, it’s important for end-users to understand how to maintain their online security and protect themselves from unwanted attempts to access personal and business data.   What is the most exciting product or service you will be providing customers in 2023? In addition to fiber Internet with the fastest upload speed in Hawai‘i of 500 Mbps, Hawaiian Telcom offers a comprehensive range of Advanced Services that protect and optimize your data and systems. Our technical team includes local, skilled network architects, engineers, and analysts who specialize in managed IT, cloud, network, and security services. They can design and deliver customized solutions to meet your unique business needs and ensure seamless operation, protection, and optimization of your technology infrastructure. The threat landscape is vast and filled with cybercriminals who constantly change tactics and techniques to evade detection. Hawaiian Telcom’s Security Operations Center (SOC) plays a crucial role in minimizing network and security risks for our customers statewide. Our team of experts are dedicated to monitoring and responding to threats 24/7. Defensive architecture and proactive monitoring are key to identifying security threats and risks and enabling swift action to protect your business. This proactive approach keeps us one step ahead of cybercriminals and provides the framework to rapidly triage and respond when breaches occur.   1177 Bishop Street, Honolulu, HI 96813
www.hawaiiantel.com      	 










Popular
Insurance Crisis Worsens in Hawai‘i’s “Condoland”My Job Is Protecting Lāna‘i’s WildlifeWear Your AlohaA Hawai‘i Quirk: You Own the Home But Not the LandHawai‘i’s Top 250 Companies 2024

















 









Taxes in Hawai‘i Are Much Too High, Say 43% of BOSS Survey Respondents 

Steve Petranik, 

Our biannual survey of business leaders and the general public gathers opinions about taxes, prices and who should lead the Maui recovery. 









Native Hawaiians Don’t Own Many Local Hotels. Here’s Why That May Change. 

Noelle Fujii-Oride, 

While the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands and ali‘i trusts collect land rents from 18 hotels, some Hawaiian groups are aiming for ownership.  



 Our biannual survey of business leaders and the general public gathers opinions about taxes, prices and who should lead the Maui recovery. While the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands and ali‘i trusts collect land rents from 18 hotels, some Hawaiian groups are aiming for ownership.  © 2024 Hawaii Business Magazine. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use 