In a global first, Hilton will showcase its new Green Ramadan initiative at Waldorf Astoria Lusail, Doha. The campaign aims to improve local sourcing and reduce food waste across hotels in Qatar, Saudi Arabia (KSA) and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The Green Ramadan initiative was launched by Hilton in partnership with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) West Asia and Winnow and will see food waste reduction efforts implemented across several key markets in the Middle East, including Qatar at Waldorf Astoria Lusail, Doha. With reports from UNEP West Asia showing that food waste increases by 25% to 50% in the region during religious and social festivities, Hilton is introducing measures to minimise waste during the holy month of Ramadan and drive awareness around local sourcing and food waste. The initiative is in line with Hilton’s Travel with Purpose 2030 Goals to reduce food waste sent to landfill by 50%. The partnership will combine Hilton’s drive towards a net zero future, UNEP’s Recipe of Change food waste reduction campaign and Winnow’s AI technology – allowing for digitally-led tracking of food waste throughout Ramadan. In doing so, Hilton will gather data to predict future procurement and production needs while also minimising its long-term environmental impact. As part of the initiative, participating Hilton hotels across Qatar, KSA and the UAE will compost excess food waste, prioritise local food sourcing within a 50-mile radius, promote plant-based dishes, restrict plastic use across operations, and partner with food banks. In Qatar, Waldorf Astoria Lusail, Doha will offer guests a tasteful dining experience at Bywater Restaurant with breathtaking views of the stunning Arabian Gulf. The restaurant takes pride in serving locally sourced produce from the Al Wabra Farm, showcasing a meticulously crafted menu that plays an active role in reducing food-related emissions. The hotel has also partnered with the Hifz Alnaema Food Bank to reinforce charitable giving during the holy month. Hilton EMEA Vice President for F&B strategy & development Emma Banks said that as a global hospitality brand, Hilton has a responsibility to lead the industry in the pursuit of sustainable solutions. Their partner, Winnow, will play a crucial role in this digital-first approach by collecting food waste data and using it to inform their local procurement requirements. We’re also aligning closely with UNEP West Asia’s ongoing ‘Recipe of Change’ campaign aimed at reducing food waste across the value chain. We hope that Hilton’s Green Ramadan initiative will set the standard for years to come by encouraging local food sourcing and reducing food waste. According to UNEP West Asia representative and regional director Sami Dimassi, they are very pleased to collaborate with Hilton to activate this campaign across its key markets in the Middle East. He said that reducing food waste is not only about saving food, but also about saving resources. He added that the only way forward is to work hand-in-hand by engaging the local community, private sector, and influencers. Today, every plate counts and so does every wasted plate. Let us all fight food waste and work towards a more sustainable future. Winnow CEO and co-founder Marc Zornes added that food waste is an important area of interest for the region from a social and environmental perspective. He said that their intention is for the collaboration to be underpinned by real-world data and behavioural science, offering a playbook for the industry to tackle food waste. To learn more about the Green Ramadan initiative at Waldorf Astoria Lusail, Doha, visit hilton.com.  Check out Marhaba’s FREE e-Guides for everything you need to know about Qatar.     Receive our newsletter every Thursday for Weekly Highlights, Upcoming Events, Contests, Our New Reviews and more! 
 
 


By signing up, you agree to the our terms and our Privacy Policy agreement.  Established in 1994, the Marhaba Information Guide was created with the mission to fill an information gap and provide comprehensive, accurate and interesting information about Qatar for the community at large. In its quest to provide this service, since its inception more than 20 years ago, Marhaba has produced in excess of one million books! 
Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.