Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Help us change more lives, join TUKO.co.ke’s Patreon programme. The iconic Hilton Hotel in Nairobi's central business district has finally shut its doors after 53 years of operations. The facility was officially closed down on Saturday, December 31, with all entrances locked with padlocks. The building that hosted the hotel is one of the landmarks in Nairobi CBD. A spokesperson of the hotel said that they had had extensive discussions and concluded to cease operations. PAY ATTENTION: Сheck out the list of featured Business Leaders of the Year 2022 Read also Hustler Fund Loans, Other High-Profile Business Cases Awaiting Verdict in 2023 The hotel, in which the government has a 40.57% stake, said the decision was influenced by several factors and not limited to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, Hilton plans to retain its other hotels. It also plans to deploy some of its staff to the other branches.  The hotel had 287 rooms, including 45 twins, 185 doubles and seven suites. It also boasted 22 pool rooms and 27 executive rooms.  Hilton is set to open a new luxury hotel along the Peponi-Kitisuru Road in Nairobi after exiting the city's central business district. Read also Kenyan Newspapers Review: Ex-IEBC Boss James Oswago Admits to Possibility of Rigging in 2013 Presidential Vote The new facility, Kwetu Nairobi, will be launched in February 2023 and boasts 102 rooms.  In other news, Nairobi's Fairmont The Norfolk reopened its doors to local and international customers close to two years after closure.  The hotel shut down operations in 2020 at the height of the global COVID-19 pandemic that ravaged the tourism sector.  The hospitality sector was the worst hit by the pandemic, contracting by 83.3% in the second quarter.  In May 2020, for instance, 65% of hotels had shut down reflecting the magnitude of the pandemic in the sector.  PAY ATTENTION: check out news exactly for YOU ➡️  find "Recommended for you"  block and enjoy! Source: TUKO.co.ke 

                Japhet Ruto                                    (Current Affairs and Business Editor)
                            
Japhet Ruto is an award-winning TUKO.co.ke journalist with over eight years of working experience in the media industry. Ruto graduated from Moi University in 2015 with a Bachelor’s Degree in Communication and Journalism. He is a Business & Tech Editor. Ruto won the 2019 BAKE Awards’ Agriculture Blog of the Year. He was named TUKO.co.ke's best current affairs editor in 2020 and 2021. In 2022 and 2023, he was TUKO.co.ke's best business editor. He completed the Experimenting with new formats and Advance digital reporting curriculum from Google News Initiative. Email: japhet.ruto@tuko.co.ke.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you