We’re still over a month away from Samsung’s new batch of foldables, but today a new official-looking image of the Galaxy Z Fold 5 gives us our best look to date at the foldable, including its new hinge and blue colorway. The folks at MySmartPrice today published what appears to be a press render of the Galaxy Z Fold 5 in blue. The image shows the phone most of the way open, with the tagline “Unfold your World” drawn, and behind that, you can see the Galaxy Z Fold 5 closed up from the top. The standout detail from this image is easily the hinge itself, which is the first gap-less hinge Samsung has used so far and is rumored to have a significant impact on the Galaxy Z Fold 5. Rumor has it that the Fold 5 will be considerably thinner and lighter than its predecessor. The new hinge also opens the door to a “waterdrop” method of folding the display, which should lead to a less noticeable display crease, at least if Samsung takes the same route as its competitors. It’s impossible to tell the fine details from this one image alone, but the other thing we see, as mentioned, is a new light blue color option. The color is a nice break from the typically dark or neutral colors that previous Folds have used, though it’s still not nearly as vibrant as some of the options on the Galaxy Z Flip series. The color almost looks like something Google would use on its Pixel phones, and in fact, is quite similar to the “Sea” color of the Pixel 7a as well as the “Sky” color on the Pixel Buds A-Series. Update: This article has been updated to remove “unauthorized copyrighted images” from Samsung that were originally posted by MySmartPrice (since removed). Samsung requested that 9to5Google, among other publications, remove the images as they “may contain inaccurate information” about the “products that have not yet been released.” For our reader’s benefit, we have made mockups of the key details based on those leaked images, though we will note that the original leaked images are not difficult to find on the web – nothing is ever truly removed. Samsung is set to reveal the Galaxy Z Fold 5 alongside several other devices at an event in July, and this report today mentions a release date of August 11. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Check out 9to5Google on YouTube for more news: Ben is a Senior Editor for 9to5Google. Find him on Twitter @NexusBen. Send tips to schoon@9to5g.com or encrypted to benschoon@protonmail.com. 
										Ben's smartwatch of choice with his phone is the Google Pixel Watch 2.									 
										Reserve the Galaxy S24 series for free and get a $50 credit, no obligation required.									 Manage push notifications