Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) A crowd watches Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) A crowd watches Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) A crowd watches Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) A crowd watches Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) A crowd watches Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) A crowd watches Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) Jahari, a new pygmy hippo at John Ball Zoo, is pictured inside his new exhibit at the Grand Rapids zoo on Monday, June 5, 2023.  The exhibit opened on schedule but without the fanfare after the 8-year-old pygmy hippo, killed a sitatunga antelope named Chopper, in the enclosure last month. Jahari comes to John Ball Zoo from the Pittsburgh Zoo. (Cory Morse | MLive.com) We’ll deliver breaking news directly to your inbox. Sign up today. GRAND RAPIDS, MI — According to a report from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, a fatal incident at John Ball Zoo earlier this year was the result of a critical non-compliant handling of animals. Chopper the swamp-dwelling sitatunga antelope was attacked and killed at the zoo by Jahari, a pygmy hippopotamus, back in May during the two animals’ first barrier-free introduction to each other. John Ball Zoo released a statement on Friday, Sept. 1, that the fatal incident was “likely due to individual animal behavior as zoo staff undertook significant efforts to be fully prepared before and during the introduction of the two animals.” But in a report released by the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service on Aug. 3, the inspection agency stated Chopper was trapped in a tunnel during the unsuccessful introduction event and that Jahari had never been housed with any other species before coming to John Ball Zoo. “The hippopotamus consistently exhibited behaviors noted as aggressing by the keepers during at least eight introduction preparation events,” the USDA report states. “Such behaviors included, but were not limited to, marking of the exhibit, territorial aggression, charging at the door where the sitatunga was housed (and) grumbling noises with opening its mouth.” RELATED: Zoo: Pygmy hippo’s fatal antelope attack was due to ‘individual animal behavior,’ not lack of research Zookeeper notes reviewed by the USDA stated both the hippo and the antelope were stressed. Chopper was seen running and Jahari was noted as being in “constant motion.” Jahari and Chopper were supposed to share an enclosure at John Ball Zoo, built especially for the new pygmy hippos. But according to the USDA report, there was no individual on hand with direct knowledge and experience in the introduction of a pygmy hippo with other species during the fatal incident. The report also states Chopper didn’t have anywhere to hide from Jahari in the exhibit. “Besides the potential area of entrapment of the tunnel, the only visual barrier in the exhibit was a single tree,” the report reads. “Introduction of dangerous species of animals in the presence of behaviors consistent with incompatibility can lead to injury or death of animals involved.” RELATED: Hippo that killed antelope at John Ball Zoo had no history of aggression, former zoo says John Ball Zoo told media after the May 16 incident that Jahari “suddenly attacked” Chopper during the introductory meeting. Though zoo staff has repeatedly declined to comment on the specifics of the attack, they did state attempts were made to resuscitate Chopper but the attempts were unsuccessful. Peter D’Arienzo, CEO of John Ball Zoo, stated on Friday that the “vast majority of interactions” between the hippo and the antelope were positive and that following the fatal incident, zoo staff has updated its protocols and procedures for introducing animals. These updates include identifying additional opportunities to modify habitats for enhanced safety and reinforcing staff’s ability to provide input before and during animal introductions. D’Arienzo, though, told MLive/The Grand Rapids Press the USDA report lacks context. RELATED: Pygmy hippo kills antelope intended for same enclosure at Grand Rapids zoo “We remain heartbroken by this incident which occurred after years of research and careful planning for the habitat and visiting other institutions with experience and knowledge regarding pygmy hippo and sitatunga behavior and introductions,” D’Arienzo said. “Correspondence from the U.S. Department of Agriculture does not include important context and details about the 300 hours of visual introductions between the pygmy hippo and the sitatunga, during which the vast majority of interactions were positive and supported a successful introduction, which does a disservice to the scientists and animal care specialists trying to use this tragic incident as a moment to learn, improve and prevent incidents like this from happening again. “Our internal review and analysis have identified additional opportunities to modify the habitat to promote enhanced safety during future introductions, and we have already begun implementing some of these protocols and procedures today. John Ball Zoo values our collaboration with the USDA to champion animal care and increase the scientific body of information on the care of wild animals.” Since the fatal incident involving Chopper and Jahari, the new pygmy hippo exhibit has opened to the public and a second pygmy hippo, Penelope, has arrived at John Ball Zoo. Penelope is expected to eventually breed with Jahari but is not currently kept in the same part of the enclosure as him. Want more Grand Rapids-area news? Bookmark the local Grand Rapids news page or sign up for the free “3@3 Grand Rapids” daily newsletter. More from MLive: Meet Penelope, the pygmy hippo who may become Jahari’s girlfriend $1.2M project will enhance largely undeveloped Grand River park Meijer Gardens celebrating fall with 25th anniversary of lush mums, pumpkin display If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.