Reinsurance News  5th April 2023 - Author: Jack Willard Spinnaker Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hippo Holdings Inc,, has appointed Charles Valinotti as its Chief Program and Underwriting Officer. Within the role, he will lead the firm’s team of program underwriters, who are responsible for managing the carrier’s diverse portfolio of third-party programs. Overall, Valinotti brings 30 years of industry experience towards the role. Over the course of his career he has worked across a wide variety of insurance products and roles that have helped him to form a deep level of understanding of underwriting and program management. Previously, Valinotti spent 13 years working at QBE Americas, where he held the role of Head of Operations. In the role, he oversaw the development of underwriting guidelines, policies, and procedures to select, price, and control risk. Before joining QBE, Valinotti held various leadership roles in underwriting and product management at AIG, General Casualty and Geico.  Addressing Valinotti’s appointment, Spinnaker CEO Torben Ostergaard, said: “We are excited to tap into Charles’ incredible wealth of underwriting knowledge and program management experience. He’ll play an instrumental role in leading our company, as well as serving as Spinnaker’s primary interface with our program partners, Claims TPAs, reinsurers and brokers.” Valinotti, added: “Spinnaker works with many of the most innovative program administrators and MGAs in the industry. I am excited at the opportunity to work across personal, commercial and specialty lines and offer strategic insurance solutions to customers in such wide variety of industries.” Advertise on Reinsurance News We have 200,000+ readers every month & 27,000+ email subscribers. Reach the largest reinsurance audience. We also publish Artemis.bm, the leading publisher of news, data and insight for the catastrophe bond, insurance-linked securities, reinsurance convergence, longevity risk transfer and weather risk management sectors.. We’ve published and operated Artemis since its launch 20 years ago and have a readership of around 60,000 every month. Get in touch directly using our contact form. Or find and follow Reinsurance News on social media.
Get reinsurance news by email here. All content copyright © Steve Evans Ltd. 2024 All rights reserved. Steve Evans Ltd. registered in England No. 07337195
Website Privacy & Cookies and Disclaimer Δ