Winston Chi, Butter’s founder and CEO, told TechCrunch that “most parties, including our investors and us, are making money” from the exit.  The company went public in December with its first proof-of-concept coffee creamer that remains stable when added to hot coffee.  The co-founders of Israeli food tech startup Ingrediome say they are inventing better-tasting lab-grown protein that’s up to 10 times less expensive to produce.  Meati is another example of a tech company making layoffs that didn’t appear to be in trouble.  Bluestein Ventures targets consumer-facing technology across the food supply chain like health and wellness, proprietary foodtech, commerce and digital technology.   The company made advancements in its proprietary dairy seed system to leverage interactions between recombinant dairy casein and native plant proteins, with or without improved fatty acid profiles.  Planet A Foods uses fermentation technology to turn all-natural, locally-sourced ingredients, for example, oats and sunflower seeds, into its cocoa-free chocolate brand, ChoViva.  Kost aims to “be the best co-investor in Europe” and work with food tech and generalist investors looking for a firm with scale-up expertise and food-specialized abilities.  Elo Life is focused on a number of technologies from developing plant-based sweeteners to crop protection.  Food tech investors discuss another consecutive quarter of decline in venture capital investments into areas like plant-based meat alternatives and cultivated meat.  The new capital will go toward building a pilot brewery in Amsterdam so that Farmless can develop its first products to replace meat, dairy and eggs.  Is it time to normalize the idea of cultivated meat? Depends on who you ask.  Taste is something that continues to be a challenge for plant-based protein companies. If it tastes more like meat, it’s a winner, according to new stats from Good Food Institute.  If you’re adventurous with your food, or just like to keep up with the fast-moving food tech industry, here’s a roundup of this week’s stories and some notable news we…  Featured Article The 3D printing world can print in concrete, plastic, metal and pretty much everything else that starts off gooey and turns solid after a while. That includes a bunch of different types of foods, as Sugar Lab demonstrates. The company was originally acquired by 3D Systems in 2013, but co-founders…  The burgeoning food tech revolution continues apace with news that French startup Standing Ovation has raised €12 million ($12 million) in a series A round of funding to develop an animal-free…  Technology innovation often comes in waves, but the restaurant industry saw its surf get bigger and stronger due in part to the pandemic. Startups stepped up across the industry to…  Perception is everything — especially when it comes to the value of software startups and total addressable markets (TAM). During 2020 and 2021, as COVID bit into the economy, tech…  Featured Article This new fund triples the firm’s assets under management and will enable the pair to invest in another 25 to 30 companies.  Plant-based meal delivery service Daily Harvest issued a public recall of its French Lentil and Leek Crumbles product on June 22 after dozens of customers reported that they fell ill…  According to The Good Food Institute, fermentation startups received $290 million of the $911 million investors dropped on alternative protein companies in Q1 2022.  The technology is not “new,” but what has industry followers so excited is the potential for better-quality, more-cost-effective proteins compared to animal-based counterparts.  Yo! Egg is going after the more difficult “whole egg” experience, having developed an egg white and running yolk for consumers who like the taste and texture of that style…  As consumers’ interest in the environment and nutrition rises, food-tech companies join the race to invent meat alternatives. In 2021, alternative seafood companies received $175 million in investment globally, increasing…  Yelp is broadening its partnership with Seattle-based food tech startup Hazel Analytics to expand health ratings on its platform, the company announced on Thursday. The two companies are working together…  Payments — taking and paying out money — remains a fragmented and complex area for merchants, marketplaces and others that do business with multiple parties online. As it grows —…  For every dollar invested in Splendid Spoon in recent years, the company generated $15 in revenue.  This year, Amara produced its Yogurt Smoothie Melts, which CEO Jessica Sturzenegger touts as “the only melt-in-mouth snacks for babies and toddlers without any added sugar.”  Food tech is booming in Europe and is growing exponentially. In 2020, €3 billion went into European food tech companies (State of European Tech Report, March 2021), and the pandemic…  Developing new packaged foods and consumer goods can take a couple years as companies research, prototype and test products. In a society that runs on social media, however, people expect…  Powered by WordPress VIP