Don’t miss our new issue 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 From the Copilot button in Windows 11 to AI summaries of Amazon customer reviews, there’s no escaping artificial intelligence, and this is only the beginning. The first AI-enabled PCs went on sale recently, new PC keyboards now include a Copilot key and Google is now showing ‘AI overviews’ above its search results in the US. This rapid AI onslaught has annoyed and confused many people, who aren’t as excited about the technology as tech giants such as Microsoft, Google and Apple – which has launched its own AI system, Apple Intelligence. But don’t be afraid of artificial intelligence – it’s more useful than you think. APC reveals 30 ways that free AI tools can improve everything you do on your PC and online. Plus, the handheld PC market has taken off, but can they be used for more than mobile gaming? Barry Collins puts three models to work. We test the Valve Steam Deck, Lenovo Legion Go and Asus ROG Ally to see how capable they are as everyday PCs. In this issue we look at what we want from Windows 12. With the next version of Windows likely to land before the end of the year, our contributors reveal what new features they want  and what old features they’d like to see the back of. Taking a close look at one of our favourite peripherals, keyboards are one of the few devices that we often overlook as PC enthusiasts. Whenever we price up systems and specs, peripherals are mostly ignored outside of the occasional consideration to screen resolution. Yet the reality is that monitors, keyboards, and mice are all integral elements of any good build. We jump into the noisy world of the humble keyswitch, giving you the lowdown on all the latest tech.  Read APC and thousands more Aussie and international magazines on Readly | 1-month free trial, then AU$11.99p/m There's a new way to read APC and all your other favourite Future Australia magazines! Pick up a subscription to Readly for AU$11.99p/m and you'll get unrestricted, all-you-can-read digital access to all the latest issues of APC, plus over 5,000 other Australian and international magazines. You can browse and read any issue on your PC, Mac, tablet or smartphone. Subscribe to the print edition of APC magazine and you'll enjoy a greatly-reduced cover price, plus free delivery directly to your door. Visit techmags.com.au for full details: Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more.   Alternatively, APC is also available in digital edition to read on your iOS or Android device. To purchase individual issues or take up a subscription, simply follow these links to the Apple Newsstand or Zinio:    Brought to you by the same team behind APC mag, the TechRadar Australia newsletter provides twice-weekly digests of the most important tech news, plus exclusives offers and discounts for Aussie readers!  Got a question for the APC editorial team? You can get in touch with us by sending an email to apcmag@futurenet.com. 21 early Labor Day deals at Amazon: TVs, air fryers, robot vacuums, iPads and more The Asus ROG Ally just dropped to a record-low price at Best Buy NYT Strands today — hints, answers and spangram for Monday, August 19 (game #169) TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 