sportsTexas Tech Red Raiders By  SportsDay Staff By  SportsDay Staff 11:22 PM on Mar 30, 2023 CDT — Updated at 12:00 AM on Mar 31, 2023 CDT Texas Tech has found its new men’s basketball coach. Less than 24 hours after leading North Texas to an NIT championship win over UAB, Texas Tech announced the hire of Grant McCasland as its new head coach on Friday. The Red Raiders posted a Twitter video of McCasland hopping on a plane to Lubbock. “Red Raider nation, let’s go win some championships,” McCasland said. SOURCES: Grant McCasland is headed to Lubbock.The source: pic.twitter.com/fuOaubcJu0 Get the latest D-FW sports news, analysis, scores and more. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy According to Matt Norlander of CBS Sports and Brett Vito of the Denton Record-Chronicle, McCasland will join Texas Tech on a six-year, $18 million deal to take over the position that was vacated by Mark Adams earlier this month. North Texas also has a new leader in place, as associate head coach Ross Hodge will take over McCasland’s role with the Mean Green, Vito reports. Athletic Director Jared Mosley issued a statement confirming McCasland’s departure.  “We are grateful to Coach Grant McCasland for the last six seasons leading the Mean Green program,” Mosley said. “He established a program that has won championships, reached new postseason heights, and brought many moments of excitement to Mean Green fans.”  McCasland was one of the first names to surface in public speculation after Adams stepped down. He’s young (46) but experienced as a head coach and is part of the Scott Drew coaching tree. With a record of 209-89, he’s won at Midwestern State, Arkansas State and UNT. And he has ties to Tech, having a master’s degree from the school. Adams’ departure was announced by Tech just after the Red Raiders were eliminated in the first round of the Big 12 Championship in Kansas City, losing to West Virginia 78-62 with interim coach Corey Williams. Find more Texas Tech coverage from The Dallas Morning News here. SportsDay Staff