
  A man who raped a woman and locked her in her bedroom unless she agreed to his sexual demands has been jailed.
 
  In September 2022, the victim - who was known to Desmond Rodney - attended a north London police station.
 
  She reported he had raped her at her home address in Hackney.
 
  She also stated he had locked her in her bedroom unless she agreed to his sexual demands.
 
READ MORE: Man exposed himself on bus to 11-year-old girl
 
  Rodney, 46, of Hollar Road, Hackney, was arrested later that day and denied the offences, claiming that they had had consensual sex.
 
  He was found guilty following a trial at Wood Green Crown Court in March.
 
  When giving evidence in court, officers arranged for special measures to be in place, including a screen so that the victim couldn't see the defendant.
 
READ MORE Crime and court stories at our North London Crime and Court Watch Facebook group.
 
  He appeared at Wood Green Crown Court yesterday (Friday, April 28) where he was sentenced to eight and a half years in jail for two counts of rape.
 
  He was also given a ten-year restraining order against the victim and placed on the Sex Offenders' Register for life.
 
READ MORE: Warning over 'unsafe' use of candles after fire in pub building
 
  In an impact statement, the victim said: "Mostly I try to forget what happened because it was such a horrible experience and I try to block out the details of how I was attacked but it was so traumatising that I simply can’t.
 
  "I remember thinking at the time, 'Why me? Why me?' and that hasn’t changed, I still often think 'Why me? Why did he abuse me? Why did he attack me in such a nasty way?' 
 
  "Because of what he did to me, he has screwed me up and spoiled any potential trust or positive outlook I could have with others.
 
  "I feel grateful that I have been given the opportunity to be heard and although I despise him for making me go to court rather than admit what he did, I am glad I was able to put my account across and that the jury listened to me and believed me when I told them I was raped."
 
READ MORE: ‘Extremely dangerous’ man raped woman - then used her bank cards
 
  Detective Inspector Chris Heathcote, who leads the Sapphire unit investigating serious sexual offences in Hackney, said: "Rodney denied the offences and clearly thought he would be able to get away with his crimes.
 
  "However the evidence gathered by our team and crucially the account given by the victim in court meant the jury could see through his lies and found him guilty.
 
  "The victim in this case showed real bravery, not only in reporting Rodney to police but in coming to court and reliving what had happened to her.
 
  "We are extremely pleased she felt able to do so and that she has now seen justice served.
 
  "We hope this encourages others who have been subject to rape or sexual assault to come forward and speak to our specialist teams."
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.