One Giants fan, who went viral for her feud with Kadarius Toney, mostly took the high road while reacting to the Chiefs wideout’s ugly performance in Kansas City’s home opener on Thursday night.  Not that Toney would have been on X (formerly Twitter) to see any trash talk. Toney had an all-around bad night in the 21-20 loss at Arrowhead, where he tallied three drops, including one that turned into a pick-six — and was subsequently trolled on social media.  “Big Blue Mal” did her best not to rub it in. After an early drop, Mal wrote: “I’m not saying anything.” But after another one turned into a Lions touchdown, she could not completely resist. “I’m sorry I can’t hold back anymore,” she wrote. “Kadarius … you need to focus.” I’m sorry I can’t hold back anymore. Kardarius…..you need to fokus https://t.co/znBhvKXi3t “I will never root on a players downfall,” she wrote on X when other users apparently were curious about her response due to their fiery social media past.  “I hope Toney learns a hard lesson from tonight, which I think he will and he improves from here.  “Playing a game with no camp/prep is tough. I do appreciate y’all though y’all crack me up.”  Toney appears to have deleted his X account, however it’s unclear when he took it down.  I will never root on a players downfall. I hope Toney learns a hard lesson from tonight, which I think he will and he improves from here. Playing a game with no camp/prep is tough. I do appreciate y’all though y’all crack me up Toney was traded to the Chiefs last season following one-plus injury-riddled seasons with the Giants, during which he did not score a single touchdown.   NFL fans were critical of Toney during his days in the Big Apple, including Mal, who was a big Toney s–t-talker, according to her X account.  In July, Mal took to X with a screen grab of an alleged message from Toney that included a photo of her at a Yankees game.  “[The f–k] is this?” Toney, whose known for clapping back at Giants fans, allegedly wrote with a few crying-laughing emojis. “Ugly as mf… [focus] on [liposuction] and other s–t instead of me.”  Mal captioned the posted: “LMAOOOOOOOOOO IM SCREAMING” and said Toney had blocked her on the app.  At the time, Mal said on X that she was not offended by Toney’s alleged comments, and explained that she was “not the innocent one” in the situation.  “Y’all I am in NO way innocent one bit you know I got a big mouth,” she wrote, adding a crying-laughing emoji. “It’s the internet lmao I definitely wasn’t expecting that tho. I’m at work so I gotta mute this but anyway I got absolutely COOKED by KT I’m still laughing.”  In a separate tweet at the time, she continued: “Y’all I’ll say one last thing on the matter. I am not legit at all offended by what was said.  “I thought it was actually hilarious to be honest. I knew what I was getting myself into when I made that public but I’ve talked so much s–t to KT in the past, he literally just threw it back. It’s the internet, and we all f–k around on here.  “And to those who say ‘you baited him for clout’ can kiss my a–,” she added. “I had my fun and have no shame. This ugly and tubby loser stands by what she says always.”  Toney claimed he was hacked and it was not him posting the incessant trash talk pointed at Mal and other Giants fans.  The Giants selected Toney with the 20th overall pick in the 2021 NFL Draft.  He played in only 12 of 24 games with five starts due to injury.  Advertisement