 Log In On Oct. 26, Charlotte, North Carolina-based industrial manufacturing conglomerate Honeywell announced its 2023 third-quarter earnings report, which showed year-over-year sales growth of 3% — and organic sales growth of 2% — compared to 3Q 2022. Sales for the most recent quarter were $9.2 billion. The moderate increases were led by double-digit organic sales growth in commercial aviation, defense and space and process solutions, Honeywell said. Operating margin expanded 140 basis points to 20.9%, and segment margin expanded by 80 basis points to 22.6%, led by expansion in Honeywell Building Technologies. Operating cash flow for 3Q was $1.8 billion, with operating cash flow margin of 19.6%, and free cash flow was $1.6 billion with free cash flow margin of 16.9%, driven by strong net income and collections. “Honeywell executed through a challenging environment in the third quarter, meeting or exceeding guidance for all metrics and demonstrating once again our culture of execution and accountability,” said Vimal Kapur, CEO of Honeywell. “Organic sales growth was led by our Aerospace segment, where continued supply chain improvements enabled significant sales growth in both commercial aviation and defense and space.” Aerospace: Sales for the third quarter were up 18% year over year on an organic basis, the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit organic growth, with strength in both commercial aviation and defense and space. Honeywell Building Technologies: Sales were flat on an organic basis year-over-year. Building solutions sales grew 4% organically driven by strong execution of building projects, particularly energy projects. Safety and Productivity Solutions: Sales  decreased by 25% year over year on an organic basis. Sales declines were due to lower volumes in warehouse and workflow solutions, which continues to be impacted by softness in the warehouse automation market. The company announced net sales of $1 billion in the third quarter of fiscal 2023,… Operating margin improved year-over-year across all three key business units, while the pace of organic… For 3Q 2023, sales in North America were $2.21 billion, an increase of 2.7%, while… You must be logged in to post a comment. Read the latest articles and see your reports. The MDM update newsletter is your best source for news and trends in the wholesale distribution industry. Wholesale distribution news and trends delivered right to your inbox. Sign-up for our free newsletter and get: 2 articles left Subscribe today and get: Log in MDM Premium Subscribers get: Log in 1 article left Subscribe to MDM Premium to get unlimited access. Your subscription includes: Log in Join other distribution executives who use MDM Premium to optimize their business. Our insights and analysis help you enter the right new markets, turbocharge your sales and marketing efforts, identify business partners that help you scale, and stay ahead of your competitors. Log in Back to MDM.com By providing your email, you agree to receive announcements from us and our partners for our newsletter, events, surveys, and partner resources per MDM Terms & Conditions. You can withdraw consent at any time. Δ Δ