
	If you purchase something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission.
		 The latest entertainment headlines, delivered straight to your email inbox. More than half of Halloween shoppers are going to be looking to decorate their homes for the spooky festivities in 2023. That’s according to a survey from the National Retail Foundation that showed how people plan on spending their money for Halloween.  Fifty-three percent of respondents said they are looking to decorate their home or yard to celebrate Halloween, which was the second-most popular response behind handing out candy, which was 68%.  “Total spending on decorations, which grew in popularity during the pandemic and continue to resonate with consumers, is expected to reach $3.9 billion,” said officials of the National Retail Foundation. “Of those celebrating Halloween, more than three-quarters (77%) plan to purchase decorations, which is on par with last year, but up from 72% in 2019.” So, if you’re looking to decorate your home for Halloween, where do you start? We’ve got a guide for you that includes some popular Halloween decorations for the inside of your home and for the front porch or lawn to choose from. And we’ll also touch on what are some of the popular Halloween decorations we’re seeing right now that have people’s attention.  When thinking about indoor and outdoor decorations, our partners at Good Housekeeping say they can be as extravagant or simple as you’d like them to be.  So, if you’re on the extravagant side of the Halloween decorating ideas for inside your home, this pack of decor panels about Disney’s The Haunted Mansion might be up your dark alley of interest. Got a mantel you’d like to spice up with scariness? There’s a mantel scarf you can put up that can light up and give a “Hocus Pocus” vibe to your mantel. And if you really want to give a jump scare when hosting a Halloween party, this life-size Annabelle doll might do the trick.  If you’re on the simple side, this butterfly glass dome statue is a good pick, especially if you’re a big fan of the Corpse Bride, or this Haunted Mansion dish towel set is nice, subtle way to add some spookiness to your kitchen.  Find more indoor Halloween decorations by visiting Spirit Halloween. It feels like Halloween inflatables have blown up in popularity over recent years, so let’s take a look at some picks available to erect on your front lawn or porch to show off your spooky season energy to the neighborhood.  Home Depot has a number of Halloween inflatables for your outdoor Halloween decoration desires. Take this inflatable of the Hocus Pocus Sanderson sisters, for example.  It self-inflates in seconds and stands at five feet tall while also lights up to create a glowing display in front of your home as the sun sets and darkness beckons.  The home improvement retailer also has an LED-animated Ursula inflatable complete with Ursala’s eels that towers at seven feet tall.  But other retailers like Amazon, Walmart and Lowes are all places where you can get inflatables as well. We highlight some of our favorite picks below. Decorating a home, whether it’s for Halloween, the holidays, or just in general, if you’re moving and want a new set of decor for your new home, can get really expensive really quickly. That’s why many people turn to DIY tips and tricks to try and offer up a scare on a budget.  Online retailer Wayfair gave some ideas on what you can do to decorate your home in a budget-friendly way. We took a look at Google Trends to check out what people were searching for in relation to Halloween decorations.  Disney Halloween decorations was a very popular search. You can find so many Halloween decor items that are Disney-themed at shopDisney.com. Other searches included “Stranger Things Halloween decorations,” “Coraline Halloween decorations,” “werewolf Halloween decorations,” and “alien Halloween decorations.”  Halloween in 2023 falls on Tuesday, Oct. 31.  According to History.com, this holiday can be traced back to the ancient Celtic festival of Samhain, which took place in an area spanning modern-day Ireland, France, and the United Kingdom. The festival developed as a precursor to the new year, which for Celts began on Nov. 1 and anticipated the beginning of long, cold winters that would result in many deaths. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.