MENU Honeywell, a fire and life safety solutions provider, recently showcased key technologies from its security and fire and life safety product lines at the just completed 2023 International Security Conference and Exposition (ISC West) in Las Vegas. “The present and future of public safety relies on technology,” states Sameer Agrawal, vice president and general manager, Fire Americas, Honeywell. “With our latest fire and life safety innovations, we are integrating intelligence throughout the life safety nexus—from the smoke detector to the first responder—to enable faster, more reliable alarm transmissions and dispatches. We are also moving from incident detection to prevention, improving life safety outcomes.”   Featured fire and life safety technologies, which provide flexible integration, real-time response and improved operational efficiencies include:  “Honeywell is committed to providing our customers with comprehensive security solutions that are both highly effective and cost efficient,” comments Rick Koscinski, commercial security general manager, Americas, Honeywell. “We’re continuing to work with our teams to create and improve the latest security products that provide outcome-based solutions to help create peace of mind for our customers, improve uptime and help grow business resilience.” Beyond the CLSS solutions, the company also showed these security technologies: iLOQ is a Finland-based partner of electronic locks for both commercial and residential applications, and the software integration with Honeywell’s Physical Access Control System Pro-Watch will allow users to manage iLOQs range of electronic locks and related electronic credentials in the same way as for other locks. This includes the possibility of obtaining audit logs from the locks themselves, updating access lists and issuing and revoking credentials for users.   The agreement between iLOQ and Honeywell covers the sale of iLOQ’s products in North America and Europe and will particularly bolster iLOQ’s presence in the U.S. Customers can easily purchase the components of a complete iLOQ system from Honeywell, just as for other components of a PACS system. For more information about Honeywell’s latest security and fire and life safety products, visit Buildings.Honeywell.com. Posted in: Press Releases Tagged with: Access Control, Fire Alarm, Fire Detection, Fire Safety, Honeywell, Locks and Door Hardware Emerald Expositions31910 Del Obispo, Suite 200San Juan Capistrano, CA 92675Phone: 800-440-2139Customer Service: 774-505-8058 Social: Emerald Expositions31910 Del Obispo, Suite 200San Juan Capistrano, CA 92675Phone: 800-440-2139Customer Service: 774-505-8058 ABOUTCAREERSAUTHORIZED SERVICE PROVIDERSYour Privacy ChoicesTERMS OF USEPRIVACY POLICY