These recipes will help you make the most of spring strawberries. Caitlin Bensel; Food Stylist: Torie Cox  While we won't argue that the best way to eat sweet and juicy strawberries is straight out of the farmer's market carton, sometimes you might be in the mood to dress them up a little bit. We gathered our very best strawberry recipes to satisfy every craving. Make the most of berry season with these amazing, fresh strawberry recipes.
  Layers of fluffy meringue provide a cloud-like crunch against juicy berries and whipped cream filling. It's a show-stopping dessert that will draw the oohs and aahs, no matter where you serve it.
  The most complicated part of this strawberry cobbler is deciding when you want to make it—and if you're willing to share. Much like a batter cobbler, this version is layered before it's baked, and the magic happens while it's in the oven: The fruit sinks and is enveloped by the batter, turning it tender and juicy. But with the added decadence of cream cheese, the final result is a pillowy cobbler that will have everyone asking for seconds.
  For occasions when you're looking to impress but need to shave off a little stress, reach for flashy but not fussy recipes like these strawberry cupcakes. The recipe begins with white cake mix, and we enhanced the flavor with lemon zest and fresh lemon juice. The hint of lemonade flavor matches the fruity flavors of strawberry jam in the frosting. Top each swirl of frosting with a halved fresh strawberry for the perfect finishing touch.
  Imagine chocolate-covered strawberries. Now imagine them in creamy, decadent cheesecake form. That's what you should expect from this chocolate-covered strawberry cheesecake. A thick layer of chocolate ganache makes this cheesecake rich and beautiful enough for a special occasion dessert like Valentine's Day, but we also think this fresh strawberry dessert could be served at barbecues, pool parties, even housewarming showers.
  Fudgy homemade brownies and strawberry slices may sound out of this world, but the chocolate ganache drizzled over top sends this dessert into orbit. The heat from the ganache softens the berries just slightly. Then the dessert is chilled until it's time to serve.
 Caitlin Bensel; Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Skip those spongy little cups you get from the grocery store and try our simple strawberry shortcake. These are crumbly, rich, golden-brown delights perfect for sopping up a sweet strawberry mixture and being topped with a huge dollop of whipped cream. You always will want to take the time to make homemade shortcakes after you've baked your first batch and taken your first bite. We did.
 Caitlin Bensel, Food Stylist: Torie Cox  Strawberry Dump Cake is one of the simplest warm-weather desserts you could make, and you can bet that no one will believe how quickly you turned it out. The best part? It calls for only three ingredients: strawberry pie filling, cake mix, and butter.
  Has there ever been a nicer name for a dessert than Strawberry Dream Cake? This one is always a showstopper, with whole strawberries and smears of frosting sandwiched between dreamy layers of sweet white cake.
  Strawberry lemonade is a delicious sipper, so turning it into a cake is definitely an inspired idea. Our Strawberry-Lemonade Layer Cake recipe uses Strawberry-Lemonade Jam between its layers, and Strawberry Frosting. That's a lot of seasonal flavor packed into one cake, but it is still a light delight. You can assemble this glorious cake up to two days ahead. If you do, just store it at room temperature. Also, you can freeze cooled layers up to a month in plastic wrap and aluminum foil.
  What's better than individual strawberry shortcakes? A sheet cake that slices like individual cakes, that's what. Classic strawberry shortcake is similar to a biscuit or scone with whipped cream and strawberries. That makes the shortcake dense and crumbly. We turned that rich texture into a sheet cake, which is normally airy and light, but we keep the cake fluffy with soft winter wheat, a type of Southern wheat that makes for a more tender biscuit.
  Classic Key lime pie is a stand-alone Southern dessert star, but never missing an opportunity to improve upon the classics, this recipe adds drama with the surprise addition of strawberry-infused whipped cream. If that wasn't enough, we love this strawberry dessert recipe because it is designed to feed a crowd. The slab pie is made in an 15- x 10-inch jelly-roll pan, which means it can serve 12 people at a party, potluck, or family reunion.
 Jen Causey; Food Stylist: Margaret Dickey; Prop Stylist: Hannah Greenwood  This all-new recipe from our Test Kitchen is already a hit with readers. One five-star reviewer wrote: “Absolutely divine! Made exactly as stated. Everyone loved it, and it was devoured quickly with a request for more.”
  The nostalgic jello strawberry pretzel "salad" has long been the centerpiece of many church potlucks, family reunions, and holiday meals. The combination of silky cream cheese, smooth jello, and crispy pretzel crust is unbeatable—and truly iconic. This strawberry pretzel salad is just as you'll remember it, down to the bites of fruit in the gelatin layer. This recipe can be made a day ahead and stored in the fridge until it's ready to be sliced and served.
 Photographer: Jen Causey; Food Stylist: Margaret Dickey; Prop Stylist: Hannah Greenwood  This simple five-ingredient recipe immediately adds flavor and texture to whatever you pair it with. Our Test Kitchen recommends serving these Macerated Strawberries on pound cake, ice cream, and oatmeal, just to name a few. 
  You've just found your signature dish for summer porch parties. This sangria combines strawberry and peaches in a dry wine and sparkling water sangria that's just sippable enough to go down really easily. You've been warned!
 Victor Protasio; Food Stylist: Emily Nabors Hall; Prop Stylist: Mary Clayton Carl Jones  This sheet cake is a delicious way to feed dessert to a crowd, and it’s already getting rave reviews from our What’s Cooking With Southern Living Facebook group members for the moist texture and delicious taste. But perhaps our favorite part of it is the precious presentation. The flowers on this springy cake are made by simply cutting marshmallows and placing a yellow candy-coated chocolate in the center. 
  When the berries first start popping up at the farmers' market, we have one thing on our minds: strawberry cake. This strawberry cake recipe will be welcome at every springtime occasion, from Easter brunch to bridal showers. The layers have both chopped strawberries and strawberry-flavored gelatin so you get the ultimate flavor and color. We like frosting this with a simple Vanilla Buttercream, but if you wanted a bit more tang, try a Cream Cheese Icing.
  This layered strawberry dessert invites flavors of banana pudding and strawberry icebox desserts into an unforgettable mash-up sweet that will leave everyone at your potluck or party asking for the recipe. The pudding filling is thicker so the cake keeps its shape. Instead of vanilla wafers, we use graham crackers which keep a little texture even after resting for several hours. You can make the layers ahead and let them sit overnight the day before you plan to serve. Just don't make the whipped cream until you're ready to remove the icebox cake from the pan and serve.
  Batter cobblers are cakey cobblers that perform a bit of magic while in the oven. Batter is poured into the baking pan, then fruit is sprinkled on top. While the cobbler bakes, the batter rises above and envelopes the fruit, turning each berry tender and sweet. Scoop it into a bowl and top with vanilla ice cream.
  Turn the classic fruity strawberry cake on its head with a dose of deep, dark chocolate. The fudgy layers of this chocolate cake are separated by buttercream that is studded with fresh strawberries. And for more strawberry punch, you can adorn the top of the cake with whole berries. We might even suggest using chocolate-dipped strawberries to tie the dessert's theme together.
  A staple of Bible studies and book clubs, pound cake is always welcome on Southern tables. This recipe uses strawberry glaze for the vivid pink striping, so to get fresh berries on the plate, be sure to serve each slice with a few whole berries or a spoonful of chopped berries that have been tossed in sugar.
  Flip the script on strawberry pie by trading the crust's graham crackers for chocolate cookies. The chocolate crust sets a new tone for this strawberry pie, which is carried through to a surprise ingredient in the strawberry topping: red currant jelly. This jelly is bright with citrus notes, which is why we chose it over strawberry jelly or glaze (and added the orange liqueur). That lets the true flavor of the fresh strawberries shine. If you can't find red currant jelly, an all-natural strawberry jam would work.
  Raise your hand if you've found yourself craving strawberry cheesecake late at night but you didn't have any in the freezer and certainly no time or energy to make a whole dessert yourself. Now, you do. These Strawberry Cheesecake Bites capture everything you love about cheesecake: creamy, decadent, lightly sweet cheesecake filling with the tartness of strawberries to contrast. There's even a sprinkle of graham crackers on top for the full, top-to-bottom strawberry cheesecake experience.
  At the height of summer, no one wants to add extra heat to the home by flipping on an oven. So how do you get centerpiece-worthy desserts without the cooker? No-bake desserts, of course. This No-Bake Strawberry Pie is similar to an icebox pie, with a filling made from sweetened condensed milk and whipped cream. Fresh strawberry pieces are mashed up so every bite of this dessert has a hint of delicate strawberry sweetness.
  If you make a batch of the strawberry syrup, you can whip up one of these strawberry cocktails every night until the syrup runs dry. Use as much syrup as you like. The more you pour, the sweeter the drink. But if you like gin, use the strawberry syrup lightly, to gently blunt the gin's sting. Bonus: You'll have even more syrup for extra cocktails on the porch.
  The classic crepe recipe, much like an old-fashioned pancake recipe, should be in any home cook's back pocket for special brunches or weekend breakfasts. This recipe turns out gauzy, paper-thin crepes that are the perfect blank canvas for a multitude of toppings, but if you ask us, we'll pick the Honeyed Strawberries in this recipe every time.
 Greg Dupree; Food Stylist: Chelsea Zimmer; Prop Stylist: Christina Daley   Just looking at these strawberry-studded cookies makes us happy. These Strawberry Shortbread Cookies are stunners. They require only seven ingredients and incorporate freeze-dried strawberries to pack a punch of flavor.
  This strawberry dessert salad is an ideal pick for potlucks or your next family gathering because it comes together quickly, and you don't have to worry about a layer sliding off on the way to the party. Plus, it has what everyone craves in a dessert: creamy spoonfuls of fresh, fruity bites, and a hint of crunch from graham cracker pieces. You can make this ahead, but to keep the texture of the crackers, don't fold those in until just before you serve.
  If you can't eat, cook, or puree all your strawberries before they're begin to turn mushy, put some up for later with homemade strawberry jam. You can use this jam in desserts like pound cake or icebox pies, or spoon some on biscuits, toast, or oatmeal. It's made with three simple ingredients and can last up to two months in the refrigerator, too, so a jar of this jam would make a delicious gift for neighbors or new parents.
  What's better than a slice of pie? A whole mini pie to yourself, that's what. These petite pies are sized right for one person, and you get the perfect balance of crust, filling, and fruity topping. If you can't find mini pie pans, you can use the same recipe to make one large, 9-inch pie. It will still be delicious, if not quite as cute.
  If the precise crimping and styling of a pie is just too much for your carefree culinary ways, consider a galette instead. The open folds and freeform shape make this dessert more approachable for some folks. (Of course, for others, the lack of a pan may be stressful and nerve-racking.) To each person, their own pie.
  This non-alcoholic frozen lemonade is the perfect drink for the hottest summer days. Crisp lemonade, frozen strawberries, and club soda blend up into a bubbly, effervescent drink that'll tickle your nose and your taste buds. Kids will love this recipe as much as the adults.
  Did you freeze strawberries at the end of the season and now need a way to use them up? Don't overlook the classic strawberry smoothie. This recipe uses almond milk and creamy peanut butter, but you can use whatever dairy or non-dairy beverage you have on hand, as well as any of your favorite nut butters. The honey isn't necessary if you want to eliminate it, but the floral notes complement the strawberries' sweetness. Blend up a few for you and the kids, and take them to go on your way to school or work.
 Fred Hardy II, Food Stylist: Ruth Blackburn, Prop Stylist: Caleb Clarke  One of the best things about these light spring cookies is that you can enjoy them long after strawberry season is over. Store them in an airtight container in the freezer for up to a few months to prolong that fresh strawberry flavor. 
 Victor Protasio; Food Stylist: Melissa Gray; Prop Stylist: Christine Keely  This beautiful, big-batch pavlova is Assistant Food Editor Alana Al-Hatlani’s go-to dessert for entertaining. “It requires very little hands-on work to make ahead of time, and not only can you prepare the meringue a day ahead, it's even better when you do. Then all you have to do is top it when you are ready to serve,” she writes.
  In this simple salad, strawberries are the star of the show. We recommend harvesting fully ripened fruit for the sweetest flavor. They'll balance out the sharpness of the homemade mustard vinaigrette and blue cheese.
 Antonis Achilleos; Prop Stylist: Lydia Purcell; Food Stylist: Ruth Blackburn  Why flip multiple flapjacks when you can make one delectable Dutch baby right in your favorite cast-iron skillet? Our Test Kitchen does recommend specifically using your cast-iron (not non-stick), as it will give the ideal texture of “crispy edge and custardy middle.” 
  What one five-star reviewer said sets our Strawberry Milkshake recipe aside from others is that it uses fresh strawberries, not just strawberry ice cream: “These milkshakes are amazing! The fresh strawberries are hands down better than any strawberry flavored ice cream. So good!” 
 Greg DuPree; Food Stylist: Ruth Blackburn; Prop Stylist: Mary Clayton Carl  This cocktail recipe is based on a simple syrup concocted from a quart of fresh berries. The syrup lends its beautiful pink color as well as a subtle strawberry flavor to complement the zingy lime and mint mixture. Leftover syrup can be squirted into lemonade or poured over pancakes—why not keep a fresh batch in the refrigerator all season long?
  Our Test Kitchen turned this classic dessert into a rich vanilla ice cream slathered with homemade strawberry sauce. They are spread in layers with cubes of angel food cake so you can have the full shortcake experience in every spoonful. Top with fresh strawberry slices and whipped cream.
 Greg DuPree; Food Stylist: Ruth Blackburn; Prop Stylist: Mary Clayton Carl  Making this sweet drink is easy but requires a bit of planning. To make your own strawberry-infused tequila, place a quart of berries in a jar, pour blanco tequila over top, seal and store in a cool and dark place. Now you've got an irresistible jewel-toned spirit that you can top off with mineral water or use in margaritas.
 Caitlin Bensel; Food Stylist: Torie Cox  This is the strawberry salad recipe to pull out any time you're looking to impress. It starts with spicy arugula sprinkled with basil, mint, and tangy maple-balsamic vinaigrette. The greens are mellowed by a pound of sweet, juicy berries and salty, crisped prosciutto.
  Most strawberry salads don't give the springtime fruit the respect they deserve. Not this one. It's loaded with strawberries and topped with a strawberry vinaigrette, too. We love the pairing of bacon with this fruity salad as it provides a salty contrast and a hint of smokiness against the fruit's tartness. Need this salad to be more of a main dish? Add shredded rotisserie chicken.
  When the old boxed cake mix just won't do, turn to a springtime take on a classic birthday cake. This one incorporates strawberry and vanilla, which together make one of our favorite flavor combinations.
 Southern Living  Making a sheet cake is one of the easiest ways to treat a crowd, and it also ensures easy prep and quick clean-up in the kitchen, which is an all-around win. This one takes the classic strawberries-and-cream combo and turns it into a big-batch dessert fit for a party.
 Caitlin Bensel; Food Styling: Melissa Gray; Prop Styling: Missie Neville Crawford  Strawberry Icebox Cake is one of our favorite ways to showcase a juicy strawberry harvest. It's also impressive enough to be a centerpiece on the dessert table. This recipe uses a cream that is flavored with vanilla extract and colored pink by the addition of strawberry jam.
 Victor Protasio; Food Stylist: Ruth Blackburn; Prop Stylist: Christina Daley  Tiramisu never fails to impress, and this cake makes a bright-and-cheery base for using up all of the berries you have on hand. It's a perfect place to scatter your strawberries, which also get incorporated into the fruity layers.
  The crust on this Strawberry-Pretzel Icebox Pie is made from pretzel sticks and butter, which add a salty balance to the filling, a cool and creamy mixture of strawberries, condensed milk, and cream cheese.
 Antonis Achilleos; Food Styling: Emily Nabors Hall; Prop Styling: Kay E. Clarke  Snack cakes are a great bite anytime of day. That's why our Strawberry-Rosé Snack Cake has become such a family-favorite recipe. The unfussy result of combining strawberries, rose wine, and cake ingredients is a deliciously easy take on a classic summer berry cake.
  There always seems to be an occasion for a poke cake on the horizon, and one of our favorite recipes to make lately is this one for Strawberry Poke Cake. It gets a beautifully marbled interior thanks to the use of yellow cake mix and strawberry gelatin. Don't skimp on the addition of lemon juice and zest, which is a good foil for the sweetness of the cake.
  Where there's a party, there has to be a punch, and this springtime spin on a classic celebratory drink is sweet and refreshing. Our Easter Punch recipe amps up the fruity flavor by using fresh strawberries, chilled rose, and bottled strawberry-lemonade.
 Caitlin Bensel; Food Stylist: Rebecca Cummins  This nostalgic beverage is one for the memory books, but it's also just as lovely to sip on as you remember from days past. Strawberry milk is a simple, cooling, and creamy blend that showcases fresh strawberry flavor just beautifully. Blending it from scratch also ensures that you can make it just as sweet as you'd like it to be.
  When relaxation is the name of the game, reach for a batch of Strawberry Piña Coladas, which are just as refreshing poolside as they are by the beach. The frosty and tropical blend incorporates cream of coconut and lime juice as well as fresh strawberries and pineapple.
 Fred Hardy, Food Stylist: Margaret Monroe Dickey, Prop Stylist: Caleb Clarke  No need to turn on the oven to make this chilled Jell-O Pie, which starts with a store-bought graham cracker crust and fills it with a fruity gelatin filling. The topping is fresh strawberries, lemon crumbs made from lemon gelatin, and whipped topping.
 Greg Dupree, Food Stylist: Emily Nabors Hall, Prop Stylist: Christine Keely  Forget the store-bought stuff. These Simple Strawberry Strudels are elegant and delicious enough for any pastry case. Using frozen puff pastry sheets give you a shortcut to breakfast. They're filled with strawberry preserves and drizzled with a sweet glaze.
 Greg Dupree, Food Stylist: Ruth Blackburn, Prop Stylist: Claire Spollen  Ever thought about pairing strawberry and orange? This recipe for Strawberry-Orange Fools spins up a parfait-style layered dessert that incorporates fresh fruit alongside creamy whipped layers and the crunch of crushed waffle cones.
