Looking for care services? 
Find and compare services
 

Browser Support


We recommend using one of the following browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari. Any other browser may experience partial or no support.

 
45 Meopham Road, Mitcham, Surrey, CR4 1BH
07958 070028
 Provided and run by:
                R-H-P Outreach Services Ltd
 We carried out a review of the data available to us about R-H-P Outreach Services - Meopham Road on 6 July 2023. We have not found evidence that we need to carry out an inspection or reassess our rating at this stage. This could change at any time if we receive new information. We will continue to monitor data about this service. If you have concerns about R-H-P Outreach Services - Meopham Road, you can give feedback on this service. R-H-P Outreach Services - Meopham Road is a residential care home providing care and accommodation to people living with mental health needs. The service can support up to five people. At the time of the inspection there were three people living at the service.People's experience of using this service and what we foundPeople were supported to stay safe and maintain their health and well-being. They were supported by enough staff who knew them well and had been safely recruited. Staff helped people take their medicines in a safe way. The environment was clean and robust infection control procedures were followed. People were involved in planning their support and this was tailored to their own needs and wishes. They knew how to raise any concerns and complaints about the service and felt able to talk to the registered manager about day to day issues. The registered manager regularly checked and assessed the quality of the care and support provided to people. They worked to ensure people received high quality personalised care, and to achieve the best possible outcomes.  Health and social care professionals said the service communicated well with them and provided a good quality of support to their clients.For more details, please see the full report which is on the CQC website at www.cqc.org.ukRating at last inspectionThis was the first inspection of this service.Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 People's experience of using this service and what we foundPeople were supported to stay safe and maintain their health and well-being. They were supported by enough staff who knew them well and had been safely recruited. Staff helped people take their medicines in a safe way. The environment was clean and robust infection control procedures were followed. People were involved in planning their support and this was tailored to their own needs and wishes. They knew how to raise any concerns and complaints about the service and felt able to talk to the registered manager about day to day issues. The registered manager regularly checked and assessed the quality of the care and support provided to people. They worked to ensure people received high quality personalised care, and to achieve the best possible outcomes.  Health and social care professionals said the service communicated well with them and provided a good quality of support to their clients.For more details, please see the full report which is on the CQC website at www.cqc.org.ukRating at last inspectionThis was the first inspection of this service.Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 People were supported to stay safe and maintain their health and well-being. They were supported by enough staff who knew them well and had been safely recruited. Staff helped people take their medicines in a safe way. The environment was clean and robust infection control procedures were followed. People were involved in planning their support and this was tailored to their own needs and wishes. They knew how to raise any concerns and complaints about the service and felt able to talk to the registered manager about day to day issues. The registered manager regularly checked and assessed the quality of the care and support provided to people. They worked to ensure people received high quality personalised care, and to achieve the best possible outcomes.  Health and social care professionals said the service communicated well with them and provided a good quality of support to their clients.For more details, please see the full report which is on the CQC website at www.cqc.org.ukRating at last inspectionThis was the first inspection of this service.Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 People were involved in planning their support and this was tailored to their own needs and wishes. They knew how to raise any concerns and complaints about the service and felt able to talk to the registered manager about day to day issues. The registered manager regularly checked and assessed the quality of the care and support provided to people. They worked to ensure people received high quality personalised care, and to achieve the best possible outcomes.  Health and social care professionals said the service communicated well with them and provided a good quality of support to their clients.For more details, please see the full report which is on the CQC website at www.cqc.org.ukRating at last inspectionThis was the first inspection of this service.Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 The registered manager regularly checked and assessed the quality of the care and support provided to people. They worked to ensure people received high quality personalised care, and to achieve the best possible outcomes.  Health and social care professionals said the service communicated well with them and provided a good quality of support to their clients.For more details, please see the full report which is on the CQC website at www.cqc.org.ukRating at last inspectionThis was the first inspection of this service.Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 For more details, please see the full report which is on the CQC website at www.cqc.org.ukRating at last inspectionThis was the first inspection of this service.Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 Rating at last inspectionThis was the first inspection of this service.Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 This was the first inspection of this service.Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 Why we inspected This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 This service was registered with us in May 2019 and this was the first inspection.We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 We looked at infection prevention and control measures under the Safe key question. We look at this in all care home inspections even if no concerns or risks have been identified. This is to provide assurance that the service can respond to COVID-19 and other infection outbreaks effectively.Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 Follow upWe will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
 We will continue to monitor information we receive about the service until we return to visit as per our reinspection programme. If we receive any concerning information we may inspect sooner. 
  
 
 


Download full inspection report for R-H-P Outreach Services - Meopham Road - PDF - (opens in new window)
                            

 
                    Published
                        23 February 2022
                                     In
                            London,
                            SW16 4HN
                                                     In
                            Mitcham,
                            CR4 1BP
                                                     In
                            London,
                            SW16 5BP
                                                     
About service locations
 
Information we provide
 
About inspection reports
 Your information helps us decide when, where and what to inspect. Let's make care better together. © Care Quality Commission  We rate most services according to how safe, effective, caring, responsive and well-led they are, using four levels: 
Outstanding
 – the service is performing exceptionally well.
 
Good
 – the service is performing well and meeting our expectations.
 
Requires improvement
 – the service isn't performing as well as it should and we have told the service how it must improve.
 
Inadequate
 – the service is performing badly and we've taken enforcement action against the provider of the service.
 
Not rated
 – we have not yet rated this area of the service, this is normally because the assessments we have carried out have been focused on other key questions.
 We don't rate every type of service. Some services - like dentists - we don't have the legal power to rate. For these services, we show ticks and crosses to explain where we have found that action needs to be taken. Our approach changed in June 2024 so our reports from before that have slightly different wording. 
In our new approach, these areas show as 'Regulations met'.
This means that we haven't found any breaches of the regulations for that area. For older reports, they are labeled as 'No action'. In both cases, our judgement means that we are not demanding change from the provider of the service for this area.
 
In our new approach, these show as 'Not all regulations met'.
This means that we found at least one regulation had been breached in this area. For older reports, you will see a label of 'Improvements required'. In both cases, we expect the provider to make changes to the service.
 
In older reports, a red cross means we are taking enforcement action against the provider because of breaches of the regulations we have found. In our new approach, we show enforcement separately from the assessment judgement so you won't see a red cross displayed.
