Gretchen Cuda Kroen’s article (“Being Black and healthy is harder than ever post-COVID-19,” Feb. 6, 2023) highlights that disparities in health and well-being Blacks experience, made much worse by the pandemic, have origins in factors outside of those traditionally addressed by the health care delivery system.  Fortunately, in Cleveland and elsewhere, this situation is changing. Since 2019, MetroHealth System’s Institute for H.O.P.E. has worked to address non-clinical factors impacting the well-being of our patients. Recognizing that these “social and structural drivers of health” have profound health impacts and contribute greatly to health disparities, MetroHealth routinely screens patients for the presence of health-related social needs. MetroHealth was also the initiating sponsor of an electronic resource referral network in Northeast Ohio that connects individuals reporting health-related social needs with community-based organizations that can help address those needs. Called Unite Ohio, this network includes all the major Cleveland health care systems and nearly 250 community-based organizations serving Cuyahoga County. Addressing and eliminating health disparities will require a sustained, multi-sector collaborative effort. Along with our health care and community partners, MetroHealth is committed to this work for the long haul. James Misak, MD Medical Director, MetroHealth System Institute for H.O.P.E.TM Cleveland If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices