Daily Weather Report Powered By: A crew from Center for Employment Opportunities cleans up the trash left at a former homeless camp between Hancock Expressway and East Las Vegas Street Friday, March 3, 2023. The crew started the clean on Monday. The Colorado Springs Police Department's Homeless Outreach Team broke up the camp earlier in the week. (The Gazette, Christian Murdock) Trash from a former homeless camp lines a creek under Highway 24 between East Las Vegas Street and Hancock Expressway Thursday, March 2, 2023, after the Colorado Springs Police Department's Homeless Outreach Team cleared out the camps earlier in the week. (The Gazette, Christian Murdock) A crew from the Center for Employment Opportunities cleans up the trash left from a former homeless camp between Hancock Expressway and East Las Vegas Street Friday, March 3, 2023. The Colorado Springs Police Department's Homeless Outreach Team broke the camp up earlier in the week. (The Gazette, Christian Murdock)  Reporter A crew from Center for Employment Opportunities cleans up the trash left at a former homeless camp between Hancock Expressway and East Las Vegas Street Friday, March 3, 2023. The crew started the clean on Monday. The Colorado Springs Police Department's Homeless Outreach Team broke up the camp earlier in the week. (The Gazette, Christian Murdock) Trash from a former homeless camp lines a creek under Highway 24 between East Las Vegas Street and Hancock Expressway Thursday, March 2, 2023, after the Colorado Springs Police Department's Homeless Outreach Team cleared out the camps earlier in the week. (The Gazette, Christian Murdock) A crew from the Center for Employment Opportunities cleans up the trash left from a former homeless camp between Hancock Expressway and East Las Vegas Street Friday, March 3, 2023. The Colorado Springs Police Department's Homeless Outreach Team broke the camp up earlier in the week. (The Gazette, Christian Murdock) Authorities are cracking down on trespassing and camping complaints among the homeless population in southeast Colorado Springs as camp ‘cleanup’ efforts continue throughout the week, according to the Colorado Springs Police Department. Police said the cleanup is being conducted by Colorado Springs’ Quality of Life Team, with the assistance of crews from the Colorado Department of Transportation. According to authorities, Homeless Outreach Team officers had posted notices to the camps near the 1800 block of Hancock Drive multiple times in the last several weeks to advise the trespassers of the clean-up coming soon to the area. Officers said they provided exact dates that officers and the clean-up crew would begin the process of dismantling camps located on Colorado Springs, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad and CDOT property. Police said that during Feb. 27 and 28, there were 29 adults cited for trespassing, and 15 were transported to the Criminal Justice Center, clearing out 15 misdemeanor and seven felony warrants. Authorities also made two narcotics-related arrests, and transported a sex offender for address verification, CSPD said. According to CSPD Sgt. Olav Chaney, cleanup work will continue through the week, if weather prevails, with a possibility of crews working into next week.  As of late Wednesday morning, CDOT crews were moving cleanup efforts to the north side of the Leon Young Service Center, Chaney said.  Penrose Library and Mobile Library services will resume regular operation on Wednesday, March 1, following closures prompted by initial screening results indicating methamphetamine contamination received the week of Feb. 19. Penrose Library and Mobile Library services will resume regular operation on Wednesday, March 1, following closures prompted by initial screening results indicating methamphetamine contamination received the week of Feb. 19. Reporter   Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: