Islanders hoping to get timely access to surgery and specialists will receive referrals more quickly if a new Health P.E.I. plan is successful. The health authority says work is underway to create an online platform allowing health-care providers to view existing referrals or wait times for a specific specialist when referring a patient — an option that isn't available now. Dylana Arsenault, the executive director of hospital services and patient flow, said that with no numbers to guide them, clinicians may end up referring patients to well-established surgeons on P.E.I. who have longer wait lists than other doctors with the same area of expertise. For procedures such as cataract surgery, the health agency said some people have waited more than 400 days. To reduce these wait times, Health P.E.I. plans on centralizing the referral process so that physicians can transfer patients to alternative specialists with the capacity to take them in sooner. The change "allows them to have just that extra piece when deciding who is the right care provider that they'd like to refer their patients," she said. The project is still in its early stages, she said, including consultations with health-care providers. Health P.E.I. recently hired a provincial director of surgical services, whose job is to reassess the current system and support the transition to a more efficient approach. With funding to be secured and software to be bought, Arsenault expects it to be between 12 to 18 months before a new centralized referral system is in place. She said P.E.I. is a small province, making it easier for Health P.E.I. to find solutions. In the meantime, she said, anyone concerned with wait times for a procedure can always ask for a new referral to a different practitioner. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. The former president can't seem to get over Democrats calling him and his running mate "weird" Melania Trump has largely been absent from Donald Trump's campaign, appearing only sporadically in public. Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death After nearly a year of challenges on and off the ice, Patrik Laine is ready for a fresh start. Khelif was Algeria’s first woman to ever win a gold medal in boxing at the Paris 2024 Olympics