Blockaid, a Web3 security company used by firms like Metamask and Opensea, has raised a $27 million Series A led by Ribbit Capital and Variant. The round also saw participation from Cyberstarts, Sequoia Capital and Greylock Partners. The New York and Tel Aviv-based company said it would use the funding to scale its product, customer base and team to address the industry’s security challenges, which it described as “never-ending” in an emailed announcement on Monday. Blockaid offers a security layer that can scan every transaction from a wallet or interact with a decentralized app (dApp) or a smart contract and is compatible with any blockchain network. The firm claims to have scanned 450 million transactions, thwarted 1.2 million malicious transactions and safeguarded $500 million in user funds that would have been otherwise compromised in the last three months alone. Nearly $700 million was lost across 184 incidents in Q3 of 2023, more than the entire first half of the year ($633 million), according to blockchain security firm Certik, highlighting the scale of the challenge in tightening security for Web3 projects and applications. Read More: DraftKings' Billionaire-Backed Crypto Analytics Firm CoinScan Raises $6.3M Edited by Parikshit Mishra. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Jamie Crawley is a CoinDesk news reporter based in London. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk