🙌Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! Get us in your inbox Sign up to our newsletter for the latest and greatest from your city and beyond By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions.  Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! The best of Sydney for free. Sign up for our email to enjoy Sydney without spending a thing (as well as some options when you’re feeling flush). Déjà vu! We already have this email. Try another? By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions.  Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! Love the mag? Our newsletter hand-delivers the best bits to your inbox. Sign up to unlock our digital magazines and also receive the latest news, events, offers and partner promotions. Déjà vu! We already have this email. Try another? By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Stay four nights for the price of three at this luxury five-star hotel Stay and play in the heart of the city this spring holidays by treating yourself to a vacation at one of Sydney’s finest five-star hotels. The Fullerton Hotel Sydney has created a special package for locals and tourists, allowing you to enjoy four nights’ accommodation for the price of three. Located smack-bang in the centre of Sydney’s CBD, this grand hotel is the perfect launchpad for exploring the best our city has to offer. The Fullerton Hotel Sydney is partly housed in what used to be the General Post Office building, built in 1874. Here you get the best of both worlds – a sense of history married to some very contemporary design and deluxe service.  Whether you’re staying solo, enjoying a romantic escape with your loved one, or bringing the entire family along, you’ll find spacious and stylish rooms to suit all sizes. With plush beds, unlimited internet and the latest technology solutions, The Fullerton Hotel Sydney attends to your every comfort. Guests can also make the most of amenities including a state-of-the-art fitness centre, relaxing Endota Spa, and elegant drinking and dining options. The abundance of entertainment, dining and culture extends beyond the hotel walls, providing every excuse to extend your stay. Step outside into the fresh air for a day of exploration with iconic landmarks such as the Sydney Opera House, Harbour Bridge, Royal Botanic Garden, Museum of Contemporary Art and Circular Quay all within walking distance. Guests are also invited to discover the rich history of the former Sydney General Post Office building with The Fullerton Hotel Sydney’s complimentary GPO Heritage Tour. After a day of adventuring, make your way to the hotel’s in-house restaurant, The Place, for a lavish à la carte lunch or dinner featuring modern Australian and Southeast Asian cuisines. The Bar, located in the hotel lobby, is also a tranquil spot to unwind with the hotel’s signature afternoon tea served daily from noon to 4pm. Take this as a sign to treat yourself and your loved ones to a magnificent stay at The Fullerton Hotel Sydney. With this special offer, you can stay for four nights and only pay for three. Been there, done that? Think again, my friend. By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. 🙌Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! Been there, done that? Think again, my friend. By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. 🙌Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! Been there, done that? Think again, my friend. By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. 🙌Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! Popular on Time Out      Get us in your inbox By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. 🙌 Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! About us Contact us Time Out products