Hyderabad: Grab your favorite snacks and get ready to enjoy the weekend with some fabulous movies and web series. The last week of April is packed with many interesting movies and web series released on OTT platforms like Amazon, Netflix, Disney + Hotstar and so on. On the whole, the last week of April will be promising and entertaining.   Citadel The most awaited spy series starring Priyanka Chopra and Richard Madden, the first two episodes of ‘Citadel’ will release on 28 April. New episodes will release weekly every Friday. This show is packed with action, suspense, and entertainment. OTT Platform: Prime Video Release Date: 28 April Directed by: Joe Russo Language: English Pathu Thala ‘Pathu Thala’ is a Tamil film. The story revolves around AGR, a notorious don. Simbu aka Silambarasan plays the role of AGR in the movie. Gautham Karthik and Priya Bhavani Shankar will be seen in key roles. High action sequences and a good screenplay make this movie worth a watch. OTT Platform: Prime Video Release Date: 27 April Directed by: Obeli Krishna Language: Tamil Jallikattu The story revolves around the various events that take place after a buffalo sets itself free accidentally. The complete story revolves around how the escaped buffalo triggers violence in a remote village. OTT Platform: Prime Video, Voot, Aha Release Date: 27 April Directed by: La. Rajkumar Language: Tamil, Telugu Thuramukham ‘Thuramukhan’ is a Malayalam historical drama. The movie is based on the harbour workers’ protest against the Chappa labour system during the 1940s. The movie is based on real events from Mattancherry and highlights the struggles of workers during that period. OTT Platform: SonyLIV Release Date: 26 April Directed by: Rajeev Ravi Language: Malayalam Vyavastha ‘Vyavastha’ is a Telugu web series focusing mainly on the loopholes of the law system. Vamsi Krishna, a fresh law graduate, challenges the monopoly of Chakraborty, a ruthless senior lawyer. Karthik Rathnam plays the lead role in this series. OTT Platform: ZEE5 Release Date: 28 April Directed by: Anand Ranga Language: Telugu Dasara Natural Star Nani’s action thriller and hyper mass movie ‘Dasara’ is set to be launched on OTT. The movie is a combination of a pure love story struck between high drama and action. OTT Platform: Netflix Release Date: 27 April Directed by: Srikanth Odhela Language: Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, and Kannada Save the Tigers ‘Save the Tigers’ is a comedy web series revolving around three couples. The series mainly focuses on the frustration of family life and marital problems but in a funny way. OTT Platform: Disney + Hotstar Release Date: 27 April Directed by: Teja Kakumanu Language: Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, and Kannada Viduthalai ‘Viduthalai’ is a crime thriller starring Vijay Sethupathi, Soori, and Gautham Vasudev Menon. The movie will release on Zee5. Viewers have the golden chance to enjoy the extended version of the director’s cut. OTT Platform: Zee 5 Release Date: 28 April Directed by: Vetrimaran Language: Tamil