 Color really does have the power to not only transform the aesthetics of a room, it can completely change how we feel when step foot into a space; influencing our mood and evoking a sense of emotion and connection.   From choosing the perfect room color ideas to understanding the color wheel, there is a lot to learn about using color in the home, and interior designer Kit Kemp shares with us her 8 top tips for when decorating with color – and how important a tool it can be to transform an interior space.    'If you open the door to a house into a hallway and it is painted a glorious sunshine yellow, then you just instantly feel like spring; color has the power to lift your mood and make you happy, and I think that is a wonderfully transformative thing,' says Kit.   Be inspired by a new wave of color confidence and explore how to transform with color in your home.    BY JESSICA SALTER. CONTRIBUTIONS FROM ZARA STACEY   Kit explores the importance of using color in interior design and how it can uplift your home with individuality and beauty New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.