E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 KINGSTON, N.Y. – A city-based interior design firm has moved to Uptown digs after a December flood damaged its headquarters on Pine Street, the firm’s owner said.Jennifer Lynn Interiors has taken up shop in a 1,500-square-foot studio space at 314 Wall St., the former home of Chronogram Magazine. The three-story building, owned by New York City developer Neil Bender, also housed Outdated Restaurant, which closed in 2022.Jennifer Lynn Interiors — founded in 2016 — is owned by Jennifer Tampasis, who lives in Kingston and is a 17-year former teacher. Her three employees are from Saugerties, Port Ewen and Rhinebeck.Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors — which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. — talks with her employees about matching fabrics on Monday, Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)“The upscale interior design firm is moving from its previous space at 138 Pine Street to occupy the entire second-floor office space in the 3-story, mixed-use building in historic Uptown Kingston,” a description of the move said.The Kingston-based firm “specializes in whole-home and multi-room space planning, furnishing and decorating to create homes that are beautiful, put together, and cohesive from top to bottom,” an announcement said.A late December storm in the region brought flooding, which damaged the Pine Street location, the announcement said.“Despite (the) prior office location being flooded, after two weeks of looking for a new space, Jennifer was fortunate enough to find this incredible jewel,” the press release said.

“Our team, our landlord and our valued tradesmen joined forces to revive the office space and move at a swift pace with a very tight deadline. In two and a half weeks, the 1,500 square foot studio had the electrical updated, new lighting installed, a safety camera at the door, as well as the whole office space receiving a fresh coat of paint and the 100 year old floors were refinished to their glory.”The renovation effort was made in the face of pressure, Tampasis said.“With a hard deadline for a client presentation looming, JLI was able to move into the space, and set up the studio and conference room beautifully,” Tampasis wrote in an email. “In addition to updating and freshening up the space, JLI had custom wall displays built, temporary walls created, as well as furnishings and decor introduced to add personality. It was truly triumphant how well everything was organized and the firm overcame the hardships to bring this interior design studio back up and running at full capacity.”In the first two years of its founding, the firm was run from Tampasis’  Kingston home before moving to a two-room office space. In 2019, Jennifer Lynn Interiors relocated from 101 Hurley Ave to 138 Pine St.“Sadly, by March 2020, her staff was sent home to work remotely part time,” because of the pandemic, the release said. “Luckily by June of 2020 they were able to return to their office space again.”In the spring of 2021, the firm expanded further in the Pine Street location and created a large library sample room for the design team.Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. stands with her employees Wendy Catalano of Rhinebeck, N.Y., left, Ariana Connor of Port Ewen, third from left, and Brittany Provost of Saugerties, N.Y.Photo taken Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)Jennifer Tampasis, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston,N.Y., goes through a selection of fabrics. Photo taken Feb. 13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors — which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. — talks with her employees about matching fabrics on Monday, Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston,N.Y.Photo taken Feb. 13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)Jennifer Tampasis, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors, which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, stands in front of a selection of fabrics on Monday, Feb. 13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston,N.Y.Photo taken Feb. 13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. talks with her employees   Wendy Catalano of Rhinebeck, N.Y., Brittany Provost of Saugerties, center, and Ariana Connor of Port Ewen,  about matching fabrics. Photo taken Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)Show Caption1 of 9Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. stands with her employees Wendy Catalano of Rhinebeck, N.Y., left, Ariana Connor of Port Ewen, third from left, and Brittany Provost of Saugerties, N.Y.Photo taken Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)Expand Jennifer Lynn Interiors has taken up shop in a 1,500-square-foot studio space at 314 Wall St., the former home of Chronogram Magazine. The three-story building, owned by New York City developer Neil Bender, also housed Outdated Restaurant, which closed in 2022. Jennifer Lynn Interiors — founded in 2016 — is owned by Jennifer Tampasis, who lives in Kingston and is a 17-year former teacher. Her three employees are from Saugerties, Port Ewen and Rhinebeck. “The upscale interior design firm is moving from its previous space at 138 Pine Street to occupy the entire second-floor office space in the 3-story, mixed-use building in historic Uptown Kingston,” a description of the move said. The Kingston-based firm “specializes in whole-home and multi-room space planning, furnishing and decorating to create homes that are beautiful, put together, and cohesive from top to bottom,” an announcement said.  A late December storm in the region brought flooding, which damaged the Pine Street location, the announcement said. “Despite (the) prior office location being flooded, after two weeks of looking for a new space, Jennifer was fortunate enough to find this incredible jewel,” the press release said. “Our team, our landlord and our valued tradesmen joined forces to revive the office space and move at a swift pace with a very tight deadline. In two and a half weeks, the 1,500 square foot studio had the electrical updated, new lighting installed, a safety camera at the door, as well as the whole office space receiving a fresh coat of paint and the 100 year old floors were refinished to their glory.” The renovation effort was made in the face of pressure, Tampasis said. “With a hard deadline for a client presentation looming, JLI was able to move into the space, and set up the studio and conference room beautifully,” Tampasis wrote in an email. “In addition to updating and freshening up the space, JLI had custom wall displays built, temporary walls created, as well as furnishings and decor introduced to add personality. It was truly triumphant how well everything was organized and the firm overcame the hardships to bring this interior design studio back up and running at full capacity.” In the first two years of its founding, the firm was run from Tampasis’  Kingston home before moving to a two-room office space. In 2019, Jennifer Lynn Interiors relocated from 101 Hurley Ave to 138 Pine St. “Sadly, by March 2020, her staff was sent home to work remotely part time,” because of the pandemic, the release said. “Luckily by June of 2020 they were able to return to their office space again.” In the spring of 2021, the firm expanded further in the Pine Street location and created a large library sample room for the design team.  Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. stands with her employees Wendy Catalano of Rhinebeck, N.Y., left, Ariana Connor of Port Ewen, third from left, and Brittany Provost of Saugerties, N.Y.Photo taken Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)  Jennifer Tampasis, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston,N.Y., goes through a selection of fabrics. Photo taken Feb. 13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)  Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors — which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. — talks with her employees about matching fabrics on Monday, Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)  Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston,N.Y.Photo taken Feb. 13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)  Jennifer Tampasis, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors, which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, stands in front of a selection of fabrics on Monday, Feb. 13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)    Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston,N.Y.Photo taken Feb. 13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)  Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. talks with her employees   Wendy Catalano of Rhinebeck, N.Y., Brittany Provost of Saugerties, center, and Ariana Connor of Port Ewen,  about matching fabrics. Photo taken Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman)   Jennifer Tampasis, second from left, owner of Jennifer Lynn Interiors which recently moved into the former Chronogram office at 314 Wall Street in Uptown Kingston, N.Y. stands with her employees Wendy Catalano of Rhinebeck, N.Y., left, Ariana Connor of Port Ewen, third from left, and Brittany Provost of Saugerties, N.Y.Photo taken Feb.13, 2023. (Tania Barricklo/Daily Freeman) Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group