THE problem with trends is they can fall out of fashion as quickly as they became popular - meaning it can be hard to keep up.  And when it comes to buying homeware it's important to consider if it's an 'of the moment' trend before committing, especially if it's a pricey purchase.  There are some previously sought-after décor ideas that are a big no-no this year, according to experts. Here, interior design expert and Studio Dean founder Cathy Dean and Ryan McDonough at Myjobquote.co.uk share the trends you need to avoid... Firstly, it's bad news if you're a fan of a novelty lamp.  Cathy says: "Do you own a rabbit inside a lampshade, a monkey holding a light bulb? It is gold?  "Fun as they may have seemed it's time to retire them.  "Say bye bye to these kitsch items and replace them with classic shapes, natural materials. "If you want to add fun then look to add a patterned fabric shade." While we spend a great deal of time watching TV, having a feature TV wall is a tacky move.  Cathy says: "I am baffled by how the goggle box has become a standout feature!  "As much as they're part of our day-to-day lives, TVs are not beautiful, they're functional, so instead of giving them centre stage move them to the side-lines.  "Disguise them with a simple trick of painting the wall behind it dark so when switched off they disappear.  "Then pick something beautiful - an open fire, a piece of art, a fantastic wallpaper or simple styled shelving and make that the centrepiece of your room." This one is controversial as they've made the way into many homes over the past few years - but Cathy is adamant the velvet sofa is out this year.  She says: "I declare it is time to bid farewell to the velvet sofa.  "I know, I know, they're lovely, they add luxury, there is something "high end" about them.....but as they've appeared in more and more homes they're losing their appeal.  "Consider the other options out there - linens, chenille weaves, cottons, there are so many options, and if you must go velvet, I beg you stay neutral." It's been everywhere for the past two years, but boucle fabric furnishings are on the way out.  Cathy says: "Sofas, dining chairs, ottomans all adorned with this white textured fabric offer you a seat at the same time as terrifying you that you may stain it with even the tiniest speck of dirt.  "This fabric is quite simply form over function and for me that just cannot fly.  "Homes are to be lived in, used, enjoyed and they should feel welcoming, comforting and be like a hug as you walk in the door.  "It's just too much for everyday living." You might be looking to add a touch of sophistication to your dining room table - but if there's one thing you must do, it's avoid chairs that feature an ornamental door knocker on the back.  Cathy says: "Let me address a trend that I've seen filtering into those homes looking for a touch of glamour. "It's the door knocker on the back of a usually grey velvet dining chair.  "I just cannot contain my horror when I see these around a table.  "Unless you're running a secret society there really should be no need to knock to gain entry to a dinner party." One that really divides the crowd is a motto sign - but avoid these this year if you can help it as it could be making your house look twee.  Cathy says: "Have we ever actually needed wall signs in our homes?  "'Home is where the heart is', 'man cave' , 'this kitchen is for dancing' - all in a decorative font or even worse.....neon!  "Just say no." Currently rattan furniture is having a moment, but it's unlikely to last.  Myjobquote.co.uk's Ryan says: "Rattan décor has been very popular over the past few years.  "From sofas to chairs to even beds, there are many different types of rattan furniture.  "However, it seems the popularity of this material for interior design has finally reached its peak.  "Too much rattan is now seen as being overwhelming and tacky.  "While rattan may not disappear altogether, it’s looking like2023 will see rattan pieces being used as more of an accent rather than a focal point." Instead of signs, creating a gallery wall in your home is a great way to make use of empty wall space - but it's important to carefully think about what you want to feature.  Ryan says: "When you create a gallery wall, you want to be mindful of what you’re trying to accomplish with that space.   "Avoid filling up an empty wall with generic, mass-producedpieces of artwork just to simply fill the empty space.  "It’s sometimes better to have a completely blank space than to fill the wall with unoriginal or uninteresting art pieces." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/