Mumbai, Apr 21 (IANS): 'Bhagya Lakshmi' actor Rohit Suchanti has purchased a new house in Mumbai and he is doing its interior designing himself. He spoke about how he is planning to design his dream home. He said: "The feeling of owning a house is surreal and I am extremely happy to finally accomplish this dream. I am really looking forward to designing my dream house the way I've always imagined it to be. I believe the decor of a house can be exciting and challenging at the same time because it comes with the responsibility of making so many important decisions." Rohit, who is known for his roles in 'Saath Nibhana Saathiya', 'Rishta Likhenge Hum Naya' and also participated in the reality show 'Bigg Boss 12', shared why he decided to do the interiors himself and how he plans to do it. He said: "The main idea behind designing my new house is that I want everything to be minimal and aesthetically pleasing. However, along with the designs, I am also looking for beautiful custom-made furniture for my house to give it a complete look that will go along with the theme of the house. I don't know if I am a good interior designer, so of course I will be taking the help of a professional to guide me through it." 'Bhagya Lakshmi' airs on Zee TV.   Disclaimer: Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.  Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request. Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible. 
                            Daijiworld Residency,
                            Airport Road, Bondel Post,
                            Mangalore - 575 008
                            Karnataka India
                            Telephone : +91-824-2982023.
                            General Enquiry: office@daijiworld.com,
                            News & Info : news@daijiworld.com
                         
                            Kishoo Enterprises,
                            
                            3rd Floor, Mandavi Trade Centre,
                            Kadiyali, Udupi – 576 102
                            
                            Telephone : 0091-820-4295571
                            
                            E-mail : udupi@daijiworld.com
                         
                            Daijiworld Middle East FZE,
                            P.O.Box: 84772, Dubai, UAE
                            Tel: 971-50-6597629
                            Fax: 971-4-2639207
                            Email: dubai@daijiworld.com
                         
                        Copyright © 2001 - 2024. All Rights Reserved.
                        
                        Published by Daijiworld Media Pvt Ltd., Mangalore.
                      Powered by ATC Online LLP