I had an interior designer review my living room and give me advice for making it better. The designer suggested I only purchase a few simple, neutral pieces for my space. She said I should keep the walls off-white and add a neutral rug and extra lighting. I don't like clutter, or spaces in homes that feel overstuffed with furniture, accessories, and just things. It's overwhelming to me and the fear of ending up with a cluttered space has stopped me from committing to decorating my small living room. Currently, it's pretty bare, with just a white Tommy Hilfiger end table on one side. I haven't picked out anything else, but it's time to make my space my own. To help me spruce up my living room, I spoke to Brianna Untener, owner of Brianna Scott Interiors based in New York City. She has an elevated, luxurious style and I was immediately drawn to her simple, uber-stylish selections. Here's what she told me. My apartment has white quartz countertops, taupe cabinets, and grayish plank flooring so I knew I wanted a living space that complemented those shades while adding pops of texture and different styles. Untener created two design options for me that fit my desire for elevated decorations and soft furniture. She said the only main pieces of furniture I need for my space are a sofa, coffee table, and media console. "The goal for your living room was to create a cohesive space that coordinated with the adjacent kitchen, a design that felt warm and cozy with a minimal and elevated feel," Untener said. "We chose a light neutral palette that played off of the gray tones found in the kitchen cabinets and wood floors." My entire apartment is just 649 square feet, with an open-space concept between the kitchen and living room. Because it is so small, Untener said I shouldn't overdo it by painting the walls. "I would honestly recommend keeping the same off-white paint color throughout. This helps the space to feel cohesive and larger overall. I find with smaller spaces it's best to keep things simple," she added. The white wall between the kitchen and balcony is about 10 feet wide. I've always wanted to put a sleeper couch for guests there and Untener agreed that'd be a great location for it. "Since it is a 10-foot wall, I recommend choosing a sofa that is no more than 86 inches wide," Untener said. "This is to give some breathing room both visually and spatially so the sofa fits nicely and doesn't feel like it's taking over the whole room." She suggested an alabaster-colored couch and ottoman "to give the space an elevated yet relaxed feel." Together, we also chose a white 34-inch round coffee table. To add a pop of color, she said, I could put a tray or decoration on top of it. Untener also chose a media console that matched the shade of the couch to keep up with the feel of the room. "For the media console, we chose a storage piece with doors to add to the functionality of the space,"  she said. "Above it, we recommend the Samsung Frame TV because it is simple, elegant, and gives you the flexibility of choosing what you want to feature in the room." Untener said I should add a 6-by-9-foot rug to my space. It will fit the space proportionally and tie the room together. She suggested "a neutral abstract rug, slightly darker than the other furniture in the room to create a slight contrast and visual interest." To complement my patio doors and elevate the space, Untener said, she would add white linen sheers and long drapery. For additional accessories in the room, like couch pillows, Untener said she would stick with neutrals or "dark bronze/black or silver accents to coordinate with the silver finishes in the kitchen." The room has a ceiling fan that provides light, but Untener suggested I also add additional lights. "When designing a space, you always want to have different types of lighting. In your living room, I recommend adding a floor lamp to each side of the sofa to create a cozy feel," she said. Finally, Untener gave her suggestions for different pieces of art to add to the wall. Again, she said I should stick with either black, silver, or neutral colors for these pieces to work with the newly styled space and existing finishes in the apartment. Untener's great eye for elevating my living room definitely cured my decorating anxiety, and I look forward to buying pieces similar to her suggestions to make my space my own. Read the original article on Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.