Houzz: Architectural, design services sectors see business growth for Q3   Vicky Jarrett
//Managing Editor//July 25, 2023							 Palo Alto, Calif. – Slightly more professionals across sectors anticipate business growth rather than declines in the third quarter of 2023, following slowed activity and homeowner requests to postpone or reduce the scope of their projects in the first half of the year. That’s a key finding in the recent Q3 2023 Houzz U.S. Renovation Barometer released by Houzz Inc., a platform for home remodeling and design. The report tracks residential renovation market expectations, project backlogs and recent activity among businesses in the U.S. construction sector and the architectural and design services sector. “Pent-up demand and macroeconomic conditions, such as aging housing stock and high mortgage rates, which continue to drive home improvement activity, are instilling a sense of optimism among builders, remodelers, architects and interior designers as they look ahead to the second half of the year,” said Marine Sargsyan, Houzz staff economist. “We continue to monitor the industry to identify whether improvements to inflation and other economic indicators create more stable pricing for businesses and an environment in which homeowners proceed with their full project scope. That said, ongoing labor shortages and product and material delays will continue.” Backlogs have lengthened across the construction sector to a record high of 13 weeks, up 2.5 weeks compared with the same period last year. And business in the architectural and design services sector report backlogs of 6.4 weeks, 1.1 week shorter than this time last year. In the construction industry, build-only remodelers anticipate an increase in business activity in Q3 (54 compared with 50 in Q2), while expectations among design-build firms remains the same for Q3 at 53. This follows an uptick in both project inquiries and new projects for both groups (from 51 in Q2 to 54 in Q3 and 52 in Q2 to 53 in Q3, respectively). More firms in the architectural and design services sector reported increases in their business expectations for Q3 than reported decreases, although both subsectors reflect a decline in business performance expectations compared with the previous quarter (from 55 in Q2 to 52 in Q3 and 57 in Q2 to 52 in Q3, respectively). For the construction sector, the New England division (including Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont) has the longest backlog (21.8 weeks), compared with a 7.9-week backlog in the West South Central division (including Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas). Backlogs also vary across all regional divisions in the architecture and design services sector. Businesses in the East South Central division (Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Tennessee) reported backlogs of 9.2 weeks, while the West North Central division (including North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, and Minnesota) showed much shorter backlogs at 2.5 weeks. The Houzz Renovation Barometer is based on a quarterly online survey sent to a national panel of businesses with an online profile on Houzz. The Q3 2023 Barometer was fielded June 22-July 1 and garnered responses from nearly 1,000 home improvement firms on Houzz. n=967. Share this! 
                                    Tranquil colors and cozy room styling, along with a zen-insp[...] August 19, 2024 
                                    Wayfair Professional has identified four key home renovation[...] August 16, 2024 
                                    The atmospheric deep blue tones make it a color that feels "[...] August 13, 2024 
                                    The most widely purchased store brands in the U.S. are, as e[...] August 12, 2024 
                                    "Naturally Refined" exudes quiet comfort and luxury through [...] August 9, 2024 
                                    Sherwin-Williams has released its 2025 Colormix Forecast: Ca[...] July 31, 2024 Signup for your daily digest of industry news and trends.   Home Textiles Today provides industry news, product trends and introductions, exclusive industry research, consumer data, store operations solutions, trade show news and much more. Sign up to get exclusive industry information delivered to your inbox.   © 2024 BridgeTower Media. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to its Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your California Privacy Rights/Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info/Cookie Policy