Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? With so much stuff being online these days, you’re almost always going to need some form of laptop, but the good news is, you don’t need to snag one of the best laptops to get a good experience. In fact, pretty much all the top laptop brands have budget options, as well as the really high-end stuff where you can do things like play the latest AAA games. Sure, they may not entirely compete with desktop computers, but if you’re looking for a laptop with a lot of power, we’re certainly you’ll find one. As such we’ve collected these deals from the best brands, you’ll find HP laptop deals, Dell laptop deals, Acer laptop deals, Lenovo laptop deals, and more. They run the gamut from Chromebook deals and 2-in-1 laptop deals to powerful gaming laptop deals and everything in between. The HP Chromebook 14a, like all Chromebooks, is powered by Google’s ChromeOS. It’s a web-based operating system that doesn’t rely on installed software, which results in smooth performance despite low-end components. For the HP Chromebook 14a, you’ll get the Intel Pentium Silver N6000 processor, Intel UHD Graphics, and 4GB of RAM. It doesn’t look like much on paper, but the device cam still run fast for basic tasks. It also comes with a 14-inch HD display that maintains the laptop’s portability and a 64GB eMMC that may be supplemented by cloud storage on Google Drive.  The Lenovo Yoga 6 is a 2-in-1 laptop, which means you can use it in either laptop mode or tablet mode. It’s easy to switch between the two forms — you just need to fold the 13.3-inch WUXGA touchscreen all the way back, using its 360-degree hinges. For performance, the device is capable of handling your everyday tasks with its AMD Ryzen 7 7730U processor, AMD Radeon Graphics, and 16GB of RAM, and it comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded in its 1TB SSD. The Lenovo Yoga 6 also features a fabric cover for a stylish and striking look.  The Microsoft Surface Laptop 5, the latest in the brand’s line of Windows-powered laptops, is equipped with the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 Evo processor, Intel Iris Xe Graphics, and 8GB of RAM. The laptop maximizes Windows 11 Home, which isn’t a surprise as it’s a Microsoft device, with the operating system pre-installed in its 512GB SSD. The Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 comes with a 13.5-inch PixelSense touchscreen with Full HD resolution, and it’s the first Microsoft Surface Laptop with Thunderbolt 4 connectivity.  The Apple MacBook Air M2 isn’t the latest model of this particular line of Apple’s laptops, but the M2 processor is still pretty powerful by today’s standards. It’s perfect for creative professionals, with its 8-core CPU and 10-core GPU providing enough juice to finish demanding processes. The 15.3-inch Liquid Retina display features Full HD resolution for vibrant images and sharp details, and the fanless design enables silent operation. The Apple MacBook Air M2 can last up to 18 hours on a single charge, and it offers a 256GB SSD for storage.  For extremely powerful performance and a gorgeous screen, you can’t go wrong with the 16-inch Apple MacBook Pro M3 Pro. The M3 Pro processor pairs with 18GB of RAM, a 12-core CPU, and an 18-core GPU for the ability to handle even the most demanding workflows, while maintaining efficiency that allows the laptop to run for up to 22 hours on a single charge. You’ll have enough storage on the 16-inch Apple MacBook Pro M3 Pro’s 512GB SSD, and you won’t mind looking all day at its gorgeous 16.2-inch Liquid Retina XDR display with 4K Ultra HD resolution.  Jump into modern PC gaming with the Alienware m16, a gaming laptop that won’t have trouble playing today’s most popular titles. Inside the machine are the Intel Core Ultra 9 185H processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4070 graphics card, and 32GB of RAM that’s well above what is recommended by our guide on how much RAM do you need as the best place to start for gamers. Its 16-inch screen with QHD+ resolution will give justice to its processing power, and it’s got a 1TB SSD for enough space to install several video games with all their necessary updates and DLCs.  The 14-inch Apple MacBook Pro M3 is a powerful machine that will surely be more than enough for most professionals in the creative industry as it’s paired with an 11-core CPU, a 14-core GPU, and 18GB of RAM. The laptop features a 14.2-inch Liquid Retina XDR display that can go as bright as 1,000 nits for HDR content, a battery that can last for up to 22 hours on a single charge, a 1TB SSD for saving all of your projects, and the Touch ID fingerprint recognition system for security.  The eighth-generation Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Yoga is another 2-in-1 laptop that goes all out for its performance. It will be able to handle everything you throw at it and more with its 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, integrated Intel Iris Xe Graphics, and a substantial 16GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can multitask between apps without experiencing any slowdowns. The 2-in-1 laptop features a 14-inch WUXGA touchscreen, 512GB for considerable storage space, and the Lenovo Integrated Pen as an additional input option.  The Dell XPS 15 is on its way out of Dell’s lineup with the arrival of the Dell XPS 16, so you may want to grab the newer laptop now that it’s available. It offers fantastic performance on the back of the 13th-generation Intel Core Ultra 7 processor, an RTX 4060 graphics card, and 32GB of RAM, and you’ll have enough storage for your files on its 1TB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded. The Dell XPS 16 also features a 16.3-inch display with Full HD+ resolution, for a bright and sharp screen for working on all kinds of projects.  If you want to enjoy the biggest savings, you should be looking to take advantage of laptop deals during the biggest sales of the year — Black Friday and Cyber Monday. These shopping events always live up to their reputation, as you can get powerful laptops for extremely low prices. For student laptop deals, you should also think about buying a new laptop during the back-to-school season, as there will be major discounts on devices that are geared towards learning. There are many other sales over the year that slash the prices of laptops, and retailers are using any holiday as a reason to do so. If you’ve got your sights set on a certain laptop, check the calendar to see if the next holiday is coming up. If you can, it’s highly recommended that you wait until then because there’s a chance that the device’s price goes lower. It may not get as cheap as Black Friday or Cyber Monday, but when buying a new laptop, you should welcome any form of savings as you can use that cash towards other purchase like accessories, software, and subscriptions. You should also be aware of any new laptop models that are on their way. Most brands reveal these fresh devices well ahead of their actual launch, and when that happens, their predecessors usually have their prices reduced. If you’re fine with a previous-generation device — and let’s face it, sometimes the gap between generations isn’t that huge — then you should consider waiting for opportunities like this one. While there are lots of chances for you to get a new laptop for cheaper than usual, sometimes, you just can’t wait. If the laptop that you’re using already broke down, if there’s an upcoming project that requires a faster device, if you need an upgrade right now, or for whatever reason, the good news is hat we’ve got your back with the laptop deals that we’ve gathered above. Some of these prices are close to what you can get them for during Black Friday and Cyber Monday too, so there won’t be much regret if you make the purchase right now. Not all laptop deals are built the same — how do you figure out which ones are worth it? To help you differentiate the good offers from the bad bargains, we followed a specific set of criteria when we chose the deals that we highlighted here. While the most important factors will be different for each person, these are the ones that everyone should be thinking about when buying a new laptop. First and foremost, you should be getting amazing value for the hard-earned cash that you spend on a new laptop. If you’re going for a budget-friendly device, you should feel like you’re getting a machine that’s much more expensive, and if you’re thinking about investing in a premium laptop, you shouldn’t be spending more than you should for certain features. A good rule of thumb to follow is to determine how much you’re willing to shell out and get the best laptop deal that you can get for it, and the ones above are excellent examples for their respective prices. You should get the latest components as your budget allows, so the more you spend, the higher your expectation that you’ll be getting the newest generation of processors and graphics cards with your new laptop. It’s a huge bonus if you can get such specifications on a relatively affordable device, so you should be on the lookout for such offers. For the laptop deals that we chose, we want you to enjoy the most powerful performance that your budget allows. Laptops have varying designs, features, and specifications because they serve different purposes. A business laptop will focus on boosting your daily productivity, while a gaming laptop wants to run the best PC games without any issues. Figuring out how you’ll mostly use your next laptop will greatly help in choosing the device that you should buy, as you can avoid paying for characteristics that you don’t prioritize. When we chose these laptop deals, we made sure that they cater to multiple types of users, so there’s surely something for you here. You wouldn’t want to invest in a laptop that doesn’t pass reliability tests, as a device that breaks down after just a few months is like watching money go down the drain. Going for the most trusted names in the computing industry with the laptop deals that we highlighted above helps ensure that you’ll receive a durable laptop, and if something goes wrong, you’ll get the necessary support for a repair or a replacement. Some laptops can get pretty bulky — particularly gaming laptops and high-end workstations — but they’re still more portable than lugging around an entire desktop computer setup. We don’t want to burden you with unnecessary weight and size though, so we made sure that the laptops that we recommended are still capable of sliding into your backpack so that you can easily take them with you to work or school. It’s easy to just pick the first laptop deals that we see when we go to any website, but we made sure to get the best offers available online. You can confirm yourself that you’ll be getting good deals from any of the bargains above using tools such as CamelCamelCamel and Google Shopping Insights, which will show you the recent spikes and dips in the prices of these laptops. These tools are pretty easy to learn and utilize, so you’ll be getting a nice snapshot of the pricing history of the laptop that you’re interested in buying. We used these tools to come up with this list of laptop deals so that you don’t have to go through the process yourself, but it’s not a problem if you don’t want to take our word for it. We’re confident that you’ll get the same results if you look for the best bargains that are available right now, so once you’re done comparing, feel free to take another look at our recommendations so that you can finally choose your next laptop. You better hurry though, because the more you delay your purchase, the higher the risk of missing out on these discounts that we’ve sniffed out. If you're a student, you probably don't have a massive budget to buy a new laptop, but luckily, there are some excellent laptop deals that you can take advantage of. You can absolutely get all your work done on the best budget laptops without too much hassle, although if you do want to spend a little bit extra, then there are options there, too. For those who don't rely on Windows, you can also consider grabbing yourself some Chromebook deals, and while these may not compete with the best laptops, they get pretty close depending on how much you want to spend. Below, you'll find some of the cheaper options of HP laptop deals, Dell laptop deals, Acer laptop deals, and Lenovo laptop deals.
HP Laptop 14 -- $200, was $250 Almost no one would argue with the fact that the PC and laptop market is saturated with many brands, products, and options these days. The same is true for AI-enabled laptops and systems, with many entering the innovative world of artificial intelligence solutions. But if you're looking for a practical option to use as your everyday or go-to PC, there's one place you should be going: Dell. We'll explore in more detail why that is, but you should also know that thanks to Dell's Top PC deals promotion, now's a great time to save big on your next desktop or laptop upgrade. Including AI-enabled laptops powered by Snapdragon X Series processors.  
Why shop Dell's PCs and laptops?
On top of great PCs and systems, across a variety of disciplines -- from gaming desktops for performance and streaming to workstations for enterprise-level tasks -- Dell customers can take advantage of several incentives. For starters, Dell offers some fairly unique financing options to help you balance the cost of large purchases, but also you'll earn Dell Rewards points which you can put towards future shopping. If you like how thin and portable the MacBook Air is but you don't necessarily want to buy into the Apple ecosystem, or specifically need Windows, then you'll be happy to know that Microsoft's Surface laptops are a good alternative. In fact, there are a lot of versions for you to pick from, including a very small and portable Surface Go, or the slightly higher-end Surface Studio that is almost like an all-in-one computer. So, while we wait for the Surface Pro 10 and Surface Laptop 6, we've gone out and collected some of our favorite Surface deals for you below. Although, if you don't quite find what you're looking for, be sure to check these laptop deals and 2-in-1 laptop deals, and maybe even these MacBook deals.
Microsoft Surface Go 3 -- $574, was $630 Functioning as a 2-in-1 laptop that can switch between tablet mode and laptop mode, the Microsoft Surface Go 3 won't have trouble dealing with basic tasks as it's equipped with the Intel Pentium Gold 6500Y processor and 8GB of RAM. The 10.5-inch touchscreen with 1920 x 1080 resolution is bright and colorful, and its 128GB SSD is more than enough for your documents. The Microsoft Surface Go 3 ships with Windows 11 Home in Mode, so you can start using it as soon as you unbox it. The device also promises up to 11 hours of battery life before requiring a recharge. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.