Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? HP has a truly massive variety of laptops that you can pick up, and since it’s one of the best laptop brands on the market, you can find some excellent options if you’re thinking of going with HP. So, if you’re looking to snag anything from gaming laptops to larger 17-inch laptops for the big screen, you can probably find a laptop in HP’s collection. Even better, HP is constantly running a lot of deals, so while things like gaming laptops tend to be expensive, we’ve gone out and found some of the best deals we could across the board. And if you’re looking more specifically for a general-use laptop, then you may want to check out our roundup of the best HP Envy deals. Alternatively, if you can’t find quite what you’re looking for below, be sure to check out these other great laptop deals and gaming laptop deals as well. If the size of your laptop screen is the most important factor in your purchase, the HP Laptop 17z should be on your list. Its main selling point is the big 17.3-inch HD screen, which runs at 1600 x 900 resolution — it’s as big as a display can get on a laptop. The internal components of the HP Laptop 17z are also budget-friendly, with the entry-level AMD Athlon Gold processor and AMD Radeon Graphics. It also has 128GB of storage, so you’ll have enough room for some photo and video projects before needing external hard drive deals to expand your storage.  If you need a budget laptop for basic tasks, you can’t go wrong with the HP Laptop 15z. With its AMD Athlon Silver 7120U processor, AMD Radeon Graphics, and 8GB of RAM, it’s going to be a dependable device for doing online research and working with productivity apps. The laptop features a 128GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded, and a relatively large 15.6-inch HD screen for its low price.  For a versatile but affordable device, check out the HP Pavilion 14 2-in-1 laptop. With the ability to switch between laptop mode and tablet mode, you’ll be able to maximize its 14-inch Full HD touchscreen. In terms of performance, the HP Pavilion 14 2-in-1 laptop is pretty decent with its 13th-generation Intel Core i3 processor, Intel UHD Graphics, and 8GB of RAM, which are supported by Windows 11 Home on a 256GB SSD.  Another great convertible that’s larger in size is the HP Envy X360, with a sizeable 16-inch screen that’s touch-enabled and has a 1920 x 1200 resolution and can even hit 300 nit of peak brightness, which means you can use it pretty much anywhere that doesn’t have direct sunlight. In terms of processing power, you get an Intel Core Ultra 7 155U, which is a mid-to-high-end processor that will be perfect for work or school and some creative tasks, too. It also has a very solid 16GB of RAM for a better day-to-day experience, and the 1TB of storage should be more than enough for most folks. It’s also worth mentioning that both the battery and the typing experience are very solid.  For a gaming laptop with a larger screen and more powerful performance, you can go with the HP Victus 16. It will be able to play quite a few games with its Intel Core i5-14450HX CPU, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4050 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. The gaming laptop will also give you a great look at AAA titles with its 16.1-inch Full HD screen, and you can install multiple games on its 512 GB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home out of the box. The HP Victus 15 is one of HP’s most popular gaming laptops, and part of the reason for that is the price. This model of the Victus will let you play a lot of modern AAA games — pretty close to their highest settings. It has respectable components for the price, though: an AMD Ryzen 7-8845HS, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4070 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. This kind of hardware will suit you pretty well for most modern games, but you may want to consider a RAM upgrade in the future.  If you’re not interested in gaming but need a powerful laptop for work, the Spectre is a line of HP laptops to look into. This particular model is an x360, meaning it can fold over into a tablet with a touchscreen. The 14-inch display runs at 2.8K resolution, which is the highest on this list. Inside, it sports an Intel Core Ultra 5 125H processor and 16GB of RAM, with Intel Arc Graphics. If you like speed and power but mostly work in Microsoft Office and browsers, the HP Spectre x360 14 2-in-1 laptop is a good option.  If you’re looking for a gaming laptop, then you’ll be happy to know that HP makes a few really good ones, like this OMEN Transcend. It comes with a solid RTX 4060, which is a good 1440p graphics card and should let you handle over 100fps with some compromises here and there. That’s great because the screen can hit a whopping 240Hz at a 2560 x 1600 resolution, so you get a lot of leeway in terms of what you want to prioritize. Besides that, you get a high-end Intel Core i7-14700HX and a whopping 16 GB of DDR5 RAM.  If you're a student, you probably don't have a massive budget to buy a new laptop, but luckily, there are some excellent laptop deals that you can take advantage of. You can absolutely get all your work done on the best budget laptops without too much hassle, although if you do want to spend a little bit extra, then there are options there, too. For those who don't rely on Windows, you can also consider grabbing yourself some Chromebook deals, and while these may not compete with the best laptops, they get pretty close depending on how much you want to spend. Below, you'll find some of the cheaper options of HP laptop deals, Dell laptop deals, Acer laptop deals, and Lenovo laptop deals.
HP Laptop 14 -- $200, was $250 HP is one of the best laptop brands, and if you're looking to snag a new laptop, it has a few options that are worth considering. More specifically, HP's Envy lineup includes some of the best laptops on the market, and while it's probably marketed a bit more for work and school use, it's actually pretty great for day-to-day use as well. In fact, the Envy lineup even includes a surprisingly portable all-in-one computer, so if you want a laptop but need a bigger screen, the Envy Move is certainly an option. Of course, if you haven't quite found what you're looking for, then be sure to check out these other HP laptop deals and our roundup of laptop deals from other brands.
HP Envy x360 2-in-1 laptop 15Z-FH000 — $850, was $1,000 Best Buy is one of the best retailers to shop if you're looking for some of the best laptop deals. Whether you need something high end or more entry level, Best Buy likely has a laptop that’s perfectly priced for you The Best Buy laptop deals going on right now include Dell laptop deals, HP laptop deals, Lenovo laptop deals, and even MacBook deals. With so much to choose from we thought we’d narrow down all of the Best Buy deals worth taking a look at. Reading onward you’ll find all the details you need in order to save on a new laptop at Best Buy, and if you aren’t finding what you’re looking for you can find some laptop deals among the current Amazon deals and Walmart deals for laptops as well.
Acer Chromebook 315 — $179, was $249 The Acer Chromebook 315 is one of the larger Chromebooks you’ll find, as its display comes in at an impressive 15.6 inches. This makes it a great option for people who want some extra screen real estate, but who still like to do their work on the go. The Acer Chromebook 315 has plenty of power for a Chromebook, and is made as much for comfort as functionality. Its slightly larger size will come in handy when doing creative work and an integrated numeric keyboard gives it the feel of working on a desktop. The Acer Chromebook 315 is able to reach up to 10 hours of battery life on a single charge, meaning you can work on the go all day without needing to take a charger with you. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.