Owners of some HP OfficeJet Pro printers have reported error messages caused by a recent firmware update. We reveal which printers are affected and how to get them working again. During a recent firmware update, some HP printers have displayed a worrying ‘Download unsuccessful’ message or error code, resulting in owners no longer being able to use their printers. Two series of HP OfficeJet Pro printers are affected. We reveal which models and what you need to do to fix the issue. Best home printers: Looking to upgrade your printer? Check out the top-recommended models from our professional lab tests. All HP printers in the following two printer series are potentially affected by the problem: If your printer is one of these but is working fine, there is no need to perform the fix as detailed below, but keep this page bookmarked in case the problem occurs in the future. Printers affected by the problem will display either a ‘The printer update could not be downloaded’ message (as shown below) or a 'b305ddf9' error. HP instant ink: our experts reveal whether HP's ink subscription service is worth the cost You can fix the issue by following HP's instructions below. This includes resetting the printer (this allows it to recover from the error), then downloading the firmware again. HP recommends following these steps to reset the printer: HP regularly releases new firmware versions for their printers, which can include updates or issue fixes. You can install these in various ways, as detailed below. Find the update option on your printer’s menu screen. Many HP printers come with touchscreens or menus where there’s an option to search for and install updates. On the printer, press the HP ePrint icon or button (a page icon with a wireless symbol) and find the Product Update or ‘Check for Updates’ menu. Alternatively, open the Setup, Service or Settings menu, select Preferences, Printer Maintenance or Tools, and then select Web Services, Printer Update, or LaserJet Update. On your computer’s web browser, head to the HP Software and Driver Downloads site. Check for available updates under the ‘Firmware’ heading and install ones released after your last printer update. Before you install, make sure the printer is turned on and connected to the computer or your home network. You can also install the update using the HP Smart app: If you still experience problems, you can access further information and contact HP via the HP support site. Tech tips you can trust – get our free Tech newsletter for advice, news, deals and stuff the manuals don’t tell you Which? Tech Support can help you keep you on top of your tech. Our experts explain things clearly so that you can resolve issues and feel more confident using your devices. Get unlimited one-to-one expert support: You can join Which? Tech Support for £4.99 a month or £49 a year. Get the power of Which? in your pocket by downloading our app, giving you on-the-go access to our reviews Chat to a live agent or send us a message © Which? 2024