You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Jun 26, 2023, 4:32pm Tech sales representatives, sometimes referred to as sales development representatives, work at the forefront of today’s fast-paced technological landscape. These professionals sell cutting-edge products and services, working with a broad spectrum of clients across multiple industries. Whether selling to a small startup or a global corporation, tech sales reps must harness their technical expertise and sales prowess to identify clients’ unique needs and develop tailored solutions. Are you curious about how to get into tech sales? This article overviews what it takes to become a tech sales rep, walking you through the steps to launch a career in this dynamic industry. Forbes Advisor’s education editors are committed to producing unbiased rankings and informative articles covering online colleges, tech bootcamps and career paths. Our ranking methodologies use data from the National Center for Education Statistics, education providers, and reputable educational and professional organizations. An advisory board of educators and other subject matter experts reviews and verifies our content to bring you trustworthy, up-to-date information. Advertisers do not influence our rankings or editorial content. A technical sales representative liaises between sales teams and customers. These professionals use their technical expertise to explain complex concepts and product specifications to customers, demonstrate products, establish customers’ technical needs and expand market awareness of a company’s products or services. After identifying an organization’s internal structure, a tech sales rep presents their product or service as a solution to an existing problem for the organization. Beyond closing sales, tech sales reps continue supporting organizations once they become clients. These reps work in several industries, including computer and software tech, telecommunications, manufacturing, biology, chemistry and healthcare. Tech sales involves a multi-step cycle, including: According to Payscale, the average tech sales rep earns around $65,000 per year. Several factors can determine their earning potential, including education, training, certification, experience, industry, specialization and location. Many tech sales representatives come from diverse educational and professional backgrounds, such as engineering, sales and marketing. There is no single pathway to becoming a tech sales rep, but these professionals tend to have in-depth technical knowledge, sales acumen and strong interpersonal skills. Candidates can develop these skills through formal education, training and relevant professional experience. Although a bachelor’s degree isn’t necessary, earning one can help you build a solid foundation in relevant disciplines such as computer science, engineering, information technology, business administration and marketing. Read on to learn how to get into software sales. Employers in this field value and often prefer candidates with hands-on, relevant experience in customer service and sales, which you can gain through internships and entry-level positions in sales or tech. The amount of experience you need to qualify for tech sales rep positions varies by role, company and industry. Tech sales reps should have a comprehensive understanding of the tech sales industry, including unique challenges and opportunities for selling tech products and services. Several online courses and bootcamps provide in-depth instruction on tech sales, including product knowledge development, customer relationship management and industry trends. Bootcamps and courses can also help you develop skills related to researching sales leads, generating interest in your products and services, and converting leads into sales. Some online courses and bootcamps worth looking into include the following: Some tech sales reps seek certification to gain structured training and education on industry best practices, sales techniques and emerging technologies. Certification can also demonstrate a commitment to professional development, providing a competitive advantage over other job candidates. Below we list a few certifications aspiring and current tech sales reps can pursue. Building and maintaining a strong network of sales professionals and industry experts is vital to a successful sales career. You can learn about emerging technologies, sales strategies and job opportunities through your network. You can start building a network by attending industry events, trade shows and conferences, or by joining social media groups and online forums. You can find sales groups like Salesty and Sales and Marketing Alignment through LinkedIn and other platforms. Popular networking sites include the following: Tech sales reps may specialize in or work with several types of technology, depending on their company’s offerings. Three of the most common types include: The time it takes to become a tech sales rep can vary depending on your educational background, technical training, experience and network. Some individuals with minimal experience start in entry-level tech sales positions and work their way up. Others may take several years to gain the necessary skills and experience. It can take anywhere from a few months to several years to become a tech sales rep, depending on which route you take. To get into tech sales, consider pursuing a bachelor’s degree in a relevant field like computer science, information technology, engineering, business administration or marketing. You might also gain experience through entry-level positions and technical training. While there isn’t a single pathway to a career in tech sales, building foundational technical knowledge and sales skills can help you succeed in the field. Getting into tech sales is possible without experience, but it may be more challenging. Even without direct experience in tech sales, you may have gathered transferable skills from other jobs. Highlighting these skills in your cover letter and résumé can help you demonstrate your ability to succeed in tech sales. 

 Mariah is a Berlin-based writer with six years of experience in writing, localizing and SEO-optimizing short- and long-form content across multiple niches, including higher education, digital marketing and travel. Her writing expertise extends to brand strategies and driving small business growth through targeted content. In the last three years, she's primarily produced education-focused content, writing on topics like degree programs, trade schools and career pathways.