The rookie rapper lands her second visit to the top tier, while Cardi B posts her 19th such hit. 
													By
												

	Trevor Anderson
 
Latto lands her second top 10 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart as “Put It on Da Floor Again,” re-enters the list at No. 6 following its high-profile remix featuring Cardi B.  
	Thanks to the new version, which arrived on June 2, the track surges as one of the genre’s top three selling and streaming tracks for the week. (Both the original Latto version – “Put It on Da Floor” and the Cardi B-featuring remix, “Put It on Da Floor Again” – of the song are combined into one entry for tracking and charting purposes. As the Cardi B version contributes the majority of activity, its billing and title are listed.)





	
	
		
					Related		
	



















	
	
		
					Billie Eilish's 'Birds of a Feather' Perches Atop Global Charts for Second Week		
	



	08/19/2024	





 
	“Put It On Da Floor Again,” released through StreamCut/RCA Records, captured 17.2 million official U.S. streams in the week ending June 8, according to Luminate, a 342% vault from 3.9 million in the prior week. The eight-figure gain prompts its No. 3 debut on R&B/Hip-Hop Streaming Songs. In the sales market, the single sold 13,000 copies, enough to spark a No. 2 entrance on R&B/Hip-Hop Digital Song Sales. The remix’s arrival also reinvigorates its radio momentum, with a 135% weekly audience improvement to 5.3 million in the week ending June 8. 
	With the new remix, Latto revives her current single after its previous, pre-remix version peaked at No. 43. Now, it secures her a second career top 10 on Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs. Her first, “Big Energy,” reached No. 1 for two weeks in April 2022 and spent 45 weeks on the list, the longest stay for any track by a woman in the 2020s decade. 
	Cardi B, meanwhile, achieves her 19th Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs top 10 and first since she assisted another female rapper, GloRilla, on her “Tomorrow 2” remix that peaked at No. 3. The superstar rapper took to social media to celebrate the surge in activity and reception for “Put It on Da Floor Again,” sharing a video of which her bottom is seen on full display underneath a minidress, as she spanks herself a few times. “YALL DID THAT !!! Put it on the floor then !!,” she captioned the post. 
	Elsewhere, “Put It on Da Floor Again” opens at No. 3 on the Hot Rap Songs chart and at No. 13 on the all-genre Billboard Hot 100. Daily newsletters straight to your inbox Send us a tip using our anonymous form. A daily briefing on what matters in the music industry Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Billboard is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Billboard Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.