Model # 977120|Store SKU # 1001132012  Model # 977120 Store SKU # 1001132012  This Heavy Duty Floor Scraper has a long 48-inch long handle. The angled head and stainless steel blade are perfect for removing paint, construction debris and other caked on deposits from glass and floors. Ideal for removing tape, gum and grit. Reduces back and knee strain.  Zep Commercial Heavy-Duty Floor Stripper is step 1 of the 4-Step Floor Care program.  Specially formulated to create less foam during application, this stripper is easy to apply.  It is a concentrated, ammonia-free  formula that removes stubborn acrylic finishes from floors in preparation for waxing.  It can be applied with a cotton mop or used with a floor scrubbing machine. A wet/dry vacuum can be used for easy removal of the dissolved waxes.   ROBERTS 4 in. wide Floor and Wall Scraper and Striper is the perfect tool for stripping floors, walls, including wallpaper. Featuring a 12 in. long aluminum handle with an ergonomic grip, this is an effective tool to scrape and remove adhesive, paint, dirt, and other installation residues. Its special design includes a thumbscrew for quick blade change and a built in screwdriver in the cap. Includes 5 premium quality high-carbon steel blades.   Milwaukee Chisels are made from high grade, forged steel, providing up to 20% longer life. Floor scrapers have a flexible blade that allows for easy removal of flooring such as linoleum, laminate and carpeting. This chisel is specifically designed for SDS Plus rotary hammers and should be used in hammer mode only. This is a replacement kit for the Milwaukee SDS Plus Floor Scraper (48-62-6046).   Milwaukee chisels are made from high grade, forged steel, providing up to 20 percent longer life. Floor scrapers have a flexible blade that allows for easy removal of flooring such as linoleum, laminate and carpeting. This chisel is specifically designed for SDS Max rotary hammers and should be used in hammer only mode. This is a replacement blade for the Milwaukee SDS Max Floor Scraper 48-62-4096.  © 2024 Home Depot International, Inc. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to certain terms of use which constitute a legal agreement between you and Home Depot of Canada Inc. Shop with confidence at homedepot.ca