There's a thing called a "good tired." In a nutshell, it means you've taken on a challenge - and it might have taken a little (or a lot) of effort - but you've accomplished your goal and feel pretty darn good about it. That might describe the feelings of 55-year-old Bruce Egan. The Des Plaines resident recently became a new franchise owner with Floor Coverings International, the brand that's consistently ranked No. 1 in the mobile flooring category, visiting customers' homes in a Mobile Flooring Showroom stocked with thousands of flooring samples from top manufacturers. Having recently launched operations, Floor Coverings International of Northbrook serves customers in Des Plaines, Rosemont, Park Ridge, Glenview, Niles, Skokie, Morton Grove and Lincolnwood. Egan previously worked in the IT field, providing computer support to end users, and managing various IT projects. He had always wanted a business of his own after working in the corporate world for 30 years so when the opportunity arose, Egan didn't hesitate. But it's definitely been a switch from his previous career. "Making the transition to being an entrepreneur is very different experience," Egan said. "Every day has brought a new challenge so having the ability to handle those situations is a requirement. It's taken some adjusting but I've enjoyed the process and the sense of satisfaction that comes from being a small business owner." Floor Coverings International is a business built on relationships to provide its customers with the very best in-home flooring experience in North America. Its proven business model has helped hundreds of entrepreneurs thrive in a business that is simple-to-run and easy to scale. And Egan believe his past professional experience provides a solid foundation for his new chapter with Floor Coverings International. "The experience I gained in the IT field helps with managing the technicalities of different flooring projects and also with providing good customer service," he said. In Floor Coverings International, Egan found a company that has tripled in size since 2005, by putting a laser focus on consumer buying habits and expressed desires, its impressive operating model, growth ability, marketing, advertising, and merchandising. Floor Coverings International further separates itself from the competition through its customer experience, made up of several simple and integrated steps that exceed customers' expectations. For this, Floor Coverings International was given the Innovation Award for Customer Response from Franchise Update Media in 2020, and the same award again in 2021 for Best Use of Technology. Franchise Update is the benchmark publication and conference entity that is the Gold Standard of Franchising. "I chose Floor Coverings International because I felt it would be the best opportunity for me to grow my business and have the opportunity to reach my goals of retirement," Egan said. With the home improvement industry booming, the flooring market is also keeping pace. The global flooring market was estimated to reach $409 billion in 2021, according to Grand View Research. The market is expected to grow at an annual rate of more than six percent through 2028, reaching overall sales of $621 billion. "The in-home consultation model when it comes to choosing flooring has really been evolving and becoming more and more common, with Floor Coverings International being at the forefront, so I'm excited to be part of this growing movement," Egan said. For information, visit https://Ncentralchi.floorcoveringsinternational.com or call (847) 350-1105. About Floor Coverings International Norcross, GA-based Floor Coverings International has ranked consistently as the No. 1 Mobile Flooring Franchise in North America by Entrepreneur Magazine. The 181 franchisees and their Design Associates offer a unique in-home experience with a mobile showroom that comes directly to the client's door. More than 3,000 flooring choices are available to view in the home with and alongside the existing lighting, paint, and furniture. The company will open several more locations throughout the U.S. and Canada through franchise expansion in 2023. For franchise information, visit www.flooring-franchise.com. To find your closest location go to www.floorcoveringsinternational.com.