HTC business headset is half the price of Apple Vision Pro 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 HTC’s virtual reality division, Vive, has announced a brand-new headset destined for business, complete with a dedicated web app for managing the fleet. The new Vive XR Elite Business Edition promises to be around half the price of the Apple Vision Pro, retailing at $1,299, and while it may not have the flashy appeal of its rival, initial specifications suggest it could still be a worthy contender, particularly for businesses looking to buy multiple headsets. At the same time, the company announced Business+, which is intended to make device and user management, monitoring, and customization more fluid across multiple headsets. Vive sees its new business headset as an enabler for training and visualization, as well as a tool to facilitate collaboration. For this reason, HTC has designed the XR Elite to manage extended use by incorporating a swappable 24Wh battery into the design and active cooling to regulate the lens area for comfort and performance. > The best VR headsets

> Microsoft Hololens 2 is still here, and is even getting a Windows 11 upgrade

> The Apple Vision Pro costs the same as Microsoft’s Hololens - there’s a reason why The pair of 1920x1920 displays offer a near 4K resolution across a 110-degree field of view. A 90Hz refresh rate promises to keep up with some of the most complex visualizations, too. Much like other headsets already on the market - and helping it to remain cheaper than Apple’s Vision Pro - HTC decided to use physical controllers for the headset, which it calls the six degrees of freedom (6DoF) controllers. That said, it does feature some limited hand-tracking technology for performing things like navigation, clicking, dragging, scrolling, and even typing. In terms of sensing equipment, the XR Elite Business Edition comprises four tracking cameras, a 16MB RGB camera, a depth sensor, a G-sensor, a gyroscope, and a proximity sensor. It also features Bluetooth 5.2 (BLE) and Wi-Fi 6E, and is powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon XR2 processor with 12GB memory and 128GB storage. Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed! Customers of the headset will get a two-year commercial-use warranty as well as the battery and controller accessories. As part of the deal, they can also expect free access to Vive Business+. With several years’ experience freelancing in tech and automotive circles, Craig’s specific interests lie in technology that is designed to better our lives, including AI and ML, productivity aids, and smart fitness. He is also passionate about cars and the decarbonisation of personal transportation. As an avid bargain-hunter, you can be sure that any deal Craig finds is top value! Were three billion people's details leaked online last week? This top security expert isn't so sure Looking Glass takes 3D holograms to the next level with new Spatial Displays The Asus ROG Ally just dropped to a record-low price at Best Buy TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 