Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Entrepreneur Middle East Staff
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Aby Sam Thomas
              


            Apr 13, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    You're reading Entrepreneur Middle East, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Huawei Cloud, the cloud storage platform offered by global information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure and smart devices provider Huawei, has launched a startup program for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the Middle East, Central Asia, and Africa. The Huawei Cloud Startup Program will aim to support 1,000 SMEs by offering them access to cost-effective cloud services by Huawei Cloud, as well as technical support, go-to-market resources, and talent development training. "SMEs are the backbone of the regional economy- however, small businesses struggle to digitize their processes, thus missing out on the immense opportunities of the digital economy," said Frank Dai, President of Huawei Cloud Middle East and Central Asia. "Huawei wants to empower regional entrepreneurs with the tools to succeed in the digital age by adopting cloud services; we believe the Huawei Cloud Startup Program is an essential building block for growth in the modern age, and by empowering more SMEs with such programs, we can jointly cultivate a robust technology ecosystem in the region." The launch of the Huawei Cloud Startup Program follows a 2021 report by Gartner that shows that over 95% of new digital workloads will be deployed on cloud-native platforms by 2025. Having coined the term "Cloud Native 2.0" -describing an intelligent upgrade of enterprises where applications and services are not only migrated to the cloud but also being built on the cloud- Huawei Cloud now aims to continue its endeavors in helping more SMEs go fully digital through the SME-centric program. The Huawei Cloud Startup Program's initiation was announced during the Huawei Cloud Summit Middle East and Africa 2023, which was held in Dubai on March 21, 2023. More than 300 government leaders, cloud-native industry experts, and customer representatives from the Middle East, Central Asia, and Africa had attended the event which was held under the theme, "Inspire Innovation with Everything as a Service." The program's launch event saw the attendance of representatives from the following entities: the UAE Ministry of Economy; Global Entrepreneurship Network (GEN) Asia, the regional arm of global incubator platform GEN; Dinarak, a Jordan-based mobile wallets service provider; and Ignite, a Pakistan-based non-profit company that funds innovative startups. The launch was also attended by three Kuwait-based enterprises: Eyon TV, a video streaming platform; One Global, a digital transformation and innovation company; and Empower, a storage and shipping solutions firm. Related: With US$50,000 Up For Grabs, The 2023 Edition Of Sharjah Innovation Park's Accelerator Program Is Now Open For Applications Entrepreneur Staff 
          Arsha Jones, founder and CEO of Capital City Mambo Sauce, wanted to satisfy a very specific craving — and it led to a seven-figure business.
         
          "We are committed to developing cutting-edge technologies, delivering exceptional customer support, and fostering a collaborative and dynamic work environment that empowers our team to drive success for our clients."
         
          Generative AI can give us mountains of information on any topic under the sun in seconds — but is it any good at marketing? I had to find out.
         
          Pitching your idea to venture capitalists can be intimidating. Prepare yourself with answers to these crucial questions. 
         
          2022 saw the company launch ReadyRAW, its convenient coffee solution that enables you to brew your own coffee, quite literally anywhere. 
         
          In a world where everyone is looking for the secret to success, the truth is there's no easy answer. A key is embracing a flexible mentality.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
