Among the IPL franchises, Chennai Super Kings have a formidable record playing at their home ground at Chepauk. The venue where they recently beat Mumbai Indians by six wickets to maintain their position among the top two this season. Former India seamer, Irfan Pathan believes, “CSK is sure to qualify for the playoffs.” The 38-year-old told Star Sports, “Now they will try to make it to the top two. I always say that whenever any team comes to their home ground, ‘Chacha Chaudhary’ MSD closes the door of his stadium and thrashes the opposition ruthlessly. CSK is a ruthless team and it deals with opposition teams in its own way.” S Sreesanth further spoke of the CSK skipper, “MS Dhoni’s biggest quality is that he brings the best out of the players. And if they don’t know, he’ll make sure they understand their strengths. When they get the backing of the captain and the team atmosphere is so good, players bring out the best in them.” Dhoni and Co have won six of the 11 games they’ve played so far this season, one of which was washed out, leading to both CSK and Lucknow splitting the two points. Having won the trophy four times before, Chennai are looking among the prime contenders to feature in the Qualifier going by their performance so far. On Wednesday, they host David Warner-led Delhi Capitals, who lie at the bottom of the table with just four wins in 10 games. Get latest updates on IPL 2024 from IPL Points Table to Teams, Schedule, Most Runs and Most Wickets along with live score updates for all matches. Also get Sports news and more cricket updates. Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only  