 A flood discharging experiment is done at the Baihetan hydropower station, which straddles the provinces of Yunnan and Sichuan in southwest China, Oct. 29, 2022. (Xinhua/Liao Wangjie) CHENGDU, Dec. 20 (Xinhua) -- The Baihetan hydropower station, the world's second-largest in terms of total installed capacity, went fully operational Tuesday in the upper section of the Yangtze River in southwest China, according to China Three Gorges Corporation. Its operation marked the completion of the world's largest clean energy corridor, where six mega hydropower stations on the Yangtze work to transmit electricity from the resource-rich west to energy-consuming regions in the east. Baihetan's full operation came after the last of its 16 hydro-generating units completed a 72-hour trial operation on Tuesday morning. With a total installed capacity of 16 million kilowatts, Baihetan is second only to the Three Gorges Dam project in the central Chinese province of Hubei.  This aerial photo taken on Nov. 24, 2022 shows the water outlet of the Baihetan hydropower station, which straddles the provinces of Yunnan and Sichuan in southwest China.  (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie)  This aerial photo taken on Nov. 24, 2022 shows the Baihetan hydropower station, which straddles the provinces of Yunnan and Sichuan in southwest China.  (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie)  This aerial photo taken on Nov. 24, 2022 shows the ultra-high-voltage (UHV) power transmission circuit of the Baihetan hydropower station, which straddles the provinces of Yunnan and Sichuan in southwest China.  (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie) The six hydropower stations on the Yangtze River, all run by the corporation, are expected to generate 300 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity every year, reducing coal consumption by 90 million tonnes and carbon emissions by 248 million tonnes. Four of them -- Wudongde, Baihetan, Xiluodu, and Xiangjiaba -- are located on the Jinsha River, the upper section of the Yangtze River, while the other two -- Three Gorges Dam and Gezhouba -- are on the middle section of the Yangtze. Collectively, they account for about one-fifth of China's total hydropower installed capacity, forming a 1,800-km-long clean energy corridor that also plays a major role in flood control, shipping, water resources utilization, and ecological security in the Yangtze River Basin.  This aerial photo taken on Nov. 25, 2022 shows the Wudongde hydropower station on the border of Sichuan and Yunnan provinces in southwest China.  (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie)  This aerial photo taken on Nov. 23, 2022 shows the Xiluodu hydropower station, which is located in the lower reach of the Jinsha River on the border of Sichuan and Yunnan provinces in southwest China.  (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie)  This aerial photo taken on Nov. 23, 2022 shows the Xiluodu hydropower station, which is located in the lower reaches of Jinsha River on the border of Sichuan and Yunnan provinces in southwest China.  (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie)  This photo taken on Nov. 21, 2022 shows the interior of the ship lift of Xiangjiaba hydropower station on the Jinsha River on the border of Sichuan and Yunnan provinces in southwest China.  (Xinhua/Xu Bingjie)  This aerial photo taken on Aug. 19, 2020 shows water gushing out from the Three Gorges Dam in central China's Hubei Province.  (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)  This aerial photo taken on Aug. 19, 2020 shows water gushing out from the Three Gorges Dam in central China's Hubei Province.  (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)  This aerial photo taken on Feb. 19, 2021 shows the Gezhouba hydropower station in central China's Hubei Province. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)  This photo taken on June 29, 2020 shows the Gezhouba hydropower station in central China's Hubei Province. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu) Environmental protection had been high on the agenda during its construction. Projects such as ecological restoration of the Heishui River habitat, stratified intake facilities and botanical gardens, were implemented to build an ecological barrier in the upper reaches of the Yangtze River, according to China Three Gorges Corporation.■  关于我们 |   联系我们 | 支持浏览器IE8+、Chrome、Firefox

        新华通讯社出品 copyright © 2016-2017 All Rights Reserved 京ICP备13021684号-10