Aug. 17—ALTAMONT — It should soon be easier than ever for Altamont residents, Unit 10 alumni and neighboring communities to watch the district's athletic events following the school board's recent approval of a three-year agreement with Hudl for livestreaming services. During the Unit 10 board's regular meeting Monday, Athletic Director Katie Lurkins presented information regarding potential livestreaming services. Lurkins said the total cost for the technology and ability to livestream through Hudl is $8,000 per year, but she explained that the district will only be paying $1,850 per year because the remaining cost will be covered by the district's athletic boosters. "Normally, what they're giving us, it would cost a total of $13,000," Lurkins said. For this annual cost, the district will receive two stationary cameras. One will be installed in the Altamont High School gymnasium while the other will be placed at the district's soccer field. "It's better than an iPad," Board Secretary Chris Guse said regarding the quality of the Hudl cameras. Lurkins also said the Hudl app will be used to livestream baseball and softball games, but noted that track and field events will not be included because Hudl doesn't yet have the technology to do so. "We cannot do baseball, softball simultaneously, so we would have to make sure that we're alternating the streaming of games," she said. Per the agreement with Hudl, the district will be responsible for uploading advertisements to livestreams which, as Altamont High School Principal Peggy Bueker said, will help bring in some revenue for the district, which could help offset the annual cost of the service. "The $1,850 could be a wash if we sell ads," Lurkins said to Bueker. Lurkins explained why she decided to ultimately recommend Hudl as the district's livestreaming service provider rather than the NFHS Network. "My recommendation is going to be Hudl based off of the ability to create the revenue, the quality cameras, the ability to stream more sports," Lurkins said. "For complete transparency, NFHS, the cameras are free, but they can only do indoor sports. And the level of cameras is not near as good as what the Hudl cameras are." Additionally, Lurkins said a number of larger schools in the area with football teams use Hudl and hopes the new livestreaming setup creates more opportunities for the district's athletes. "Kids can go on and make highlight reels, and they can publish them," Lurkins said. "And that's where a lot of colleges do their recruiting. It's a lot more exposure for our student athletes that want to go on also." According to Lurkins, it will cost viewers $8 to watch a game, and the district will receive $4.80 of each payment. Viewers can also purchase a monthly pass to games on Hudl for $25, with $15 going to the district, or they can purchase an annual pass for $75, $45 of which will go to the district. The district plans on posting links to the district's games on its Facebook page, where viewers will be able to subscribe to Hudl. According to Lurkins, the intended audience for the livestreaming service are Unit 10 graduates who have moved away from the area and opposing fans. "I think our immediate reaction is it's going to stop people from coming, but really the target audience for streaming isn't the local community," she said. Meanwhile, Altamont Unit 10 Board President Dale Laue said the option could prove convenient for any fans or family members of district athletes who are "always having a hard time with the stairs," which can make it difficult or even impossible for them to watch games in person. "And we are already using quite a few of their services," Laue said regarding Hudl. Prior to the board's regular meeting Monday, members conducted a walk-thru of the district's facilities to check out some of the projects that have been completed this summer. The facilities tour included a stop at the district's track, where work to resurface the it is now complete, according to Altamont Unit 10 Maintenance Director Alan Whitt. Also during the meeting, Altamont Unit 10 Superintendent Casey Adam announced the district received over $133,000 more in evidence-based funding than it did last year. "So that was good news," Adam said. In other matters, the board: —Awarded The Equity a fuel bid for the 2023-24 school year. —Approved and amended the contract for Altamont Grade School Principal Doug Hill for the 2023-24 school year. —Approved the district's annual joint agreement with OKAW for the 2024-25 school year. —Accepted the resignations of district nurse Amanda Dust, paraprofessional Vicki Grobengieser, teacher Frankie Jenkins, freshmen/sophomore boys basketball coach Dre Hill and Altamont Junior High School Scholar Bowl coach Amy Ruckman. —Approved the employment of bus driver Cortney Hanna, paraprofessional Devin Gragert, teacher Monica Harshman, Altamont Junior High School Scholar Bowl coach Eric Heiden, and special education teachers John Frinfrock, Shelli Cotton and Rosemary Parsons. —Approved Rob Zumbahlen as a volunteer Altamont Junior High School baseball coach and Altamont High School golf coach. Nick Taylor can be reached at nick.taylor@effinghamdailynews.com or by phone at 618-510-9226 or 217-347-7151 ext. 300132. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! With the 2024 season quickly approaching, here's a look at the Big Ten. Ohio State has a lot of pressure entering the season and a few teams could be right on its heels. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL.