The Nebraska-Iowa chapter of the Red Cross sent 6 people to Hawaii to help with the wildfire and has four more people on standby. We caught up with a volunteer preparing to head to the big island for three weeks.  The Nebraska-Iowa chapter of the Red Cross sent 6 people to Hawaii to help with the wildfire and has four more people on standby. We caught up with a volunteer preparing to head to the big island for three weeks.  The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. The Nebraska-Iowa chapter of the Red Cross sent 6 people to Hawaii to help with the wildfire and has four more people on standby. We caught up with a volunteer preparing to head to the big island for three weeks.  As the fires in Hawaii continue to cause destruction, our local Red Cross chapter is sending aid. So far, six volunteers have been sent to Hawaii and four more are on standby.  Volunteer Heidi Briggs is one of those people on standby. As she waits for the call, she makes sure to pack everything she needs for the trip, as she doesn't know what to expect when she gets there.  "Toiletries, tennis shoes, tons and tons of socks," she said.  Red Cross offers financial resources, shelter and food for people in need. Briggs said they also help make sure everyone is okay. "We're going to make sure they're in safe places, they're accounted for so loved ones can find them," Briggs said.  Briggs has been on countless deployments before, her most recent was helping with tornado aftermath in Missouri.  "It's extremely gratifying. There's so many people that need help with things, that they don't, they've never been through this," she said.  Briggs said her job is done if she can help bring a smile to someone's face in the midst of the devastation.  "You know, sometimes it's a hug or a Band-Aid with a smiley face on it for a little kid," she said.  Frank and Patti Estaniqui are Hawaii natives; they moved to the Metro over 30 years ago.  They said they're happy to see local aid going to Maui because sometimes getting people resources after a natural disaster can take weeks.   "It is encouraging, but it's always devastating because the response time is delayed due to the travel," Patti said. The couple says while all their friends and family are okay, they've heard some terrible stories, like a friend of a friend having to jump in the ocean to escape the fire. "He had nowhere to go except the ocean, swim, get to another town, then walk to wherever he was trying to get to," Patti said. The couple said they hope people keep Hawaii in their prayers and find out how they can help. Briggs said the best way for people at home to help is by volunteering or financial donations. Get the latest headlines from KETV NewsWatch 7 Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.