In a letter to PlymouthLive, one Plymouth motorist fears an accident could happen on the city's cycling contraflow systems Get the stories that matter to our community straight to your inbox with our Daily Newsletter We have more newsletters Get the stories that matter to our community straight to your inbox with our Daily Newsletter We have more newsletters A Plymouth man who came face-to-face with a cyclist travelling in the opposite direction on a one-way street for vehicles is worried an accident could take place. Matthew Peterson had just dropped his mum off to the rear of Mutley Baptist Church but because of the one-way system, had to follow Napier Terrace into Gordon Terrace - where bicycles are permitted to travel in the opposite direction. That's when he met an oncoming cyclist, and neither of them knew what to do. "I had no idea who had the right of way," said Mathew, "so I stopped. The cyclist stopped too. Fortunately, he was a gentleman and moved over to the kerbside to let me pass." In a letter to PlymouthLive, the motorist says the parking rules are 'insanity' and the traffic system needs to be reevaluated.  He said: "No wonder we have such traffic problems. The persons making up the rules are mad."  What do you think? Have you ever had issues with one-way systems in Plymouth? Log in and let us know in the comments Yesterday I dropped my 86 year old mother at the rear of Mutley Baptist Church.  Because of the ‘one way’ system, I had to follow Napier Terrace into Gordon Terrace. Both ‘one way streets’. Actually no: bicycles are one way in the opposite direction! Because of the parked cars, when I met an oncoming cyclist there was no way either of us could proceed. I had no idea who had the right of way, so I stopped. The cyclist stopped too. Fortunately, he was a gentleman and moved over to the kerbside to let me pass.  I turned right at the end of Gordon Terrace and then right again into Apsley Road. I saw the same signs ... cars one way and bicycles the opposite. Absolute insanity. Perhaps next we will have motorcycles and HGVs go the opposite way down the A38? No wonder we have such traffic problems. The persons making up the rules are mad. Sincerely, Matthew Cyclists are only allowed to travel the wrong up a one-way street where the road is two-way for bicycle riders but one way for motorists. These so-called cycling contraflow systems are being introduced in major cities to allow cyclists to use the quieter side streets and avoid the busy roads. If the street is not designated two-way for cyclists, then it is illegal to ride the wrong way. Many side streets are too narrow for cyclists to ride safely against the traffic flow, and the heavy use of kerbside parking can force cyclists into the path of oncoming traffic. This increases the accident risk. Plymouth City council has been contacted. A number of Plymouth neighbourhoods became more cycle-friendly last year.  The scheme allows cyclists to travel in both directions and avoid busier roads with more traffic, and includes the introduction of contraflow lanes on 14 one-way streets. Streets in Greenbank, Mutley, Mannamead, Stonehouse, Compton and the Hoe are included in the package. They are: ComptonCrowndale Avenue GreenbankAmity PlaceCamden StreetMount StreetProspect Street MutleyApsley RoadGordon TerraceMaple GroveNapier Terrace MannameadElm RoadMeadfoot Terrace StonehouseAdmirals HardSt Mary Street The HoeCitadel Road Cllr Jonathan Drean, Plymouth City Council’s cabinet member for transport, said: "I'm really pleased to see yet another sustainable transport scheme be rolled out this year. "One-way streets are implemented for a range of reasons where two-way motorised traffic flow is not suitable, whether that's to improve traffic flow, reduce rat running through residential streets, or improve safety. "However, this can create a real barrier for cycling so sustainable transport infrastructure options like this which can make that change in transport that little bit more attractive for residents are a bonus as far as I'm concerned." Read next:  