TOTTENHAM could make several changes to their team this summer if Mauricio Pochettino returns. The unemployed Argentine has been heavily linked to the Spurs dugout with Antonio Conte's future uncertain. The Italian admitted he may be sacked before the end of the season following Tottenham's Champions League exit. Fans booed the team off at half-time and full-time against AC Milan and also sang Poch's name, showing they would support his return. Poch, who still lives in Hertfordshire, is reportedly keen on a comeback and is believed to have remained on good terms with Daniel Levy. And if he does take over the 51-year-old could implement sweeping changes to re-install his philosophy. Spurs would likely ditch their three-at-the-back system in favour of 4-2-3-1, which Poch used in his previous spell at the club. First on the agenda could be signing a new goalkeeper with Hugo Lloris nearing the end of his career. Tottenham have been heavily linked with a move for Brentford shot-stopper David Raya, who has turned down two contract offers to extend his stay at the Bees. Pochettino could also look to make defensive changes and might try to sign Crystal Palace centre-back Marc Guehi and Inter Milan's Aaron Bastoni.  FREE BETS AND SIGN UP DEALS - BEST NEW CUSTOMER OFFERS Spurs tried to sign Bastoni last summer but he wanted to stay at Inter, though the club are believed to be considering another £43million bid. Pochettino had a lot of success using young players when last at the club so he could hand opportunities to promising left-back Destiny Udogie, who signed for £18m from Udinese last summer before returning to the club on loan. Another wonderkid who has caught the eye is Bristol City midfielder Alex Scott. Tottenham have reportedly been monitoring the 19-year-old for some time and could snap him up for £25m. Brighton star Alexis Mac Allister is another player on the Spurs wishlist, and he could potentially fulfil a similar role to the one Christian Eriksen performed under Poch. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/