Cristian Stellini insists he has total trust in Tottenham defender Davinson Sanchez and would have no hesitation in playing him in Sunday’s key fixture at Newcastle. Sanchez endured an afternoon to forget in last Saturday’s 3-2 defeat at home to Bournemouth and was substituted only 23 minutes after being introduced. The centre-back was booed by his own supporters following an error that resulted in a goal and Stellini’s decision to replace the Colombian was met with a mixture of cheers and boos. It was a horrible moment for a player who has spent six years at Spurs and captain Hugo Lloris was critical of the fans’ reaction immediately after the loss. “Yes, he trained well this week and he will be involved in the match,” Stellini said of Sanchez. “Whether it will be from the start, I don’t know, but I spoke with him clearly and that goes for all the players who train well. “This is not a player we don’t know. He has played many, many games for Tottenham and we believe in him, we trust him.” Stellini revealed he had spoken to Sanchez in detail this week about his own decision to withdraw the former Ajax defender from the firing line so quickly after his part in Bournemouth’s second goal. He admitted it was rare to see fans boo their own player but urged the supporters to show appreciation for the 26-year-old the next time he does play for Spurs. “Yeah, I hope this happens because players, before being players, are men,” Stellini added. This is not a player we don't know. He has played many, many games for Tottenham and we believe in him, we trust him Cristian Stellini on Davinson Sanchez “They need the opportunity to react, the opportunity to do better, the opportunity to do their best. The fans are an important part of this. “I spoke with Patron (Sanchez). We had a good conversation and of course it is tough for a player to come in and then come out of the pitch. It is the type of thing that also happened to me when I played. “It is not the best moment you can live, but the type of thing that has to give you a reaction, a good reaction. I asked him to have a good reaction, to train well and to do his best. “He is a good guy, he understood the moment during the last game, so he accepted the situation. “It’s very rare (the booing), but I think if it happens it’s important you react to have the fans back with you. I want to help him to have this situation, We have to work together to reach this.” Defeat at home to Bournemouth seriously dented Spurs’ faint hopes of a top-four finish and they face a pivotal seven days. A trip to Newcastle awaits 🔜 pic.twitter.com/7afOSar27L — Tottenham Hotspur (@SpursOfficial) April 20, 2023 After visiting Newcastle, Tottenham host Manchester United on Thursday before a trip to Liverpool rounds off a crunch period where scrutiny on Stellini will be high. But Antonio Conte’s former number two said: “How many people would like to be here? I think it is a dream, so I am enjoying it of course and I’m trying to do my best. “I think it’s an experience that makes me stronger, with more experience. “I think I could improve a lot, but I don’t know what happens in the future. I’m not focused on that. I am focused on improving the team, improve myself and make the best decisions.” Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season? The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday.