Try these home remedies to find relief for your joint pain. We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why Trust Us? More than 3 million Americans struggle with arthritis every day. The swelling and inflammation of the joints can cause pain that comes and goes—or sticks around pretty much all the time. Still, there are some natural fixes for arthritis that may grant you some relief.  There are basically two types of arthritis: Inflammatory and overuse. Inflammatory arthritis is any type where your body’s immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. This causes inflammation—and pain—that often affects multiple joints at the same time (rheumatoid and psoriatic are two common types). Overuse arthritis (officially known as osteoarthritis) comes from wear and tear on the joints, and typically affects one joint area at a time. For both types, doctors often recommend OTC or prescription anti-inflammatories. You may be able to minimize arthritis pain flare-ups by avoiding processed foods and sugary beverages, staying properly hydrated, and exercising regularly with low-impact activity to support long-term joint health. There are other options, too, says Tamika Henry, M.D., board-certified physician and founder of Unlimited Health Institute. Here are three she thinks are worth a try.  This spice—in particular, the curcumin in it—is a powerful anti-inflammatory and antioxidant. These properties can help reduce pain and inflammation, ultimately helping you move more comfortably. Try adding turmeric into your daily meals or sipping on turmeric tea. You may also want to try a curcumin supplement; the Arthritis Foundation recommends 500 milligrams twice a day, but always talk to your doctor before taking supplements. Turmeric can also cause gastrointestinal distress like nausea, cramping, or change in bowel patterns, so consult your doctor if you experience any of these issues.  Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation, or TENS, is a treatment that uses a device with an electric current to activate nerves and block pain receptors. This can help with pain management and can further reduce the need for medication. You can buy a TENS unit to use at home. It comes with electrode pads that you’ll place above and below or parallel to the achy joint. This will send an electric current to your nerves to override pain signals. Before you buy, you might want to try TENS with a physical therapist first, since some people may feel uncomfortable or are too sensitive to the tingling sensation.  A paraffin wax bath can help ease pain and stiffness, particularly with arthritis in the hands and feet. The heat from the wax dilates blood vessels, improving circulation and helping ease pain and stiffness in your joints. You’ll need a wax bath as well as the paraffin wax itself, which are both typically available at pharmacies. Follow the instructions for heating it and staying safe—if the temperature is too hot with a paraffin wax bath, you may develop a rash or even burn on the area, so always check the wax temperature before you dip. You’ll then dip your hand or foot in and out before leaving the wax on with plastic wrap around it for about 20 minutes.  These are signs your arthritis needs additional medical attention in order to avoid further joint damage: The Best Arthritis Gloves for Joint Pain Relief Biking Linked to Less Knee Pain or Arthritis 10 Ways to Cut Down Your Risk of Arthritis Are Tomatoes Actually Bad for Arthritis?  Kate’s Treatment Will Continue ‘Beyond’ the Summer Can You Die From Mpox? Doctors Explain. Sloth Virus Symptoms to Know Missy Robbins Opens Up About Breast Cancer Katie Ledecky Reveals POTS Diagnosis Lance Bass Has Type 1.5 Diabetes  Everything to Know About Canker Sores Why Ozempic May Help Chronic Kidney Disease A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.