Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 Merwin and Louise, sibling Sycamore seeds living 100 million years in the Cretaceous period, long to put down roots and grow into big trees. But when a fire forces them to leave their mother tree prematurely, they find themselves catapulted into the unknown, far from home.Brian SelznickThat’s the essence of Caldecott medalist Brian Selznick’s new book “Big Tree,” which he will introduce with a reading at 6:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 17, at the University of St. Thomas O’Shaughnessy Education Center, 2115 Summit Ave., St. Paul, in partnership with St. Paul’s Red Balloon Bookshop.“Big Tree” (Scholastic), began as a planned collaboration between Selznick and producer/director Steven Spielberg for a film project that never got off the ground. But both men agreed it would make a terrific book, and it lives up to that prediction with starred reviews from Publishers Weekly, School Library Journal and The Horn Book. It is enlivened with nearly 300 pages of pictures, including those showing the two seeds’ personalities even though Louise and Merwin have no faces.That isn’t Selznick’s only Hollywood connection with his new book. The audiobook version is read by none other than Meryl Streep.Selznick is the author and illustrator of many books for children, including “The Invention of Hugo Cabret,” winner of the Caldecott medal for illustration and the basis for the Oscar-winning movie “Hugo.” He is also author/illustrator of “Wonderstruck,” made into a movie by Todd Haynes with a screenplay by Selznick. To celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Harry Potter series, he created new covers and a box for all seven books. His books have sold millions of copies and been translated into more than 35 languages.A graduate of the Rhode Island School of Design in 1988, Selznick  got his start in children’s books as an independent bookseller in New York. He is married to David Serlin, a writer, editor and professor at the University of California, San Diego. They divide their time between California and Brooklyn.Selznick’s appearance here is presented by the Red Balloon Bookshop and the University of St. Thomas’ schools of Education and Engineering, promoting the connections between science and art. This is a ticketed event. Each ticket includes a purchase of one book and up to four seats for the program. For information go to redballoonbookshop.com/event.Related Articles
Books |  

			Literary pick for Aug. 18		


Books |  

			Kids at the Fair can take a break at the Alphabet Forest		


Books |  

			Readers and writers: Plenty of thrills and danger in these Minnesota author’s mysteries		


Books |  

			Literary calendar for week of Aug. 18		


Books |  

			This Silicon Valley tech worker uses her impostor syndrome as novel inspiration		



 That’s the essence of Caldecott medalist Brian Selznick’s new book “Big Tree,” which he will introduce with a reading at 6:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 17, at the University of St. Thomas O’Shaughnessy Education Center, 2115 Summit Ave., St. Paul, in partnership with St. Paul’s Red Balloon Bookshop. “Big Tree” (Scholastic), began as a planned collaboration between Selznick and producer/director Steven Spielberg for a film project that never got off the ground. But both men agreed it would make a terrific book, and it lives up to that prediction with starred reviews from Publishers Weekly, School Library Journal and The Horn Book. It is enlivened with nearly 300 pages of pictures, including those showing the two seeds’ personalities even though Louise and Merwin have no faces. That isn’t Selznick’s only Hollywood connection with his new book. The audiobook version is read by none other than Meryl Streep. Selznick is the author and illustrator of many books for children, including “The Invention of Hugo Cabret,” winner of the Caldecott medal for illustration and the basis for the Oscar-winning movie “Hugo.” He is also author/illustrator of “Wonderstruck,” made into a movie by Todd Haynes with a screenplay by Selznick. To celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Harry Potter series, he created new covers and a box for all seven books. His books have sold millions of copies and been translated into more than 35 languages. A graduate of the Rhode Island School of Design in 1988, Selznick  got his start in children’s books as an independent bookseller in New York. He is married to David Serlin, a writer, editor and professor at the University of California, San Diego. They divide their time between California and Brooklyn. Selznick’s appearance here is presented by the Red Balloon Bookshop and the University of St. Thomas’ schools of Education and Engineering, promoting the connections between science and art. This is a ticketed event. Each ticket includes a purchase of one book and up to four seats for the program. For information go to redballoonbookshop.com/event. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group