All the latest Tottenham Hotspur news and transfer gossip including updates on Yves Bissouma, Hugo Lloris and Antonio Conte's comments after the defeat to Manchester City Don't miss any of the latest and best Spurs news - sign up to the free Tottenham newsletter for updates straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Don't miss any of the latest and best Spurs news - sign up to the free Tottenham newsletter for updates straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Your morning Tottenham Hotspur digest on Saturday, January 21. Antonio Conte responds to Spurs fans' concerns over progress Antonio Conte has responded to Spurs fans' concerns over the team's performance and future ahead of the match against Fulham. The Tottenham boss said: "The progress is for what I see and for what the team produces. "The progress doesn't depend on the result because during a process when you start on one level and then you start to work, the progress it doesn't depend only on the result. Then you know very well in football in the final you go to see the result and if you play well or if you play bad, what remains is the result.  "In my opinion, as a coach, the result is important but at the same time if you want to become a strong team, then you have to show in every game that you have the possibility to get the result." Read on here. READ MORE:Daniel Levy, Antonio Conte and a defining fortnight for Tottenham Hotspur Chelsea make Yves Bissouma enquiry Brighton's Moises Caicedo has long been the source of interest from Chelsea due to his relationship with former Seagulls boss Graham Potter. It was reported on Thursday that a £55million bid for the Ecuador international was rejected, with The Athletic insisting the AMEX Stadium outfit have no intentions of selling Caicedo this month. Now, according to The Telegraph, Chelsea have made an inquiry for Tottenham's Yves Bissouma. Despite only joining the north Londoners in the summer, the Mali international in another former Seagulls player who has been linked with a reunion with Potter at SW6. Read more here. Antonio Conte urged to sell Hugo Lloris football.london understands a right wingback is the priority with a new midfielder and winger also on the shortlist before window slams shut in just under two weeks time. The Italian boss rarely hides away from making his feelings on recruitment known but has been urged to change his tack and push three current stars out of the door. Speaking on talkSPORT, former Aston Villa forward Gabby Agbonlahor was asked what he would do with members of the team and gave a scathing assessment on a certain trio. On club captain Hugo Lloris he said: "Make him get the ferry, not even fly him out. Mistake after mistake." Lloris was criticised for his role in Arsenal's opener, which went down as his own goal after parrying Bukayo Saka's cross into his own net. He then couldn't get close to Martin Odegaard's long range effort for the second. Spurs are reportedly keen on England shot-stopper Jordan Pickford as a replacement. His international teammate Eric Dier was another one that Agbonlahor wanted to see moved on though. "Sell. He’s too slow," the pundit said. As for Emerson Royal, the wing-back has been slammed for his performances on the right side of Conte's defence and Agbonlahor didn't hold back. Read more here. READ NEXT: Every word Conte said on the decision he will make about his Tottenham future and Ivan Perisic Antonio Conte's telling post-match comment as Man City expose Tottenham's greatest problem 'Mistake after mistake' - Tottenham urged to sell trio as Antonio Conte prepares transfer clearout Find the footballs on the Football.London website to win cash prize, vouchers and TV worth £3,000 Tottenham news and transfers LIVE: All the latest news, rumours and gossip from the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium 