Fisher Stevens, best known for playing Hugo in "Succession," is making a documentary on David and Victoria Beckham. He told Insider that it will showcase the couple in a way the world has never seen them before. "I'll just tell you they are a lot different in this movie than anyone has ever seen them," Stevens said. Hot off the series finale of "Succession," Fisher Stevens, who played Hugo in the hit HBO show, is in London finishing up a docuseries on one of the most famous couples in the world: David and Victoria Beckham. But Stevens believes despite the constant tabloid coverage of the two, no one really knows who they really are. To be released by Netflix, the multi-episode documentary will delve into how David became one of the all-time great soccer players, but also give an unprecedented glimpse into his relationship with his wife. It includes never-before-seen archival footage of the two back when they were dating — him, the soccer god, and her, known for being one of the members of the hit group Spice Girls. Stevens, who, along with acting, has been directing and producing for years, told Insider this week, after landing in London to continue production on the doc, that he will be shining a light on David and Victoria that the world has never seen before. "I'll just tell you they are a lot different in this movie than anyone has ever seen them," Stevens said. "I don't think anyone understands their life really and what they have gone through and the journey they have taken," he continued. "I've spent a year and a half making this, so I love it, but I think it's going to surprise the hell out of people." Stevens received an Oscar in 2010 for producing the acclaimed documentary "The Cove," which focused on activists exposing the shocking abuses of dolphins in Japan. He was also an executive producer on the hit Netflix docuseries "Tiger King." It's not yet known when Netflix will premiere the Beckhams docuseries. Read the original article on Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.