The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. At this year's Colchester Town Meeting Day, the leading topic of conversation centered around whether voters should approve construction of a new town recreation center. The facility would feature an indoor court space, a running track, and fitness areas. One aspect it won't have, at least in Phase 1, is a pool. "We were able to incorporate the top five or so amenities that community members want at the facility, it didn't include a pool," said Adriane Martin, Colchester Recreation Board chair. "Pools are really expensive to run. We felt it was important to take these steps that are smart, planned out, and digestible. Let's create the facility where membership fees and rentals can keep the facility running and then we can add a pool." This is a project that has been a discussion for over 20 years. The town bought the 14-acre land on Blakely Road and East Lakeshore Drive, where the facility would be, in 2004. Town officials say funding the nearly $16 million dollar project would have zero impact on current taxpayers, as it was partially funded through a local option tax by voters in 2015. "It's used for capital projects, which this would fall under that category and would need to be approved by the voters of Colchester to use those funds," said Glenn Cuttitta, Colchester Parks and Recreation director. "There's been $9 million sitting in reserve to be used towards that $15.9 million. Then there would be a bond for 10 years for the rest of the cost of the project." To support the operating costs, there would be a membership fee required for those to use the facility, ranging from day passes to yearly memberships.  One voter, who spoke with NBC5 but preferred not to be named, said he voted for the rec center construction approval, but believes that there would still be plenty of opportunities for non-members to use the rec center. "This facility is going to be open for so many more new programs that the community won't need to be a member to take part," Cuttitta said. "They'll be able to take part in the programs and the facility without being a member. There's going to be free events, gatherings, and activity spots. We're really trying to hit that social need and see our community gathered together." As the purpose would be for the community to be able to stay active all year round. "As much as we love Colchester for the bike path, parks, and fields, we can't use those all year round," Martin said. "What better way to continue to support the health and wellness of the community than to bring opportunities indoors." Town officials say they don't have a timeline on how long the construction would take if voters approve the project, but they would plan on working with contractors to break ground as soon as possible. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.