  Tue 20 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters Any hopes Rishi Sunak might have had that a rapturous reception in his ancestral homeland of India could help distract from political woes at home were dispelled by an extensive lockdown of New Delhi for the G20 summit. Streets in the heart of the capital that usually hum with cars, scooters, people, noise, monkeys and other animals were largely silent as businesses and schools were given a public holiday and movement around the city was restricted in an apparent bid to dampen down the traffic and general chaos that could have upset the carefully planned gathering. But it also denied Mr Sunak the kind of scenes that greeted Boris Johnson when he visited Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Ahmedabad, Gujarat in 2022. Albeit artificial, the state put on a welcome party of more than 1,000 people waving Union Jacks lining the road from the airport to the hotel, while Mr Johnson’s face was plastered on around 50 billboards around town that helped briefly to distract from Partygate. There were no such scenes as Mr Sunak was escorted in a convoy from his plane to his hotel in New Delhi. There was no one really around at all. The Prime Minister also saw a planned reception with Indian business leaders at the British High Commission cancelled on Friday night as bigwigs did not want to take the metro to get around the city’s many roadblocks. It was of course, not Mr Sunak’s fault, and he is thought to be planning another visit in the autumn to coincide with the Cricket World Cup and potentially to finalise an India trade deal that is likely to see him enjoy his status as “India’s son-in-law”. And given a rare opportunity to mix with the public, Mr Sunak and his wife Akshata Murty, heiress of the indian billionaire founder of Infosys, appeared to relish meeting children taking part in UK-funded programmes that support computer coding and language skills at the British Council in the city. Ms Murty, arguably as well known a figure as Mr Sunak in India, stole the show, playing football barefooted with children in the courtyard of the Council’s buildings in the centre of town. And Mr Sunak may find Ms Murty gives him a diplomatic boost as he rubs shoulders with G20 leaders and their spouses at a banquet hosted by Mr Modi on Saturday night. As the Prime Minister said on the plane to New Delhi: “It’s nice to have Akshata with me.” Mr Sunak has also used the visit to reflect on how “special” it is for him to be visiting the country of his forefathers, and a former British colony, as the UK’s first Indian-origin PM, on a trip Downing Street has described as “an historic moment”. On the plane to Delhi, he told reporters: “I was meant to go actually in 2020 – we take our family typically in February half term every year – and I got made chancellor right before and I didn’t get to go with the rest of my family then so I haven’t been for a little while. “It’s obviously special. I saw somewhere that I was referred to as India’s son-in-law, which I hope was meant affectionately. But look, I’m excited to be back.” Leaning into his heritage, Mr Sunak also used an interview with Indian broadcasters to make clear his “enormous respect” for “Modi ji” (an honorific). Mr Sunak also said the visit was something Britons could be proud of. He told UK broadcasters: “I’m here as a British Prime Minister and my story is not that dissimilar from millions of British people, that living bridge that exists between India and the UK. It’s very powerful. “It’s about those people-to-people links, those family links. And it speaks to the incredible tolerance and diversity of our country, a country that welcomed millions of people like my family, and here I am now representing the UK back in India. “I think it says an enormous amount about our country that everyone can be really proud of.” However, perhaps in a sign of India’s growing global importance, Mr Sunak’s arrival barely made any of the three major local broadsheet newspapers – the Hindustan Times, the Times of India and the Economic Times, on Friday. The Times of India’s G20 coverage led on Brazil and South Africa helping India forge a consensus text on Ukraine and did not mention Mr Sunak. The Economic Times lead on potential talks with China and G20 wrangling over net zero. Only the Hindustan Times carried news of Mr Sunak in a short story using Reuters copy on the Prime Minister’s refusal to liberalise visas to get a trade deal with India over the line. One TV channel however did carry a countdown to Mr Sunak’s arrival in India. All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.