Processing.... An HII (NYSE: HII) business unit will help the U.S. Army Research Laboratory develop, test and evaluate defense systems under a five-year, $94 million task order. HII Mission Technologies will conduct R&D of sensors, weapons and other combat systems for use by mission partners of the Department of Defense, the company said Monday. The parent organization, which has supported Army Research Laboratory programs since September 2016, secured the new task through the DOD Information Analysis Center’s multiple-award contract. “Providing research, rapid prototyping and solutions development that address technology gaps is critical to enhancing mission capability and maintaining decisive advantage over adversaries,” said Garry Schwartz, president of HII Mission Technologies’ C5ISR business group. ARL’s facility in Adelphi, Maryland, and a company-run operations center in Syracuse, New York, are the work locations. KBR‘s (NYSE: KBR) national security solutions division has received contracts worth over $450 million from government clients for technical systems engineering services in support of various space-related projects. The company said Monday the contracts encompass applied research, data science, acquisition support, systems engineering, communications security infrastructure, operations and maintenance services to support the sustainment of President Joe Biden on Saturday signed into law an appropriations package that includes the $825 billion defense spending bill for fiscal year 2024. The consolidated appropriations measure would provide funding for federal agencies through the end of September, the White House said Saturday. Defense News reported the House passed the bipartisan package in a 286-134 The appropriations committees of the House and Senate on Thursday released the $825 billion defense spending bill for fiscal year 2024. The FY 2024 Defense Appropriations Act reflects a $27 billion increase from the FY 2023 enacted funding level, the House Appropriations Committee said Wednesday. The appropriations measure would provide $3.72 billion for Army combat The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here