The Linda B. and Robert B. Wiggins Wellness & Integrative Health Center at Huntsman Cancer Institute offers classes and services to foster lifelong well-being for people affected by cancer. Wellness & Integrative Health Center services are open to current and former Huntsman Cancer Institute patients by appointment. Many services and classes are also open to loved ones and staff. Learn more about integrative medicine on our blog. Join Our Facebook Group Watch Our YouTube Playlist Integrative health and medicine brings conventional and complementary medical approaches together to treat cancer-related symptoms. We provide supportive treatments and services to patients, caregivers, family, and staff including acupuncture, massage, nutrition counseling, and more. Join our Facebook group to learn about upcoming activities. Adapted from traditional Chinese medicine, fine needles are placed at specific points to treat symptoms such as pain and nausea. Available at the Wellness Center and South Jordan Clinic. Cancer and its treatments can impair physical function and can even result in disability. The goal of cancer rehabilitation medicine is to restore and improve physical function. Play a drum. Paint a picture. Write a poem. Tell your story. The creative arts allow you to express yourself in many ways. Participation in our programs and classes is free. Many are also open to loved ones and staff. Exercise has many benefits for people affected by cancer. Services and classes are low cost and many are free. Group exercise events and classes are also open to loved ones and staff. Techniques that apply fixed or movable pressure, holding, and movement of the body to reduce stress, anxiety, and pain. Available at the Wellness Center and South Jordan Clinic. Our dietitians provide information about nutrition through groups, cooking classes, one-on-one sessions, and family counseling. They also offer a weight-reduction and healthy lifestyle program that is covered by most insurance. A gentle hands-on technique performed by a physician to help muscles, joints, and other body parts and improve motion, reduce pain, and improve health. These services are available to patients in their rooms while they are staying at Huntsman Cancer Institute. Inpatient acupuncture or massage requires physician or advance practitioner's approval. Please ask your care team for a referral. Adapted from traditional Chinese medicine, fine needles are placed at specific points to treat symptoms such as pain and nausea. Available at the Wellness Center and South Jordan Clinic. Techniques that apply fixed or movable pressure, holding, and movement of the body to reduce stress, anxiety, and pain. Available at the Wellness Center and South Jordan Clinic. The Music Therapy program uses live music to help patients and caregivers take their minds off of cancer and its treatments, share emotions, and ease symptoms. 
 Cancer treatment can be positively affected by physical activity and nutrition. The Wellness and Integrative Health Center empowers patients to stay active throughout treatment and beyond.

 Cancer treatment can be positively affected by physical activity and nutrition. The Wellness and Integrative Health Center empowers patients to stay active throughout treatment and beyond. Read More 
 Cancer treatment can significantly impact a person's sense of self and body. The Wellness and Integrative Health Center offers an integrative approach, addressing physical, emotional, and mental aspects of healing.

 Cancer treatment can significantly impact a person's sense of self and body. The Wellness and Integrative Health Center offers an integrative approach, addressing physical, emotional, and mental aspects of healing. Read More 
 Cancer care is changing. Alongside surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, a new approach is gaining ground: integrative oncology. This patient-centered field combines conventional treatments with personalized options to improve treatment outcomes.

 Cancer care is changing. Alongside surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, a new approach is gaining ground: integrative oncology. This patient-centered field combines conventional treatments with personalized options to improve treatment outcomes. Read More Classes are free to HCI outpatients, caregivers and staff as well as University of Utah Hospitals and Clinics ... 
Learn More
 Classes are free to HCI outpatients, caregivers and staff as well as University of Utah Hospitals and Clinics ... 
Learn More
 Classes are free to HCI outpatients, caregivers and staff as well as University of Utah Hospitals and Clinics ... 
Learn More
 See All Events 



 
    2000 Circle of Hope
    Salt Lake City,    Utah
    84112
   801-587-7000 Fax number: 801-213-6048All clinical services and programs are part of University of Utah Health Hospitals and Clinics. Copyright © 2024 University of Utah Health