Most Popular 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. The three chemicals in question: Isopropyl alcohol (IPA), acetone, and n-heptane A proper, functioning workshop needs more than tools. Sometimes, having access to the right chemicals can make all the difference. Also: Need cutting blades for your workshop? Forget metal and go ceramic The three chemicals I'll discuss below have numerous uses, from cleaning circuit boards, wiping the print bed of your 3D printer, and removing sticky labels. Before I introduce the chemicals, here are a few safety precautions I strongly recommend you follow: Isopropyl alcohol (IPA) is a chemical that I use frequently, thanks to its wide-ranging applications. Acetone is an indispensable asset to any workshop, due to its versatility and effectiveness. n-Heptane, a highly effective and fast-evaporating solvent, can be an essential tool in the workshop. I use an old toothbrush, or one bought special for the task at hand. Another good alternative is to use what are called "acid flux brushes," which are a lot cheaper than toothbrushes.  While I keep the bulk of my chemicals in their original bottles, nothing is going to ruin your day faster than spilling a quart of any of these chemicals on your bench, floor, or carpet. Not only do they smell, and carry a risk of fire, but they can damage surfaces. Also: This stuff is better than super glue This is why I decant a small amount -- no more than 15 ml/0.5 fl oz -- into spill-free dispensing bottles that have applicator needles fitted. These are great for dispensing small amounts of the chemicals into exactly where you need them. These spill-free dispensing bottles are awesome! I use my Brother PTE-300 industrial label maker to make labels for my dispensing bottles. These labels resist chemical attacks and last far better than printed or hand-written labels. Also: Why I love my heavy-duty label maker so much Brother PTE300