Stifel Nicolaus analyst Vincent Anderson maintained a Buy rating on Huntsman (HUN – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $33.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $28.16. Anderson covers the Basic Materials sector, focusing on stocks such as Mosaic Co, CF Holdings, and Nutrien. According to TipRanks, Anderson has an average return of 16.6% and a 57.94% success rate on recommended stocks.  Huntsman has an analyst consensus of Hold, with a price target consensus of $29.45, implying a 4.58% upside from current levels. In a report released on August 1, Credit Suisse also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $33.00 price target. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  HUN market cap is currently $5.22B and has a P/E ratio of 30.14.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 43 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is positive on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders buying their shares of HUN in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Huntsman Corp. engages in the manufacturing of chemicals for the plastics, automotive and construction industries. It operates through the following segments: Polyurethanes, Performance Products, Advanced Materials, and Textile Effects. The Polyurethanes segment manufactures and markets polyurethane chemicals, including MDI products, PO, polyols, PG, TPU, aniline, and MTBE. The Performance Products segment produces and sells amines, surfactants, LAB, and maleic anhydride to a variety of consumer and industrial end markets. The Advanced Materials segment provides basic liquid and solid epoxy resins, specialty resin compounds, cross linking, matting and curing agents, epoxy, acrylic, and polyurethane based polymer products. The Textile Effects segment consists market share for textile chemicals and dyes. Its products include Methoxypropylamine, Isocyanate, Nonylphenol, and Alkylalkanolamines. The company was founded by Jon Meade Huntsman Sr. in 1970 and is headquartered in The Woodlands, TX.  Read More on HUN: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks