They're sharp. They're sturdy. They're gorgeous. Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? EVERY FEW YEARS I'll get a text from a buddy that's some variation of this: "Hey man, I'm looking for a good kitchen knife. Any recs?" And then I do the annoying thing of answering their very simple question with a series of somewhat complicated questions. "What kind of knife do you feel most comfortable with? Do you prefer a larger, heavier knife? Or something more nimble and lightweight? What are you primarily using it for? Is cost a factor? Why haven't we hung out in a while?" They'll take a few hours or a few days to ponder/ignore all this and then text: "Um, just a good, sturdy knife that isn't too expensive." Eight-and-a-half times out of 10, I'll recommend an 8-inch chef's knife, either a Kramer Knives Carbon 8″ Chef’s Knife by Zwilling J.A. Henckels if they're comfortable taking care of knives and have some money to spend on a knife that lasts OR an 8-inch Victorinox Fibrox Pro Chef's Knife if they don't identify with either. But for the other 1.5 instances, I may lead them to a Japanese knife. Japanese knives, while broad as a category, tend to be just as sturdy as a well-made chef's knife made by an American bladesmith or renown Swiss company. (The Japanese, after all, have been making high-quality blades for centuries.) Just notice those words "tend to be." Some manufacturers are cranking out subpar Japanese knives to make a quick buck. Not these companies, though, each of which have built some incredibly sharp blades with staying power. Best Chef's Knives | Best Steak Knives | 30 Tools You Need to Cook Better | Kitchen Awards | Best Cooking Gifts for Men | Best Cookbooks for Every Home Cook Yoshihiro offers some of the best Japanese knives available—and the Gyutou 8.25’’ Chef’s Knife showcases the company's commitment to doing things The Right Way. This stain-resistant blade is made of VG-10 hammered Damascus stainless steel and its handle features Shitan rosewood with a mahogany bolster. Sharp—in all senses of the word. Read more: Best Chef's Knives  Hailing from Seki City Japan, this premium heat-treated knife is delicate, yet agile. The six-inch blade features a tsuchime (hammered) finish and is constructed with VG-MAX fine-grained steel. It's strong, and the shorter blade length is best suited foor cooks with smaller hands. While this pick is an investment, you’ll enjoy a lifetime of free knife sharpening from Shun.   Read more: Best Cooking Gifts for Men The Sakai Takayuki Gyutou 9.4’’ Chef’s Knife is corrosion-resistant and built from hammered Damascus VG-10 stainless steel. The weighty plywood handle fits comfortably despite its length, which feels best if you have bigger hands. Read more: Best Steak Knives Shun Classic knives were among the first Japanese-style knives made available to North American chefs. Unique to the Classic line, the sharper and slightly thicker blade holds its edge longer. Like the Premium, the Classic features corrosion-resistant VG-MAX Shun steel and a durable PakkaWood handle. It's a long blade, though, best suited for speciality cooking tasks like filleting fish or butterflying large cuts of meat. While Japanese knives are deft at delicate, precise cuts, because of their ultra-thin construction, they can also require a significant amount of maintenance. The hand-honed Miyabi Kaizen 8’’ Chef's Knife is constructed with a VG10 stainless steel blade and combines traditional and modern technology. The ice-hardened blade sits reliably in a micarta linen composite handle. It's a nice knife for everyday kitchen tasks. Read more: 30 Tools You Need to Cook Better  This pick features sharp, proprietary zirconia material produced in Japan. The ceramic zirconia material is built to keep its sharpness and withstand chips and breaks, which is especially important for those looking for a reliable entry-level option. The rust and acid-proof blade sits within an ergonomically-designed handle. Tackle just about everything, except for tasks that require a more flexible blade, like carving, boning, and prying. This best part? It’s dishwasher-safe. Read more: Kitchen Awards Forget about oxidization and rust—the high carbon stainless steel blade is heat treated to withstand the toughest of kitchen elements. Forge forward with ease, from sashimi to tougher, sinewy meats. And the price is unbeatable. Read more: Best Cookbooks for Every Home Cook Kikuichi is a Japanese knife brand with a long history of making some of the world's best knives. The 8" Chef Knife is a collaboration between the knifemaker and Christopher Kimball's Milk Street, a cooking school and media company. The knife features a 3-layer stainless steel construction with a VG10 steel core that provides excellent edge retention and durability. The handle is made of black Pakkawood, which is a heavy-duty, moisture-resistant material that makes for a comfy grip.  It's also backed by a lifetime warranty, so you can feel confident in your purchase. The Kanso Asian Utility Knife is part of Shun's Kanso collection, which is inspired by the traditional Japanese design philosophy of "simplicity." The 7-inch blade of the Kanso Asian Utility Knife is made of high-performance AUS10A steel that is known for its durability, sharpness, and edge retention. The blade has a 16-degree angle on each side, making it incredibly sharp and precise for any level chef. The knife's handle is constructed of contoured Tagayasan wood (also known as Iron Sword Wood), making it as beautiful as it is durable. It's also resistance to moisture, so you won't need to worry too much about handle upkeep.   Whether you're new to the Japanese knife game or a seasoned vet, finding your match means knowing what you're looking for. Consider the following when shopping for your next Japanese knife: Blade material: The quality of the blade is essential to the performance and durability of a knife. High-carbon steel and stainless steel are two commonly used materials. If knife skills are what you're after, opt for high-carbon steel, as it offers better edge retention and sharpness. If a low-maintenance blade is what you're after, know that stainless steel is more resistant to rust and corrosion. Blade shape: Japanese knives are known for their unique blade shapes, which are designed to thrive at specific kitchen tasks. For example, a nakiri knife is designed for chopping vegetables, while a yanagiba knife is ideal for slicing raw fish. Consider the type of cooking you do and ingredients you work with to choose a knife with a blade shape that suits your needs. Blade size: Knives come in various sizes, from small paring knives to larger chef's knives. The size of the blade you choose should depend on your comfort level, knife skills, and the tasks you will be using the knife for. Generally, a smaller knife is easier to control for beginners, while a larger knife can provide more efficiency for those who know how to use it. If you're new to Japanese knives, start out with a 6"-8" blade. Handle material: You can find knives with a variety of handle materials like wood, plastic, and composites. While a comfortable and secure grip are the most important features you'll want from a handle, aesthetic doesn't have to be overlooked. Wood handles are classic and good looking, but some may retain moisture and require more maintenance. If you're into a wood handle aesthetic, look for one that is treated to be moisture-resistant. Brand and customer reviews: Established brands with a good reputation are more likely to produce high-quality knives that will last a long time. You'll want this knife to keep up with the demands of your kitchen, so read the reviews of others to get an idea of how the knife performs. Price: Japanese kitchen knives can vary significantly in price, so consider your budget fist. If you plan to use the knife often, opt for a higher end model that is sure to last. But if you are new to cooking and plan to use your knife lightly, budget models are reasonable choices.Maintenance: Some Japanese knives require special care and maintenance to keep them in top condition. If you want to protect your investment and get the most out of your knife, don't ignore the care instructions. Before buying a knife you're interested in, read how to care for it to make sure you're willing to commit to the necessary upkeep. A sharp and precise Japanese kitchen knife can make all the difference when it comes to preparing meals with finesse (and impressing your friends and family, of course). But even the best knife in the world won't help you if you don't know how to use it.  Know that grip is everything. Hold the knife with your thumb and index finger on either side of the blade, and your other three fingers wrapped around the handle. This will give you the most control over the knife, allowing you to make precise cuts with minimal effort. Gordon Ramsay, who? Once you've got the grip down, it's time to practice different cutting techniques. The most basic technique is the chop, where you bring the blade down onto the cutting board with force. Slicing is another popular one, where you move the blade back and forth in a sawing motion. The rock chop is a combination of both, where you chop and then rock the blade back and forth to make more precise cuts. Look up some instructional videos to practice with a visual. And remember: proper maintenance is key to keeping your Japanese kitchen knife in tip top condition. Always wash and dry the blade by hand after use, and store it in a sheath or on a magnetic strip to protect the blade. To keep things effortless when using the knife, sharpen the blade often. A well-crafted Japanese kitchen knife is an investment piece, so take care of it and use it properly.  When it comes to Japanese kitchen knives, you've got a slew of blade types to choose from, each with its own unique benefits and uses.  The santoku knife: A versatile all-purpose knife that's great for chopping, slicing, and dicing. It's perfect for preparing basically everything, from meat, fish, vegetables, to fruits. Which makes it a great choice for everyday use in the kitchen. Its wide blade and rounded tip make it easy to scoop up ingredients and transfer them from the cutting board to the pan like a pro. The nakiri knife: A vegetable knife with a straight blade that's perfect for chopping and slicing vegetables. Its thin, lightweight blade is designed for precision, making it ideal for more delicate knife tasks like mincing herbs or slicing garlic. If you cook a ton of veggies and not much animal protein, this is a great choice. The gyuto knife: A chef's knife with a long, thin blade that's perfect for slicing meat and fish. Its sharp edge and pointed tip make it easy to make precise cuts, while its length allows for longer strokes and greater control under pressure. Carnivores, this is your pick.  The Best Teeth-Whitening Kits For A Brighter Smile The Best Meal Replacement Bars and Shakes 11 Reasons Your Crotch Is Itchy Here Are The Top CBD Drinks To Try 14 Meal Prep Containers for Keeping Food Fresh The Best Pulse Oximeters to Buy Online The 8 Best Iron Supplements  The Best Nonstick Cookware for Every Guy’s Budget Here’s How Protein Shakes Help With Weight Loss What the Heck Is Going on With Decaf Coffee?  30 High-Protein Recipes That Require Zero Cooking Yes, What You Eat Can Impact Your Skin Health A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.