It’s never easy to handle the frustrating symptoms caused by allergies, sinus infections, acute sinusitis, or chronic sinusitis. But the good news is you can fight against them using many easy ways. One of the simplest yet most effective (also agreed by many sinus experts) is using a humidifier. The six options below are the six best humidifiers for sinus problems picked by our experts. Read on! The AirExpect Cool Mist Humidifier is something we absolutely love. It features a chamber for the oil which is more hygienic than those models that require pitting oil in their tank and leave residue there. Moreover, this humidifier has an advanced Microporous Carbon Filter Core to avoid stains and dust for an absolutely healthy mist. The tank of this humidifier can contain 3.5 liters of water as maximum and under continuous ample mist, it runs up to 24 hours. There are three mist modes: Low, Medium, and High to customize to your moisture needs. You’ll also receive four sleep timer of 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours and a 7-color LED mode to create ambiance. But if you want the light to not disturb your sleep, just turn it off. For safety, this device is functioned to auto-shutoff when the water rank has been removed or water runs low. Dimension 6.5 x 6.5 x 11 inches Capacity 3.5 liters Recommended Room Size 900 square feet Playtime 24 hours Highlight Features advanced Microporous Carbon Filter Core SAFETY AUTOMATIC SHUT-OFF All-around performance is the name of the game with our Editors' Choice Award winner and with high scores across the board, the AirExpect Cool Mist Humidifier is an obvious choice. For those who want to improve your night’s slumber quality, the BAYKA Cool Mist Humidifier is worth considering. It has a 4-liter water tank with three mist modes that can work continuously up to 28 hours and will automatically shut off when the water runs out. More than just an ordinary humidifier, its Aromatherapy Box allows you to enjoy the essential oil fragrance and mist at the same time. Furthermore, it features Deep Sleep Mode, which makes the device itself quieter by fitting with ultrasonic vibrating diaphragms to release tinier drips of water into the air. Like other humidifiers, this unit requires regular maintenance to avoid dust and grime build-up in the water tank but rest assured, it’s very easy to hand clean and dry. Dimension 12.5 x 9 x 7.5 inches Capacity 4 liters Recommended Room Size 10-30 m²/ 107-322 ft² Playtime 28 hours Highlight Features An Aromatherapy Box Deep Sleep Mode The best humidifier for the bedroom should run more quietly with no compromises of mist diffusing performance. After testing out a bunch of models, we chose the BAYKA Cool Mist Humidifier. Warm mist! It is very good for people who have dry membranes causing bloody noses and for those who don’t know, it also helps fight against COVID-19. Out of many warm humidifiers we’ve tested, this absolutely stands out. The warm mist created by this device is 140 degrees, which is the favorable temp for the human respiratory system. Particularly, it doesn’t cause burns/injuries if getting too close, which is definitely safe for pets and children. You can combine this function with the provided Sleep Mode for the best results. Two big bonuses are the 12-hour timer and remote control provision. Dimension 14 x 11.2 x 10.5 inches Capacity 4 liters Recommended Room Size 500 sq ft Playtime 30 hours Highlight Features 12-hour timer Cool & warm (up to 140°F!) mist If you’re seeking the best warm humidifier to soothe your dry membranes, the Hupro Premium Ultrasonic is the shiniest candidate. The Miroco Cool Mist Humidifier is specifically designed for larger rooms. It highlights a 1.6gal or 6L water tank that can constantly run within 20 to 60 hours depending on the mist mode chosen. With such enormous productivity, it is perfect for rooms up to 430 square feet or 40 square meters. The biggest selling point of this baby monster is it runs quietly – only 26 decibels, which is perfect for bedrooms and baby rooms. When the water runs low, the LED indicator shines red to warn you about that and if the water isn’t refilled in time, it will automatically shut off for safety. If the cleanup is one of your biggest concerns, rest the heart, this device features a 90mm water inlet. Dimension 10.2 x 7 x 16.3 inches Capacity 6 liters Recommended Room Size 20-40 m² / 215-430 ft² Playtime 20-60 hours Highlight Features Low Water Warning Optional Night Light 90mm Water Inlet 6L Tank Capacity & Mist Adjustable Designed with an extra-large water tank and adjustable mist, the Miroco Cool Mist Humidifier is best for large spaces. The Homech Cool Mist Humidifier is a perfect choice for a medium-sized room, around 20-40 m² / 215-430 ft². The reason lies in its 4-liter water tank which can last up to 50 hours of working and the 360°degree rotating nozzle that distributes a mist height of 2 feet for more expanded spreading. Besides, this advanced nozzle design prevents your electronic gadgets like laptops from getting wet. One notable thing about this device is its 95mm water inlet that you can fit your hand into for easier cleanup or rest assured to fill water with no spillage. Dimension 10.2 x 6.5 x 13.3 inches Capacity 4 liters Recommended Room Size 20-40 m² / 215-430 ft² Playtime 12-50 hours Highlight Features 360-degree rotating nozzle 95mm Water Inlet If you’re in search of a humidifier for your medium-sized room, check out the Homech Cool Mist Humidifier. The last model in our reviews is an obvious choice for small rooms. It features a 180ml water tank with spray mist efficiency of 30ml/h, therefore, in continuous running mode, it lasts up to 5 hours. Because of the smaller capacity, the device itself is designed to be smaller as well. It is measured by only 5.74''×2.59''×2.59" and weighs 5 ounces so that you can easily bring it from one room to another and place it anywhere. The best thing about this design is its Micro USB 5V port that you can connect to power it through your laptop, which is incredibly convenient. If you care about the safety level, the goods new is this humidifier is CE Certification and RoHS qualified. Dimension 5.74''×2.59''×2.59" Capacity 180ml Playtime 5-10 hrs Highlight Features One-button operation One more free filter in the package Handheld Size & USB Powered Compact, lightweight, safe to use, and especially, very functional, the NovoLido Mini USB Humidifier is worth a try for small rooms. Room Dimensions Water Tank Capacity Types Of Mist Other Features Runtime Light indicator & auto-shutoff function Hupro Miroco Homech Do humidifiers help with sinus problems? Yes, they do. Sinusitis experts agree that by providing extra humidity into the air, it helps nasal congestion. How long can a humidifier last? 5 years Is cool mist or warm mist better? Both types have their own advantages. The cool mist gets rid of impurities better by using filters and cool mist humidifiers run more quietly than the warm mist design. In turn, it can’t kill bacteria as efficiently as the warm mist because it doesn’t produce steam. Besides, the level of moisture of warm mist humidifiers is higher. Should humidifier run all night? Yes, it should. The humidifier itself is designed to capably run day and night as long as the water tank doesn’t run out. It’d best if you choose a machine with timer settings and water runout alarm function. How often should you clean a humidifier? Everyday. Give it a deep clean once a week by using a 10% bleach solution or vinegar. There are dozens of humidifiers available each year, which means narrowing down your options can be a real challenge. We hope that through our in-depth, side-by-side testing that we offer up information to make your choice process a bit simpler. This is the end of our article about how to choose the best humidifier for sinus problems. Thanks for reading!