The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. When violence happens in the Metro, LMPD officers are trained to do more than make arrests, officers are also saving lives using Tactical Medicine practices.  It’s a method of rendering aid to trauma patients that is common in the military, but it’s also required training for every officer at Louisville Metro Police Department. “It's for the officer, but it happens that we're able to use it for civilians,” said Officer Todd Richardson. “We use it more on the public than we do on ourselves.” Often, law enforcement beat EMS to a crime scene, and through this training led by Richardson, the department's health and safety officer, police will have the knowledge and a tool kit to treat victims who have been shot, stabbed, or have other traumatic injuries. “It's my opinion based upon the usage, that our homicide rate would probably be triple what it is if it wasn't for officers doing this because they're doing it every day,” he said. Louisville's current homicide numbers and nonfatal shootings are down compared to last year’s record. Yet, Richardson says LMPD officers are still using upward of 200 tourniquets and chest seals every year. 









Homicides numbers trending down in spite of deadly weekend violence that claimed 6 lives






 “What's more alarming is if we didn't have them,” he said. “I know in the state and other places, they're not as progressive with tourniquets, whereas we issue them to every officer.” According to Richardson, their actions are saving countless lives, and in the coming weeks, they will be able to track with a launch of a new data system. “We're going to work in conjunction with the University of Louisville, so now I'll be able to tell you the exact victim that we helped to save,” he said. Knowing that these practices can be a matter of life or death, Richardson, who has been with LMPD for 22 years, and the Health and Safety Officer position for one year, is expanding the program. He is increasing training for officers and installing vending machines with tactical supplies in every LMPD division. “It's like anything else, the more you train, the better you are at it,” Richardson said. LMPD officers take tactical training classes every year. It's a four-hour course for current employees and an 8-hour class for new recruits. The department also trains its special response groups, such as SWAT.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.