Hydrogen plant could help power a tissue factory in the region Sign up to our free newsletter for the top North Wales stories sent straight to your e-mail  We have more newsletters Sign up to our free newsletter for the top North Wales stories sent straight to your e-mail  We have more newsletters  Plans for a new green hydrogen project at the factory behind household brands Andrex and Kleenex have been submitted. A planning application for the project has been put forward to Flintshire County Council by Hyro Energy, the £3bn joint venture between renewable energy company RES and Octopus Energy Generation.   If approved, it would see a 7.5MW green hydrogen electrolyser production and storage facility at Kimberly-Clark’s Coleshill manufacturing facility in Flint. The proposed scheme would use up to three electrolysers which will use electricity from renewable sources like wind and solar to split water and create green hydrogen.  This would then be stored and used to fuel new industrial hydrogen boilers, replacing conventional gas, as part of the paper-making process. HYRO said it will be looking at ways to maximise the inward investment from the project to the area through local contracts, local spend, and employment. If the project is consented, they expect around 25 jobs will be created in development and construction up to 2025/26, with a further six from 2026 onwards in operations and maintenance roles. READ MORE: More people are moving from England to Wales and these are reasons why They added: “We have a strong track record of working with the local supply chain around our projects and there will also be the potential for local contracts for cleaning, security and facilities services both during construction and once operational.” Iain Buchanan, development project manager for Coleshill Green Hydrogen Project, said: “Green hydrogen projects are a critical component of the broader strategy to deliver energy security and create green economic growth across Wales and the UK. Green hydrogen can help to address the urgent need to decarbonise industrial businesses and hard to electrify sectors, setting them up with a cost competitive, clean fuel for the future.” Oriol Margo, sustainability transformation leader for Kimberly-Clark EMEA, said: “This development at our Coleshill Site in Flint and our partnership with HYRO represents a huge step towards our ambition to move solely to renewable energy to manufacture Andrex, Kleenex, Huggies, WypAll and Scott in the UK by 2030.” The submission follows pre-application consultation (PAC) undertaken by HYRO in April and May this year. Sign up for the North Wales Live newsletter sent twice daily to your inbox Find out what's going on near you 