Ahead of their tour supporting Corey Taylor, Oxymorrons have announced their new album – and it features guest spots from Kid Bookie, Hyro The Hero and more. It’s a busy year for Oxymorrons: after supporting Corey Taylor
on his CMF2 run in America, the band will be releasing new album Melanin Punk. The record is due out on October 20 via Mascot, and will feature
collabs with fellow K! favourites like Kid Bookie and Hyro The Hero. Of what the band and album are aiming for here, they share: “It’s about
community, not division. Oxymorrons is for us, but the project represents the people
and what brings us together. Our whole human existence is about connection. It’s
everyone in the band’s uniqueness that makes us the crazy melting of sound and
that’s a great analogy to how we feel about the world as a whole.” To coincide with the announcement, Oxymorrons have shared new
single Graveyard Words, which they explain is “about speaking with intentions.
Words carry weight and you can manifest positivity but also negativity with the
things you say – on the extreme side of the spectrum it could cost you
your life. It’s about the laws of attraction through words.  “The chorus sounds like a threat coming from an individual –
like, ‘Yo, watch yer mouth or I’ll fuck you up’ – but it was really written
from the perspective of the universe/karma warning us humans. A small example
is we try not to use the word ‘hate’ in our vocabulary when describing
something we don’t like. We’re not always successful, but just trying to remove
that word so that we don’t attract hatred into our life and leave that portal
open for hate to come through. You attract what you project, and we project
positivity.” Check it out below: See the album tracklist: 1. Enemy2.
Last Call (feat Troi Irons)3.
Graveyard Words4.
Look Alive (Netic)5.
Head For The Hills (feat Kid Bookie)6.
Melanin Punk7.
Mike Shinoda Flow (feat Hyro the Hero)8.
Insomnia9.
Re-Up (feat KANNER)10.
Moon Chasers And the cover: Read this: Kid Bookie: “I don’t care if you buy it because I never came to sell anything” News With a couple of weeks to go, the full line-up has been revealed for this year’s massive Boomtown – Chapter 3: Revolution Of Imagination. Reviews These woods are lovely, dark and deep, full of bands that rock and tales to keep, so we went another weekend without much sleep to bring you all the highlights down at Upcote Farm for 2000trees… News Kid Bookie is going to celebrate the release of his debut album Songs For The Living // Songs For The Dead by visiting the homes of his fans (and probably causing some chaos while he’s at it). Features Now one of the most essential weekends in UK alternative, 2000trees 2024 has so much more to offer than just headliners The Gaslight Anthem, The Chats and Don Broco. We delve into 15 undercard acts you need to find time for across an action-packed weekend... News Watch the video for Kid Bookie’s new single Love Me When You’re Angry, which is about asking people to give “a little bit of something to hold on to”. Features Ahead of his hotly-tipped third album, we join Kid Bookie in Paris with I Prevail to discover the drive and the desires of the double MOBO Award nominee, and how he’s planning to change the world – one bit at a time… News Watch the video for Kid Bookie’s new single Scars, taken from his long-awaited album Songs For The Living // Songs For The Dead. News Check out 40 seconds of a heavy new Kid Bookie single, which goes by the name Scars and is set to arrive later this month…