TENACIOUS D are set to headbang their way to the Glasgow Hyro as they announce a string of UK dates. The iconic rock band, fronted by actors Jack Black and Kyle Gass, are bringing their Spicy Meatball Tour to the Scots venue next May. The naughties legends are famed for a catalogue of iconic hits including Tribute, The Pick of Destiny and Wonderboy. And now the comedy rock duo are swapping the sunshine of LA for the shores of the UK. The upcoming European tour will also stop at Oslo, Paris, Manchester and Leeds. Taking to X, formerly known as Twitter, the OVO Hydro wrote: "The dream team that is Tenacious D bring their Spicy Meatball Tour to the OVO Hydro on 9 May 2024." Tenacious D have been entertaining fans since their formation in the late 1990s in Los Angeles. The popular rockers won a Grammy in 2014 for Best Metal Performance. Tickets for next year's gig are on pre-sale release now.  And they're not the only act to reveal an upcoming appearance at the Glasgow venue. Nineties band Texas has added an extra date in the city for their new show. Scottish rockers Texas announced they were going on tour last month after a stellar performance at Glastonbury this year. The group were set to take to the Hydro's stage on Saturday, September 14. But due to popular demand the band, fronted by Sharleen Spiteri, announced a second hometown show. We pay for your stories and videos! Do you have a story or video for The Scottish Sun? Email us at scoop@thesun.co.uk or call 0141 420 5200  ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.