Vital news, expert insight & insider tips from Music Ally – all in your inbox. (Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *fun may vary wildly Get notified when we publish Music Ally’s industry-leading analysis : join the Music Ally WhatsApp Channel, where we'll send you the lead story, and links to all the other important news, every weekday. 
					Music industry consultancy covering digital music marketing and strategy				 Need to book a DJ? There’s a new app for that: Djaayz. It soft-launched in France in late 2022, and this week has expanded to the UK. The app is aimed at venues and clubs, as well as restaurants, hotels, bars and other businesses that might need some steel-wheeling help, with a roster of more than 3,500 DJs available to book. There’s an inevitable ‘Uber for DJs’ pitch line, and the promise of a selection panel ensuring “the quality and professionalism of every DJ”. (No dressing-room-trashing 24-hour caners who’ll forget to bring their records, or just cue up ‘Today’s Top Hits’ on Spotify then!) Djaayz’s co-founders are Cathy Guetta, whose past work includes the ‘F*** Me I’m Famous’ brand launched with former husband David Guetta, and Raphaël Aflalo, CEO of music and brands agency My Love Affair (co-founded with Cathy and David). Music Ally SI:X - A global showcase, contest and mentorship support programme for early-stage music startups. Entries close 9 September – apply now! Find out more and apply here. Get a mix of the vital news, analysis, and insider tips from across Music Ally's services.(Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *actual levels of fun may vary wildly Short form video has a huge influence on music listening, and it’s no surprise that… Read all Tools >> 
							Music Ally's Head of Insight															
								More by Stuart Dredge								
 Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  Δ Get a mix of the vital news, analysis, and insider tips from across Music Ally's services.(Plus all the weird links & unusual music we find online.) It's FREE, fun*, and every Friday. *actual levels of fun may vary wildly Universal Music Group execs recently made it clear that Spotify and YouTube… Spotify has opened a new facility for musicians and podcasters… SoundCloud launched its official ‘SoundCloud Store’ last week, showing off its new… Music Ally’s music business news podcast covers the vital issues in detail, as they emerge. Listen now »  Jobs The latest and best jobs in the global music industry See all jobs >> Sandbox: your essential digital marketing guide – expert insight, case studies, fresh ideas, and overlooked opportunities. BandLab has 100 million users, and now offers much more than… British rock band Bring Me The Horizon released Post Human:… Country Profiles Essential international guides, packed with data, interviews, strategies, and local insight. Read country profiles >> Slovakia’s recorded music industry is performing strongly, with predictions for sharp growth in the… Streaming continues to drive growth in the German music industry – with German-language music… South African music is making ever bigger waves abroad – and the country’s music… Music Ally Ltd., Holborn Studios,49-50 Eagle Wharf Rd, London, N1 7ED,United Kingdom +44 (0) 207 682 3996mail@musically.com   This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.Music Ally is a Registered Learning Provider 10029483