Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Halo Infinite launches a unique playlist involving community-created Forge maps and a brand-new event featuring armor of heroic Noble Team Spartans. Despite the reported lack of new story content on the horizon for Halo Infinite, 343 Industries continues onward with new multiplayer content before Season 3 begins.
                         Longtime Halo fans have questioned the immediate future of 343 Industries and Halo Infinite following studio layoffs and various reports of the next Halo game being in development. The Halo series is reportedly leaving the Slipspace Engine behind in favor of the highly accessible Unreal Engine, and a recent survey even suggests that Xbox may be moving forward completely from Halo Infinite. In the midst of rumors, Xbox head Phil Spencer reiterated publicly that 343 Industries is "critically important" for the Halo series going forward, reaffirming the studio's place as the lead Halo developer. Additionally, new Halo Infinite multiplayer content is on the way leading into Season 3.
      RELATED: Xbox Head Phil Spencer Says 343 Industries is 'Critically Important to Halo' Moving Forward
                     343 Industries published a new Halo Infinite blog post detailing the new Noble Intention event and Community Collection Forge map playlist. The Noble Intention event is live in Halo Infinite until February 21 with new Noble Team gear to obtain by completing challenges from the event pass. Halo Infinite players have the opportunity to don Thom-A923 and Rosenda-A344's armor for the first time in a Halo game. The pair of Noble Team Spartans did not make it into Halo Reach, but players may remember Reach once more by participating in the Noble Intention event.
                         Alongside the Noble Intention event, 343 Industries launched the Halo Infinite Community Collection playlist featuring community-created Forge maps. This unique playlist only includes four community-created maps, but future updates will add more maps in the future after a thorough selection process. Currently, Halo Infinite's Community Collection playlist includes the Absolution, Perilous, Salvation, and Starboard maps. 343 Industries plans to share more information about Halo Infinite Season 3 and Forge maps joining the Community Collection playlist at a later date.
      Halo Infinite players who continue to enjoy the multiplayer component should have a great time before Season 3 starts. Further, the new multiplayer content should be a relief following Halo Infinite's recent rumors and speculation. However, 343 Industries still has an uphill battle against Halo Infinite's current perception and waning interest.
      Halo Infinite Season 3 launches on March 7 with a new Fracture event, new armor, new maps, and much more. A new Halo game codenamed Tatanka is reportedly being developed by 343 Industries and Certain Affinity while seasonal development of Halo Infinite continues.
      Halo Infinite is available now for PC, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.
      MORE: Additional Story Content Could Have Saved Halo Infinite
                     Source: 343 Industries
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Gwenpool's mission, should players choose to accept it, will see them encounter tasks of espionage and violence in Fortnite's Battle Royale. While uncovering secrets in the huge world of Elden Ring, Tarnished might miss a rare weapon or two. Developer Hello Games releases patch 5.05 for No Man's Sky, bringing several fixes and improvements to enhance the game's performance. Players who are struggling to find all the Meditation Spots in Black Myth: Wukong's Yellow Wind Ridge can find their locations detailed here. A Pokemon fan designs a new form for Rotom, reimagining the iconic Electric/Ghost-type creature from Gen 4 as a coffee machine. Discover the best Google phones with our expert guide, offering top features, performance, and options for every type of user. This guide will help players claim all the pre-bonuses available in Black Myth Wukong. 