Plastics are said to be the most versatile materials on Earth The Plastics Engineering Department is an internationally recognized leader in plastics engineering education. Founded in 1954, we offer the first and largest ABET* accredited Plastics Engineering program in the U.S. More than 3,000 graduates are working in the plastics industry, some with their own entrepreneurial businesses (see video), in leadership positions worldwide. Learn more. Abby Mastromonaco’s passion for sustainability led to a Rist Institute for Sustainability and Energy fellowship and research experience in a plastics engineering lab. Thanks to his internship and co-op experiences, plastics engineering major Kraig Scharn ’20 discovered that sales was the right career path for him. He is now a junior technical service engineer for Entec Polymers in Charlotte, North Carolina. For most of her professional life, Prof. Joey Mead has been interested in plastics. Plastics Engineering major Molly Tecce and partners from the 3D Club leapt into action to make PPE when the pandemic struck. Cheryl and Paul Katen are funding a scholarship to give diverse students “a leg up.” Brianna Atwood came to UMass Lowell to study plastics engineering – but she’s done so much more. The honors student started a volunteer program that connects UML students with a local school. She has also participated in the professional co-op program, working on fire-resistant seals for airplanes. Evan Yu didn’t know much about plastics engineering coming into college. He graduates with a deep appreciation for its role in helping the planet. Plastics Engineering alumnus Leo Montagna Jr. '70, '76 says he wouldn't be where is is today with the University. He is a devoted UMass Lowell donor and supporter of the Plastics Engineering Department. Patrick McCallum got a leg up on his plastics engineering career with an internship at Wittmann Battenfeld, where he worked alongside the company's president, alum David Preusse '85. Greg Reimonn found a faculty mentor to help him research microplastics in waterways, thanks to an honors fellowship. Sid Iyer has taken advantage of internships, research opportunities, the DifferenceMaker program and more to pursue his goal: a career in biomedical research and development. Yrvanie Joseph is grateful for alumni scholarships because they confirm the value of her hard work and academic achievements. Alumni donor Mark Saab's UMass Lowell education provided the foundation for a successful career. His gratitude to the plastics engineering program is expressed through the generous donations he's bestowed upon the University. Madison Reed works as a research assistant with Plastics Engineering Prof. Ramaswamy Nagarajan in the UML Fabric Discovery Center. The founders of what has become a multimillion dollar premium, all-natural cookie dough and ice cream sandwich company hold degrees in engineering. Department of Plastics Engineering
 UMass Lowell

Ball Hall 204

185 Riverside Street, Lowell, MA 01854

978-934-3420 | Contact Us Terms of Use and Privacy PolicyAccessibility Statement For an optimum web experience we recommend the latest version of Firefox, Chrome, Edge, or Safari. Please use one of the links below to install a supported browser.