Department of
Electrical and Microelectronic Engineering Contact 
Jayanti Venkataraman, Associate Department Head, Electrical Engineering Programs
585-475-2143, jnveee@rit.edu
Karl Hirschman, Associate Department Head, Microelectronic Engineering Programs
585-475-5130, kdhemc@rit.eduMark Indovina, Director of Outreach and Facilities
585-475-6614, maieee@rit.edu
  Make a Gift The department of Electrical and Microelectronic Engineering (EME) offers bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees that combine the rigor of theory with the flexibility of engineering practice. From technology development to technology application, the innovations of electrical and microelectronic engineers are shaping our future. The department’s mission is to establish its electrical and microelectronic engineering programs among the top programs in the world by providing high quality, inclusive education that cultivates intellectual curiosity. Our curricula apply mathematical and scientific foundations to the varied electrical and microelectronic disciplines in order to train high quality, independent thinking engineers and researchers that make measurable impacts on the world.  Read More...  Electrical engineering is a discipline concerned with the study, design, and application of equipment, devices, and systems that use electricity, magnetism, and electromagnetism. The discipline is divided into multiple focus areas, including: Analog and Mixed-Signal Electronics, Electronic Devices and Components, Digital and Computer Systems, Electromagnetics and Waves, Mechatronics, Electrical Power Systems, Telecommunications, Signal Processing, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Robotics. As a result, electrical engineers work in a wide variety of industries and are required to possess skills such as device modeling, circuit design, system architecture, algorithm development, and project management. Electrical engineers intensively use computer assisted design tools and methods, and test equipment. Microelectronic engineering focuses on the study, design, and fabrication of very small electronic devices and components (micrometer scale or below). These are semiconductor and photonic devices that impact virtually every aspect of human life, from communication, entertainment, and transportation, to health, solid-state lighting, and solar cells. There is an ever-increasing need for talented engineers that not only understand the design of these devices but can direct and optimize their fabrication. Integrated nanoelectronic and microelectronic circuits and sensors drive our global economy, increase our productivity, and help improve our quality of life.  The BS degrees in electrical engineering and microelectronic engineering are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, www.abet.org, which certifies that they meet the highest quality standards of the corresponding professions and that the graduates are well prepared to enter a global workforce. For Enrollment and Graduation Data, Program Educational Objectives, and Student Outcomes, please visit the college’s Accreditation page. 
		32
	 
				Faculty members in electrical and microelectronic engineering
			 
		10
	 
				Undergraduate, graduate, and accelerated dual degree options
			 Undergraduate Degrees 

              Artificial Intelligence Option - Electrical Engineering BS
							              


 RIT’s artificial intelligence option in electrical engineering provides you with the skills needed to design intelligent agents that can advance society. 

              Clean and Renewable Energy Option - Electrical Engineering BS
							              


 RIT’s clean and renewable energy option in electrical engineering will prepare you to develop and implement solutions that reduce, prevent, or mitigate serious environmental threats to our planet. 

              Computer Engineering Option - Electrical Engineering BS
							              


 RIT’s Computer Engineering option in Electrical Engineering BS will provide skills to ensure devices such as laptops, smartphones, autonomous cars, and cardiac pacemakers function efficiently. 

              Electrical Engineering BS
															  (Accelerated dual degree available)



 RIT’s electrical engineering BS degree will teach you to synthesize science, mathematics, technology, and application-oriented designs into world-class consumer products, state-of-the-art computers, and much more. 

              Integrated Electronics Certificate
							              


 Develop an expertise in circuit design, automation, and modern integrated circuits as you study both analog and mixed signal circuits. 

              Microelectronic Engineering BS
															  (Accelerated dual degree available)



 In RIT’s microelectronic engineering degree, you’ll combine an electrical engineering core with material science and optical engineering to design, fabricate, and integrate microelectronic or nanoelectronic circuits and sensors. 

              Robotics Option - Electrical Engineering BS
							              


 RIT’s robotics option in electrical engineering BS provides you with the theoretical and practical skills required to design robots and robotic devices. Graduate Degrees 

              Electrical and Computer Engineering Ph.D.
							              


 Ph.D.s in electrical and computer engineering are explorers of the information age who transform the world by leading trailblazing research that expands and create knowledge. 

              Electrical Engineering MS
							              


 In RIT’s electrical engineering master’s degree, you will engage in innovative research areas to solve industrial and business challenges. 

              Microelectronic Engineering MS
																						              


 Microelectronic engineering affects nearly all aspects of life–from communication, entertainment, and transportation to health, solid state lighting, and solar cells. RIT’s microelectronic engineering master’s program is a world leader in the education of semiconductor process engineers. 

              Microsystems Engineering Ph.D.
							              


 Conduct research in nano-engineering, design methods, and technologies for micro- and nano-scaled systems. This microsystems engineering doctorate is a multidisciplinary program that addresses the technical challenges of micro- and nano-systems. Minors and Immersions 

              Electrical Engineering Minor
							              


 Electrical engineering encompasses disciplines such as electronics, communication, control, digital systems, and signal/image processing. An electrical engineering minor provides a foundation to explore specialized material in electrical engineering, and provides students from other engineering or non-engineering disciplines an introduction to the wide-ranging content of the electrical engineering major. 

              Microelectronic Engineering Minor
							              


 The microelectronic engineering minor provides basic integrated circuit fabrication skills to students from science and other engineering related disciplines whose career path may involve the semiconductor industry. RIT has one of the finest cleanrooms in the world specializing in undergraduate microelectronic education. This minor enables students to utilize these state-of-the-art facilities while they develop the skills they need for success in the industry. The faculty and students in the electrical and microelectronic engineering department conduct research in a wide range of interdisciplinary fields including, but not limited to: digital and computer systems, signal processing, electromagnetics, power and energy systems, robotics, telecommunications, machine learning, analog and mixed-signal electronics, mechatronics, microelectromechanical systems, semiconductor devices, advanced integrated circuit manufacturing. Research is externally supported by an array of federal, state, and industry sponsors, such as the National Science Foundation, the US Air Force, and the US Navy. Faculty offer research mentorship to BS, MS, and Ph.D. students. 


													Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning 
											



   


													Biomedical Devices & Systems 
											



   


													Communications Systems & Networks
											



 


													Control & Mechatronics 
											



   


													Digital & Computer Systems, Embedded Systems
											



 


													Electromagnetics, Antennas, RF
											



 


													Image Processing, Computer Vision
											



 


													Optics, Optoelectronics, Photonics, Quantum Engineering
											



 


													Power & Energy Systems
											



 


													Robotics, Multi-agent Systems
											



 


													Semiconductors, Microsystems, MEMS
											



 


													Signal Processing, Data Science
											



   
			August 14, 2024
		 
						RIT receives $3 million grant to train grad students    The Rochester Beacon speaks to Jing Zhang, associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Microelectronic Engineering, and Seth Hubbard, professor in the School of Physics and Astronomy, about how the grant will better prepare master’s and doctoral students for the interdisciplinary talents required in semiconductor chip development. 
			August 8, 2024
		 
						NSF awards RIT nearly $3 million to advance semiconductor technologies
					 The award is part of the NSF’s Research Traineeship Program (NRT), a national initiative to better prepare master’s and doctoral students for the interdisciplinary talents required in semiconductor chip development. The grant will provide 20 doctoral student fellowships to advance research in the much-needed field of semiconductor technologies. 
			July 26, 2024
		 
						RIT expands its workforce initiatives for the semiconductor industry
					 RIT will take the lead on a new program that allows community college students to join the growing semiconductor industry. The intent is to build a pipeline of skilled employees for a strategic U.S. manufacturing industry.   RIT Researchers Push Boundaries of Human-Robotic Interactions 
											Ferat Sahin, Jamison Heard, Yangming Lee									 
							
																								Several RIT faculty researchers are pushing the boundaries of human-robotic interactions.
																					 Generative AI enabled Cybersecurity Operations 
											Shanchieh Jay Yang									 
							
																																	The potential use of generative AI, including Large Language Models (LLMs), for cybersecurity operations may be hindered by misconceptions of its capabilities and missed opportunities to properly...
																					 Making AI less artificial and more intelligent 
											Cory Merkel									 
							
																								Dr. Cory Merkel’s lab—Brain Lab—is exploring cross-disciplinary solutions to improve the agility, energy efficiency, and trustworthiness of AI systems.
																					 Ink Innovation: Blending Art and Engineering in Textile Antenna Technology 
 
							
																								Dylan Bennish ’24 BS, MS (electrical engineering) blends art with engineering to screen print textile antennas capable of tracking glucose levels in cheap, less invasive ways than current methods.
																					 Grad Contributes to Cutting-edge System for International Space Station 
 
							
																								Snehal Ravindra Ingle helped develop the Radio Frequency (RF) Amplifier system used for NASA’s Cygnus spacecraft.
																					 Alumni Spotlight: Matt Hartensveld '18, '21 
 
							
																								Matthew Hartensveld BS, MS '18, Ph.D. '21 is the CTO and co-founder of the display startup Innovation Semiconductor, a company pursuing a novel platform for the next generation of display technology.
																					 
              Sunwoong
              Kim
             
              Stephanie
              Bolster
             
              Ivan
              Puchades
             
              Vincent
              Antonicelli
             
              Sara
              Gaudioso
             
              Sarah
              McCale
             


													Electrical Engineering
											



  


													Microelectronic Engineering
											



  Numerous clubs and organizations provide opportunities for electrical and microelectronic engineering students to engage in dynamic projects that apply the skills they learn in the classroom to real-world applications of engineering theory and practice. 


													Clubs for Electrical and Microelectronic Engineering Students
											



 Amateur Radio Club Learn More Baja SAE Learn More FIRST Robotics Club Learn More Formula One SAE Racing Team Our award-winning SAE team, builds a car from the ground up every year. Purchasing only the engine block, tires, and bulk materials, it is entirely designed and constructed by our students to compete in national and international competitions.  Learn More Multidisciplinary Robotics Club Learn More 


													Organizations for Electrical and Microelectronic Engineering Students
											



 RIT Student Chapter of IEEE  Learn More RIT Student Chapter of Tau Beta Pi Learn More 


													Other Student Clubs
											



 Aero Design Team The student chapter of the Aero Design Team is dedicated to promoting careers and opportunities in the aerospace industry. Learn More Electric Vehicle Club Learn More Hot Wheels Racing Team Learn More  


													Other Student and Professional Organizations
											



 National Society of Black Engineers The student chapter of the National Society of Black Engineers is dedicated to the retention, recruitment, and successful graduation of its members. Learn More Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers The Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers is an association of professionals and students in engineering, science, technology, business, and other related disciplines at RIT. SHPE’s aim is to identify and promote professional growth opportunities for Hispanic students.  Learn More Society of Women Engineers The Society of Women Engineers at RIT is a student-run organization that organizes functions each semester, such as guest speakers, high school outreach, community activities, tours, social events, and events with other student organizations. The RIT chapter is strongly committed to the encouragement of women in pursuing a career in engineering or related fields. Learn More RIT Student Chapter of Engineers for a Sustainable World Learn More Society of Automotive Engineers and FSAE Competition Team The purpose of the RIT Society of Automotive Engineers is to give students the opportunity to meet with senior engineers in industry and provide students a chance to apply their classroom knowledge in various projects. Annual Microelectronic Engineering Conference at RIT The Annual Microelectronic Engineering Conference (AMEC) at RIT started in 1983 as a means of bringing together students, faculty, alumni, and industry interested in microelectronic engineering. Learn More Short Courses Short courses are comprehensive, hands-on, educational experiences intended for individuals seeking a better understanding of the overall theory and practice of microelectronic engineering.  Learn More
  The Electrical and Microelectronic Engineering Department offers a variety of resources for our students that vary from academic support to handbooks and more. Visit our Student Resources page for more information. Address and Phone 
									77 Lomb Memorial Drive
									Rochester, NY 14623
									585-475-2146
								 Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			