NIRF Ranking 2023 Engineering College: Like in the previous years, this time too, IITs have dominated the top 10 list of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) Rankings 2023 in the engineering category. The Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-Madras) has grabbed the number one position under the best engineering college list. The eighth edition of NIRF Rankings was released today by the Ministry of Education in New Delhi. The second position has been bagged by IIT-Delhi followed by IIT-Bombay, IIT-Kanpur and IIT-Roorkee. IIT-Madras has been adjudged the best educational institute in India under the overall category. In 2022, the first five spots remained the same as the 2021 rankings. With IIT Madras at the top position, IIT Delhi and IIT Bombay bagged the second and third ranks, respectively. IIT Kanpur and IIT Kharagpur too retained their previous years’ rankings of fourth and fifth spot, and IIT Roorkee at sixth, followed by IIT Guwahati at the seventh spot.   In the Architecture and Planning category, IIT-Roorkee secured the first spot with a score of 83.21. Jadavpur University, Vellore Institute of Technology, IIT BHU, IIT Dhanbad, NIT Rourkela, IIT Indore, Anna University, Institute of Chemical Technology, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham and IIT Mandi featured at the 11th to 20th ranks, respectively, last year. Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only 11-year-old Pari Suresh Jain died in an accident while riding an electric scooter with her mother in Mumbai. The family was on their way to celebrate Raksha Bandhan when the scooter skidded, causing Pari to sustain a fatal head injury. The police have confirmed no other vehicle was involved and have registered an accidental death report. Pari is survived by her parents and three siblings.  