 New Zealand rider makes mark as rider to watch for stage 1 and beyond after sprinting to victory in opening curtain raiser 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Ally Wollaston first lined up at the Santos Women’s Tour Down Under in 2020 for what was her first international race. It was an experience that was very different to her triumphant start to the 2023 season in Saturday's Schwalbe Classic criterium. “I finished about half an hour down every single day,” recalled Wollaston, who is racing with the New Zealand National Team.  “It was actually quite mentally scarring. I didn't really enjoy it." It is amazing what a difference three years can make in cycling, with the New Zealand criterium champion starting this year’s race on a high. She took victory from the break at the Schwalbe Classic with a storming sprint that left of the riders from the lead group unable to touch her.  “To come back here and do really well is so awesome, I'm really, really proud of how I raced and I'm really looking forward to the rest of the week," Wollaston told Cyclingnews. Ally Wollaston wins women's Schwalbe Classic Tour Down Under curtain raiser

Women's Tour Down Under 2023 - The Essential Preview

8 riders to watch at the women's Tour Down Under 2023 Since that first edition in 2020, when she was just 19 years old,  things have changed considerably for Wollaston.  She has gained a wealth of international experience, more track racing and two international wins in 2022 – at the Grand Prix du Morbihan Féminin and stage 1 of the Lotto Belgium Tour. This year she is riding for AG Insurance-Soudal Quick-Step.  The latest race content, interviews, features, reviews and expert buying guides, direct to your inbox! Despite that building experience, Wollaston hadn’t known quite what to expect coming into her first road race of a new season, particularly as her focus had been on the track.  "It was a surprise. It's a huge confidence boost going into the rest of the week,” said Wollaston of her criterium win.  “I know that I can, at least sprint now.”  That's an attribute which will be particularly important heading into Sunday’s stage 1, 110.4km from Glenelg to Aldinga which is expected to be one for the sprinters.v However, beyond that through the puncheurs stage 2 and climbing finale of stage 3, Wollaston is where the GC is expected to be decided and that too is something Wollaston has her eyes on. "I think it's the type of Tour where I'll just take it day by day,” said Wollaston.  “It's really, really hot out here and I'm not 100% used to that so I'll decide how I'm feeling on the day but I definitely have aspirations to do well in GC for sure."  Thank you for reading 5 articles in the past 30 days* Join now for unlimited access Enjoy your first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 *Read any 5 articles for free in each 30-day period, this automatically resets After your trial you will be billed £4.99 $7.99 €5.99 per month, cancel anytime. Or sign up for one year for just £49 $79 €59 Join now for unlimited access Try your first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 Simone is a degree-qualified journalist that has accumulated decades of wide-ranging experience while working across a variety of leading media organisations. She joined Cyclingnews as a Production Editor at the start of the 2021 season and has now moved into the role of Australia Editor. Previously she worked as a freelance writer, Australian Editor at Ella CyclingTips and as a correspondent for Reuters and Bloomberg. Cycling was initially purely a leisure pursuit for Simone, who started out as a business journalist, but in 2015 her career focus also shifted to the sport. A magical four seconds - Kasia Niewiadoma secures the closest margin of victory in Tour de France history 'Empty, sour but proud' - Distraught Demi Vollering experiences Tour de France Femmes heartbreak up Alpe d'Huez It’s a dream for us’ - Pauliena Rooijakkers makes Tour de France Femmes podium after matching Vollering in mountains Cyclingnews is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 