New Girl Scouts USA financial literacy badges [Photo: Business Wire] Carrie Schwab-Pomerantz
President
Charles Schwab Foundation
.…on modernizing and relaunching the Girl Scouts’ financial literacy badges. Westlake-based financial services giant Charles Schwab has announced a partnership with Girl Scouts of the USA to modernize and relaunch the Girl Scouts’ financial literacy badges for girls from kindergarten through high school. The new financial literacy curriculum includes topics such as investing basics, building wealth, entrepreneurship, fraud awareness, and budgeting for different goals throughout life, the company said. The goal is to help bridge the gap between what girls learn in school and what they need to feel confident managing finances in life and business. “It’s detrimental to send our girls out into the real world without the education and tools that can lead to financial independence,” Carrie Schwab-Pomerantz, president of Charles Schwab Foundation and a former Girl Scout, said in a statement. “I’ve seen first-hand how impactful it is for girls to have female financial role models. Our partnership with Girls Scouts will help empower the next generations of young girls to lead at the highest levels of business and society.” “The lessons learned from the financial literacy badges lay a strong foundation for the cookie sales program,” Casey Cortese, director, Schwab Community Services and a former Girl Scout, said in a statement. “Not only do girls learn the basics of understanding how money works, but they also get a voice in how the funds raised through cookie sales are used by their troops—whether it helps fund special troop activities or to invest in giving back to their communities. They learn the value of money and see first-hand its impact on their current and future financial goals.” Learning about financial literacy is an important component of the Girl Scout Cookie Program, the largest entrepreneurial program for girls in the world, which offers real-world opportunities to apply lessons learned around goal setting, budgeting and planning, critical thinking, collaboration, and organization. [Photo: Business Wire] Girl Scout badge programs historically have included topics related to economics and money management, Schwab said. For example, Schwab said the Matron Housekeeper badge, introduced in 1913, encouraged girls to understand how groceries were sold, by package, pound or bulk, and the first badge devoted to financial literacy, the Economist Badge, offered between 1922 and 1928, taught girls to track earnings and allowances, and oversee family’s groceries expenses and menu planning to use food economically, Schwab said. In recent decades badge programs such as Business-Wise, Consumer Power and Money Sense promoted entrepreneurship, earning, saving, and spending money wisely. Schwab said that, according to research, boys and girls today often are taught different financial topics. For example, boys are more likely than girls to be taught about wealth-building topics such as investing, while financial education programming for girls continues to focus on topics such as household money management, budgeting, and saving. The new Girl Scout curriculum addresses the gender bias that remains prevalent in the way girls and boys are taught about personal finance, the company said. “In business, women are scarce in top leadership and entrepreneurial positions, representing just 5% of CEOs and 12% of other top executives,” Wendy Lou, chief revenue officer at Girl Scouts of the USA, said in a statement. “The new and updated GSUSA financial literacy programming is designed to empower and equip Girl Scouts as they contemplate career and personal aspirations, develop the skills needed to make a difference in their own lives and the world, and open an accessible pathway for girls to fill these roles.” Schwab said it supported GSUSA in creating an activity-based experience to engage girls throughout their school years, tailored to their age and interests through a modular approach. At the earliest stages of the new curriculum, Daisies and Brownies in kindergarten through third grade explore everything from the difference between wants and needs and creating a budget and saving. In grades four through eight, Juniors and Cadettes focus on earning, budgeting, tracking spending, and giving back. In high school, Seniors and Ambassadors sharpen budgeting skills, learn about credit and credit cards, and explore investing and wealth management. Importantly, Girl Scout troops pair high-quality programming with active role models and supportive adults, including parents, which is proven to amplify the impact and reach of programming, the company said.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   “Millennials and Gen Z are reinventing investing," says Zogo founder Bolun Li. The company's next-gen financial education takes a Gen Z approach to covering financial literacy—gamification. Plano ISD partners with Capital One for the Savings Success program to take some of the myths out of money and turn them into financial facts. In this week’s roundup of hires, promotions, and accolades in North Texas, you’ll also find news from DHD Films, Briggs Freeman Sotheby's International Realty, M2G Ventures, UT Dallas, the Dallas Museum of Art, MOOYAH, Successive Technologies, CG Infinity, and more. Girl Scouts of Northeast Texas announced Jennifer Makins has been appointed as executive director of the STEM Center of Excellence at Camp Whispering Cedars, a year-round, hands-on learning environment that provides students from kindergarten through 12th grade with an opportunity to explore science, technology, engineering, and mathematics through family events, girl-focused programs, and field trips. It serves more than 4,000 students annually. The Girl Scouts of Northeast Texas said that Makins is a pioneering educator with a proven track record of strategically launching and growing large-scale initiatives. In this role, Makins will lead a team of program coordinators, specialists, and… In this week’s roundup of hires, promotions, and accolades in North Texas, you’ll also find news from Exela Technologies, Newmark, OrangeGrid, RailPros, Aimbridge Hospitality, Integrity Marketing Group, Smoothie King, Bank of Texas, MD7, Salvation Army, and more. Plus, you'll find board appointments including Texas Mutual Insurance, Zimperium, and the Ebby Halliday Foundation. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.