Video Gamer is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Prices subject to change. Learn more We’re weighing up a gaming laptop vs the ASUS ROG Ally to help give you a sense of which device you might want to go for. There has been a recent explosion of handheld gaming devices. Handheld itself is nothing new, what is, however, are devices that are capable of running PC games, meaning you can have access to your entire Steam library on the move. The ASUS ROG Ally is one of the consoles leading this charge, thanks in no small part to its impressive specs. So how does it compare to a gaming laptop? Gaming laptops manage to be essentially just as portable as the ROG Ally while also being more versatile. That said, the appeal of the Ally is evident in its sale, so its worth taking a closer look at the pros and cons of each kind of device. There’s such a huge array of gaming laptops out there that we have kept our comparison general, rather than focusing on a specific model. It’s broken down into categories and we’ve given an overview of the comparison in each one. Let’s get into it. ASUS ROG Ally Specs: As you can see the specs of the ASUS ROG Ally are pretty impressive. It manages to pack the power of a mid-range gaming PC in a compact handheld gaming device. Let’s start by breaking down those impressive components. Both the GPU and CPU are custom AMD builds which use the RDNA 3 architecture. If you compare RDNA 3 vs RDNA 2 you’ll see significant improvements, specifically in terms of computing power and energy efficiency. The GPU and CPU themselves boast a 2.6GHz and 5.1GHz maximum clock speed respectively. Couple this with 16GB of RAM and you can see how the ROG Ally’s performance is not something to be underestimated.  The 1080p resolution might seem a bit lacklustre, but remember that it is on a display that is just 7 inches, meaning that the images will still look crisp. What’s more, you have the option to dock the ASUS ROG Ally to any of the best gaming monitors out there. When you do so it can output resolutions all the way up to 4K at 60Hz. There is such a wide variety of gaming laptops out there that there is no one set of specs we could list. If you look hard enough you can be pretty sure to find a device with any set of specs you desire. The same cannot be said for the ASUS ROG Ally. If you want the absolute pinnacle of gaming performance, you can go for one of the best RTX 4090 gaming laptops, something like the MSI Raider GE78HX. Not only does it have the best GPU currently on the market, but it also has 32GB of RAM, a 1440p resolution, and a 240Hz refresh rate.  Alternatively, you can get one of the best cheap gaming laptops, some of which actually have less impressive specs than the ROG Ally.  With all that said, there are some generalisations you can make about the difference in specs you’d expect to see between a gaming laptop and the ROG Ally, For example, generally, storage is more affordable on a gaming laptop, and it is common to see one with 1TB or even 2TB of storage. Another more obvious difference, is that gaming laptop screens are bigger, often measuring in at 15 or 17 inches, versus 7 inches for the ROG Ally. Unlike much of its direct handheld competition, the ASUS ROG Ally only comes in one version, which will set you back $699. This is a pretty decent price considering the power it packs and the fact that you do have the option to dock it to a monitor and use it similarly to a PC, thanks to its Windows OS. Gaming laptops meanwhile, as you won’t be surprised to hear, vary in price. You could go for one under $500, or one of the best gaming laptops under $2500. If you do go for one, we’d recommend checking out our articles, as there is so much variety out there it can be difficult to cut through the noise and find a good deal. We’ve also linked to the MSI Thin GF63 as it is in a comparable price category to the ROG Ally. Display 7in Resolution 1080p CPU Ryzen Z1 RAM 16GB Storage  512GB CPU Intel Core i7-12650H GPU NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4050 RAM 16GB DDR4 SSD 512GB NVMe Display 15.6-inch FHD 144Hz There is a good argument to be made for buying each of these devices, and, as usual, it ultimately comes down to your exact needs and circumstances. That said, in the majority of cases, we reckon a gaming laptop makes more sense. This is largely down to their versatility and price. In general, you can get a gaming laptop with a similar or greater amount of computing power for around the same price as a ROG Ally. Its gaming performance will likely be better optimised and you’ll be able to use it more easily in your daily life rather than just for gaming. The ASUS ROG Ally does run on Windows, meaning you can use it as a PC, but this is more impractical than on a gaming laptop.  If you already own a decent laptop for your daily needs, but find its gaming performance lacking, an ASUS ROG Ally could be a sensible investment. It also offers a handheld gaming experience right off the bat, whereas you’ll need to buy a controller for your gaming laptop. Rory Greig works as a tech writer for Videogamer. He is a writer with a strong knowledge of gaming technology and an eye for detail. He is especially interested in graphics cards and generative AI.  
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy and may receive occasional deal communications; you can unsubscribe anytime.
