Stuffcool is an Indian accessory maker that's doing all the right things. The brand has an extensive portfolio of chargers and power banks, and I've highlighted several previously, including the 20,000mAh power bank with 85W charging, Centurion charging station, and the 10,000mAh Mega power bank that's designed for use with the best Samsung phones. Stuffcool's latest product is the Ally, and this power bank is aimed squarely at iOS users. The defining characteristic of the power bank is a built-in dock that charges the Apple Watch; all you have to do is plonk the smartwatch on the magnetic base, and it charges at 2.5W wirelessly. It takes just over two and a half hours to fully charge the Apple Watch, with a 50% charge taking over 90 minutes, and while that's not as fast as the official charger, the Ally offers unmatched convenience, particularly on the road. I always forget to take the requisite charger for my smartwatch when traveling, so the Ally definitely comes in handy in that scenario. It's also an effortless way to top up the battery on your Apple Watch in the middle of the day; as much as I like the Apple Watch Series 8 (and I like it more than any Android smartwatch), it doesn't last over a day with always-on screen enabled, so if you need to extend that battery life while you're at your desk, this is about the easiest way to do so. The Ally has other tricks up its sleeve — the power bank has a bundled USB-C to Lightning cable, so you can easily charge your iPhones on the go as well. The power bank has two USB-C ports, a USB-A port, and a Lightning port (for charging the power bank), and there's a custom housing for the USB-C to Lightning cable so you don't lose it — I cannot overstate what a difference this makes in my use case. There's also a slide-out stand that lets you rest your iPhone against the Ally, but this comes in the way of the Lighting cable port. Image 1 of 5 Image 2 of 5 Image 3 of 5 Image 4 of 5 Image 5 of 5 The power bank has a minimalist design, and it is as portable as these things can get. The build quality is great, and the matte texture makes it easy to hold the power bank. There's a power button located on the left, and you get four LEDs arrayed in an X — this indicates current charge level. The 10,100mAh battery is more than adequate to charge your iPhone and the Apple Watch, and a nifty addition here is passthrough charging; you can charge the power bank as well as any connected devices at the same time. As the Ally is designed for use with iPhones, it only goes up to 20W over the USB-C ports. The USB-A port manages 22.5W and works with Qualcomm's QC3.0 protocol, but this isn't intended to be used with Android phones in general. Here's the rundown of the power profiles: USB-C1 (out): 5V/3A (15W), 9V/2.22A (20W), 12W/1.67A (20W) USB-C2 (out): 5V/3A (15W), 9V/2.22A (20W), 12W/1.67A (20W) USB-A (out): 9V/2A (18W), 12W/1.5A (18W), 4.5V/5A (22.5W), 5V/4.5A (22.5W) Wireless (out): 2.5W USB-C1 (in): 5V/2.6A (13W), 9V/2A (18W), 12W/1.5A (18W) Lightning port (in): 5V/2.6A (13W), 9V/2A (18W) The Ally does a great job with the iPhone 14 Pro, and is able to charge the phone by up to 50% in just 30 minutes. The ability to charge the iPhone and Apple Watch at the same time is what makes this power bank such a great choice, and while it costs a lot more, you are getting a unique feature-set here, and that makes the Stuffcool Ally a no-brainer if you're heavily invested in the iOS ecosystem. Stuffcool Ally 10,000mAh Power Bank The Ally is a terrific option if you want a power bank that can seamlessly charge your Apple Watch as well as your iPhone at the same time. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.