   ● IDC MarketScape says “As one of the founders of cloud integration, Boomi has a strong track record of providing integration solutions to businesses of multiple sizes and in many regions and industries.” ● This latest recognition builds upon numerous industry accolades Boomi has earned, including being positioned as a leader in three comparative marketplace reports covering the iPaaS space within the past year. GUEST OPINION: Boomi, the intelligent connectivity and automation leader, today announced that it has been positioned as a Leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Cloud Integration Software and Services (iPaaS) 2023 Vendor Assessment. The inaugural IDC MarketScape study assesses the cloud integration software and services (also referred to as iPaaS) market among 12 select vendors and evaluates the strengths of their offerings. According to the report, “Integration is a foundational connectivity automation technology that not only unlocks immediate business benefits but also replaces technical debt that was previously used to connect applications, making it easier to replace outdated legacy applications.” The report notes, “As one of the original cloud-based integration tools, Boomi has considerable experience solving on-premises and multicloud integration scenarios and older protocols, as well as connecting to [software as a service] SaaS applications. Boomi has more connectors than any other integration provider evaluated, some of which can be modified, although some are at an additional cost.” The report also notes, “Customers report strong satisfaction with Boomi, as evidenced by strong renewal rates from existing customers. Still, Boomi has significantly invested in improving the operational alignment of the customer success and experience teams, adding resources to further improve customer satisfaction.” Additionally, the report states, “As one of the founders of cloud integration, Boomi has a strong track record of providing integration solutions to businesses of multiple sizes and in many regions and industries. The [Boomi] AtomSphereTM Platform includes an API management platform with key protocols supported as well as support for event-based integration. In addition, it offers a large library of connectors intended to help customers quickly build connections between applications.” “As a founder and innovator in cloud integration, with the largest customer base among integration platform vendors, we’re proud to be recognised by the IDC MarketScape as a Leader in its first report covering this space,” said Ed Macosky, Chief Innovation Officer at Boomi. “This latest achievement builds on our numerous industry accolades and further validates our expertise in integration and intelligent automation. As businesses continue to embrace cloud technologies and digital transformation strategies, low-code integration solutions will be more important than ever to help organisations break down data silos, improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and confidently leverage cutting-edge technologies to drive success.” The Boomi AtomSphere Platform empowers organisations to instantly connect everyone to everything, anywhere. From effortlessly connecting SaaS applications to enabling real-time data sharing between multiple sources, Boomi’s cloud integration platform provides the speed, scalability, and reliability needed to transform an organisation’s digital landscape by driving greater efficiency and automation across all its systems. Organisations that rely on Boomi enjoy rapid time-to-value with quick deployment and low upfront costs. Boomi touts a growing community of more than 100,000 members and one of the largest arrays of GSIs in the iPaaS space. The company boasts a worldwide network of approximately 800 partners, including Accenture, Deloitte, SAP, and Snowflake; and works with the largest hyperscaler cloud service providers, including Amazon Web Services, Google, and Microsoft, among others. Included on the Deloitte Technology Fast 500 and Inc.5000 lists as one of America’s fastest growing technology companies, Boomi has also won two International Stevie® Awards, for Company of the Year and Product Innovation; the Gold Globee® Award in the Platform as a Service (PaaS) category; the Merit Award for Technology in the Cloud Services category; the Stratus Award as a Global Leader in Cloud Computing 2022, and received the prestigious 5-star rating in the CRN Partner Program Guide, a definitive list of the most notable programs from industry-leading technology vendors that provide innovative products and flexible services through the IT channel. Additional Resources ● Read more about Boomi’s leadership in cloud integration ● Browse solutions on Boomi Discover ● Explore the Boomiverse Community ● Follow Boomi on Twitter, LinkedIn, Facebook, and YouTube About IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape vendor assessment model is designed to provide an overview of the competitive fitness of ICT (information and communications technology) suppliers in a given market. The research methodology utilizes a rigorous scoring methodology based on both qualitative and quantitative criteria that results in a single graphical illustration of each vendor’s position within a given market. IDC MarketScape provides a clear framework in which the product and service offerings, capabilities and strategies, and current and future market success factors of IT and telecommunications vendors can be meaningfully compared. The framework also provides technology buyers with a 360-degree assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of current and prospective vendors. About Boomi Boomi aims to make the world a better place by connecting everyone to everything, anywhere. The pioneer of cloud-based integration platform as a service (iPaaS), and now a category-leading, global software as a service (SaaS) company, Boomi touts the largest customer base among integration platform vendors and a worldwide network of approximately 800 partners – including Accenture, Capgemini, Deloitte, SAP, and Snowflake. Global organizations turn to Boomi’s award-winning platform to discover, manage, and orchestrate data, while connecting applications, processes, and people for better, faster outcomes. For more information, visit https://www.boomi.com.   
DOWNLOAD WHITE PAPER! 

PROMOTE YOUR WEBINAR ON ITWIRE
It's all about Webinars.
Marketing budgets are now focused on Webinars combined with Lead Generation.
If you wish to promote a Webinar we recommend at least a 3 to 4 week campaign prior to your event.
The iTWire campaign will include extensive adverts on our News Site itwire.com and prominent Newsletter promotion https://itwire.com/itwire-update.html and Promotional News & Editorial. Plus a video interview of the key speaker on iTWire TV https://www.youtube.com/c/iTWireTV/videos which will be used in Promotional Posts on the iTWire Home Page.
Now we are coming out of Lockdown iTWire will be focussed to assisting with your webinars and campaigns and assistance via part payments and extended terms, a Webinar Business Booster Pack and other supportive programs. We can also create your adverts and written content plus coordinate your video interview.
We look forward to discussing your campaign goals with you. Please click the button below.
MORE INFO HERE!
 

 
MORE INFO HERE! 

 

 
                
                                Everyone got a bit of what they wanted. No one got everything, that sounds like the basis for a good[…]                             
                
                                Is this article ironic?                             
                
                                The safest way not to get snared is to avoid anything financial on your devices plus do not participate in[…]                             
                
                                Who do we trust here? A professional cloud provider with many customers or a monopolistic ticketing agency that can never[…]                             
                
                                I knew this scam was full of shit because it didn't present any actual evidence of the supposed hacker having[…]                              

