Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Saptak Bardhan
          

            Dec 16, 2022
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Cloud computing pioneer, Microsoft has banned the mining of cryptocurrencies from its online services to better protect its customers and cloud as the organization is taking measures to increase the stability of its cloud services. Microsoft had updated its acceptable use policy on 1 December in order to introduce the new restriction. The new policy was made a part of its universal license terms of Microsoft Online Services. Microsoft said in its new 'Acceptable Use Policy' section, users would require to obtain a written pre-approval from the company to use Microsoft Online Services for crypto mining. Microsoft Online Services is Microsoft's hosted software offering being a component of the company's SaaS strategy. Microsoft Azure cloud computing network is a part of the services. Microsoft Azure offers cryptocurrency mining on a subscription model. The company tried experimenting with blockchain but silently terminated the Azure blockchain service last year. Former Trainee Writer 
          "Do what you can, with what you have, where you are."
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          If your business is struggling, take the advice here to thoroughly review what's not working and brainstorm new approaches. Reinventing it takes effort, but it could be what turns failure into your future success.
         
          Small retail businesses face the challenge of competing with large big-box brands; however, SMBs can stay competitive by embracing ecommerce and investing in digital capabilities.
         
          The "Shark Tank" star spoke to Entrepreneur about the launch of his new television advertising agency, WonderAds.
         
          The terms of the investment require the company to further invest USD 50 million in M Res NSW to fund its obligation towards the deferred consideration payable in 2030.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
