EVANSVILLE — The race for campaign cash among the city's three mayoral candidates had a clear winner this year, with the two big-party candidates both accepting large amounts of corporate dollars. Republican Natalie Rascher nearly doubled the donations received by Democrat Stephanie Terry and brought in around 16 times more than Libertarian Michael Daugherty. For the pre-election period of April 8 to Oct. 13, Rascher brought in $631,332.96 in contributions. This included money from fixtures in Mayor Lloyd Winnecke's administration and the president and chief operating officer of CenterPoint Energy. Terry brought in $326,872.20 during the same period, also accepting money from CenterPoint's Political Action Committee. Terry also has a large amount of donations coming from ActBlue. an online fundraising platform for Democratic candidates, progressive organizations and nonprofits. Terry brought in $78,551 in ActBlue contributions. Daugherty raised $37,607.22 nearly all of it through self-funding which has left his campaign in debt. Throughout the campaign, complaints about CenterPoint Energy rates have been a mainstay at candidate forums. Utility costs − CenterPoint customers pay the highest electric bills in the state − have many constituents asking what a candidate will do for them in that arena. All three have answered that multiple times, in interviews with the Courier & Press and in public forums.  All say they would advocate for residents, but with varying definitions of the word "advocate." Daugherty has said he would not have any money from CenterPoint or other political action committees on his campaign finance report, while his opponents would. Rascher and Terry never disputed that, and their reports do show contributions from the utility and its leadership. Rascher accepted $1,000 on Aug. 25 and $1,305.97 on Aug. 22 from CenterPoint's PAC. The $1,305.97 was noted as an in-kind contribution for event expenses. There are also two occasions, April 19 and Aug. 8, when Jason Wells, the COO and president of CenterPoint, contributed $500 and $520.51 to Rascher. Christopher Foster, CenterPoint's executive vice president and CFO, also contributed $500. Terry has two instances where CenterPoint shows up in her report, once from the PAC on Aug. 31 for a total of $1,000 and once as an "in-kind" contribution of $1,016.69 from the corporation itself. The report lists the the "in-kind" expenditure as being for an event expense. While appearing on both reports, CenterPoint Energy was not the largest PAC donor to Rascher or Terry. Rascher's single largest PAC contribution was from the local Evansville Future PAC at $23,000. The same PAC paid for anti-Cheryl Musgrave advertising during the primary. The PAC was formed in 2018 by current Deputy Mayor and Interim Parks Director Steve Schaefer. He was chair until 2020, when it was passed to Hobart Scales. In February, the chair became Dylan Krohn. Multiple PACs vied for the second place spot, with two construction industry names tying for the title. Commonwealth Engineers PAC donated $15,000 during the six-month period, as did DPBG, the PAC for American Structurepoint. First Group Engineering, Inc., through its For Better Infrastructure Political Action Committee, comes in third at $10,150. $10,000 donors to Rascher: CD PAC: connected NFP, an Indianapolis-based insurance brokerage firm. HNTB PAC: connected to HNTB Corporation, a Missouri-based engineering firm. $5,000 donors to Rascher: Arcadias U.S. Inc. PAC: connected to Arcadias North America, an engineering firm in Colorado. ICE PAC: Ice Miller Law in Indianapolis. Indiana Realtors PAC Local 215 Drive Political Fund Old National Bank PAC ($5,600) SIBA PAC - Southern Indiana Builders Association Terry's largest PAC contribution this reporting period came from the Local 215 Drive Political Fund, which also donated to Rascher. Terry received $12,500 compared to Rascher's $5,000. $10,000 donors to Terry:  Local 104 PAC $5,000 donors to Terry: United Steel Workers Local 104 PAC ICE PAC ($5,500) Daugherty reported no contributions from PACs. Aside from raising the most, Rascher also spent the most this period. From April 8 to Oct. 13 she spent $551,980.10. Terry spent $225,576.44 and Daugherty spent $29,332.56. Daugherty's campaign owes $34,443.80. He owes $2,000 to the City County Observer for advertising and $32,443.80 to himself. This article originally appeared on Evansville Courier & Press: CenterPoint found in two Evansville mayoral candidates' contributions New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.