Armed with some data from our friends at CrunchBase, I broke down the largest global startup funding rounds for August 2023. I have included some additional information such as industry, round type, a brief description of the company, investors in the round, company location, and total equity funding raised for the company to further the analysis. Interested in the top NYC Startup Fundings?  – The Largest NYC Startup Funding Rounds of August 2023
Interested in the top LA Startup Fundings? – The Largest LA Startup Funding Rounds for August 2023
Interested in the top US Startup Funding? – The Largest US Startups Funding Rounds of August 2023 Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Series C
Description: San Jose-based Nile provides secure connectivity and network independence through wired and wireless networking-as-a-service. Founded by John Chambers, Pankaj Patel, Sri Hosakote, and Suresh Katukam in 2018, Nile has now raised a total of $300.0M in total equity funding and is backed by 8VC, Valor Equity Partners, ICONIQ Capital, Prosperity7 Ventures, and Sanabil.
Investors in the round: 8VC, Aramco Ventures, Geodesic Capital, Liberty Global Ventures, March Capital, Prosperity7 Ventures, Sanabil, STC Ventures, U First Capital, Valor Equity Partners
Industry: Internet, Network Security, Wireless
Founders: John Chambers, Pankaj Patel, Sri Hosakote, Suresh Katukam
Founding year: 2018
Total equity funding raised: $300.0M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Venture
Description: Sheffield-based Venterra engineer, build, and support the operations of wind energy developments around the world. Founded by Ayman Asfari in 2021, Venterra has now raised a total of $223.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Beyond Net Zero and First Reserve Corporation.
Investors in the round: Beyond Net Zero, First Reserve Corporation
Industry: Energy, Energy Management, Renewable Energy
Founders: Ayman Asfari
Founding year: 2021
Total equity funding raised: $223.0M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Series B
Description: South San Francisco-based Genesis Therapeutics unifies AI and biotech to accelerate the discovery of new medicines. Founded by Ben Sklaroff and Evan Feinberg in 2019, Genesis Therapeutics has now raised a total of $256.1M in total equity funding and is backed by BlackRock, Andreessen Horowitz, T. Rowe Price, Felicis, and Fidelity Management and Research Company.
Investors in the round: Andreessen Horowitz, BlackRock, Fidelity Management and Research Company, Menlo Ventures, Radical Ventures, Rock Springs Capital, T. Rowe Price
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Biotechnology, Information Technology
Founders: Ben Sklaroff, Evan Feinberg
Founding year: 2019
Total equity funding raised: $256.1M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Series E
Description: Parel-based Zepto offers a 15-minute grocery delivery service through an e-grocery app that affects the grocery buying experience. Founded by Aadit Palicha and Kaivalya V. in 2020, Zepto has now raised a total of $566.5M in total equity funding and is backed by Goodwater Capital, Y Combinator, Nexus Venture Partners, Kaiser Permanente, and Global Founders Capital.
Investors in the round: Contrary, Glade Brook Capital Partners, Goodwater Capital, Lachy Groom, Nexus Venture Partners, StepStone Group
Industry: Apps, Delivery, Delivery Service, E-Commerce, Grocery
Founders: Aadit Palicha, Kaivalya V.
Founding year: 2020
Total equity funding raised: $566.5M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Venture
Description: Dublin-based TechMet is a critical minerals investment company that builds projects to ensure a stable and sustainable supply of key metals. Founded by Brian Menell in 2017, TechMet has now raised a total of $321.5M in total equity funding and is backed by Mercuria, Ruttenberg Gordon Investments, S2G Ventures, U.S. International Development Finance Corp, and Lansdowne Partners.
Investors in the round: Lansdowne Partners, Mercuria, S2G Ventures, U.S. International Development Finance Corp
Industry: Energy, Mineral, Mining, Renewable Energy
Founders: Brian Menell
Founding year: 2017
Total equity funding raised: $321.5M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision. “/> Round: Series D
Description: Brooklyn-based Hugging Face allows users to build, train, and deploy art models using the reference open source in machine learning. Founded by Clement Delangue, Julien Chaumond, and Thomas Wolf in 2016, Hugging Face has now raised a total of $395.2M in total equity funding and is backed by Google, NVIDIA, Amazon, Intel, and Salesforce Ventures.
Investors in the round: Amazon, AMD, Google, IBM, Intel, NVIDIA, Qualcomm, Salesforce Ventures, Sound Ventures
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Open Source, Software
Founders: Clement Delangue, Julien Chaumond, Thomas Wolf
Founding year: 2016
Total equity funding raised: $395.2M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Series D
Description: New York-based Ramp is a finance automation platform that helps businesses spend less time and money. Founded by Eric Glyman, Gene Lee, and Karim Atiyeh in 2019, Ramp has now raised a total of $967.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Citi, Goldman Sachs, Stripe, General Catalyst, and Soma Capital.
Investors in the round: A* Partners, Altimeter Capital, Coatue, D1 Capital Partners, Definition, Founders Fund, General Catalyst, Honeycomb Portfolio, ICONIQ Capital, Kinetic Partners, Lux Capital, Montauk Ventures, Redpoint Ventures China, Sands Capital Ventures, Spark Capital, Stripe, Thrive Capital
Industry: Finance, Financial Services, FinTech
Founders: Eric Glyman, Gene Lee, Karim Atiyeh
Founding year: 2019
Total equity funding raised: $967.0M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Series C
Description: Houston-based Axiom Space is a commercial space station company that connects to the ISS. Founded by Kam Ghaffarian and Michael Suffredini in 2016, Axiom Space has now raised a total of $500.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Alumni Ventures, Bossanova Investimentos, Disruptive Ventures, Invariantes Fund, and Sand Hill Angels.
Investors in the round: Aljazira Capital, Boryung Pharmaceutical, Chenel Capital
Industry: Advanced Materials, Aerospace, Industrial Manufacturing, Space Travel
Founders: Kam Ghaffarian, Michael Suffredini
Founding year: 2016
Total equity funding raised: $500.0M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Series C
Description: Central-based Micro Connect is a financial market platform that provides market infrastructure, fintech, and platform development. Founded by Charles Li in 2021, Micro Connect has now raised a total of $578.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Sequoia Capital China, Baillie Gifford, Horizons Ventures, Lenovo Capital and Incubator Group (LCIG), and Vectr.
Investors in the round: Baillie Gifford, Dara Holdings, Lenovo Capital and Incubator Group (LCIG), Sequoia Capital China, Vectr
Industry: Financial Services, FinTech, Market Research
Founders: Charles Li
Founding year: 2021
Total equity funding raised: $578.0M Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision.  Round: Series D
Description: Carson City-based Redwood Materials is a battery recycling startup that makes electric vehicles and sustainable materials for circular supply chains. Founded by JB Straubel in 2017, Redwood Materials has now raised a total of $1.8B in total equity funding and is backed by Amazon, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Breakthrough Energy Ventures, US Department of Energy, and T. Rowe Price.
Investors in the round: Capricorn Investment Group, Caterpillar, Deepwater Asset Management, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Microsoft Climate Innovation Fund, OMERS Ventures, T. Rowe Price
Industry: Advanced Materials, Battery, Electric Vehicle, Renewable Energy, Sustainability
Founders: JB Straubel
Founding year: 2017
Total equity funding raised: $1.8B Atomic’s new PayLink suite is a set of financial tools that enable consumers to connect merchant accounts, streaming services, and recurring bills to their financial institution’s app seamlessly updating their payment methods on file and enabling a one-stop hub for reviewing upcoming expenses. By streamlining the account-switching experience, Paylink makes it easier to switch primary relationships, aligning with the CFPB’s open banking vision. ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
EDITORIAL GUIDELINES
LEGAL
PRIVACY
TERMS OF USE CONTACT US
ADVERTISE
TIPS
WRITE FOR US NYC VC
NYC TECH EVENTS
NYC TECH NEWS
NYC STARTUPS
NYC COWORKING
TECH DIRECTORY  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC Join the millions and keep up with the stories shaping entrepreneurship. Sign up today. 