Numerous companies in the hospitality and restaurant industry implement the leading device UV disinfection and digital out of home media company's fast, reliable, chemical-free UV-C disinfection for mobile phones. More than a disinfection product that better protects employees, customers and travelers, the highly engaging digital OOH media tool has the ability to run ads and display timely messages for businesses. AVON, Conn., June 6, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- iCleanse, the leading device disinfection and Digital Out of Home (DOOH) media company, announced today its first-of-its-kind disinfection product, Swift UV, has been installed in pilot programs at more than 30 locations nationwide. Many of the new locations are in the hospitality industry and include: CT Science Center in Hartford, CT; Hartford Health Care Pain Treatment Center in West Hartford, CT; Swiches Coffee & Donuts in Berlin, CT; Kinsman Brewing Co. in Milldale, CT; Vagabond Inn in San Luis Obispo, CA; Ocean Palms Motel in Pismo Beach, CA; Harbor House Inn in Morro Bay, CA; Gateway Lodge in Seaside, CA; Beachwalker Inn in Pismo Beach, CA; ARI in Glastonbury, CT; Garde Art Center in New London, CT; Phenix Salon (464 & 465) in Woodbridge, NJ; Phenix Salon (1235) in Union, NJ; Sandwich Lodge & Resort in Sandwich, MA; Best Western - Bridgewood Hotel in Neenah, WI; Elmwood Barbershop in West Hartford, CT; American Distilling in East Hampton, CT; Holiday Inn Long Island Slip Airport in Holtsville, NY; Rancho Bernardo Inn in San Diego, CA; Candlewood Suites in Olive Branch, MS; Best Western Plus in Crawfordsville, IN; Econolodge in West Memphis, AR; Mircotel Inn & Suites by Wyndham in Tuscaloosa, AL; Motel 8 in Tuscaloosa, AL; SureStay Plus by Best Western in Smithfield, RI; Atlantic Motelin East Wareham, MA; Days Inn & Suites by Wyndham in Castle Rock, CO; Best Western Aurora in Aurora, CO; Aaspire NY Inc. in New York, NY; Motel 8 in Knoxville, TN. Bradley International Airport in Connecticut, New England's second largest airport, recently deployed four Swift UV devices from iCleanse joining more than 100 hospitals, organizations and retail locations nationwide that presently use the company's patented and touchless UV disinfection that kills 99.99% of pathogens. To date, more than 1 million phones have been disinfected and 1 million impressions delivered using iCleanse's Swift UV units. "We're thrilled to add more than 30 pilot programs to our customer list as we continue to grow our digital OOH network into more high traffic venues," said iCleanse CEO Chris Allen. "Dozens of hospitals, organizations and retail locations already utilize our Swift UV product. We'll continue to expand our footprint into airports, hotels, restaurants and other high traffic travel areas. This is a fantastic no-charge service that travelers appreciate. It also offers advertisers a unique one-to-one interaction with travelers and their brand. We look forward to deploying iCleanse in more locations nationwide this year." Swift UV is the most innovative new way for brands to directly engage one-on-one with their customers. Ad content can be fully customized and deployed across a fleet of units through the secure iCleanse Cloud. Companies can create their own design, or iCleanse will create custom content for the advertisers, that delivers an impactful interactive call-to-action for the Swift UV user. Brands can easily target and reach their desired consumer with coupon discount codes. Companies using iCleanse as an advertising and communication tool find they build sustainable brand loyalty and also expand their customer base. Visit https://icleanse.com/ to learn more about iCleanse. About iCleanse In 2020, entrepreneur Chris Allen acquired ReadyDock, an established force in the UV-C hospital disinfection space since 2015. Allen re-branded the company as iCleanse and quickly transformed it into the leading device disinfection and Digital Out of Home (DOOH) media company it is today. iCleanse's specialty is fast and chemical-free UV-C disinfection for mobile phones in high-traffic areas. The company's first-of-its-kind product, Swift UV, features a display screen and advertising platform that allows the business owner to offer mobile phone disinfection while simultaneously monetizing traffic. More than 100 hospitals, organizations and retail locations nationwide use iCleanse for its fast and patented solution, while trusting its reliable and touchless UV disinfection. Media Contact: Chelsey Clapper, VP Marketing & Design chelseyclapper@icleanse.com Media Contact Chelsey Clapper, VP Marketing & Design, iCleanse, 800-969-1166, chelseyclapper@iCleanse.com   SOURCE  iCleanse © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.