Chicago — Lwala Community Alliance is recognized for its pioneering, community-led health model in rural  Kenya . Babies and Mothers Alive Foundation and Maya Health Alliance | Wuqu' Kawoq also receive grant funding for their work to support maternal and infant health. Oct. 10, 2023  - Today, The Patchwork Collective, Lever for Change, and ICONIQ Impact, ICONIQ Capital's platform for collaborative philanthropy, announced three awardees for the Maternal & Infant Health Award. The award is a  $12 million  grant competition designed to aid innovative, community-led organizations in providing women with access to safe, equitable, and quality maternal healthcare, with the goal of reducing maternal and infant mortality worldwide. Lwala Community Alliance (Lwala), in partnership with Dandelion Africa, was selected by The Patchwork Collective as the recipient of the award's lead  $9 million  grant for their work scaling community-led health in rural  Kenya . However, upon reviewing the finalists' proposals, The Patchwork Collective was so impressed by the quality and promise of two additional submissions, that they have chosen to award the Babies and Mothers Alive Foundation (BAMA) and Maya Health Alliance | Wuqu' Kawoq each with a  $1 million  grant, bringing the award's total from  $10 million  to  $12 million  (as part of the award, each of the five finalist organizations received a one-time  $200,000  planning grant, which provided capacity-building support and compensation for the time and resources required to develop their proposals). "The Patchwork Collective is overjoyed to provide funding to each of these organizations, all of which are working tirelessly to reach women in remote regions with healthcare that's effective and culturally resonant," said Marie Dageville, co-founder of The Patchwork Collective. "No family should suffer the loss of a mother or child, yet tragically most maternal and infant deaths stem from a detectable and treatable complication. If this award helps ensure the survival of even one woman or child, it will be worth it." Over the last 10 years, advanced research and technological breakthroughs have led to a global decline in maternal and infant mortality. Yet, critical treatments, innovations, and resources remain out of reach for women, children, and communities most in need, and women in low-resource communities continue to die at rates far surpassing the rest of the world. It's estimated that if these innovations were made accessible to those who need them most, nearly  2 million lives could be saved . In  Kenya , where Lwala operates, marginalized communities bear the highest burden, with just 15 of  Kenya's  47 counties comprising nearly 99% of all maternal deaths. In  Guatemala , where Maya Health Alliance | Wuqu' Kawoq operates, maternal mortality rates are the highest in  Latin America , and Maya women continue to die during childbirth three times more often than non-indigenous women. The awardees, all focused on reducing maternal and infant mortality, will receive funding for the following projects: "Each of the awardees has placed collaboration and community involvement at its core. They know that systems are stronger and more sustainable when different actors are brought together to work toward a common goal–in this case, reduced maternal and infant mortality," said Matti Navellou, head of ICONIQ Impact. "In much the same way, we're looking to collaborate with additional partners and donors to strengthen this effort and amplify the impact these organizations, and the other finalists, can have." The other finalists are listed below in alphabetical order: The Maternal & Infant Health Award is the third in a series of ICONIQ Impact grant competitions managed by Lever for Change, a nonprofit affiliate of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation that connects donors with bold solutions to the world's biggest problems. This award follows the  $24 million  Larsen Lam ICONIQ Impact Award, a grant competition launched in 2020 to help secure a brighter, more durable future for refugees worldwide, and the  $22 million  Stronger Democracy Award, a grant competition launched in 2021 to help strengthen democratic institutions, improve political representation, and increase participation in  the United States'  democratic process. "At Lever for Change, we are honored to support these visionary organizations in their mission to deliver safer births, elevate mothers' voices, promote intercultural healthcare, scale community-led health, and sustainably improve maternal and newborn health," said  Cecilia Conrad , CEO of Lever for Change. "These initiatives embody the spirit of collective action, demonstrating that by connecting communities, bridging cultures, and leveraging technology, we can reduce maternal and infant mortality rates and improve the lives of countless families." More information about the Maternal & Infant Health Award and the finalists can be found at https://www.maternalinfanthealthaward.org. The Patchwork Collective invites other donors to join the effort to reduce maternal and infant mortality worldwide. Donors interested in providing funding or partnering in this work should contact  Dana Rice , Vice President, Philanthropy at Lever for Change, at ddrice@leverforchange.macfound.org.  Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy. Almost finished... We need to confirm your email address. To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you. There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later. The Patchwork CollectiveThe Patchwork Collective is a family philanthropic effort supporting locally-led solutions to global challenges. We fund diverse, bold, community-driven organizations and leaders across social equity, global health, and climate justice. Our mission is to empower the most vulnerable and marginalized communities, wherever they may be. We view each solution as one unique patch of a quilt. When brought together, they create a stronger, more vibrant, and more equitable future for all. By placing local leaders and communities at the center of our work, we preserve community agency, address inequity, and stitch together a brighter future for all…one patch at a time. ICONIQ ImpactICONIQ Impact is ICONIQ Capital's global platform for collaborative philanthropy. The platform convenes ICONIQ's extraordinary community of families, founders, and organizations to catalyze collaborative philanthropy for giving at scale. ICONIQ Impact aims to tackle the world's most urgent challenges, with the goal of creating a more just and equitable world. Lever for ChangeLever for Change connects donors with bold solutions to the world's biggest problems—including issues like racial inequity, gender inequality, lack of access to economic opportunity, and climate change. Using an inclusive, equitable model and due diligence process, Lever for Change creates customized challenges and other tailored funding opportunities. Top-ranked teams and challenge finalists become members of the Bold Solutions Network—a growing global network that helps secure additional funding, amplify members' impact, and accelerate social change. Founded in 2019 as a nonprofit affiliate of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Lever for Change has influenced over  $1.5 billion  in grants to date and provided support to more than 145 organizations. To learn more, visit www.leverforchange.org.   Parliament Opposes Policy to Give Girls Under 15 Access to Contraceptives AllAfrica publishes around 500 reports a day from more than 100 news organizations and over 500 other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica. To address comments or complaints, please Contact us. 
          AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 500 news and information items daily from over 100 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Abuja, Johannesburg, Nairobi and Washington DC.
         Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy. Almost finished... We need to confirm your email address. To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you. There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.