Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 A group of six local educators and community members wants to establish a new charter school in Allentown for 2023-24, focused on STEAM — science, technology, engineering, arts and math.An informational hearing was held Thursday for Allentown School Board directors to learn about the application for the Lehigh Valley STEAM Academy Charter School, which would sit at 2268 S. 12th Street.An attorney for the district, Allison Peterson, led the hearing, and attorney Brian Leinhauser represented the applicant group.There currently are five brick-and-mortar charter schools serving Allentown students. Some board members have been critical of charter schools in the past because of the burden tuition places on the district budget, but Acting Superintendent Carol Birks has expressed her support for school choice and came to the district from a charter school position in Connecticut.Neither Birks nor any board members commented on the proposed charter school during the hearing. There was an opportunity for public comment, but no one spoke. A decision isn’t expected until early next year.If approved, Lehigh Valley STEAM Academy Charter School would offer student development opportunities through community partnerships with nonprofits, local businesses and after-school programs.Among its would-be founders is Julio Guridy, a former city council member who spent 20 years in office.Other potential founders include Daniel Class, a certified guidance counselor; Gigi Espada, coordinator of the Senior Center at CASA Guadalupe; Elizabeth Taglioli, math teacher and Lehigh University doctoral student; Carol Lopez, a principal in the Central Dauphin School District and a former Allentown School District reading specialist; and Jimmy Zumba, a local scientist.

“We plan to offer a specialized STEAM curriculum, methods of instruction and professional development, and this is normally a costly program and requires time for a large district to implement,” said Janet Solkov, a consultant for the applicant group, at Thursday’s hearing. “The charter school would provide a way to be able to present this education to the students in the community.”The proposed school would use the Pennsylvania STEAM Academy in Harrisburg as a model.If approved, the charter school would open in 2023-24 for kindergarten through third grade. In following years, one additional grade would be added each year until the school has options for kindergarten through eighth grade.Carlos Lopez, former Allentown School Board member, assisted in preparing the charter school application for Lehigh Valley STEAM Academy Charter School. He said the school has three to four new potential students signing up every day and more than 200 students have already pre-registered.“Consistently throughout my entire career in the Lehigh Valley, I’ve always had parents say, ‘Please continue to work on providing more choices to our children,'” said Lopez, former principal and CEO of Roberto Clemente Charter School. His wife Carol Lopez is one of the founders for the proposed school.The proposed school building can hold 450 students, but the application proposes modular classrooms to accommodate additional students in future years.The South 12th Street building formerly housed a technical school, but the site owner, Exchange 32 LLC, would need a variance for a zoning exception to place a public school at the location. The charter school would rent the space.The school board anticipates holding one more public hearing on the proposed charter school in January or February before making a final decision.The board must review charter school applications using specific criteria, including whether the applicant has shown demonstrated community support, planning for comprehensive learning experiences, information required under charter school law, and evidence it will serves as a model for other schools.Under charter school law, the board must make a decision on Lehigh Valley STEAM Academy Charter School no later than 75 days after the first hearing, which makes its decision deadline Feb. 28. If denied, the school can appeal.School charters are reviewed for renewal every five years.Morning Call reporter Jenny Roberts can be reached at 484-903-1732 and jroberts@mcall.com. An informational hearing was held Thursday for Allentown School Board directors to learn about the application for the Lehigh Valley STEAM Academy Charter School, which would sit at 2268 S. 12th Street. An attorney for the district, Allison Peterson, led the hearing, and attorney Brian Leinhauser represented the applicant group. There currently are five brick-and-mortar charter schools serving Allentown students. Some board members have been critical of charter schools in the past because of the burden tuition places on the district budget, but Acting Superintendent Carol Birks has expressed her support for school choice and came to the district from a charter school position in Connecticut. Neither Birks nor any board members commented on the proposed charter school during the hearing. There was an opportunity for public comment, but no one spoke. A decision isn’t expected until early next year. If approved, Lehigh Valley STEAM Academy Charter School would offer student development opportunities through community partnerships with nonprofits, local businesses and after-school programs. Among its would-be founders is Julio Guridy, a former city council member who spent 20 years in office. Other potential founders include Daniel Class, a certified guidance counselor; Gigi Espada, coordinator of the Senior Center at CASA Guadalupe; Elizabeth Taglioli, math teacher and Lehigh University doctoral student; Carol Lopez, a principal in the Central Dauphin School District and a former Allentown School District reading specialist; and Jimmy Zumba, a local scientist. “We plan to offer a specialized STEAM curriculum, methods of instruction and professional development, and this is normally a costly program and requires time for a large district to implement,” said Janet Solkov, a consultant for the applicant group, at Thursday’s hearing. “The charter school would provide a way to be able to present this education to the students in the community.” The proposed school would use the Pennsylvania STEAM Academy in Harrisburg as a model. If approved, the charter school would open in 2023-24 for kindergarten through third grade. In following years, one additional grade would be added each year until the school has options for kindergarten through eighth grade. Carlos Lopez, former Allentown School Board member, assisted in preparing the charter school application for Lehigh Valley STEAM Academy Charter School. He said the school has three to four new potential students signing up every day and more than 200 students have already pre-registered. “Consistently throughout my entire career in the Lehigh Valley, I’ve always had parents say, ‘Please continue to work on providing more choices to our children,'” said Lopez, former principal and CEO of Roberto Clemente Charter School. His wife Carol Lopez is one of the founders for the proposed school. The proposed school building can hold 450 students, but the application proposes modular classrooms to accommodate additional students in future years. The South 12th Street building formerly housed a technical school, but the site owner, Exchange 32 LLC, would need a variance for a zoning exception to place a public school at the location. The charter school would rent the space. The school board anticipates holding one more public hearing on the proposed charter school in January or February before making a final decision. The board must review charter school applications using specific criteria, including whether the applicant has shown demonstrated community support, planning for comprehensive learning experiences, information required under charter school law, and evidence it will serves as a model for other schools. Under charter school law, the board must make a decision on Lehigh Valley STEAM Academy Charter School no later than 75 days after the first hearing, which makes its decision deadline Feb. 28. If denied, the school can appeal. School charters are reviewed for renewal every five years. Morning Call reporter Jenny Roberts can be reached at 484-903-1732 and jroberts@mcall.com. Copyright © 2024 The Morning Call