Oct 26, 2023 MORGANTOWN — Mon Health’s Shakuri-Rad Family Center for Minimally Invasive and Robotic Surgery is the first center in West Virginia to integrate the Intuitive Hub, a digitally connected interface that enables surgeons to be virtually connected in real time, allowing remote users to observe procedures, receive decision support, and learn from one another.  The Intuitive Hub has the capacity to connect surgeons from around the world with its telepresence feature, allowing the operating physician to interact with remote observers during all parts of a case, from the first steps of setup to the placement of the final stitch.  In addition to observation, the remote observer can see what’s happening in the console view and around the procedure room. The observer can talk with the operating physician and care team, as well as add illustrations to the live view, as necessary.  “The Intuitive Hub at our Mon Health Shakuri-Rad Family Center for Minimally Invasive and Robotic Surgery represents a transformative leap forward in surgical care, benefitting both surgeons and patients alike,” said Dr. Jaschar Shakuri-Rad, Urologist, Medical Director of Robotic Surgery, Medical Director of Medical Specialties, and Master Robotic Surgeon. “By being the first center in West Virginia to have this technology, our cutting-edge facility provides access to state-of-the-art robotic technology and advanced training for our surgeons, enabling them to perform privacy protected procedures with unparalleled precision and control. For patients, this means safer surgeries, faster recoveries, and ultimately, a higher quality of care. Mon Health is proud to lead the way in healthcare innovation, ensuring that our communities receive the best possible surgical outcomes and experiences.”  Currently, both Mon Health Medical Center and Mon Health Preston Memorial Hospital have the Intuitive Hub, allowing for a streamlined form of communication and collaboration on robotic procedures.  “At Mon Health, we strive for excellence and are always working to ensure that we provide the most clinically advanced evidence-based care,” David Goldberg, President and CEO of Mon Health System and Executive Vice President of Vandalia Health. “We are proud to expand the scope of our care through the Intuitive Hub and will continue to implement new technology that is proven to improve patient outcomes and allow Mon Health facilities and providers to continue to offer the high-tech, warm touch approach to  Today's breaking news and more in your inbox CHARLESTON — West Virginia marks a significant milestone in its digital title journey with the nationwide ... MULLENS — Gov. Jim Justice announced the grand opening of the newly relocated and revitalized Nature Center at ... EDITOR’S NOTE: The Datebook is reserved for nonprofit, civic organizations. Unless otherwise noted, events listed ... EDITOR’S NOTE: The Datebook is reserved for nonprofit, civic organizations. Unless otherwise noted, events listed ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © The Intermountain | https://www.theintermountain.com | 520 Railroad Ave., Elkins, WV 26241 | 304-636-2121 