WASHINGTON, April 3, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- IDenta Corp. IDTA is a worldwide leader in the development of Field Detection and Home Diagnostic Testing Kits for Narcotics, Explosives and Unique Forensic Products in the Homeland Security and Consumer Markets. IDenta Corp reported its 2022 annual financial statements. It shows a sharp increase in the net profit as a result of the optimization of the production line, the management of employees and an increase in profits as a result of the sale of a new product line. Mr. Amichai Glattstein, Chief Executive Officer, commented: "During 2022, many efforts and funds were invested in building a long-term infrastructure in the US market, expanding relationships with local distributors, participating in a large number of trade shows - both for the government and the retail markets. The company invested in upgrading the production line in order to optimize and improve profitability and launched a new product line with high profit margins. The company created a lot of marketing material including videos that show the simplicity of the product and promote its sale in a significant way. The exposure of the company's products in the US market was the widest since the company was established and we are already feeling and seeing the results in the field. IDenta entered stronger and better positioned to continue to deliver value to all customers as we continue our journey to be a top performing company." Highlights of the Annual Report of 2022 compared to Annual Report of 2021: About IDenta Corp. IDenta Corp. is a global leader in the development and supply of Field Detection and Home Diagnostics Testing Kits for Drugs & Explosives and Unique Forensic Products in the Homeland Security and Consumer Markets. IDenta develops, manufactures and distributes revolutionary products for both the professional Law and Retail markets which consistently pass the highest qualifications and testing procedures of law enforcement and security agencies around the world. Safe Harbor Statement Certain of the statements contained herein may be, within the meaning of the federal securities laws, "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of the date hereof, and the company does not undertake any responsibility to update any of these statements in the future. Company Contact Information:Public RelationsTel: +1 (240) 545-6646E: pr@identa-corp.com   View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/identa-corp-reports-annual-financial-2022-results-and-shows-efficiency-and-a-sharp-increase-in-annual-profit-301787409.html SOURCE  IDenta Corp. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Sort by estimates, projected upside, profit surprises, and more to easily find new stocks to invest in or check up on your portfolio. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.