The Democratic fundraising organization ActBlue has named Regina Wallace-Jones as its first Black female CEO. Wallace-Jones previously served as a technology executive at multiple companies, including Yahoo, eBay and Facebook, and on the city council and as the mayor of East Palo Alto, Calif. ActBlue said in a tweet announcing her appointment as CEO and president that she brings a “powerful combination” of experience as a former technology executive, elected official and Democratic organizer. “So excited to take on my new role as ActBlue’s CEO & President!” Wallace-Jones tweeted. “ActBlue’s impact can’t be overstated-I look forward to this next chapter for the organization as we grow & evolve the platform that has provided Dems w/ a huge strategic fundraising advantage for nearly 20 years!” ActBlue has raised almost $12 billion for Democratic candidates and causes since 2004, according to its website. Wallace-Jones said in a video introducing herself that she knows from her previous experience that technology is a “means to an end,” and she is looking forward to helping Democratic campaigns and progressive organizations “function at their best.” Outgoing CEO Erin Hill said in the video that people working in Democratic politics will see Wallace-Jones as an “eager partner” with the experience and knowledge to meet what they need. Hill has served as the executive director of ActBlue since 2009, according to her LinkedIn profile. The Washington Post reported that Wallace-Jones said she became passionate about technology and policy to help underserved communities have access to the benefits of technology. She said the position leading ActBlue brings together two parts of her life that she is passionate about and that she believes she can make an impact on the country “There’s nothing better that I can and should be doing in this space,” Wallace-Jones said, according to The Post.  For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to The Hill.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.