Subscribe NCIS: Hawaii will conclude season two with a two-part episode that change the team forever. . The firsr half will air on Monday May 15 on CBS, and in the episode, the team will be faced with challenges they've never seen before as the discovery of a dead former MI6 agent uncovers secrets from Jane Tennant's past and forces her to go to extreme lengths to track down the responsible party.  The two-part finale will see Lost star Henry Ian Cusick make a visit to Hawaii as Supervisor Agent John Swift of the Office of Special Projects but it's not going to be smooth sailing. "Swift has pedigree and will oversee the team; he is a tenuous character to introduce just from the jump but Ian was perfect casting for that and it worked out great because any time you get to play tension is great," Noah Mills, who stars as Jane's second-in-command Jesse Boone, told HELLO!   Exclusive: NCIS LA star Daniela Ruah celebrates Eric Christian Olsen and the moment that left her in tears before series finale "With Jane (Vanessa Lachey) being out and the team not knowing what the hell she's getting into, but just knowing that she's family, Jesse is in this mode of doing whatever he has to, regardless of protocol, to help and protect her.  "Then in comes Swift and he takes Jesse off the case; emotions don't win out in the real battle. But it's an icy relationship - and ultimately he is there to help and we have to find a way to work with him."  MORE: Remembering the stars of NCIS who have sadly died MORE: Nick Lachey and Vanessa Lachey's relationship timeline Yasmine Al-Bustami, who stars as Lucy Tara, added: [Swift] doesn't seem like he really wants to be there or wants to help us but I think there will be a nice turn of events and we get to learn more."  "Henry is such a great guy and he's such a great actor but he throws a wrench into this tight team," shared Jason Antoon, aka Ernie. "There's really no character problems between us [as a team] so having him come in teases that the team might get shaken up at the end of the season."  We already know that the character's role in the team remains open by the closing credits of the season, so it's clear this may not be the last time we see him.  The episodes will also see two other familiar faces return - that of Maggie Shaw, played by Julie White, and Linc Hand as Charlie 1. Maggie was introduced in season one as a former mentor of Jane's but she was discovered to be a double agent spy for the Chinese, and the mother of a wanted spy, and was arrested.  Charlie 1 was a Navy SEAL first seen in the season one finale and now working as a Private Military Contractor. Episode 22  will air on Monday May 22. "When a figure from Tennant's CIA past re-emerges, the NCIS team seeks help from the most unlikely place to catch a killer who threatens to destroy everything Tennant has built.," the synopsis reads. Don't want to miss a story? Sign up to our What to Watch newsletter and get the heads-up on the shows and films everyone’s talking about. By entering your details, you are agreeing to HELLO! Magazine User Data Protection Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. For more information, please click here. 