CEBU, Philippines — Cebu is never late in adapting and embracing developments in the field of technology. The success of the three-day Innovation and Technology Summit and Expo 2023 organized by the prime-movers of the months-spanning Cebu Business Months (CBM) on August 17 to 19 at the Skyhall of SM Seaside City Cebu drives this point home. Highlighting the important roles that artificial intelligence plays in technological advances, the event was all about bringing up meaningful discussions and showcasing new products that can simplify things and be advantageous to everyone at home, in the office and all other spaces in between.  Speakers from various companies shared their thoughts and insights too, which made for engaging discussions and workshop sessions. Artificial intelligence and its role in our homes, daily lives, and society were the main topics of the discussions of the summit’s opening day. Discussed during the day were talks on how human intellect, creativity, and coordination are what lead to the most cutting-edge technologies, and that AI's advances must be morally steered by its proponents. “When we think of innovations, think smartphone, the most important thing that we think about is the interaction between human and the spaces,” said Denny Ong, CEO of LifeSmart and one of the key speakers at the event, during the talk “Smart Innovations Enhancing Lives at Home.” “The key innovation is about human-machine interface. And every next innovation will be a new way of interaction – how people interact with your home, how people interact with your office,” the executive further shared. With the surge of AI redefining lives, the impact of artificial intelligence is wide and transformational as it develops and navigates its ethical and societal implications. “It’s all about people but you have to share a purpose and vision. So if you want to transform, make sure the people want to transform with, bind with the idea whether they want to transform. Most cases, transformation just comes with us,” said Eugene Paden, Chief Technology Officer of Raybiztech, who was one of the event’s speakers. On the second day, the event focused on innovation and startups in order to build a useful platform for various stakeholders interested in technology and entrepreneurship. The activities of this day helped Cebuano startup owners who are keen on riding on vibrant climate for innovation. The third day mainly recognized the value of education, which draws up the business sector’s vitality and creative visions for the future. All in all, CBM’s Innovation and Technology Summit and Expo 2023 readily lived up to the organization’s goal in bringing up the latest of developments to the local business sector, and how these can be harnessed to cause progressive shifts and shuffles in the years to come. — (FREEMAN) Philstar.com is one of the most vibrant, opinionated, discerning communities of readers on cyberspace. With your meaningful insights, help shape the stories that can shape the country. Sign up now! Signup for the News Round now