A protest against any plan cuts or closures took place in Bideford on Saturday Never miss a big story in North Devon again with our daily email We have more newsletters Never miss a big story in North Devon again with our daily email We have more newsletters A Bideford Link user has stressed the importance of an under-threat mental health service in North Devon. A consultation is ongoing by Devon County Council until April 8 with a potential to close the mental health and wellbeing centres in Bideford, Barnstaple and Ilfracombe.  Campaigners in Bideford are urging the council not to close the service and met in the town centre with placards for a rally on Saturday, March 4. Devon County Council currently has three centres across North Devon, in Barnstaple, Bideford and Ilfracombe, run by Devon Partnership NHS Trust. The North Devon Link Centres are for people experiencing a wide range of mental health difficulties. Devon County Council says that the three Link Services do not provide urgent or crisis support, and numbers attending the services are low. Data over the last seven weeks show that only 24 people are currently using the service. Read More - Protesters fight against proposed closures of mental health services Anna Fors, one of the users of the service, though explained: “The protest was against the proposed closures of the last three Link Centres. Before Devon County Council made changes - that were not wanted or recommended - and before lockdown, they provided an all-in-house service to cater to the needs, not demand as they’ve been using- that’s a business term, of those who have mental health illnesses and/or disabilities in a wide range of severity, it’s been stated in the paper and the consultation document that the Links are just ‘Drop-ins’ that don’t provide therapeutic activities and is for ‘mild mental health’ which is either a lie or ignorance. “The Link Centres are a safety net for those waiting for statutory treatment via the Community Mental Health Team or who’ve been through that process and need further, and very often, long-term support. Devon County has the funds, but they want to give it to private or voluntary groups who won’t be catering for everyone, and will be all over the place, inconsistent, high turn-over of staff - rapport and trust takes a long time to develop and is very important to a user’s wellbeing and recovery journey.” She explained that the building-based service provides privacy and dignity, and the staff were fantastic. “They’ve been classed as ‘unskilled’ by Devon County, where they have all had training. Most have a degree and are currently not allowed to do the job they know users need. For example, one staff member is an art teacher and used to run fantastic therapeutic art groups. Many of the users will not qualify for the other proposed services. Either not ill enough, or needs are too complex. Devon County needs to restore the staff to what they are trained and skilled to do.” She said investing funds in the Link buildings and NHS/DPT mental health services is more cost-effective than giving to other organisations that would be contracted for the short term and at a higher price. She urged Devon County to keep the experienced and skilled staff facing redundancy. The DevonLive Shatter the Silence campaign aims to encourage anyone struggling to reach out and talk - to either a friend, relative, charity or a professional. Our campaign content will highlight just how important talking is and the difference it can make. Ultimately, we want to reduce the number of people who die by suicide in Devon. We will highlight where to get help and show how talking has helped people come through difficult times in their lives. We will speak to families who have lost loved ones to look at the lasting impact of suicide and attempt to dismiss the inaccurate belief many people who are struggling manifest that they are a burden on the ones they love. We will look at the devastation caused to those left behind in the hope that even one reader might change their mind if they have considered taking their own life. We will speak to people who have survived a suicide attempt and have accessed counselling or other mental health services to show that things can get better. We will speak to Samaritans volunteers about their vital work in Devon and how they are on hand 24-7 to listen. And we will offer guidance on what to say to someone who is struggling so people feel more confident to have that conversation. Do you have a relevant story to share? Email emma.slee@reachplc.com. WHERE TO GET HELP: SAMARITANS offers support in a range of ways, including a self-help app, email support or by calling 116 123 for free 24 hours a day NHS Offers advice on how to access mental health support TALKWORKS is a free-to-access NHS service offering a variety of treatment and support for adults (aged 18+) living in Devon (excluding Plymouth) CALM offer a free, confidential helpline 0800 58 58 58 and webchat, 7 hours a day, 7 days a week for anyone who needs to talk about life's problems HUB OF HOPE is a mental health support database that can signpost you to local support services ANDY'S MAN CLUB offers men a chance to talk with like-minded people. They have clubs in Devon as well as nationally KOOTH & QWELL provides free, safe and anonymous online mental wellbeing support, including moderated peer support forums and text-based counselling, to all residents living in Devon (aged 11+) PETE'S DRAGONS provide free-to-access support to all residents living in Devon who may have been bereaved by suicide at any point in their lives THE MOORINGS is an emotional support service that provides telephone and face-to-face support via a drop-in service at its bases in Exeter, Barnstaple and Torquay. It is a non-clinical service but provides emotional support, signposting to other services and other general support that is tailored to the people who access it. .  She said: “The numbers quoted in the proposal are questionable. It states that it’s not used as much. This is because too many on the books were discharged during the lockdown, and since the reduced reopening, they haven’t allowed new referrals. “The Link Centres has been successful for over thirty years. Devon County should be promoting and investing in them as a blueprint for the rest of the country. The Link is the only support many of us have; without it, our wellbeing will decline drastically. Some have said that not having this place to go to, to reduce isolation or to lessen the ideations of self-harm or suicide will result in them being so desperate that they fulfil those ideations. Another stated bluntly that the authorities might as well have boats posted below the bridges. The Link Centres are a vital service to help prevent escalation to an already over-whelmed CMHT and/or psychiatric ward.” She added that the consultation questionnaire was ‘very leading’: “It doesn’t ask if they should keep the Centres. The users who have filled in their responses have replied that they’ll have nothing if they are closed. “Suicides will go up, but Devon County doesn’t care. They have not engaged with mental health professionals or listened to staff and users.” She said that March 4’s protest went well, and many people signed their petition, and vehicles tooted in support, including an ambulance. She added: “The consultation period is very short, especially for those of us who take a long time to gather our thoughts. There hasn’t been much publicised, so many locals don’t even know what’s happening. We are adults who have mental health illnesses. We are intelligent people who deserve adequate support to help us do more than just exist.” She said a Facebook Group had been set up for people to share their thoughts at https://www.facebook.com/groups/923781029065255. “Our reviews have found that the Link Centre drop-in sessions that people like, such as art group or choir group, could be delivered by the community and voluntary sector, and be offered in a community setting which would make them more accessible for all," a Devon County Council spokesperson said. “In the last year we've demonstrated in Holsworthy that we can move away from the expensive council building-based model for drop-in sessions, to work more effectively with voluntary sector partners to deliver excellent wellbeing support services in the community that complement the existing mental health services delivered by NHS colleagues. “These are proposals at this stage and we would like people to respond to our consultation. No decision will be made until we have fully considered what people tell us.” Read next: Exeter city centre incident: Man with 'bladed article' arrested after altercation Snow warning extended Heroic Devon fisherman dies two years after bomb blast Call 999 if you see missing Paignton man last seen two days ago Huge barn fire sees 300 sheep rescued in Kingsbridge 