Information Age 
					Insight and Analysis for the CTO				 Companies involved should avoid rushing the process of merging tech infrastructure.  One of the most important components of any successful merger or acquisition (M&A) is the timely integration of two separate technology networks. Combining them into a highly functional networked technology infrastructure keeps the new business entity operating as seamlessly as possible, all while creating additional value from the combined capabilities. Every modern-day business activity — employee email, payroll, sales prospecting, production, product inventory, and even recruiting — relies on underlying technology that is as free as possible from friction, outages, inadequate connectivity and frustrating downtime. Integrating the technology stacks of two different companies can be incredibly challenging or surprisingly easy, depending on such factors as similarity or differences between the two companies’ respective technologies, software, and location(s). For large organisations merging together, unifying networks and technologies may take years. But for SMBs (small and medium-sized businesses) utilising more traditional technologies such as VPNs, integrations may be accomplished more quickly and with less friction. In scenarios where both the acquiring company and the company being acquired utilise more sophisticated SD-WAN networks, these technologies tend to be closed and proprietary in nature. Therefore, if both companies utilise the same vendor, integration can be managed more easily. On the other hand, if the vendors differ, it is not going to interlink with other networks as easily and needs a more careful step-by-step network transformation plan. Taking these challenges into account, the acquiring company could devise a strategy to let any existing network contracts expire, but in the long-term scope of spending, this is going to prove to be more expensive than to be proactive about merging technologies in the beginning of the acquisition. Another key to a successful technology merger is to truly understand where your applications are going. For example, if two New York companies are joining forces, with most of the data and applications residing in the US East Coast, it wouldn’t make sense to interconnect networks in San Francisco. Along with this, it is important to make sure your regional networks are strong, even within your global network. In terms of where you are sending your traffic and data, it’s important to be as efficient as possible. In the case that the acquiring company is absorbing a more technologically advanced company, it could be beneficial to take a step back and see what can be learned from those who have already experienced the transition to more sophisticated systems and networks. This is especially worth considering where the company acquired is smaller in size, and therefore likely to have made cost-conscious decisions when building out their network without added complexity. On the opposite side, for modern companies that are acquiring more traditional organisations, it could be beneficial to examine the applications you intend to keep to ensure they will continue to work properly within a more modernised network. While it might sound counter-intuitive, there is always “that one legacy server” in the basement that is running an archaic network configuration. While keeping some of these challenges in mind, there are six key tips that can help guide companies through the often challenging steps involved in merging one company’s network with another, while keeping both businesses running until the single technology stack is functional. Technology integration projects can be overwhelming, but experience shows the work is more manageable and more successful if companies plan ahead and assemble the right teams, tools, and partners to move the project to completion. Put simply, there’s a fast way to manage technology integration, and there’s a right way. Kristaps Petrovskis is chief technology officer at Expereo. How to maximise value from IT vendor collaborations — In the first of a series exploring the importance of IT partnerships, we take a look at how to maximise value from vendor collaborations. The hidden dangers of data in the M&A process — Delving into the hidden dangers that data can bring to the M&A process. Business & Strategy Hybrid working remains prominent across most sectors, but how can tech leadership truly optimise this model? John Dore explores. Business & Strategy As the role of AI increases across business, JP Morgan chief executive Jamie Dimon says the workers of the future will work less hours as a result Business & Strategy Here is your comprehensive five-step guide towards establishing and maintaining a truly connected enterprise Business & Strategy CCI Kenya discusses why BPO (business process outsourcing) is a proven strategy to cost-effective international expansion Helping you grow your business is our number one priority, if you would like to take your business to the next step just sign up! sign up now Business & Strategy Hybrid working remains prominent across most sectors, but how can tech leadership truly optimise this model? John Dore explores. Business & Strategy As the role of AI increases across business, JP Morgan chief executive Jamie Dimon says the workers of the future will work less hours as a result Business & Strategy Here is your comprehensive five-step guide towards establishing and maintaining a truly connected enterprise Business & Strategy Sometimes, the relationship with your managed service provider (MSP) may not work out long-term. Here are five signs of an underperforming partnership, and how to overcome them We provide general intelligence for technologists in the information age. We support CTOs, CIOs and other technology leaders in managing business critical issues both for today and in the future.