We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more› By Kimber Streams and Andrew Cunningham We’ve updated the advice in this guide for 2023. It’s hard to find a cheap computer with a screen that’s nice to look at, a keyboard and trackpad that are comfortable to use—or just not terrible—and fast-enough performance that won’t leave you waiting for apps and tabs to open. 
One solution? A used PC. Buying a good used PC entails a little more work than getting something new, but a laptop or desktop from a few years ago should still be good enough for you to browse the internet, hop on video calls, edit documents and other school projects, and chat with friends. And stores like Amazon, Best Buy, Newegg, and others all have a wide selection of used PCs, saving you from riskier sites like Craigslist and eBay. In getting a used PC, you can save a few hundred dollars on a computer that can do most of the same stuff a new one can. For the things most people do on their computers—browsing the web, editing documents and spreadsheets, or looking at and editing pictures and videos from your phone—a new computer and one from a few years ago don’t perform that differently from one another. If you’re on a strict budget, buying used may allow you to buy something that’s nicer than a modern budget laptop for the same money. A high-end Lenovo ThinkPad that sold for $1,400 two or three years ago, for example, will have an as-fast-or-faster processor and a better screen, and will be made of nicer materials, than a new laptop that’s selling for $500. Plus, buying a used PC cuts down on electronic waste. You rescue an old but functional computer from getting thrown in the trash, and you avoid buying a cheap PC that will wear out and be disposed of in a few years. If you’re looking to play high-end games or do professional 3D drafting work, a used PC might not be the best choice for you. Graphics processors are still advancing more quickly than other computer components, and newer PC games have higher system requirements. At many online stores, “refurbished” is usually just a fancy word for “used.” A used laptop usually doesn’t come with a top-tier level of customer service or warranty support, the kind you can get with an AppleCare Protection Plan or an extended manufacturer warranty. You can find used PCs with a year or two left on their original warranties, and those warranties generally transfer to new owners without problems. But it’s more common to find limited 30- or 90-day warranties that will cover you if the computer is dead on arrival but not much else. Third-party extended warranties from companies like Asurion, Geek Squad, or SquareTrade (depending on where you buy from) can offer some peace of mind, but the customer service these companies provide can be hit or miss, and you should read the fine print carefully to check what is and is not covered. The best support comes with a manufacturer-refurbished PC, which carries a like-new warranty from the company that made the computer. The three most important things to look for in a used PC are its physical condition (especially for laptops, which move around more and take more punishment), its make and model number, and its specifications. Some used-PC sellers post pictures of the actual computers they’re selling, which makes it easier for you to assess a computer’s condition. Others might assign it a letter grade—stick to systems with an A or B rating to reduce the risk of visible damage or wear. The only way to guarantee you’ll get something that looks truly new is to buy a manufacturer-refurbished system. Most people can get by with a computer that meets our minimum requirements. Generally, we suggest sticking to desktops and laptops made by Dell, HP, or Lenovo (or Apple, if you’re buying a Mac). It’s okay to buy used computers made by smaller outfits like Acer or Asus, but it’s usually easier to find parts and support for older computers made by the bigger companies. In particular, we like business desktops and laptops such as those in the Dell Optiplex and Latitude series, the Lenovo ThinkCentre and ThinkPad family, and the HP Pro and Elite lineup. These kinds of PCs are chunkier than modern ultrabooks like Dell’s XPS 13 or Apple’s MacBook Air, but they’re easier to upgrade and repair, and they’re built out of sturdier materials more likely to hold up under stress. Most people will be well served by a computer that meets our recommended specs for basic tasks like web browsing, document editing, and video chatting. Here’s what to look for: When it comes to buying used PCs, it’s best to avoid sites like Craigslist, eBay, or Reddit—it’s possible to find good deals there, but if you don’t know exactly what you’re looking for, you can easily get tripped up by fake or misleading listings or even a PC preloaded with malware. If you’re buying your first used computer, you can avoid scams and heartbreak by sticking to major retailers. Computers from these sellers are also more likely to be professionally cleaned and restored. Best Buy has a wide selection of preowned, refurbished, and open-box laptops and desktops. The site’s filters make it fairly easy to narrow down the specs by our recommendations above, and the desktops in particular are good deals if you’re able to upgrade the memory or install an SSD yourself. When buying from Amazon, stick to models with the Amazon Renewed tag, which Amazon says “have been inspected and tested by qualified suppliers to look and work like new” and come with a 90-day replacement-or-refund policy. Newegg, a popular site for people who like to build or upgrade their own PCs, also has a lot of used laptop and desktop PC listings, though the search function isn’t as nice. Some of Newegg’s listings are for much older computers than you’ll find at Amazon or Best Buy, so be especially careful about checking the offerings for our recommended specs. Using the “sold/shipped by Newegg” search filters limits the models available but makes it easier for you to find something in good condition sold by the site itself rather than a potentially sketchy third party. If you’re looking specifically for Macs, OWC has a great reputation for used and refurbished products and offers quite a few MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, and iMac models, among others. These computers have 90-day warranties out of the box, but you can add up to two years of additional warranty coverage if you want it. Check the listings for laptops to make sure that the charger is included. Local computer stores may also be a good place to check for used hardware. Micro Center keeps a decent selection of refurbished desktops and laptops on hand—some of these are available online, but many are available only if you can make it to an actual store. You might have other decent options local to you—in the San Francisco Bay Area, for example, Central Computers is a well-regarded local chain. A little research and checking Yelp and the BBB might reveal good, reasonably priced options near you, and calling ahead with our recommended specs in hand can help you figure out if any of the store’s in-stock systems will work for you. If you do take your chances on a site like eBay, it’s especially important to make sure the pictures in the listing are of the actual computer you’ll be buying—not one laptop among several, or pictures that claim to be “representative” of what you’re buying. Avoid buying computers from outside the US, since they can take several weeks to ship and such listings are more likely to be scams. Check the listings for laptops to make sure that the charger is included. And don’t buy from sellers with little to no feedback or a lot of negative feedback. If you want to save some money but don’t want to take the risks that come with buying used, you might be happy with a manufacturer-refurbished computer. These are systems that are returned to the company that made them, repaired with new parts, and resold in like-new condition with the same warranties you get with new laptops and desktops. Note the difference between a manufacturer-refurbished PC and one listed as “refurbished” on the sites of Best Buy, Newegg, and elsewhere—at many online stores, “refurbished” is usually just a fancy word for “used.” The companies with the best pages for refurbished PCs are Apple and Dell. Both have frequently updated inventories of near-new desktops and laptops; both offer the same warranties you get with their new products, including the opportunity to extend those warranties from one to three or four years; and both make it easy to sort computers by specs so you can buy exactly what you want. Lenovo also offers refurbs with a one-year warranty, and while HP offers some refurbished items you need to look up what you want on its website and then call to order. If you’re buying a refurbished Mac, we suggest sticking to 2020 and later models that have Apple’s faster M-series chips; these MacBooks also have longer battery life and more reliable keyboards than older models. For a refurbished Dell computer, we prefer Latitudes because they’re usually built better than Inspiron models, and it’s usually easier to upgrade their storage or memory. As you shop, check out Dell’s coupon codes to see if there are any models with particularly good discounts; these codes refresh every week or so. When you buy a used PC, you might find that it needs maintenance more quickly or more regularly than a brand-new computer. Or it might need some extra memory or faster storage to help it cope better with modern websites and apps. You can upgrade nearly all desktops and many laptops with a bit of time, research, and a few tools. We can’t advise you on every possible repair to every possible system—iFixit has some PC repair guides, though not for all models—but we can cover the basics. And we have some more advice for repairing and resuscitating an old laptop. Damian Carrington, $10bn of precious metals dumped each year in electronic waste, says UN, The Guardian, July 2, 2020 Kimber Streams Kimber Streams is a senior staff writer and has been covering laptops, gaming gear, keyboards, storage, and more for Wirecutter since 2014. In that time they’ve tested hundreds of laptops and thousands of peripherals, and built way too many mechanical keyboards for their personal collection. Andrew Cunningham Andrew Cunningham is a former senior staff writer on Wirecutter's tech team. He has been writing about laptops, phones, routers, and other tech since 2011. Before that he spent five years in IT fixing computers and helping people buy the best tech for their needs. He also co-hosts the book podcast Overdue and the TV podcast Appointment Television. by Dave Gershgorn and Andrew Cunningham We researched and tested cheap monitors and found options that are good enough for most people. by Dave Gershgorn We’ve spent hundreds of hours researching and testing monitors of all shapes and sizes to find the best one for any need (or budget). by Dave Gershgorn For those who have the desk space, 27-inch monitors hit the sweet spot of screen size and resolution, and we have recommendations for almost every scenario. by Kerry Davis McGuinness Local-video? Wi-Fi? Hybrid? Audio-only? The best baby monitor for you depends on your needs and preferences. We have picks in all four categories. Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). 