Menu  London, Bloomsbury Energy Systems and Data Analytics MSc provides an academically leading and industrially relevant study of energy systems through the lens of data analytics. Advanced analytics, fuelled by big data and massive computational power, has the potential to transform how energy systems are designed, operated and maintained. You will gain the skills and knowledge to unlock the transformative potential of big energy data and understand how it can reshape the energy sector. Energy Systems and Data Analytics MSc provides an academically leading and industrially relevant study of energy systems through the lens of data analytics. Advanced analytics, fuelled by big data and massive computational power, has the potential to transform how energy systems are designed, operated and maintained. You will gain the skills and knowledge to unlock the transformative potential of big energy data and understand how it can reshape the energy sector. Applications closed Applications open A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.   
                  The English language level for this programme is:                                      Level 2
 UCL Pre-Master's and Pre-sessional English courses are for international students who are aiming to study for a postgraduate degree at UCL. The courses will develop your academic English and academic skills required to succeed at postgraduate level. Further information can be found on our English language requirements page. Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website. International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below. Please note that the equivalency will correspond to the broad UK degree classification stated on this page (e.g. upper second-class). Where a specific overall percentage is required in the UK qualification, the international equivalency will be higher than that stated below. Please contact Graduate Admissions should you require further advice. International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below. Please note that the equivalency will correspond to the broad UK degree classification stated on this page (e.g. upper second-class). Where a specific overall percentage is required in the UK qualification, the international equivalency will be higher than that stated below. Please contact Graduate Admissions should you require further advice. Energy Systems and Data Analytics MSc is the first programme in the UK to combine the study of energy systems with data science. As a student studying this MSc you will gain a broad understanding of energy systems as a whole, covering supply and demand, the interconnectedness and dependencies between different sectors and a multi-vector multi-sector approach to analysis. You will learn about the theory and practice of data analysis, how to write code to manipulate and clean data, to extract insights, and to train models to make predictions from that data. You will gain a theoretical understanding of machine learning and statistical methods such as supervised and unsupervised learning, deep learning methods, and artificial intelligence. This will encompass the strengths and weaknesses of various approaches and the situations in which they are best suited. You will also learn how to deploy these methods and you will gain practical experience of the challenges of working with different data sets relating to energy throughout the programme and modules. Energy systems are strongly influenced by spatial and geographic features and the course features a dedicated spatial data analysis module to train you in some of the unique aspects of doing data analysis on data with a spatial component. The Energy Systems and Data Analytics MSc course at UCL is designed to prepare students for the energy transition and to contribute to global net zero targets. Through interactive learning methods, real-world projects, and industry engagement, students gain the knowledge and skills needed to make informed decisions and strategies in the energy sector. This aligns with the UK's goal of achieving sustainable energy solutions and a net zero future. We have consulted across industry to identify key skills gaps for the energy data scientists that will be required by utilities, consultancies and small and medium enterprises. There is an established need in industry for graduates who combine an understanding of energy systems with the skills and abilities to extract insights from data through the use of data science and machine learning. Energy Systems and Data Analytics MSc is delivered by leading researchers in the UCL Energy Institute. You will benefit from their specific expertise, research communities and industry contacts (including guest lecturers drawn from the energy industry), as well as our multidisciplinary and cross-domain approach. UCL Energy Institute is part of The Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources, home to specialist sustainability-focussed institutes in UCL’s Bartlett Faculty of the Built Environment. The QS World University Rankings (2023) places The Bartlett as #1 for Built Environment studies in the world, and #1 in the UK for the ninth year in a row. The Bartlett's research received the UK's most world-leading ratings for Built Environment research in the most recent Research Excellence Framework. There is a strong emphasis placed on innovation throughout the programme. You will also benefit from a skill set in data science and machine learning that will be highly transferable and applicable across a range of industries and domains. The programme has been developed with input from industry leaders. You will gain exposure to real life energy and sustainability challenges. Students from the programme go on to take positions at leading energy companies such as Octopus Energy, National Grid, Drax and EDF, as well as prominent energy consultancies such as Baringa Energy, Modo Energy, and innovative start-ups such as Limejump and Kiwi Power. Several start-ups have been founded by graduates of the course including Ensemble Analytics, an advanced logistics company solving sustainability problems in the maritime space, and Modo Energy a leading energy analytics company. The high technical level of the programme means it is also a very good basis for getting into research with several students pursuing PhDs after the programme at leading universities such as UCL, Imperial College and Denmark Technical University (DTU). Graduates will be ideally placed to gain employment as energy analysts/data scientists in consultancies, utilities, innovative start-ups and government institutions which value expertise in energy systems and have a need for data literate analysts. The ongoing digital transformation of the energy sector means there is a real demand for graduates who can bring the power of machine learning and data science to bear to solve problems in the energy system such as grid resilience, fuel poverty and renewable power forecasting. You will gain employable skills in data science, machine learning and artificial intelligence as well as expertise in energy systems and energy consumption in the built environment and transport system.
The strong emphasis placed on research and integration of the course with research activities in the department means you will get exposure to state-of-the-art energy research at one of the UK’s leading research centres. The programme offers a wide range of networking opportunities that are designed to enrich your learning experience and connect you with industry professionals. We organise a dedicated programme of networking events that allow you to interact with fellow students, alumni, faculty, and industry experts. These events foster a sense of community and provide a platform for you to exchange ideas and insights. Moreover, you will have the chance to engage with industry leaders through guest lectures and seminars, gaining valuable perspectives from those at the forefront of your field. Our London location offers unparalleled access to industry events, exhibitions, and conferences, such as those held at Olympia London. These events provide an avenue for you to expand your network and stay updated on the latest industry trends. We believe that these networking opportunities play a pivotal role in enhancing your educational journey and preparing you for a successful career in the field. The Energy Systems and Data Analytics MSc course at UCL is designed to offer a dynamic and comprehensive learning experience that equips students with the skills and knowledge necessary to excel in the field of energy systems and data analysis. The teaching and learning methods employed are carefully crafted to align with the programme's learning outcomes. These methods encompass a blend of lectures, workshops, hands-on practical sessions, collaborative projects, and self-directed study. By engaging in these diverse learning approaches, students gain a deep understanding of complex concepts, enhance problem-solving skills, and cultivate the ability to apply analytical techniques to real-world energy challenges Furthermore, the Energy Systems and Data Analytics MSc course is fully committed to addressing one of the most pressing global priorities – meeting net zero targets. With sustainability and environmental responsibility at its core, the programme actively integrates discussions, projects, and coursework focused on achieving a carbon-neutral energy landscape. This strategic alignment with the UK's net zero goal underscores the programme's dedication to producing graduates who are not only well-versed in energy data analysis but also poised to contribute significantly to the transition to a sustainable energy future. Assessment is through a combination of methods including problem sets, individual assignments and coursework, group-based data analysis assignments with a report and presentation, unseen examinations and a dissertation. In terms 1 and 2 full-time students can typically expect between 8 and 15 contact hours per teaching week through lectures, workshops and tutorials. In term 3 students will be completing their own dissertation research, keeping regular contact with their dissertation supervisors.
Outside of lectures students typically study the equivalent of a full-time job, using their remaining time for self-directed study and completing coursework assignments.  In terms 1 and 2 full-time students can typically expect between 8 and 15 contact hours per teaching week through lectures, workshops and tutorials. In term 3 students will be completing their own dissertation research, keeping regular contact with their dissertation supervisors. Outside of lectures students typically study the equivalent of a full-time job, using their remaining time for self-directed study and completing coursework assignments.  
                          The Postgraduate Diploma (PG Dip) programme consists of five compulsory modules (75 credits) and two optional modules (45 credits). Full-time PG Dip study is nine months.            
                          The Postgraduate Certificate (PG Cert) programme consists of two compulsory modules (30 credits) and  two optional modules (30 credits). Part-time PG Cert study is nine months.                       You will take eight taught modules across Term 1 and Term 2. You will complete the dissertation during Term 3 and the summer, having had preparatory tutorials during the previous terms.  You will take six compulsory modules which will provide compulsory skills and knowledge in Energy Systems, different energy domains and data analysis. Students will choose two optional modules. Optional modules allow you to explore more advanced methods of data analysis or gain a more rounded understanding of different aspects affecting energy systems (such as law and policy).
  You will take eight taught modules across Term 1 and Term 2 over 2 years. You will complete the dissertation during Term 3 of your final year having had preparatory tutorials during the previous terms. As a part-time student you will take six compulsory modules which will provide compulsory skills and knowledge in Energy Systems, different energy domains and data analysis. Students will choose two optional modules. Optional modules allow you to explore more advanced methods of data analysis or gain a more rounded understanding of different aspects affecting energy systems (such as law and policy). As a flexible student you will have up to five years to complete eight taught modules. You will complete the dissertation during Term 3 of your final year having had preparatory tutorials during the previous terms.  You will take six compulsory modules which will provide compulsory skills and knowledge in Energy Systems, different energy domains and data analysis. Students will choose two optional modules. Optional modules allow you to explore more advanced methods of data analysis or gain a more rounded understanding of different aspects affecting energy systems (such as law and policy).
  Please note that the list of modules given here is indicative. This information is published a long time in advance of enrolment and module content and availability are subject to change. Modules that are in use for the current academic year are linked for further information. Where no link is present, further information is not yet available. 
                              For the Master of Science (MSc), students undertake modules to the value of 180 credits. For the Postgraduate Diploma (PG Dip), students undertake modules to the value of 120 credits.                                            Upon successful completion of 180 credits, you will be awarded an MSc in Energy Systems and Data Analytics (ESDA). Upon successful completion of 120 credits, you will be awarded a PG Dip in Energy Systems and Data Analytics (ESDA). Upon successful completion of 60 credits, you will be awarded a PG Cert in Energy Systems and Data Analytics (ESDA).                           Details of the accessibility of UCL buildings can be obtained from AccessAble accessable.co.uk. Further information can also be obtained from the UCL Student Support and Wellbeing team.  Online                  - Open day 
 
                    Whether your ambition is to design better buildings, plan better cities, build sustainable communities or help meet the challenge of climate change, The Bartlett Faculty of the Built Environment could be a big step towards it. This will be a joint session focussing on the master's programmes offered by the UCL Energy Institute: Smart Energy and the Built Environment MSc, Energy Systems and Data Analytics MSc, Economics and Policy of Energy and the Environment MSc.                   Online                  - Open day 
 
                    Whether your ambition is to design better buildings, plan better cities, build sustainable communities or help meet the challenge of climate change, The Bartlett Faculty of the Built Environment could be a big step towards it. Find out more about our courses within the Institute for Environmental Design and Engineering: Health Wellbeing and Sustainable Buildings MSc, Light and Lighting MSc, Environmental Design and Engineering MSc, Smart Buildings and Digital Engineering MSc.                   Programme also available on a modular (flexible) basis. The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Where the programme is offered on a flexible/modular basis, fees are charged pro-rata to the appropriate full-time Master's fee taken in an academic session. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Students website: ucl.ac.uk/students/fees.

 Beyond owning your own laptop (with a RAM size of 8 GB or more and a 5th or 7th generation processor, costing between £500-£1200), there is no requirement to purchase specific books or equipment for this programme unless you choose to do so. If you are concerned by potential additional costs for books, equipment, etc. on this programme, please get in touch with the programme administration team by emailing bseer-studentqueries@ucl.ac.uk. Beyond owning your own laptop (with a RAM size of 8 GB or more and a 5th or 7th generation processor, costing between £500-£1200), there is no requirement to purchase specific books or equipment for this programme unless you choose to do so. If you are concerned by potential additional costs for books, equipment, etc. on this programme, please get in touch with the programme administration team by emailing bseer-studentqueries@ucl.ac.uk. For more information on additional costs for prospective students please go to our estimated cost of essential expenditure at  Accommodation and living costs. In our faculty, The Bartlett Promise Scholarship aims to enable students from underrepresented backgrounds to pursue master's studies. Please see the UK Master's scholarship and Sub-Saharan Africa Master's scholarship pages for more information on eligibility criteria, selection process and FAQs. For a comprehensive list of the funding opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website. 
Deadline: 3 April 2024
Value: Fees, stipend and other allowances (Duration of programme)
Criteria Based on financial need
Eligibility: EU, Overseas
 
Deadline: 31 May 2024
Value: Tuition fees plus £15,364 maintenance/yr (Duration of programme)
Criteria Based on financial need
Eligibility: UK
 
NOW CLOSED FOR 2024/25 ENTRY
Value: £15,000 (1 year)
Criteria Based on financial need
Eligibility: UK
 Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines. There is an application processing fee for this programme of £90 for online applications and £115 for paper applications. Further information can be found at Application fees. When we assess your application we would like to learn:

how your academic and professional background meets the demands of this programme
why you want to study this programme at graduate level
what particularly attracts you to this programme
where you would like to go professionally with your degree and how this programme might meet your goals.

Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver. When we assess your application we would like to learn: Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver. Please note that you may submit applications for a maximum of two graduate programmes (or one application for the Law LLM) in any application cycle. Please read the Application Guidance before proceeding with your application.  bseer-studentqueries@ucl.ac.uk UCL is regulated by the Office for Students. Register interest in your chosen subject to receive notice of graduate open days, events and more. Search and filter over 2,000 graduate degrees and find your perfect course. bseer-studentqueries@ucl.ac.uk Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources