
 
								By 

	BreAnna Bell
 
	Curtis “50 Cent” Jackson and Fox have entered into a non-exclusive broadcast direct deal to develop scripted dramas, live-action comedies and animated series through his production company G-Unit Film & Television, Michael Thorn, Fox Entertainment‘s president of scripted programming announced on Tuesday. 
	Projects created as part of the agreement will be owned by Fox Entertainment and produced by its in-house unit, Fox Entertainment Studios, in collaboration with G-Unit Film & Television. 
	“Whether it’s music, film or television, Curtis always delivers premium entertainment that captivates millions of fans across the globe,” said Thorn. “He is the rare multi-hyphenate with a deft hand at storytelling, no matter the format or medium, and we’re looking forward to developing new and exciting series for Fox with him and his team.”

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	















	VIP+
	



	
		
					Bungie Layoffs Highlight Post-M&A Issues for Gaming Industry as Its Unions React		
			














	
		
					Disney Hiking Prices Across All Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+ Stand-Alone Plans and Most Bundles		
			






 
	“I am excited to formalize a partnership with Michael Thorn and Fox that will allow G-Unit Film & Television to focus on putting multiple series on Fox, a perfect broadcast destination for G-Unit Film & Television content while our premium, streaming, scripted and non-scripted slates continue to grow in all directions,” said Jackson.




			Popular on Variety		




 
	The former rapper-turned mogul exited his deal with Starz last September, but several of his franchises remain on the network including “Black Mafia Family” (which recently scored a season 3 renewal) and multiple spinoffs within the “Power” universe: “Power Book II: Ghost,” “Power Book III: Raising Kanan,” and “Power Book IV: Force.” G-Unit Film & Television also produced the ABC series, “For Life.” 
	G-Unit is also in development on the scripted series “Fightland” and “Queen Nzinga” at Starz. Recently released from G-Unit Film & Television is “Hip Hop Homicides” at WeTV. Jackson is also expanding into the podcast space through his new G-Unit Audio banner with the debut of “Surviving El Chapo: The Twins Who Brought Down a Drug Lord” in partnership with iHeart Media and Lionsgate Sound.  The company is also building out its feature slate, starting with a three picture horror deal as a collaboration with horror phenom Eli Roth and 3BlackDot. 
	The executive producer joins the ranks of several filmmakers who’ve inked deals with Fox like Rodney Rothman (“Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse”) and Adam Rosenberg. Last year, Fox signed broadcast direct deals with producers Carol Mendelsohn (“CSI”) and Julie Weitz, and writer/producer/director McG (“Supernatural,” “Lethal Weapon,” “We Are Marshall”).

	








 
	Jackson is represented by APA, AKR PR, and attorney Stephen Savva. 
			A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast		 The Business of Entertainment