Mian R. Wang, a Litigation shareholder at global law firm Greenberg Traurig, LLP's Boston office, will serve as a moderator to lead discussions at the Boston Bar Association's (BBA) Business Litigation Session Year in Review 2023 June 8. BOSTON (PRWEB) June 07, 2023   Mian R. Wang, a Litigation shareholder at global law firm Greenberg Traurig, LLP'sBoston office, will serve as a moderator to lead discussions at the Boston Bar Association's (BBA) Business Litigation Session Year in Review 2023 June 8. This annual event serves as a continuing legal education program discussing the various commercial and business disputes heard by the Business Litigation Session (BLS) of the Massachusetts Superior Court. Wang and fellow speakers will discuss these cases as well as recent BLS trends and what other trends may develop. Wang focuses her practice on high-stakes business litigation. She represents public and private companies, financial institutions, directors, officers, and individuals before state and federal courts in complex commercial litigation and bankruptcy litigation. Wang has been recognized as an "Emerging Women Leaders in the Law" by the Women's Bar Association of Massachusetts, was named among the "40 Under 40" in 2020 by the Boston Business Journal, selected as an "Up & Coming Lawyer" by Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly, and selected as "Ones to Watch" by The Best Lawyers in America. She is the author of "Bringing Authenticity to the Practice of Law" published in Business Law Today and "Lessons I Learned to be more effective as a woman lawyer" published in Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly. About Greenberg Traurig's Boston Office: Established in 1999, Greenberg Traurig's Boston office is home to more than 85 attorneys practicing in the areas of banking and finance, corporate, emerging technology, energy, environmental, gaming, governmental affairs, intellectual property, labor and employment, life sciences and medical technology, litigation, public finance, real estate, restructuring and bankruptcy, tax,and white collar defense and investigations. An important contributor to the firm's international platform, the Boston office includes a team of nationally recognized attorneys with both public and private sector experience. The team offers clients the value of decades of helping clients in complex legal matters and hands-on knowledge of the local business community, supported by the firm's vast network of global resources. About Greenberg Traurig: Greenberg Traurig, LLP has more than 2650 attorneys in 45 locations in the United States, Europe and the Middle East, Latin America, and Asia. The firm is a 2022 BTI "Highly Recommended Law Firm" for superior client service and is consistently among the top firms on the Am Law Global 100 and NLJ 250. Greenberg Traurig is Mansfield Rule 5.0 Certified Plus by The Diversity Lab. The firm is recognized for powering its U.S. offices with 100% renewable energy as certified by the Center for Resource Solutions Green-e® Energy program and is a member of the U.S. EPA's Green Power Partnership Program. The firm is known for its philanthropic giving, innovation, diversity, and pro bono. Web: http://www.gtlaw.com

 For the original version on PRWeb visit: https://www.prweb.com/releases/greenberg_traurigs_mian_r_wang_to_present_at_the_bba_business_litigation_session_year_in_review_2023/prweb19380534.htm © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.