In a report released today, Mircea Dobre from Robert W. Baird reiterated a Hold rating on Titan Machinery (TITN – Research Report). The company’s shares closed yesterday at $34.75. According to TipRanks, Dobre is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 11.9% and a 51.18% success rate. Dobre covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Caterpillar, Astec, and Illinois Tool Works. Currently, the analyst consensus on Titan Machinery is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $30.00. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Based on Titan Machinery’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending January 31, the company reported a quarterly GAAP net loss of $90.75 million. In comparison, last year the company had a GAAP net loss of $142.79 million
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 11 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is positive on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders buying their shares of TITN in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Titan Machinery, Inc. engages in the management of agricultural and construction equipment stores. It operates through the following segments: Agriculture, Construction, and International. The Agriculture segment sells, services, and rents machinery, and related parts and attachments, for uses ranging from large-scale farming to home and garden use in North America. The Construction segment focuses on machinery, and related parts and attachments, for uses ranging from heavy construction to light industrial machinery. The International segment deals with the customers in Eastern Europe. The company was founded by David Joseph Meyer in 1980 and is headquartered in West Fargo, ND.  Read More on TITN: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks