The Great Sandy Marine Park is a multiple use park established in 2006 to protect its significant natural and cultural values while providing opportunities for a range of different uses. The Queensland Government undertook a review of the zoning plan for the Great Sandy Marine Park, which was completed in July 2023. The outcomes of the review resulted in a new zoning plan for the marine park with changes including: Read a summary of the outcomes (PDF, 6.2 MB)
 of the review, or read the Decision Regulatory Impact Statement  (PDF, 10.7 MB)
 for full details. The review involved a four-stage process: Stage 1: Information gathered about the conservation, social, cultural and economic values of the marine park. Stage 2: A discussion paper released to gain public feedback on the management of the marine park. Stage 3: A draft zoning plan and associated Regulatory Impact Statement released for further consultation and feedback in September-October 2022. Stage 4: Informed by feedback from the consultation, legislation reflecting the outcomes of the review prepared. The new legislation was approved to take effect on 21 May 2024following implementation of impact mitigation processes.   The department undertook a significant program of consultation with the community, First Nations peoples, local councils, scientists and key stakeholder groups on the zoning arrangements in the marine park, beginning in 2019 A draft zoning plan was developed, informed by community feedback, advice from First Nations peoples, recommendations from an independent scientific reference group, socio-economic information and scientific research, as well as best practice marine park management principles. In developing the draft zoning plan, consideration was given to the primary objective of the Marine Parks Act 2004 to conserve and manage the state’s marine environment while providing opportunities for a range of ecologically sustainable uses by the community. Between 23 September and 23 October 2022, the draft zoning plan and associated Consultation Regulatory Impact Statement outlining proposed changes was released for broad public consultation and feedback. Stakeholders and the community were invited to have their say on how well the proposed changes would conserve and manage the marine park and/or affect them via an online survey or by submitting their feedback in writing. Information about the draft zoning plan was distributed via traditional media, social media, newspaper and online advertising, email, posters, stickers and flyers, likely reaching more than 1.5 million people and generating more than 21,000 visits to the consultation website. More than 443,000 of this audience was within the Great Sandy Marine Park local communities of Fraser Coast, Bundaberg, Gympie and Tin Can Bay. More than 6,580 pieces of feedback were received, including: Community and stakeholder consultation indicated strong support for the majority of changes that were proposed in the draft zoning plan. In most cases the proposed changes were either supported as is, or with suggested modifications. These modifications mostly related to the location or boundary alignment of particular Marine National Park (green) zones. The one key proposal that was strongly opposed by the majority of respondents (70 per cent) was the retention of commercial tunnel netting within the Conservation Park (yellow) zone of the Great Sandy Strait and Tin Can Inlet. Following the review process, the new zoning plan was approved to take effect 21 May 2024.  A new zoning plan for the Great Sandy Marine Park commences 21 May 2024. Read more. 13 QGOV (13 74 68) Help us improve the content on our website or tell us what is working really well. Please contact us. 
                                This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google
                                Privacy Policy and
                                Terms of Service apply.
                             We pay our respects to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander ancestors of this land, their spirits and their legacy. The foundations laid by these ancestors—our First Nations peoples—give strength, inspiration and courage to current and future generations towards creating a better Queensland.
            