Ask nearly any parent when the right time is for a kid to have their own phone—and you’re sure to start a debate. Of course that question then quickly tails into discussing what exactly are the best phones for kids. As a technology writer, parent to two school-age kids and husband of an educator, my family is in constant discussion on these topics. Even the FTC isn’t willing to pinpoint a specific age, simply suggesting parents gauge kids individually in its smartphone guidelines. Parents are left to decide between handing over a full-featured device like the iPhone SE (the cheapest iPhone) or a more locked down kid-focused phone without social media or the internet and plenty of tracking, such as the Gabb Phone. The best phones for kids match capabilities to individual maturity levels—and all include strong ... [+] parental controls. “It’s important to think about what is the need for the child and family and then which phone meets that need while also taking into consideration the age of the child and the level of responsibility,” says Dr. Catherine Pearlman, licensed clinical social worker and author of the book First Phone. “As a general rule, the younger the child, the more basic the phone functionality should be. Also, some phones have the ability to grow with the child while others have very basic functionality.” As I get into specifics for the best phones for kids below, let me also suggest a few considerations to keep in mind while browsing your options. A kid’s phone with parent controls is the easiest to set up and monitor from your own phone. Be sure to check out that software though. For example, Google’s Family Link app works on Android and iOS, but Apple’s ScreenTime can only be managed from the device itself or another Apple product. Additionally, you may want to pick a phone for your child that you’re familiar with so you can assist with basic technical issues or show them how to do certain tasks. See below for the best phones for kids to shop in 2023. After you peruse this article, you may want to check out the best smartwatches for kids or the best tablets for kids.   Best Buy Even without knowing an individual, Apple’s lowest-priced iPhone SE is a great choice for a kid’s phone. Not only does iPhone own a majority of the U.S. smartphone market share, but a wide swath of kids use an iPad in school. Parents—and kids—are already familiar with how Apple’s operating system works, and it’s a breeze to send iMessages back and forth to each other and friends across devices. The iPhone SE starts at $429 from Apple directly, but can usually be found cheaper from carriers or other retailers, especially during sale periods. The iPhone SE doesn’t have the newest technologies like Face ID or the highest-end cameras, but it does plug into all of Apple’s software. Kids can access iMessage groups, FaceTime calls and the App Store for educational apps and games. More importantly, parents have access to ScreenTime controls and Find My device tracking. Plus, iOS has some of the best accessibility features available that can help people with different kinds of disabilities. Gabb For some of the youngest kids, a Gabb Phone 3 can provide a limited digital experience, while still allowing parent connection and basic features. This phone is purposefully locked down from the start, which is why it doesn’t include a web browser, app store or social media options. What the Gabb Phone does have is GPS for parents to see the phone’s location and front and rear cameras to capture memories.  “If the child struggles to put down the iPad it might make sense to work on this before purchasing a phone,” says Dr. Catherine Pearlman. “Additionally, a child who struggles with screen time might benefit from a super simple phone or watch from Gabb rather than a fully functioning iPhone.” You’ll need to select from among several service bundles (Starter, Standard, Advanced), which can be made slightly cheaper if you choose to select a lengthier contract. The Gabb Phone might not appeal to teens but for first-time phone users, it might feel like immense freedom.  Amazon From personal experience, I know that burgeoning teens have tightly held opinions on what’s cool and what’s not cool. If a maturing kid really wants a newer, or higher-end iPhone, one option is to look at a refurbished model. Amazon’s Renewed program claims phones are “professionally inspected, tested and cleaned by Amazon-qualified vendors.” Plus phones are eligible for a replacement or refund within 90 days. One of the best deals to my eyes is Apple’s iPhone 12 renewed. It’s selling for around $300 unlocked right now. (Renewed phone availability does fluctuate due to inventory.) The phone has a more recent notch design that stretches the front display from top to bottom and utilizes Face ID to unlock the device. While not the newest iPhone available, the 12 is only a couple of years old and should have plenty more years of iOS updates ahead of it—continuing to get new software features on Apple’s yearly release schedule. If you don’t want to buy a Renewed phone through Amazon, Apple also sells refurbished iPhones that look brand-new and carry a warranty. Going this route allows older kids to have more choice over the phone and features without shelling out for a new phone when it’s sure to get scratched nearly instantly anyway. Palm The Palm Phone fits the value category with its lower cost and unique cellular plan option, but the most notable thing about it is its small size—perfect for smaller hands. Despite the whole phone being about the size of a credit card, it still features a front and back camera as well as access to Android apps, if parents allow them. This phone retails for around $200, which makes it more affordable than top-of-the-line mobile phones, but it also has a value cellular plan available. Palm and U.S. Cellular offer a $5 per month plan with limited text messaging and minutes. If you’re looking for a phone to provide minimal use, primarily for scheduling pickups from school or emergencies, then this could be a way to save on recurring monthly costs. The Palm Phone runs the Android operating system so Google’s Family Link app can be used to limit screen time and track device activity. Google If you prefer an Android phone, you can get a new Google Pixel 6a for under $350 right now. The phone features impressive specs like an always-on OLED display for crisp visuals but remains more affordable, especially if you bundle with a new service plan. More important than raw technical specs though are the practical features such as a potential battery life of 24 hours (72-hour battery life in Extreme Battery Saver mode). Or the phone’s IP67 rating, meaning it's completely sealed from dust and can handle water submersion up to around 3 feet. Plus, Google promises 5 years of Pixel updates. In terms of parental controls, Google’s Family Link is a natural companion to help manage screen time, app usage and location data. Amazon The idea of giving a child a flip phone is similar to a smartwatch. It provides direct access to call a child, but the limited hardware prevents social media apps from running and curtails most digital activities. As for the Nokia 2780, it’s an unlocked flip phone, meaning it can be used with nearly any carrier network. It does have access to things like email and basic web browsing if your plan includes data, but that isn’t a great experience that kids are likely to enjoy.  Which brings me to another point. If you just want a phone for calling, the Nokia 2780 is a well-reviewed device. But a flip phone might not be the right choice for most kids. Texting using a number pad is slow and difficult, and it also slows down other basic tasks like managing contacts or calendar events. Amazon An Apple Watch SE (GPS + Cellular) might be the best phone-adjacent device for a child. Many cellular carriers offer smartwatches aimed at kids, but Apple has proven, after eight years on the market, to have the best wearables for a wide range of people. A cellular-enabled Apple Watch can provide nearly all the critical connectivity of a phone, like making calls, messaging and tracking, but without the camera and other temptations that are easier to access on a smartphone. It’s also likely a bit harder to lose or damage for kids as long as they keep it on their wrist. The Apple Watch does have a Schooltime feature that blocks distractions during school hours. Additionally, I like Apple Watch’s health sensors such as fall detection, which can offer a little extra reassurance for safety. Bark Whether it’s a young child or one who needs a little more guidance, the Bark Phone allows parents to monitor all areas of the phone from an app. I spent several months using the companion app while my kids took the phone to various outings, and I was impressed with the simplicity of the parental controls. Everything was straightforward and simple to use. For young kids, Bark has a big red check-in button that, when pressed, sends adults attached to the account a notification of where the phone is. It’s a way to mark that a child is where they’re supposed to be, without having to actually send a text or call or anything. It’s a neat idea. My 12-year-old wasn’t interested in it, but my younger daughter used it a few times. For the older kids, Bark also offers sentiment analysis for social media accounts. It tries to understand what is being said in comments and through direct messages to alert parents to potential issues as they arise. While all these supervision methods are meant to help guide kids and watch out for their safety, parents should still be upfront with whoever’s using the phone, so they know their messages are being monitored. The phone itself ran well and could be outfitted with apps a kid may need or locked down to only let them do the basics. I’ve been writing about technology and consumer products professionally for more than a decade. Not only have I spent a number of years personally reviewing and evaluating products, but I’ve also worked at tech companies, like Microsoft, and understand the intricacies that go into decisions behind the scenes. Being a parent for as long as I’ve been a professional writer has deeply informed my work curating the best products for kids. The tech and parenting teams at Forbes Vetted also have deep experience in testing and reviewing products in both categories. The editor of this piece, Rose Gordon Sala, has a decade of experience as a parent and in covering parenting subjects. The team puts safety and quality first when selecting products, especially those for children. This story is reviewed frequently to ensure accuracy. It was most recently updated in November 2023. For this guide, I leaned on my excessive knowledge of the mobile phone market to reach these product recommendations as well as talked to local parents to hear real-world anecdotal information on the best phones for kids. I also reached out to licensed clinical social worker Dr. Catherine Pearlman who literally wrote the book on what parents should consider when getting their kids a first phone. To look for the best phones for kids, I considered a phone’s size, price and hardware and software features. The cellular plan, however, is harder to factor in. It can contribute a major cost to a child owning a phone. Figuring out what kind of carrier plan works for your family is important. Most people likely want to keep monthly costs down, which is why a smartwatch plan, prepaid or venturing out to a different carrier from the one the parents use could help in this regard. If cost isn’t the main factor, you might want to look for additional parental controls. For example, most carriers offer features like web blocking or location tracking that can work for a wide variety of phone types. While researching this story, I also tested a phone from Pinwheel, which provides a similar ability to monitor what happens on a child’s phone like Bark, Gabb or a kids smartwatch from a parent dashboard. It takes a training wheels or gradual approach to handing over a full-featured smartphone to a kid. The parent sets up limitations on the phone based on the child’s age and then adds functionality back into it as they become ready, such as image texting or additional apps and increased screen time limits. Overall I really liked the experience and their multiple phone choices are worth exploring. Pinwheel is a bit more controlling with the apps it allows parents to install for their kids. Instead of using the Google Play Store, there are somewhere around 170 approved apps available to choose from, which sounds like a lot until a 12-year-old starts rattling off a bunch they want or need and they’re not available here. This phone doesn’t allow certain popular games or social media either, which older kids might not love. I did run into one problem with the apps being controlled through Pinwheel. At one point there was an update for a game that made it stop working. When the app tried to update itself Pinwheel would kill the process and crash the app because the update would have made the game an “unknown” version and thus unapproved. Although kids around the age of 8 could benefit from having a phone to stay in contact for times they visit a friend’s house or other monitored activities, they likely don’t need such an advanced device. Smartwatches with limited functionality or products like Gabb, which are highly customized for kids, fit this age well. As kids graduate 6th grade and venture into middle school, plenty of them could benefit from having a mobile phone to connect with parents about school pickups, sports practice or other times they attend social events. By this age, a phone (or tablet) might regularly be part of their educational life through research, creative projects and coding. One of Apple’s recent iPhones or Google’s Pixel devices can serve these activities with high-end power and better camera optics. Whether for an adult or a child, mobile phones retail somewhere between $150 and $1,000 depending on how powerful and capable they are. Sometimes carriers are happy to give away free phones too. The long-term cost of a phone is its monthly mobile cost, which could range from under $10 with a prepaid option to more than $40 each month. If you don’t qualify for a discount for adding an additional line to your existing plan, we recommend looking outside the biggest name cellular providers to services like Mint Mobile, Google Fi and TracFone, to see if they have a plan that fits your needs better. Being able to see every bit of activity on a phone may help ease parents’ worries, but there are tradeoffs to consider. It’s not magic how this works. The parental control software from places like Pinwheel installs a VPN, which all the data on the phone passes through. That means that all of the messages, sent pictures, locations, phone numbers and more, all pass through these third-party companies. Not only is it a liability for Bark, Gabb and Pinwheel to protect the data from their own employees or contractors, but if any of these companies offering these services ever have data breaches, this information could potentially be exposed to many more people.   