Menu  London, Bloomsbury The Marine Engineering MSc is concerned with the design, analysis and operation of machinery and systems for merchant and naval ships and submarines. The programme covers a wide range of engineering subjects relevant to the development and procurement of marine engineering. The Marine Engineering MSc is concerned with the design, analysis and operation of machinery and systems for merchant and naval ships and submarines. The programme covers a wide range of engineering subjects relevant to the development and procurement of marine engineering. Applications closed Applications open An upper second-class Bachelor's degree from a UK university in a suitable engineering subject or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Candidates with qualifications in other subjects such as physics, professional engineering qualifications, etc, will be considered. Knowledge of fluids and thermodynamics is essential together with an understanding of basic electrical engineering. Ideally candidates will have had some experience of the maritime sector.   
                  The English language level for this programme is:                                      Level 1
 UCL Pre-Master's and Pre-sessional English courses are for international students who are aiming to study for a postgraduate degree at UCL. The courses will develop your academic English and academic skills required to succeed at postgraduate level. Further information can be found on our English language requirements page. If you are intending to apply for a time-limited visa to complete your UCL studies (e.g., Student visa, Skilled worker visa, PBS dependant visa etc.) you may be required to obtain ATAS clearance. This will be confirmed to you if you obtain an offer of a place. Please note that ATAS processing times can take up to six months, so we recommend you consider these timelines when submitting your application to UCL. Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website. International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below. Please note that the equivalency will correspond to the broad UK degree classification stated on this page (e.g. upper second-class). Where a specific overall percentage is required in the UK qualification, the international equivalency will be higher than that stated below. Please contact Graduate Admissions should you require further advice. International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below. Please note that the equivalency will correspond to the broad UK degree classification stated on this page (e.g. upper second-class). Where a specific overall percentage is required in the UK qualification, the international equivalency will be higher than that stated below. Please contact Graduate Admissions should you require further advice. Students will learn about the analysis and design of propulsive systems and auxiliary equipment for the latest compliant marine vessel designs. They will also study the use of computers in advanced engineering analysis. Students on the programme develop an understanding of elements of engineering. They also learn how to apply their knowledge in a systematic and effective manner, through both a group ship design exercise and an individual project. The programme is suitable for graduates with a first degree in mechanical or marine engineering who wish to develop the knowledge and skills necessary for a career in this field. The programme can help graduates develop as Chartered Professional Engineers or in higher levels of management and procurement in the marine engineering sector. This rigorous MSc programme is offered by one of the world's leading universities, located in the centre of London, one of the world's greatest cities. Students on the Marine Engineering MSc programme benefit from UCL Mechanical Engineering's long history of research and teaching in maritime disciplines. The department offers excellent laboratory facilities, including engine labs, a coastal flume and a wave tank. This MSc has been selected by the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD), Royal Navy, Canadian and other navies for the advanced training of their marine engineers. It also receives students from many other major maritime nations. Run in parallel with the Naval Architecture MSc, students from both programmes work together on a comprehensive and unique ship design exercise. The department has an international reputation for excellence and has been funded by numerous bodies including the Royal Society, the Leverhulme Trust, UK MoD, BAE Systems, US Naval Research (ONR). Delivered by leading researchers and academics from across UCL, students will have a range of opportunities to network and keep abreast of emerging ideas. Collaborating with industry leaders such as BAE Systems and Rolls Royce and bodies such as the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) is key to our success. We encourage students to develop networks throughout their studies and through the department's employability activities , which includes employer-led events and individual coaching. The department has a close relationship with the UK MoD as well commercial shipping companies and students benefit from industrial lectures, ship design projects and individual projects. We equip our graduates with the skills and confidence needed to play a creative and leading role in the professional and research community. Engineering graduates with good analytical abilities are in high demand and graduates from this programme have a range of employment opportunities across many sectors and industries, including but not limited to, maritime careers. Recent graduates have gone on to work in organisations such as: There is currently a global shortage of well-qualified marine engineers and therefore the job prospects in this industry are good. All postgraduate students have access to rich ecosystem of opportunities to enrich their study and future career prospects by networking. These include a range of networking events, talks and training facilitated by UCL Careers, UCL Engineering Careers, the Office of Vice Provost Advancement (OVPA) and UCL Innovation and Enterprise, with tailored events at department level, including a Mechanical Engineering Careers Fair. These are complemented by student-led events with guests from industry, often featuring UCL alumni, industry visits and a range of events from dedicated UCL student societies, focussed on specific industrial sectors, as well as entrepreneurship. The Marine Engineering MSc has been accredited by the Institute of Marine Engineering, Science & Technology (IMarEST) and the Royal Institution of Naval Architects (RINA) as meeting the further learning requirements, in full, for registration as a Chartered Engineer. Candidates must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to comply with full CEng registration requirements. This dynamic programme is delivered through a combination of lectures, tutorials, seminars, project work (including group projects), workshops and problem classes, which frequently draw upon real-life industrial case studies. Assessment for this MSc programme is through a combination of examinations, coursework, reports, presentations, the ship design exercise, and the individual research project. Contact time takes a variety of forms, including lectures, tutorials, project supervision, demonstrations, student feedback and consultation hours (where staff are available for consultation), email, and situations where feedback on assessed work is given. This is supplemented by self-directed learning to build up knowledge and skills.
Each module has a credit value that indicates the average learning hours you will spend on the required content. One credit typically equates to 10 hours of learning, which includes all contact time, self-directed study and assessment.
The contact time for each of your 15 credit taught modules will typically include 20-30 hours of teaching activity over the term of its delivery, with the balance then comprised of self-directed learning and working on your assessments. You will have ongoing contact with teaching staff via each module’s online discussion forum, which is typically used for discussing and clarifying concepts or assessment matters, and you will have the opportunity to access additional support via regular student feedback and consultation hours with module leaders and programme directors.
Your project module will include regular contact with your project supervisor(s), who will guide and support you throughout your project. You will dedicate most of your time on this module to carrying out research in connection with your project and writing up your final report. Contact time takes a variety of forms, including lectures, tutorials, project supervision, demonstrations, student feedback and consultation hours (where staff are available for consultation), email, and situations where feedback on assessed work is given. This is supplemented by self-directed learning to build up knowledge and skills. Each module has a credit value that indicates the average learning hours you will spend on the required content. One credit typically equates to 10 hours of learning, which includes all contact time, self-directed study and assessment. The contact time for each of your 15 credit taught modules will typically include 20-30 hours of teaching activity over the term of its delivery, with the balance then comprised of self-directed learning and working on your assessments. You will have ongoing contact with teaching staff via each module’s online discussion forum, which is typically used for discussing and clarifying concepts or assessment matters, and you will have the opportunity to access additional support via regular student feedback and consultation hours with module leaders and programme directors. Your project module will include regular contact with your project supervisor(s), who will guide and support you throughout your project. You will dedicate most of your time on this module to carrying out research in connection with your project and writing up your final report. The degree is divided into three major elements. Initially you will undertake six taught modules, involving lectures and seminars, assessments and case studies. Having completed the taught modules, you have the opportunity to practice your newly acquired skills and to study the implications of interdisciplinary interactions in the programme's second phase: the Ship Design Exercise. Finally, you have the opportunity to hone your research skills in an individual project, undertaken in July, August and September. Please note that the list of modules given here is indicative. This information is published a long time in advance of enrolment and module content and availability are subject to change. Modules that are in use for the current academic year are linked for further information. Where no link is present, further information is not yet available. 
                              Students undertake modules to the value of 180 credits.                                            Upon successful completion of 180 credits, you will be awarded an MSc in Marine Engineering.                           Details of the accessibility of UCL buildings can be obtained from AccessAble accessable.co.uk. Further information can also be obtained from the UCL Student Support and Wellbeing team.  Programme also available on a modular (flexible) basis. The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Where the programme is offered on a flexible/modular basis, fees are charged pro-rata to the appropriate full-time Master's fee taken in an academic session. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Students website: ucl.ac.uk/students/fees.

 There may occasionally be small, incidental expenses which can be reimbursed by the department once claimed
Marine Engineering students are normally invited to an optional, annual extended field trip.
Travel for the trip is paid for by the department from departure at UCL to arrival back at UCL. Some meals and drinks are at the expense of the student. There may occasionally be small, incidental expenses which can be reimbursed by the department once claimed Marine Engineering students are normally invited to an optional, annual extended field trip. Travel for the trip is paid for by the department from departure at UCL to arrival back at UCL. Some meals and drinks are at the expense of the student. For more information on additional costs for prospective students please go to our estimated cost of essential expenditure at  Accommodation and living costs. For a comprehensive list of the funding opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website. 
NOW CLOSED FOR 2024/25 ENTRY
Value: Tuition fees plus £15,700 stipend ()
Criteria Based on financial need
Eligibility: UK
 Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines. There is an application processing fee for this programme of £90 for online applications and £115 for paper applications. Further information can be found at Application fees. When we assess your application we would like to learn:
why you want to study Marine Engineering at graduate level why you want to study Marine Engineering at UCL what particularly attracts you to this programme how your academic and/or professional background meets the demands of a challenging programme  where you would like to go professionally with your degree
Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver. When we assess your application we would like to learn: Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver. Please note that you may submit applications for a maximum of two graduate programmes (or one application for the Law LLM) in any application cycle. Please read the Application Guidance before proceeding with your application.  graduate-info@meng.ucl.ac.uk UCL is regulated by the Office for Students. Register interest in your chosen subject to receive notice of graduate open days, events and more. Search and filter over 2,000 graduate degrees and find your perfect course. graduate-info@meng.ucl.ac.uk Mechanical Engineering