Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Nidhi Agarwal
          

            Apr 11, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    This story originally appeared on StockNews
 The industrial sector is growing due to the adoption of industrial automation in various sectors and technological advancements in industrial machinery manufacturing. Hence, well-positioned industrial stocks Raytheon Technologies (RTX) and Illinois Tool Works (ITW) might be ideal buys to capitalize on the industry's prospects. Continue reading. Despite the looming recession, volatile raw material prices, and supply-chain disruptions, the industrial market is expected to grow in the long term due to the modernization of production processes. So, I think it would be wise to invest in quality industrial stocks Raytheon Technologies Corporation (RTX) and Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW), which pay stable dividends. The industrial sector has been growing steadily over the years. The rising adoption of industrial automation in other sectors, such as pharmaceuticals, chemicals, and oil & gas, should bolster the industrial sector's growth. The global industrial automation market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 7.2% to $81.40 billion by 2033. Moreover, rapid technological advances are expected to drive innovation in industrial machinery manufacturing. Technologies such as 3D printing, artificial intelligence, and big data analytics are being used in manufacturing, thus resulting in higher productivity, lower operating costs, and higher margins. The industrial machinery market is expected to grow to $708.30 billion in 2027 at a CAGR of 6.7%. Additionally, rapid urbanization, increased infrastructure development in emerging nations, and population and migration to cities increases the demand for the construction market. The industrial sector is expected to benefit from the expanding construction market. The global construction equipment market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 6% until 2029. Let's discuss the stocks mentioned above in detail: Raytheon Technologies Corporation (RTX) RTX is an aerospace and defense company that provides systems and services for commercial, military, and government customers worldwide. It operates through four segments: Collins Aerospace; Pratt & Whitney; Raytheon Intelligence & Space; and Raytheon Missiles & Defense. On April 3, RTX was awarded a $1.20 billion foreign military sales contract from the U.S. Army to provide Switzerland with the Patriot air defense system. With this, Switzerland becomes the 18th global Patriot partner and the eighth European country to choose the system as the backbone of their air defense. RTX's trailing-12-month net income margin of 7.75x is 19.3% higher than the 6.5x industry average. Its trailing-12-month EBITDA margin of 16.88% is 27.8% higher than the 13.21% industry average. RTX pays an annual dividend of $2.20. This translates to a yield of 2.24% at the current market price. The 4-year average dividend yield is 2.40%. Its dividend payments have grown at a CAGR of 6% and 4.8% over the past three and five years, respectively. During the fiscal fourth quarter that ended December 31, 2022, RTX's adjusted sales increased 6.2% year-over-year to $18.10 billion. Its adjusted net income increased 15.7% year-over-year to $1.87 billion, whereas its adjusted earnings per share increased 17.6% year-over-year to $1.27. RTX's revenue is expected to increase 8.1% year-over-year to $16.99 billion during the fiscal first quarter that ended March 2023. Its EPS is expected to be $1.13 for the same quarter. Additionally, it has topped consensus EPS estimates in each of the trailing four quarters, which is impressive. The stock has gained 18.4% over the past six months to close the last trading session at $99.62. RTX's POWR Ratings reflect this promising outlook. The stock has an overall rating of B, which translates to a Buy in our proprietary rating system. The POWR Ratings assess stocks by 118 different factors, each with its own weighting.   It has a B grade in Growth, Sentiment, and Stability. The stock is ranked #11 in the 72-stock Air/Defense Services industry. Click here to see the POWR Ratings of RTX (Value, Quality, and Momentum). Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) ITW manufactures and sells industrial products and equipment worldwide. It operates through seven segments: Automotive OEM; Food Equipment; Test & Measurement and Electronics; Welding; Polymers & Fluids; Construction Products; and Specialty Products. ITW's trailing-12-month EBIT margin of 24.05% is 147.5% higher than the 9.7% industry average. Its trailing-12-month net income margin of 19.04% is 193.2% higher than the 6.50% industry average. On February 10, 2023, ITW announced a quarterly dividend of $1.31 per share of common stock, which is payable on April 13. While ITW has a four-year average dividend yield of 2.30%, it pays $5.24 annually as dividends. This translates to a yield of 2.30% at the current market price. Its dividend payments have grown at CAGRs of 7% and 11.5% over the past three and five years, respectively. ITW's operating revenue increased 7.9% year-over-year to $3.97 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter, which ended December 31, 2022. Its operating income increased 18.2% year-over-year to $986 million, while its net income increased 48.9% year-over-year to $907 million. Also, its net income per share increased 52.8% year-over-year to $2.95. ITW's revenue is expected to increase 1% year-over-year to $3.98 billion during the fiscal first quarter that ended March 2023. Its EPS is expected to increase 5.8% year-over-year to $2.23 for the same quarter. Additionally, it has topped consensus revenue estimates in each of the trailing four quarters. The stock has gained 25.5% over the past nine months to close the last trading session at $228.73. ITW's strong fundamentals are reflected in its POWR Ratings. The stock has an overall rating of B, equating to a Buy in our proprietary rating system. ITW also has a B grade for Quality, Momentum, and Stability. It is ranked #29 out of 79 stocks in the A-rated Industrial - Machinery  industry.   To access additional ratings for ITW's Growth, Sentiment, and Value, click here.        Consider This Before Placing Your Next Trade… We are still in the midst of a bear market. Yes, some special stocks may go up like the ones discussed in this article. But most will tumble as the bear market claws ever lower this year. That is why you need to discover the "REVISED: 2023 Stock Market Outlook" that was just created by 40 year investment veteran Steve Reitmeister. There he explains: You owe it to yourself to watch this timely presentation before placing your next trade. REVISED: 2023 Stock Market Outlook >   RTX shares fell $99.62 (-100.00%) in premarket trading Tuesday. Year-to-date, RTX has declined -0.38%, versus a 7.57% rise in the benchmark S&P 500 index during the same period. Nidhi is passionate about the capital market and wealth management, which led her to pursue a career as an investment analyst. She holds a bachelor's degree in finance and marketing and is pursuing the CFA program.Her fundamental approach to analyzing stocks helps investors identify the best investment opportunities. More... The post 2 Deep-Rooted Industrial Stocks Investors Are Cashing in On appeared first on StockNews.com 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          What's real in the age of AI and deepfakes? 
         
          The company announced its plans during its annual fan convention D23 in California.
         
          Eligible users have until November 18 to claim a part of the cash.
         
          For startup founders under a plethora of challenges like timing, investors and changing market demand, it is extremely hard to hire programmers who can deliver.
         
          Sean Hall needed a solution for his health struggles — so he came up with his own.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
