For premium support please call: For premium support please call: Officials from across the state were in Salina on Tuesday morning as a $40 million partnership was announced between Kansas State University and an independent Hollywood studio. Kansas Lt. Gov. and Secretary of Commerce David Toland said Pure Imagination Studios is partnering with K-State to bring a 58,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art, advanced spatial computing and learning studio to the university's Salina Aerospace and Technology Campus. Joining Toland in speaking at the announcement were representatives from K-State, including K-State president Richard Linton, CEO and K-State Salina dean Alysia Starkey and U.S. Sen. Jerry Moran. Named the Kansas Advanced Immersive Research for Emerging Systems (K-AIRES) facility, Toland said the studio is set to employ more than 100 people in "high-wage, highly-skilled positions." "Through cutting-edge equipment and immersive technologies from Pure Imagination Studios, K-AIRES will establish and conquer new frontiers in education, aerospace, advanced manufacturing, entertainment, defense, training, simulation and so much more," Toland said. During the announcement, Toland spoke about the qualifications and success of Pure Imagination Studios. "They are renowned for their creativity and their original content with a client that includes huge names ... like Dreamworks, Fox, the LEGO Group, Netflix, Marvel Entertainment, Warner Bros. and more," Toland said. Joshua Wexler, co-founder and chief executive of fun at Pure Imagination, spoke about what the K-AIRES facility will bring to central Kansas. "What we're embarking on is not just a project, but the realization of a dream," Wexler said. "(This is the) convergence of passion and innovation that has the power to reshape the way we experience the world around us." Pure Imagination had a sample of the technology it is bringing to Salina for people to experience with a virtual reality simulation based on the Netflix film "Army of the Dead" and a tactics simulation that was previously used to train special forces as they prepared for the 2022 FIFA Men's World Cup in Qatar. Starkey said the technologies and expertise that Pure Imagination is bringing to the campus is important to the future of the industries the school supports. "I don't think I can underscore enough ... the power of this technology to transform industry, manufacturing, aerospace and (others) that find here in the state of Kansas," Starkey said. Toland said the announcement was the culmination of efforts by people across the state and on each coast of the United States. "We worked with our outstanding local partners here in Salina," Toland said. "We worked across the aisle in the Kansas Legislature and, as always, we called on our federal partners." More: Salina businesses tell Marshall their concerns about rising costs, health insurance Included were Moran and Kansas State Sen. J.R. Claeys. "Sen. Claeys was in my office more times than I can count," Toland said. "We had phone calls all hours of the day and night, hustling to get this thing done." Toland, a Democrat, said this collaboration with figures like Moran and Claeys, both Republicans, is key to the success in bringing projects like this to Salina and to Kansas and for future generations, like the K-State Salina students who attended the announcement. "Republicans and Democrats don't agree on everything," Toland said. "But in Kansas, when it comes to growing our state and comes to creating the economic opportunities that will keep these young people in the state, as Republicans and Democrats, we are united in that vision." This article originally appeared on Salina Journal: K-State Salina getting $40 million advanced technology studio Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement