Login 
Sagar 
18 January 2023
 
Samsung Android Rumors
 Samsung is all set to unveil the Galaxy S23 series on February 1 at the Galaxy Unpacked event in San Francisco. While not explicitly confirmed by Samsung, the company is expected to introduce three new smartphones - Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23+, and Galaxy S23 Ultra. We've already heard quite a few things about the S23 trio, but the latest leak by German blog WinFuture leaves little to the imagination about the regular and Plus models. Official press renders of the Galaxy S23 trio have leaked already, so we know what these S23 series smartphones will look like, but today's leak corroborates the previous design leaks as the source shared some more pictures of the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23+. 


Samsung Galaxy S23 • Samsung Galaxy S23+ Both models look identical and have a more rounded design than the Galaxy S23 Ultra, which has a boxier, Galaxy Note-esque design. However, it's not just the design, the S23 and S23+ will also share several specs and will differ mainly in terms of screen size, storage, battery capacity, and charging speed. You can check the table below for more specs, but note that these are for European units. 

Samsung Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23+'s leaked specs (machine translated from German) The source claims that the S23 and S23+ won't come with a microSD card slot for storage expansion, but the European versions will have two physical SIM card slots and eSIM support. The S23 and S23+ also won't come with the 3.5mm headphone jack, but you will get ultra-sonic in-display fingerprint scanners on both for biometric authentication. 


Samsung Galaxy S23 • Samsung Galaxy S23+ Additionally, the source claims that those who pre-book the S23/S23+ from individual retailers in Germany will have the option to buy the phone with double storage for the same price. So if you purchase the Galaxy S23's 128GB variant, you will get the 256GB model without spending extra. And if you purchase the top-end model, you have to pay the price of the "next smaller version." Source (in German) I think you're joking. The vanilla S23 is interesting because of it's small size, 6.1 inch screen and compact body. The S23+ is again a "massive" slab with a 6.6 inch screen. On top of that it barely has more battery juice than th... S10e is still cool, wait one more year. Unless they have a great buyback bonus, then maybe you could get S10e price deducted from the S23, only in such case I'd upgrade. I think Samsung's phone designer has retired 


Phone finder
 


All brands



Rumor mill

 
Home
News
Reviews
Compare
Coverage
Glossary
FAQ
RSS feed
Youtube
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
 
© 2000-2024 GSMArena.com
Mobile version
Android app
Tools
Contact us
Merch store
Privacy
Terms of use
Change Ad Consent
Do not sell my data
