With the PS5 moving from strength to strength, here's a look at the first-party SIE studios and all the exclusives they are developing 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 PlayStation Studios is proving to be an incredible asset to Sony Interactive Entertainment. As you'll see from our breakdown, covering the full PlayStations Studios list, this collection of first-party developers has established a reputation for creating industry leading experiences.  This is where you'll see some of the best PS5 games and most impressive PS5 exclusives emerge – thanks to the hard work from PlayStation Studios like Naughty Dog, Insomniac Entertainment, Sony Santa Monica, and plenty others.  Known formerly as Sony Interactive Entertainment Worldwide Studios, the PlayStation Studios group has grown in recent years with the acquisition of developers like Bungie, Firesprite, Housemarque, and Haven.  Keep scrolling to find the full list of PlayStation Studios, as well as the upcoming PS5 games and upcoming PSVR 2 games that they are developing.  Every Sony owned, first-party studio:  Notable releases: Syphon Filter (PS1, 1999), Days Gone (PS4, 2019) Currently working on: TBA Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more Acquired in: 2000 Sony Bend spent much of the PS3 era working on handheld spinoffs for some of PlayStation's biggest franchises, including Uncharted and Resistance. With last year's Days Gone, however, the studio has elevated itself into AAA territory, though we're yet to be informed on what it's up to next.  Notable Releases: Shadow of the Colossus Remake (PS4, 2018), Demon's Souls Remake (PS5, 2020) Currently Working on: TBC Acquired in: 2021 Since its founding in 2006, Bluepoint Games has carved out a reputation as the modern masters of the remake and remaster. Whether it's the fantastic collections of God of War, Team ICO, and Uncharted games, or the stunning remakes of Shadow of the Colossus and Demon's Souls, Bluepoint is synonymous with breathing new life into old classics. That's set to change following the studio's acquisition in 2021, with reports indicating that it is working on an unannounced new IP.   Notable Releases: Halo: Combat Evolved (Xbox, 2001), Destiny 2 (PS4, 2017) Currently Working on: TBC Acquired in: 2022 Bungie may have once been the crown jewel of the Xbox empire – responsible for creating the Halo franchise and helping to revolutionise online multiplayer for console – is now a part of the PlayStation Studios platform. While Destiny 2 continues to be available on all platforms, it's expected that Bungie is working on a new live service shooter for PS5. However, we're still awaiting official confirmation.   Notable Releases: The Persistence VR (PS4, 2018), Horizon Call of the Mountain (PSVR 2, 2023) Currently Working on: TBC Acquired in: 2021 Founded in 2012 by former developers from WipeOut developer Psygnosis, Firesprite has been working with Sony to deliver innovative and experimental releases ever since. It has collaborated with Japan Studio on The Playroom and spent much of the last few years building PSVR exclusives such as The Playroom VR, and Horizon: Call of the Mountain. Firesprite acquired Fabrik Games in 2021 to help facilitate its next project for PlayStation platforms.  Notable Releases: N/A Currently Working on: TBC Acquired in: 2023 Firewalk Studios is one of the most mysterious developers within the PlayStation Studios network. It was a subsidiary of ProbablyMonsters, founded by former Bungie CEO Harold Ryan in 2018. We don't know much about Firewalk, although it is understood that the team is hard at work on a brand new live-service game for PS5 and PC. Expect to hear more on this one in the years to come.   Notable releases: Killzone (PS2, 2004), Horizon Forbidden West (PS5, 2022) Currently working on: TBC Acquired in: 2005 Guerrilla is known for two franchises, both of which couldn't be more different from one another. Well, it also made Shellshock: Nam '67 in 2004, of course, but no one remembers that one. Founded in 2000, Guerrilla is hard at work developing video games which showcase the PlayStation platform – Horizon Forbidden West and Horizon: Call of the Mountain being its most recent releases. We're yet to get a sense on what the studio will turn its attention to next.   Notable Releases: N/A Currently Working on: TBC Acquired in: 2022 Founded in 2021 by Jade Raymond – the executive producer behind Assassin's Creed 2, Splinter Cell: Blacklist, and Watch Dogs – Haven Studios was acquired by Sony Interactive Entertainment in 2022 to lead the company's charge into live service territories. Little is known about the debut Haven project, but it's expected to be an original IP which will offer live service sensibilities and a systemic, evolving world.   Notable releases: Resogun (2013), Returnal (2021) Currently working on: TBC Acquired in: 2021 Housemarque has made a lot of great games over the years, but you may know the studio best for delivering Resogun – arguably the best game on the PS4 at launch. Housemarque is the oldest active developer in Finland and brings decades of experience to the PlayStation Studios group, as well as a talent for building games that look and feel incredible. Given that Housemarque just delivered Returnal, it'll likely be a while before we see what else the studio is working on.  Notable releases: Spider-Man: Miles Morales (Multi, 2020), Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart (PS5, 2021) Currently working on: Marvel's Spider-Man 2 (PS5, 2023), Marvel's Wolverine (PS5, TBC) Acquired in: 2019 Insomniac has a rich and storied history with PlayStation, yet was only acquired by Sony as a first-party studio in 2019, following huge success with its Spider-Man PS4 game. The developer is now the poster child for PS5, following the success of Miles Morales and Ratchet and Clack: Rift Apart. Insomniac is hard at work on two platform exclusives in Marvel's Spider-Man 2 for 2023 and Marvel's Wolverine, which remains TBC.   Notable releases: Singstar (PS2, 2004), Blood & Truth (PS4, 2019) Currently working on: TBA Founded in: 2002 With over 60 titles to its name, SIE London is one of the oldest first-party studios in the PlayStation ecosystem, focused mainly on experiences that take advantage of Sony's external peripherals, from EyeToy to PSVR. Recently, the studio gave us one of the best PSVR games to date with 2019's Blood & Truth.   Notable releases: LittleBigPlanet (PS3, 2008), Dreams (PS4, 2020) Currently working on: TBA Acquired in: 2010 Media Molecule is one of the few British studios within the PlayStation family, but what a studio it is. Following three LittleBigPlanet games (and the equally brilliant Tearaway), it is unknown what the studio is working on now. Media Molecule recently announced that it was ending support for Dreams as it begins to focus on an "exciting new project" for PS5.  Notable releases: Uncharted: Drake's Fortune (PS3, 2007), The Last of Us Part 2 (PS4, 2020) Currently working on: The Last of Us: Factions (PS5, TBC) Acquired in: 2001 One of the most respected studios in the PlayStation family, Naughty Dog has given Sony two titanic franchises for its platform over the last two generations, with both Uncharted and The Last of Us respectively. Following the release of The Last of Us Part 2, the team is hard at work on a standalone The Last of Us multiplayer game for PS5.  Notable releases: Deus Ex: Mankind Divided (2016), Marvel's Avengers (2020) Currently working on: TBC Acquired in: 2021 There's a good chance that you haven't heard of Nixxes Software. The studio specialises in porting video games across different platforms, most famously working with Crystal Dynamics and Square Enix to help ensure everything from Avengers to Tomb Raider work smoothly on all consoles. Nixxes was likely acquired as Sony continues to invest in bringing its games to Steam and PC.   Notable releases: Gran Turismo (PS1, 1997), Gran Turismo 7 (PS5, 2022) Currently working on: TBC Founded in: 1994 Polyphony Digital is one of the leading experts on simulation racing games, following its work with the Gran Turismo franchise over the past two decades. The studio released Gran Turismo 7 to critical acclaim in 2022 and followed it up with support for the new PSVR 2 platform. It's unknown whether Polyphony is turning its attention to something new now, or whether support for GT7 will continue long into the future.   Notable releases: The Mark of Kri (PS2, 2002), MLB The Show 23 (Multi, 2023) Currently working on: TBA Founded in: 2001 While Sony has big ambitions in the live service space for PS5, it's been largely down to SIE San Diego to carry the torch. This studio has been hard at work on the MLB: The Show franchise for over 15 years now, with MLB The Show 23 launching in 2023. Given its expertise in baseball, expect to see San Diego Studio continuing to make games in this field in the years to come.   Notable releases: N/A Currently working on: N/A Outside of PlayStation Studios, Sony has a number of what it calls ExDev partners; which are best described as independent, third-party teams working with PlayStation to bring exclusive titles to its platform, and thus not to be confused with any of its first-party developers.  These partnerships are handled by an internal group at Sony called Sony ExDev, and can sometimes last for years, and quite often lead to PlayStation acquiring the studio outright. Presently, PlayStation ExDev partners include Sumo Digital (Sackboy: A Big Adventure), Lucid Games (Destruction AllStars), and Wild Sheep (Wild).   Notable releases: God of War (PS2, 2005), God of War: Ragnarok (PS5, 2022) Currently working on: TBC  Founded in: 1999 Sony Santa Monica is better known as the God of War studio, having produced five games in the critically acclaimed action franchise over its 21 year history. Following the hugely well received soft reboot of the series with 2018's God of War, the team saw continued success with God of War: Ragnarok for PS5 in 2022. It's thought that the studio is working on a new IP for its next project, but we're yet to learn anything more.   Notable releases: Infamous (PS3, 2009), Ghost of Tsushima (PS4, 2020) Currently working on: TBA Acquired in: 2011 Founded in 1997, Sucker Punch's first release was 2002's Sly Racoon, and the studio quickly made a name for itself before turning to the world of superheroes with the Infamous series during the PS3 era. Following the launch of Ghost of Tsushima and its expansion, Iki Island, a full sequel to that open world samurai game seems like the most likely bet for the studio's future.  Notable releases: The Playroom (PS3, 2013), Astro's Playroom (PS5, 2020) Currently working on: TBA Founded in: 2021 You may know Team Asobi by another name: Japan Studio. While SIE closed the legendary developer behind such oddities as Ape Escape, LocoRoco, and Patapon, the decision was made to shutter Japan Studio in 2021, with Team Asobi created out of the ashes. This team is credited with creating platform showcases, such as Astro Bot Rescue Mission for PSVR and Astro's Playroom for PS5, although we don't know what it will be working on next. Josh West is the Editor-in-Chief of GamesRadar+. He has over 15 years experience in online and print journalism, and holds a BA (Hons) in Journalism and Feature Writing. Prior to starting his current position, Josh has served as GR+'s Features Editor and Deputy Editor of games™ magazine, and has freelanced for numerous publications including 3D Artist, Edge magazine, iCreate, Metal Hammer, Play, Retro Gamer, and SFX. Additionally, he has appeared on the BBC and ITV to provide expert comment, written for Scholastic books, edited a book for Hachette, and worked as the Assistant Producer of the Future Games Show. In his spare time, Josh likes to play bass guitar and video games. Years ago, he was in a few movies and TV shows that you've definitely seen but will never be able to spot him in. "We're brothers": Dishonored and Prey director reflects on 20 years at Arkane as he unveils his new RPG-infused immersive sim All the Madden 25 X-Factors and Superstars in one guide Cheaters burn through "impossible" Helldivers 2 Major Order in mere hours: "Well, that was fast" GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 