Further proof of a Starfield controller has popped up online, with a proper reveal expected at the Xbox Games Showcase this Sunday. There have yet to be any major game related leaks for the upcoming Xbox Games Showcase (which airs June 11 at 6pm BST), with only a couple of games hard confirmed to make an appearance. One of those is Starfield, which is getting a dedicated segment expected to run for half an hour, though it looks like Microsoft plans to announce some associated hardware as well. That’s because images of a Starfield themed Xbox controller have recently popped up online, and it could be launching very soon. Apparently, Microsoft plans to release a themed controller and wireless headset; both of which are being saved for a reveal at the Xbox Games Showcase. An image of the controller leaked back in April via Imgur, with billbil-kun of Dealabs (a frequent and reliable source of retail related leaks) later corroborating its existence, following fan speculation that it was a convincing fan creation. If that isn’t enough for you, a photo of the controller’s box in someone’s hand appeared on Reddit very recently, complete with a retailer’s bar code on it, suggesting that some shops already have it in stock. There is some debate about whether the photo is fake or not, but it looks legitimate to us. Given Starfield is Microsoft’s next major Xbox game, it’d be safe to assume that the company plans on selling themed accessories alongside it anyway. New Nintendo Direct confirmed for August and it’s a special one… Games Inbox: Will the Nintendo Switch 2 be too expensive? Nintendo Switch 2 and PS5 Pro shipments start from September claims company Rockstar Games’ Bully listed for new release as fans hope for PS5 and Xbox remaster If retailers have the controller in stock, then Microsoft could plan to officially start selling them shortly after the showcase rather than wait till September when Starfield itself comes out. As for prices, billbil-kun lists the controller at €74.99 and the headset at €124.99, which would make them roughly £65 and £108 respectively. Starfield launches for Xbox Series X/S and PC on September 6. Email gamecentral@metro.co.uk, leave a comment below, follow us on Twitter, and sign-up to our newsletter. 

	MORE : Xbox Games Showcase promises no pre-rendered CGI trailers in knock to PS5

 

	MORE : Fable will be at Xbox Games Showcase teases Microsoft

 

	MORE : Xbox considers pulling Activision out of UK to push through acquisition

 Follow Metro Gaming on Twitter and email us at gamecentral@metro.co.uk To submit Inbox letters and Reader’s Features more easily, without the need to send an email, just use our Submit Stuff page here. For more stories like this, check our Gaming page. Sign up to all the exclusive gaming content, latest releases before they're seen on the site.  Get us in your feed