Lexxie Harford, 30, rejected the Channel 4 show in 2015. Don't miss any TV and showbiz news - sign up to free alerts We have more newsletters Don't miss any TV and showbiz news - sign up to free alerts We have more newsletters A woman has turned down The Undateables - because her birthmark doesn't make her "too ugly to date". Lexxie Harford, 30, rejected the Channel 4 show in 2015. The digital illustrator says she was approached her after a candid picture she posted of her facial birthmark went viral. She said: "I got so many emails from men. One guy said he was married but wanted to be ‘more than friends’ and another offered to build me a house. “I remember thinking, 'This is bananas'. So many people reached out to me saying, ‘I have this too and I’m not going to wear makeup now’. I’ve always been okay with how my face looks. I’m not self-conscious of my face, but I’ve had a lot of people reach out to me who have found confidence because of the story going viral." READ MORE Kate Middleton breaks protocol as she instantly recognises royal fan Lexxie, from Staffordshire, posted a picture of her birthmark on Imgur in 2015 and it quickly racked up 100,000 likes. Lexxie said: "I posted some selfies on Imgur and didn’t realise it was public. I refreshed the page 10 minutes later and it had 100 comments. By the end of the night, I had been contacted by an American paper asking if they could write about me. “I agreed thinking it would raise awareness, and then off the back of that loads of people reached out to me - it went viral before going viral was really a thing. For someone who might be more sensitive, I can only imagine what it might have done to them." Lexxie said: “Some people were saying ‘I love how you look’ and other people were saying, ‘So you want to be on Too Ugly For Love?’ Another one that reached out was The Undateables – I think they both try to hide what they actually are but really it was just about saying ‘these people are ugly in our eyes’." Lexxie said: “I think it’s a really good thing and it was where I saw the change start. I don’t mind it being part of my identity, wish I knew a better way to continue to raise awareness.” 