BGT judge was with Channel 4 Chatty Man star for the annual racing extravaganza this week. Don't miss any TV and showbiz news - sign up to free alerts We have more newsletters Don't miss any TV and showbiz news - sign up to free alerts We have more newsletters  Amanda Holden has been branded the "most beautiful" woman at Royal Ascot as she stepped out with Alan Carr. The ITV BGT judge was with Channel 4 Chatty Man star for the annual racing extravaganza this week.  Amanda wrote: "@chattyman with his favourite Nag #RoyalAscot #racingwithpride @itv @itvxofficial @victoriagrant x @stephenwebsterjewellery collab." Instagram users rushed to laud Amanda in the replies.  Victoria replied: "Amanda you look Beautiful - thank you for wearing you VG X @stephenwebsterjewellery to perfection! Have a fabulous day!" Lulu said: "Gorgeous colour." READ MORE Glastonbury Festival cancel performance and say it won't be happening Claire said: "Amazing colour." "Hope you are sober enough to do the breakfast show," Mick laughed. CS said: "“Nag”??? Only Alan Care could possibly get away with that." Amanda and Alan were in attendance as the King and Queen also attended. Charles and Camilla looked pensive as they watched jockey Frankie Dettori riding their thoroughbred Reach For The Moon, and finishing well off the pace. The couple's disappointment in the Royal Hunt Cup was followed by their horse Circle Of Fire losing in the Queen's Vase. Shaa replied to Amanda saying: "My faves." Amelia typed: "Love you guys. Have fun xx." Niall said: "Looking soooo regal!." Holly said: "Most beautiful woman at Ascot." Tim said: "FOMO x."  Amanda and Alan stepped out for Ascot after announcing a second season of their BBC show, which sees them travel to Italy, in Sicily, to renovate a home. At Ascot this week, among the guests were West End musical composer Lord Lloyd-Webber and his wife Lady Lloyd-Webber, while the racing world was represented by Sir Michael Stoute, who trained for the late Queen, and his contemporary William Haggas and his wife Maureen.   Zara and ITV I'm A Celebrity star Mike Tindall enjoyed a second succussive day at the races while the Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh made their first appearance.  