 The best drones for kids are affordable and perfect for beginners 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Buying the best drone for kids isn't just about getting into their good books and keeping them quiet. Drones are something you should want your children to play with, as they'll teach them valuable skills.  Editor's Picks ★
1. Best overall
2. Best family drone
3. Best toy drone
4. Best follow-me drone
5. Best indoor drone
6. Best first FPV drone
FAQs
How we test drones Drones can be useful in STEM learning: racing and stunt pilots usually get into self-building, which encourages understanding of electronics, and computer skills. Furthermore, some drones provide a great way to learn to code. So whether your kid is a budding photographer or YouTuber who wants some aerial imagery, or they're just seeking the adrenaline rush of racing against others, drones offer a new way to play and tempt them outside and away from the PlayStation... and what parent wouldn't want that? So what's the best drone for kids on the market today? Below, we've put together a guide to help you find the best drone for you and your family. Here, you'll find drones for different ages and budgets. We'll explain the differences between them, and share the facts and figures you need to choose the right option. Adam is our resident expert on all aspects of camera drones and drone photography, and a parent himself (as well as being a big kid), so has spent plenty of time in fields testing drones. He is the author of a number of books including The Complete Guide to Drones, The Smart Smart Home Handbook, 101 Tips for DSLR Video and The Drone Pilot's Handbook. Best overall  Best overall A compact drone designed for wi-fi control from phones, this is a great toy with some extra educational value via the Edu(cational) edition. Read more below Best Family Drone  Best family drone The most basic model of DJI's range of drones is, thanks to their high standards, also a pretty decent drone. It's easy for anyone in the family to use, and takes great photos and video. Read more below Best toy drone  Best toy drone There's a lot of fun to be had for not too much cash so long as you mind having no camera, and the guard design means your probably mostly indoor use will be nice and safe. Read more below Best Follow-me drone  Best Follow-me drone If you want safe drone smart enough to follow you, loyal like a dog, and without the effort of control with will land in the palm of your hand without danger – clever, different & light. Read more below Best First FPV Drone  Best First FPV Drone If you – or the kids – want to dip your toes into the exciting super-fast fun of flying from 'inside' the drone using the camera, then the Cetus makes that easy. Read more below Best Indoor Drone  Rugged and compact It's very cheap to buy, comfortably under the weight limit, and comes with a spare battery making this an attractive option for a first outdoor-capable drone with, admittedly, a short range. Read more below Why you can trust Digital Camera World 


Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out how we test.  Our expert review: The Tello shares a lot of tech with Ryze’s parent company, DJI, which is great news when it comes to quality and smarts. The camera is built into the body offering five-megapixel stills or 720P video – this is adequate quality for a toy, but don't expect to be shooting smooth cinematics. The tello has previously come in Iron-Man branded and Edu(cational) flavors too, but these seem to have been depreciated. Naturally, there is the full range of flips and tricks to impress friends, plus 'EZ' video shots, but where it really excels is its educational value. That even includes compatibility with Scratch – a block-based visual programming system so computer enthusiasts can learn programming on a phone or tablet in the most fun way possible. This coding capability has historically made the Ryze a popular choice with STEM educators but at the start of 2024 it seems DJI are putting an end to this, so I can only really recommend this as a fun device now. While the robust airframe hasn’t seen an update since 2018, there have been several software updates keeping the app fresh. Other firms have written alternatives, available in phone app stores, which add functions like panoramic photography and FPV flight.  Read our full Ryze Tello review for more details  Our expert review: Strictly speaking, this updated version of the DJI Mini SE isn’t a toy. It is, though, a sub-250g drone, so just under the weight which is a cut-off for registration in the USA and China, and a tier in the EU and UK. Frankly, it’s a brilliant job. For older kids with smartphones (or adults who haven’t quite grown up), it has the same basic components and flight time as pricier pro drones. It can also record 2.7K video and 4000 x 3000 pixel JPEGs to a MicroSD card. Because the camera has mechanical stabilization, the footage looks good too so long as you avoid pixel-peeping. At least as good as most phone cameras. If you’re buying this, you’re buying a serious flying camera – a very serious gift. It can even capture orbiting selfies so you might be boosting social media too. The previous edition has been discontinued, but the only significant change is the replacement of the older controller with one of DJI's newer designs which is more robust and has a stronger signal, so no complaints there. Read my full DJI Mini 2 SE review with sample videos  Our expert review: Compact and robust, this drone has an in-built pressure sensor that's capable of hovering without the operator’s help and flying using the pilot-friendly 'headless' mode. In practice, that means the drone can be moved around a room using a single control stick, which we found was easier than most video games. If you should crash (and you probably will), there are good solid prop guards.  On the downside, the attempt to protect the battery with a flap is tidy but fiddly. And don’t be fooled by the claims of 16 minutes of flight time: this is just a doubling of the (optimistic) eight-minute time for one battery since there are two in the box. Nevertheless, that's still a decent flight time, and overall we reckon this is the best toy drone for kids getting started with remote-control flying. Read our full Potensic A20 review  Our expert review: This might not be ideal for younger kids without a bit of parental supervision, and it's certainly not the cheapest option, but it does offer a very different take on drones that we can't ignore in this list, especially if you're thinking of something the family can enjoy. When I tried it, this drone surprised me with its sensibly safe design, and by how the AI could simply follow me, taking off and landing on my own hand. After initial set up, I didn't even need my phone to do it – there is a combination of a speaker inside so voices reassure you that you've asked for the right thing and simple buttons on the frame. Think of it as an angel on your shoulder which can be passed between family members and follow them running, cycling, or undertaking any activity. An unusal drone, but amazing.  Our expert review: For what is, compared to other FPV gear, not a very big investment, you can get everything you need to get flying: goggles, a controller, and the drone. It might lack a few of the features that devoted FPV hobbyists insist are essential but this isn’t for them. For older kids (or dads) who've been lusting after the excitement of putting goggles on and remotely piloting their own micro drone, though, it's perfect. Key functionality is there too. For example, the remote can also be used with a computer to play drone sims while the battery is charging. And don’t tell your kids, but some aspects are arguably better than enthusiast gear. For instance, the tiny drone can’t do too much harm when it crashes and, unlike most FPV drones, has a hover sensor built in too.   Our expert review: Compact and stylish, the 151g weight comes into its own in the children's category; every gram shaved off the total means less harm can be done should the drone go out of control (or be controlled maliciously). This is well under the 250g limit for registration, so you can feel comfortable that this is a toy. Holy Stone suggests 13 is the cut-off and perhaps that's the right age to follow the start-up instructions, though a patient younger kid could probably manage it too. The app offers a decent range of controls for a drone at this price, and some slightly silly features that the kids might enjoy (it'll recognise a gesture and take a photo). The controller feels robust (if a little plasticky) and while you won't get the responsiveness of higher-end drones like the DJI, it's still an adequate controller with the ability to tilt the camera. Oh, one thing from my testing – make sure you're on the faster flight modes if it is a windy day – you need to beat the breeze. The camera, though, is surprisingly good for the price bracket, as we mention in my full HS280 review. We'd say that, when you're looking at small toys under 50g, like some of those on this list, then with a bit of supervision (and patience) a child as young as four can have a go, while about age 8 they should be able to keep one of their own. If you looking to go for a larger drone that needs to be registered, then the operator needs to be old enough to sign and understand the registration – in the USA, in FAA territories, that is 13. In the UK, the CAA requires a parent or guardian to register on behalf of a child under 13. As the resident drone expert at Digital Camera World I've been flying drones for a decade now, and before I took my seat at DCW I wrote several books on the subject including The Drone Pilot's Handbook, a book specifically designed to introduce the drone hobby to younger adopters. All of my drone tests are thorough, so the kind of robustness that's better suited to children is also part of what I look for, as well as the feature set that provides quality and longevity. I have tested many of these devices personally, or worked with the people who tested them and trust them – in some cases my son has helped out too! Read more: The best drone accessories 
Best drones for aerial photography 
The best indoor drones 
Best travel drones 
Drone rules, regulations and registration 
Best cameras for kids The best camera deals, reviews, product advice, and unmissable photography news, direct to your inbox! With over 20 years of expertise as a tech journalist, Adam brings a wealth of knowledge across a vast number of product categories, including timelapse cameras, home security cameras, NVR cameras, photography books, webcams, 3D printers and 3D scanners, borescopes, radar detectors… and, above all, drones.   Adam is our resident expert on all aspects of camera drones and drone photography, from buying guides on the best choices for aerial photographers of all ability levels to the latest rules and regulations on piloting drones.   He is the author of a number of books including The Complete Guide to Drones, The Smart Smart Home Handbook, 101 Tips for DSLR Video and The Drone Pilot's Handbook.  Digital Camera World is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 