Jennifer Garner's challenge for her kids is something her eldest child is 'grateful for' and she's preparing for the 'long haul'  
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Jennifer Garner’s challenge for her kids is something her eldest is “grateful” for - and it’s totally understandable! Whilst the Yes Day star prefers to give her children a high level of privacy, the mom-of-three hasn’t shied away from discussing parenthood. Back in 2021 Jennifer Garner opened up on the price of fame and how it’s affected her family and explained her children were “heartbroken” by the pandemic. Now Jennifer Garner has revealed the huge challenge she set for Violet (17), Seraphina (14) and Samuel (11) and many parents might be able to relate to her concerns.  Speaking during an appearance on Today with Hoda Kotb and Savannah Guthrie on April 11, Jennifer explained why her three kids whom she co-parents with former husband Ben Affleck aren’t on social media. She set them a challenge to prove that they should be - but it was an incredibly difficult one to fulfill. "I just said to my kids, 'Show me the articles that prove that social media is good for teenagers, and then we'll have the conversation,'” Jennifer shared. “'Find scientific evidence that matches what I have, that says that it's not good for teenagers. Then we'll chat’." It seems that no articles were found by Violet, Seraphina and Samuel to initiate this candid social media “chat” as none of them are on online platforms. Though according to Jennifer this is something that at least one of her children doesn’t regret. Asked by the hosts how her kids feel "at this point", Jennifer responded, “My eldest is grateful." She admitted that given it’s a “long haul” she’s not saying never to having a possible change of heart when Seraphina and Samuel are older and begin asking her about social media more.  Sign up to our free daily email for the latest royal and entertainment news, interesting opinion, expert advice on styling and beauty trends, and no-nonsense guides to the health and wellness questions you want answered.  “We'll see. I mean, it's a long haul," she said. "I have a couple more to go, so just knock on wood. We'll see if I really hang in there." When it comes to her and her former husband Ben Affleck’s eldest child Violet, Jennifer explained on the Next Question with Katie Couric podcast in 2019 why she was against her joining Instagram even though she has an account herself. Jennifer told Katie, “Without even having parents who are well-known, I worry about all kids having to deal with this new pressure. My daughter’s at an all-girl school, and it’s such a huge problem.” Although she admitted Violet (who was then 13) would “occasionally” talk about getting Instagram, Jennifer said the same thing about presenting evidence that it makes teenagers “happier” to use it, then they would talk. A post shared by Jennifer Garner (@jennifer.garner) A photo posted by on  She continued to explain what she told Violet, saying, “‘But everything you look at, I don’t see anything positive for you out there. You can look at mine when you want to, we can go over it together, but I just don’t see it.'” When it comes to her own social media accounts, it seems Jennifer was determined to do things her way and said she only joined Instagram because of her organic baby food company Once Upon a Farm which required her to have an online presence. “I have to be able to do this my way,” she declared regarding her mindset. “I went out there and did what felt right for me.” Emma is a Royal Editor with eight years experience working in publishing. Her specialist areas include the British Royal Family, ranging from protocol to outfits. Alongside putting her royal knowledge to good use, Emma knows all there is to know about the latest TV shows on the BBC, ITV and more. When she’s not writing about the next unmissable show to add to your to-watch list or delving into royal protocol, Emma enjoys cooking, long walks and watching yet more crime dramas! 
Chores don't have to feel like a chore with these 32 smart tips and tricks
 
By Jack Slater

Published 18 August 24

 
From simple shift dresses to dazzling LBDs, these are some of our favourite mini dresses to have ever graced the red carpet
 
By Caitlin Elliott

Published 18 August 24

 Woman & Home is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 