Brought to you by  IMM-124E is under clinical development by Immuron and currently in Phase II for Traveler’s Diarrhea. According to GlobalData, Phase II drugs for Traveler’s Diarrhea have an 80% phase transition success rate (PTSR) indication benchmark for progressing into Phase III. GlobalData’s report assesses how IMM-124E’s drug-specific PTSR and Likelihood of Approval (LoA) scores compare to the indication benchmarks. Buy the report here. IMM-124E is under clinical development by Immuron and currently in Phase II for Traveler’s Diarrhea. According to GlobalData, Phase II drugs for Traveler’s Diarrhea have an 80% phase transition success rate (PTSR) indication benchmark for progressing into Phase III. GlobalData’s report assesses how IMM-124E’s drug-specific PTSR and Likelihood of Approval (LoA) scores compare to the indication benchmarks. Buy the report here. Buy the Report 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             
                    Find out more
                    



 GlobalData tracks drug-specific phase transition and likelihood of approval scores, in addition to indication benchmarks based off 18 years of historical drug development data. Attributes of the drug, company and its clinical trials play a fundamental role in drug-specific PTSR and likelihood of approval. IMM-124E overview IMM-124E is under development for the treatment of non alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)  colitis, type II diabetes, urinary tract infections, shigella infections, Traveler's diarrhea, autism and coronavirus disease 2019 caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). It is administered orally. IMM-124E is a formulation of hyper-immune bovine colostrum powder (BCP). The drug candidate targets Lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The drug candidate is based on dairy derived polyclonal antibody platform. The drug candidate was under development for alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Immuron overview Immuron, formerly Anadis, is a biopharmaceutical company that develops oral immunotherapy therapeutics using polyclonal antibody products for humans. The company develops and produces an orally stable therapeutic for various immune mediated and inflammatory disorders. It provides products such as travelan, proctectyn, IMM 124E and IMM 529. Immuron’s travelan is a natural product designed to prevent infection by enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli. The company develops unique oral immunotherapy platform improving the immunological balance by orally administered safe compounds. The company produces therapeutics for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) diabetes, alcoholic steatohepatits, colitis, arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases, irritable bowel syndrome, liver fibrosis and other chronic disorders. Immuron is headquartered in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
 For a complete picture of IMM-124E’s drug-specific PTSR and LoA scores, buy the report here. 
                                This content was updated on 10 June 2024                                 
                                            From 
                                            
 
                                        Blending expert knowledge with cutting-edge technology, GlobalData’s unrivalled proprietary data will enable you to decode what’s happening in your market. You can make better informed decisions and gain a future-proof advantage over your competitors. 

                                         
 Be better informed
 GlobalData, the leading provider of industry intelligence, provided the underlying data, research, and analysis used to produce this article. GlobalData’s Likelihood of Approval analytics tool dynamically assesses and predicts how likely a drug will move to the next stage in clinical development (PTSR), as well as how likely the drug will be approved (LoA). This is based on a combination of machine learning and a proprietary algorithm to process data points from various databases found on GlobalData’s Pharmaceutical Intelligence Center. Buy the Report The gold standard of business intelligence. 

                        Find out more
                        



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus :  Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024