PHILADELPHIA, Nov.  29, 2022  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Chain.io, a cloud-based integration platform that connects partners across the global supply chain, today announced that Johnny Bilotta has joined as Vice President of Product. Bilotta will enhance Chain.io's current core systems and continue development of new offerings that provide value to Chain.io's customers. "Having spent more than 25 years designing products and user experiences, Johnny is uniquely positioned to help further our relationships with forwarders, shippers, and logistics software companies," said Brian Glick, CEO, Chain.io. "He brings an innovative approach steeped in UX expertise that will help us continue to build great solutions for customers." Applying a discipline of digital ergonomics to software products in healthcare, stock trading, and customer communication sectors; Bilotta helped build scalable and successful digital products that work closely with engineering and business-focused teams. Bilotta successfully founded and sold one of Philadelphia's first software product design companies, GUI Werks. As recognition for his career tech innovation, Bilotta was also named a Top Tech Disruptor of 2016 by the Philadelphia Business Journal. "Chain.io's rapid growth and innovative approach to today's logistics disruptions has positioned us as a leader in visibility and operational excellence for all partners along the global supply chain," said Bilotta. "By expanding Chain.io's platform, we are strengthening the backbone of the global supply chain network." About Chain.io (www.chain.io) Chain.io is a cloud-based integration platform that connects partners across the global supply chain. Chain.io helps anyone involved in buying or moving products around the world work with supply chain vendors, customers, and software platforms more efficiently. With logistics expertise built into the heart of its software, Chain.io plugs into any ecosystem seamlessly and makes sure the right data is going to the right people at the right time. Customers leverage Chain.io's network to optimize critical business processes. Chain.io shines when solving complex supply chain challenges and problems that require integrating multiple types of technologies.  The Chain.io network includes shippers, logistics service providers, and the software packages that support them. For more information, please visit   www.chain.io.  Media Contact:Tyler ThorntonLeadCoveragetyler@leadcoverage.com   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.