MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS Dana Wagner, chief legal officer of San Francisco-based Twilio, also received a massive stock grant as part of his normal 2022 compensation. The two awards left his pay just shy of that of Apple GC Kate Adams. April 27, 2023 at 11:25 AM  2 minute read General Counsel and In House Counsel The original version of this story was published on Corporate Counsel Cloud communications platform Twilio paid its new chief legal officer, Dana Wagner, $26.2 million in 2022, a new regulatory filing shows. In addition to a $600,000 salary, Wagner received $25.6 in stock awards, including a one-time hiring grant of $12.8 million grant doled out in January, three months after he joined the company. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Kat Black By Maria Dinzeo By Sulaiman Abdur-Rahman By Michelle Morgante 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder Presented by BigVoodoo  The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. Consulting Magazine identifies the best firms to work for in the consulting profession. 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 
                                        COLE SCHOTZ P.C.Prominent mid-Atlantic law firm with multiple regional office locations seeks an Application Engineer. This person will work...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join The Recorder now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.