 Now  66  Mon  76  Tue  72 by Lydia Andersen, FOX 11 News  TOPICS: RIPON, Wis. (WLUK) -- Ripon High School had its graduation Saturday, and it was especially emotional for one family. Ella Weiske was born with cerebral palsy and has used a wheelchair all her life. But Saturday, she walked across the stage to get her high school diploma. Friends, family, and classmates gave a standing ovation to Weiske while she walked with robotic legs. For Weiske, it wasn't as much about the diploma as it was being able to walk across the stage. Her mom, Deb Weiske, says this was a proud moment, and a long time coming. "Ella, to get out of her wheelchair and walk across the stage, means the world," says Deb Weiske. Ella was able to do this with the help of her sister Liz, and her sparkly shoes. "It's been a lot of work, a lot of hours have been put into, countless hours of PT," says Liz Weiske, Ella's sister. Share your graduation photos and videos with us:    "From the first day she was born she had to fight -- fight to live, fight for everything; today, she doesn't have to fight as hard to take those steps because the robots can help her," says Deb Weiske. The Weiske family tells us the journey to get to graduation was not an easy one. It took planning, practicing and fundraising. "About a year ago was when I learned of it and I thought, gosh, I think we can do this. The total cost -- about $45,000 -- just a community effort, school combined, friends, family, the surrounding communities just came together and we are just humbled by all the support," says Deb Weiske. Ella has undergone intense therapy since January  learning how to use her new legs. "I've worked so hard. I remember my first steps in therapy," says Ella Weiske. Her friend since kindergarten, Jenna Konrad, says she was emotional the first time she saw her use the legs. "When we were at the rehearsal we got to see her walk and we're like, oh my gosh, this is real," says Konrad. Ella's mom says they are still thinking over her plans after school. "I think we'll try and do a technical college to further some education, I think she can make an impact on the community with her good spirit and nature, this community just really rallies around her and it's been awesome," says Deb Weiske. After Saturday's ceremony, Ella plans to use her legs more one step at a time. "I'm really doing this," says Ella Weiske.