Main Navigation Eyebrow Menu 
 LINCOLN, Neb. (KLKN) — Elon Musk is getting ready to launch a new company focused on artificial intelligence, it’s called “XAI.” The company’s website states the goal is to understand the true nature of the universe. In an interview in April, Musk warned that artificial intelligence could lead to “civilization destruction.” Musk also joined other tech leaders in calling for a six-month pause in the race for AI development.   Chipotle is getting a taste of the AI world. The food chain is testing a robot to help make guacamole. It’s called the Autocado. The machine takes 25 pounds of avocados and slices the fruit open. Then it takes off the skin, removes the core, and places the flesh in a bowl. Then an actual person steps in to finish the recipe. Chipotle says the Autocado could cut guac prep time in half. Chipotle is also testing Chippy, a robot that helps make tortilla chips.   Have you ever been in a meeting and thought, “Could this have been an email?” Canadian company Shopify rolled out a tool called Meeting Cost Calculator. The tool tracks Google employees’ calendars and shows the estimated cost of their meetings. They found a half-hour meeting with three employees can cost the e-commerce company anywhere from $700-$1,600. Earlier this year, Shopify canceled all employee meetings with three or more people and all meetings scheduled on Wednesdays.   Krispy Kreme is celebrating its 86th birthday on Friday with a super cheap doughnut deal. Customers can buy a dozen glazed donuts for 86 cents with the purchase of a dozen at regular price. Krispy Kreme was founded in 1937 by Vernon Rudolph, who started out by selling the iconic doughnuts to grocery stores.	 



Most Viewed
Car rolls over in Lincoln Amigos parking lot'How could this have happened?': Scammer pretends to be Lincoln man, sells his landNebraska State Patrol investigating fatal crash northeast of Lincoln'When has this money never been accepted?': Husker fan upset as stadium goes cashlessSpectrum internet outage affects thousands in Lincoln and beyond














Featured
@NebraskaNowShowcase NebraskaSmall Business SaturdayLive Nebraska CamerasLinks We Mentioned














Entertainment News
TADA Theatre interview: The Great and Powerful OZ: A Magical MusicalJoe Bonsall, celebrated tenor in the country and gospel group the Oak Ridge Boys, dies at 76Heart postpones Lincoln show after Ann Wilson's cancer diagnosisU.S. Air Force band to perform at Lincoln's Uncle Sam JamAward-winning Broadway musical 'Moulin Rouge!' coming to Lincoln










 © 2024 KLKN-TV.