  Tue 20 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters Rishi Sunak, already bowed down by sky high inflation and a big deficit in the polls, is not particularly pleased by with his own personal abilities it has emerged.  As i disclosed last month, the Prime Minister has admitted to friends “I’m not the best at making speeches, I’m not the best on TV.”  His team wants to tackle that by giving Mr Sunak more chance to shine at what he hopes he is better at – addressing voters in person.   The aim is to emulate the tactic adopted by another Conservative prime minister, also besieged in the polls, more than three decades ago.  In 1992, John Major decided to swap TV studios for a “soapbox tour”, addressing voters directly through a loudspeaker. The tactic has gone down in Tory mythology for helping to deliver that year’s unexpected general election victory.  So could a Rishi Sunak “meet the people” approach pull off an even more unlikely success in the election expected in autumn 2024?  Experts are doubtful. They are warning that his time might be better spent improving a “robotic” television style and brushing up on speaking skills. There are also questions over whether Sir John is actually the best example to follow.   In retrospect his soapbox strategy probably had only a marginal effect on the 1992 outcome and when he tried the same tactic five years later Sir John fell to a crushing defeat by Tony Blair’s New Labour.  During that campaign, the late Sheila Gunn, who was his press secretary, told me: “If only John could meet everybody we would be certain of winning.”  Her wistful remark was an acknowledgment that old-style campaigning was futile compared with reaching millions through media interviews and set-piece speeches edited for news bulletins.  Mr Sunak’s recognition of his failings – spotlighted by recent wooden appearances on BBC1’s Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg and in front of the Commons liaison committee – is widely shared by commentators, academics and, privately, by some of his colleagues.  Rob Burley, author of Why Is this Lying Bastard Lying to Me?, examining interview tactics used by politicians, said Mr Sunak had “gone down a cul de sac” since becoming Prime Minister by parroting pre-scripted lines and referring repeatedly to his “five pledges”.  “His considerable intellect doesn’t seem to grasp that politics is a communications business and it’s not going to work to just repeat the same line over and over again. He has become trapped, paralysed by this over-trained approach,” Mr Burley said.  “He needs to relax, think about what he is trying to say and communicate in a way that is much more open and honest.”  A leading political communications specialist told i: “Rishi Sunak is at his best when he does engage, when he shows himself to be a politician and [doesn’t] just automatically runs through the five pledges.  “By just falling back on stuff that is pre-prepared and pre-organised, he turns the TV audience away from him.”  The former BBC presenter Ray Snoddy, now a media commentator, said: “He is unable to be open or explain himself in a reasonable or plausible way and when challenged gets immediately tetchy.”  Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London, also had a withering assessment of the Prime Minister’s presentational skills.  “Sunak’s not a great orator, just a reasonably competent one. On TV he can deliver a sound bite, but he doesn’t seem that capable of varying the words he uses, sticking – often rather painfully – to exactly the same formulation.  “He’s not got a great voice either – an ever-so-slightly camp public school drawl which he desperately tries to modulate – George Osborne style – by bunging in a few glottal stops.”  Mr Sunak tried a trial run of the soapbox strategy when he spoke to a group of Ikea employees in Kent last month and similar sessions are set to follow.  Thirty-one years after Sir John took to the streets, most academics believe the tactic only had a marginal impact by stoking up media interest in the Tory leader and that voters’ worries about a Kinnock-led Labour government was the crucial factor in the surprise Tory triumph.  Anand Menon, Professor of European Politics and Foreign Affairs at King’s College London, said: “Major, by all accounts, was quite effective on his soapbox, though I’m not sure that was a determining factor in the outcome.  “Sunak does not seem to be anything like the same kind of performer – like [Theresa May] he comes over as somewhat robotic, which I’m not sure will work.”  Professor Bale, the author of The Conservative Party After Brexit, said a Major-style approach could help Mr Sunak.  “Inasmuch as people feel he’s out of touch with ordinary people and possibly a little too slick then it might, but only if he can handle it. Major had experience of speaking in the street growing up in Brixton. Sunak hasn’t, so it would be quite a risk.”  Lance Price, Labour’s director of communications under Tony Blair, claimed the planned switch in tactics was a sign of the Tories’ desperation.  “John Major’s unpretentious ordinariness made his soap box appeals seem authentic. Sunak is already fixed in people’s minds as a slick, well-heeled California-style performer. If he tried to emulate Major it would look phony because it would be phony,” he said.  Speech making: Steadily improved during her premiership 8/10  TV skills: Usually unfazed by tricky questions 8/10  Campaigning ability: Won three elections 8/10  Speech making: Solid with homely touches 6/10  TV skills: Tried to engage with questions 6/10  Campaigning ability: Energised by street campaigning 7/10  Speech making: Brilliant at pushing emotional buttons 9/10  TV skills: Actorly ability to appear relaxed 8/10  Campaigning ability: Won three elections 8/10  Speech making: Capable of old-fashioned oratorical heights 8/10  TV skills: Often awkward and repetitive in answers 4/10  Campaigning ability: Seemed out of his comfort zone 5/10  Speech making: Pioneered speaking without notes 8/10  TV skills: Always appeared relaxed and calm 8/10  Campaigning ability: Won election but lost Brexit vote 5/10  Speech making: Clearly uncomfortable on stage 5/10  TV skills: Hated every minute  4/10  Campaigning ability: Disastrous performance in 2017 2/10  Speech making: Could use language to powerful effect 7/10  TV skills: Master of going off at tangents 5/10  Campaigning ability: Boasted star quality on the stump 9/10  Speech making: Stilted and uninspiring 4/10  TV skills: Avoided forensic interviewers 3/10  Campaigning ability: Only tested in leadership contest 4/10  Speech making: Mundane managerial style 5/10  TV skills: Has gone backwards since leadership contest 5/10  Campaigning ability: Little tested, but poll ratings look bleak 5/10  All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.