You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Jul 9, 2024, 9:31am Indeed is a go-to for employers and job seekers alike. The online job board boasts more than 250 million users each month, offers various options for job posts and can even screen potential candidates to find the ones who match your job description. Indeed’s job posting platform offers free options as well as pay-per-click sponsored posts based on the employer’s daily budget. Additionally, Indeed offers other tools, such as Indeed Hire, which functions like an online recruiter for employers. Here’s everything you need to know about how much it costs to post a job on Indeed. Indeed is an online job board where employers can post job listings for free or at a price-per-click to attract more candidates. Indeed is well-known by both employers and job seekers. Known for its diversity of job postings and ease of use, Indeed is often one of the first places job seekers go when looking for a position. Featured Partners 1 BambooHR Yes Yes ATS 1 BambooHR On BambooHR's Website 2 Pinpoint ATS Yes Yes 24/7 customer support, easy-to-use interface, fast and flexible workflows, hundreds of integrations 2 Pinpoint ATS On Pinpoint HQ's Website 3 ClearCompany Yes Yes Employee engagement 3 ClearCompany On ClearCompany's Website 4 ZipRecruiter Yes 4.3M+ Businesses Al-driven smart matching, technology, Resume database, 24/7 customer support 4 ZipRecruiter On ZipRecruiter's Website Employers can post jobs for free or choose the pay-per-click option to attract more candidates. With both free and paid options, you’ll need to first create an employer account. With the employer account, you’ll have a Company Profile page that you need to claim. After you’ve done that, you can add your company logo, location, industry and company description. The Company Profile page will include all current Indeed job postings and users can choose to follow your Company Profile to be updated on any future job postings. Regardless of whether you choose the paid or free job posting option, you’ll want to maintain an up-to-date and engaging Company Profile page so you are attracting the right candidates. Once you have created an employer account, you can immediately start posting jobs for free. Free job postings include job description, location, skills and qualifications and experience required. Free job postings will appear in the general search results when job seekers search for jobs that meet the criteria listed in the job posting. You can update your free job postings from your employer account. Free job posts are most visible in the two to three days immediately following posting. After that, the post will fall below more recent relevant job posts and users will need to scroll further down the list to find your job post. And lest you think you can get around this by reposting the same job every couple of days, think again. Indeed doesn’t allow you to repost the same job within a short period of time. Indeed offers an application estimator tool that provides a general idea about the number of applications you can expect based on other similar job posts. If you want to attract more job seekers, you can choose Indeed’s pay-per-click sponsored job posting option. According to Indeed, sponsored job posts are four and a half times more likely to result in a hire. Indeed’s sponsored job posts are paid on a per-click basis. In other words, employers will pay each time a job seeker clicks on their job post. Sponsored job posts on Indeed cost as little as $5 per day, and you can change your daily budget at any time. Indeed will provide an application estimator tool that provides a general idea about the number of applications you can expect based on other similar job posts for this budget and duration. Once your daily budget is reached, Indeed will stop displaying your listing among the sponsored jobs. Essentially, this means that you are in complete control of how much you spend to advertise a job on Indeed. You can’t control the number of candidates that will click on your advertisement, but you can set the maximum amount you’re willing to spend and Indeed will not push you beyond that limit. This flexibility makes it an excellent tool for all types of businesses. Indeed offers several other tools for employers who want to get the most bang for their buck with job posts. The following are add-on options employers may want to consider for a job post. Indeed Resume functions like an online recruiting tool. Indeed uses its search engine to scour over 200 million résumés to help you find possible candidates. With over 25 search filters, employers can focus on the most relevant candidates and then reach out to them directly via email. Indeed Resume will help you reach other users who have an up-to-date résumé on Indeed but may not be actively searching for a job. Indeed Resume is available with either a Standard plan or a Professional plan. The Standard plan is $100 per month and offers up to 30 contact credits per month. The Professional plan is $250 per month and offers up to 100 contact credits per month. Indeed Hiring Platform also functions like an online recruiter by automating the recruiting process. When employers pay for this tool, Indeed will screen candidates that meet your job requirements and will then instantly schedule interviews with your team. Using the Indeed Hiring Platform allows employers to save time spent on the administrative functions of the hiring process, such as scanning résumés, screening candidates and confirming interviews. Much like traditional recruiters, this online recruiting tool is paid as a commission equal to 10% of the candidate’s starting salary when they are hired. Featured Partners 1 BambooHR Yes Yes ATS 1 BambooHR On BambooHR's Website 2 Pinpoint ATS Yes Yes 24/7 customer support, easy-to-use interface, fast and flexible workflows, hundreds of integrations 2 Pinpoint ATS On Pinpoint HQ's Website 3 ClearCompany Yes Yes Employee engagement 3 ClearCompany On ClearCompany's Website 4 ZipRecruiter Yes 4.3M+ Businesses Al-driven smart matching, technology, Resume database, 24/7 customer support 4 ZipRecruiter On ZipRecruiter's Website There are several considerations to keep in mind when deciding whether to choose the free or sponsored job post. To help make the decision, consider the following questions: The more specific and engaging your job post is, the more qualified candidates you’re likely to attract. Not only does the job description tell candidates about the specific job, but it also tells job seekers about your company. In addition to providing relevant information about job location, skills, responsibilities and qualifications, you should also keep in mind your company “voice” and provide other relevant information that helps job seekers understand what it would be like to work at your company. To post a job on Indeed, whether a free job post or a paid sponsored job post, visit Indeed’s website and click the “Post a Job” button. You’ll be asked to create an account if you haven’t already created one. You’ll then be asked to provide the necessary information about the job and whether it is a free post or a sponsored post. If you choose the sponsored post, you’ll then designate the daily budget and duration. When choosing recruiting software, consider overall pricing, how well the platform scales, how easy it is to use and whether its features align with your specific hiring requirements. Most recruitment software comes with a free trial so that you can check out the platform before you invest in it. Indeed reviews each job post before it goes live. According to Indeed, the review process typically is complete within 24 to 48 hours. An official invite to apply for a specific job means that an employer has found your profile and is interested in you as a candidate. The employer can go into their Indeed account and request that you apply for the position via Instant Match. At that point, Indeed will send you a personalized note inviting you to apply. You may also get separate emails with jobs that match your search criteria, but not official invites. 

 Christine is a non-practicing attorney, freelance writer, and author. She has written legal and marketing content and communications for a wide range of law firms for more than 15 years. She has also written extensively on parenting and current events for the website Scary Mommy. She earned her J.D. and B.A. from University of Wisconsin–Madison, and she lives in the Chicago area with her family. Cassie is a deputy editor collaborating with teams around the world while living in the beautiful hills of Kentucky. Focusing on bringing growth to small businesses, she is passionate about economic development and has held positions on the boards of directors of two non-profit organizations seeking to revitalize her former railroad town. Prior to joining the team at Forbes Advisor, Cassie was a content operations manager and copywriting manager.