Feedback   Indiamart Q3: Kotak cut its FY24-26 EPS by 3 per cent to bake in lower supplier addition. It assumed weaker longer-term margins due to continued investments needed to keep the platform relevant.

 Stocks that share market analysts recommended on August 1, 2023: Stock brokerages have come out with research reports on select stocks namely GAIL India, Bharat Electronics, Indiamart, IDFC First Bank. Here's what brokerages said about these counters.  Indiamart Intermesh has approved buyback of 12.5 lakh Indiamart Intermesh shares at a price of Rs 4,000 apiece for an  aggregate amount not exceeding Rs 500 crore

  Indiamart share buyback: JM Financial expects promoters to participate in the buyback offer. Given the buyback size, it will require shareholders’ approval, the brokerage said.

 Indiamart Intermesh shares rose 5.18 per cent to hit a high of Rs 2,997.20 on BSE. The stock hit a 52-week high of Rs 3,050.65 on May 5.

 Eights stocks namely Va Tech Wabag, Just Dial, Archean Chemical Industries, Nazara Technologies, Venus Pipes & Tubes, The Phoenix Mills, Thermax and IndiaMart InterMesh have seen fresh interest from the various brokerage firms. Indiamart delivered strong growth and even stronger collections, said Nuvama. Paying subscriber addition is lower-than-expected due to seasonality, which shall bounce back from Q4FY23, it said.
 Indiamart Intermesh is likely to deliver a strong revenue growth trajectory over FY23-FY25E, as it is a potential key beneficiary of the strong growth in B2B e-commerce expected over the next few years, ICICI Securities said.
 Hindustan Unilever may report a 12.3 per cent YoY jump in net profit at Rs 2,519.20 crore, said ICICI Securities. It sees sales for the FMCG giant rising 12.6 per cent, largely led by pricing growth. IndiaMart will become the first company to test the IPO market in Modi government's second tenure. Copyright©2024 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today Add Business Today to Home Screen Home Market BT TV Reels Menu Menu