 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 
First Advantage is our number-one recommended background check site thanks to its international scope and fast results. It provides services all over the world, and offers a range of simple and comprehensive checks to help you learn more about applicants.
 
You may need a background check site if you're a business owner or hiring manager and need to screen new hires. Or, if you're a landlord or property manager, a background check can provide critical information about people applying to be tenants. It's difficult or impossible to learn everything you need to know about someone from an interview or application, but background checks can go deeper. They can reveal incriminating or disqualifying information, which lets you make more informed hiring or renting decisions.
 
To choose the best background check sites, we evaluated 22 online providers based on company reputation, price, ease of use, time to receive results, and compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) (if the report is used for employment purposes). Below, you'll find companies that provide either employment screening or tenant screening, or both.
 First Advantage 
First Advantage is the best overall background check site because results are quick, and it offers international background checks along with several other types of background checks. The company manually reaches out to candidates if they need additional information, so you don’t have to contact them yourself.
 Most results clear in less than 24 hours Offers international background checks 10% reduction in employee turnover reported Complaints of sloppy or inaccurate work Common names and aliases delay results Employment gaps must be listed 
Providing background checks in the vast majority of countries and territories, First Advantage offers services for small businesses and international organizations. It’s the best background check site because most results come back in less than 24 hours. It offers drug testing and can even order fingerprint-based background checks from the FBI.
 
Pre-employment screening requires a one-time setup fee, which is usually $175. Discounts are sometimes available. This fee is in addition to fees charged for background checks.
 
Background checks typically come back within minutes, but that timing can be significantly longer depending on the country or county. If you are interested in the company's services, you can click the get started button and provide your information. A representative will then contact you about plans, services offered, and pricing.
 
First Advantage was founded in 2003 and is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. It has locations in 19 countries.
 
A First Advantage background check may include:
 Rentberry 
We chose Rentberry as the best value background check site because it offers both a credit report and background check for a low price paid by the tenant. Rentberry is free for landlords. The comprehensive report is available immediately online, helping ideal tenants move in quickly.
 Free background checks for landlords Instant access to results 100% online—no paperwork necessary Evictions not listed if tenant moved before the court date Prospective tenants still pay for the report if they’re not chosen Collections aren’t detailed 
Rentberry background checks are only available in the U.S., but landlords can list properties worldwide. This is the best value background check site because it doesn’t cost a landlord anything to use, and they can list properties to rent at no cost, making it an attractive option whether the landlords are new or seasoned rental property owners.
 
Once a potential tenant locates a property and wants to apply to rent it, they fill out an online application and pay $39.99. This covers both the background check and the credit report, which is instantly available to the tenant and landlord.
 
After selecting a tenant, landlords can send an offer electronically and e-sign rental agreements. Tenants can even make online rental payments.
 
RentBerry was founded in 2015 and is based in San Francisco, California.
 
The credit report comes from TransUnion. It verifies the tenant’s identity, collections, credit score, public information, creditworthiness, rental history, and employment background. The background check looks at state and national databases, driving and civil records, and criminal history records.
  GoodHire 
While you’ll pay more to hire a good candidate, GoodHire offers one of the most comprehensive background checks we reviewed. It provides the standard criminal background check, but you can also purchase additional reports to include data such as credit history, education and employment verification, and healthcare sanctions.
 Identity verification is instant Monthly monitoring available Option to purchase healthcare sanction reports Some states and counties charge additional fees More comprehensive reports cost more Add-ons available only with package 
GoodHire provides the most detailed reporting among all background check services—access comprehensive reports like federal, state, and global courts, plus add-on reports such as healthcare sanctions, professional license verification, and reference checks. It launched in 2013 and works exclusively with employers and candidates.
 
The available plan packages are Basic, Essential, and Professional. Background checks have different fees depending on the package: $29.99 for Basic, $54.99 for Essential, or $79.99 for Professional.
 
GoodHire's headquarters are in San Francisco, California.
 
Social Security number trace and identity verification are instantaneous, while criminal record searches take one to three business days. Civil record background searches may take longer, depending on the county and case. GoodHire offers several add-ons. It lists its most popular as:
 
If you plan on running more than 10 background checks per year, GoodHire can provide a custom quote with reduced pricing.
 
Aside from its rave reviews from both candidates and employers, Checkr is the best background check company for employers because it’s easy to use. Invite up to 25 candidates in a single go, and access simple reports to make hiring decisions quickly.
 Mass-invite candidates by email Easy-to-navigate user interface (UI) Limits inconsistencies in court record terminology Some background checks can take weeks Aliases and common names delay results Fees can vary depending on the county 
Checkr launched in 2014 and has headquarters in both Denver and San Francisco. It’s the best background check site for employers because you can bulk-invite candidates and simplify court jargon all in one easy-to-use interface. With over 1,300 employees in 2022, Checkr works solely to provide background checks to employers. It also has some of the best reviews across all of the background check sites we examined.
 
84% of Checkr’s background checks come back within 15 minutes, allowing employers can make hiring decisions quickly.
 
Several plans are available:
 
Background checks include the following reports:
 
In 2018, Apartments.com owner, CoStar Group, purchased Cozy, and by mid-2021, all eligible accounts were moved over to the Apartments.com platform. We picked Apartments.com as the best background check site for landlords because the background check cost is included in the renter's application fee, and tenants can make online rent payments that are directly deposited into their landlord's account.
 Free for landlords—tenants pay for background checks 26 million people visit site each month Poor user reviews on some sites Commercial properties cannot be managed on Apartments.com 
Apartments.com is one of the easiest background check sites for landlords because it's all done online and at no cost to the landlord. Potential tenants pay an application fee of $29 that includes the cost of their credit report and background check. They can also share their screening reports with up to 10 potential landlords for 30 days without incurring additional fees.
 
Apartments.com uses TransUnion for the credit report and background check, providing a ResidentScore that considers a potential tenant's payment history, eviction record, and comprehensive credit history (including credit card information). The credit report is a soft pull, so it won't impact a potential tenant's score.
 
The background check report includes address history, any evictions, and a criminal report compiled with data available to the general public by searching public records, national databases, and county court records.
 
Once landlords have selected a tenant, they can create an online lease agreement that the tenant can also sign online. Tenants can then set up automatic rent payments that are deposited directly into the landlord's bank account.
 
Apartments.com was founded in 1992 and is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. CoStar Group is based in Washington, D.C.; it was founded in 1987.
 
An Apartments.com background check includes:
 Intelius 
If you’re looking for instant background check results, Intelius provides its report in mere minutes. Compared to other background check sites we reviewed, this is by far the fastest available.
 Receive instant access to the background check report Report includes education history Multiple packages available depending on the records you need Results may not be as accurate Report purchase automatically enrolls you in a monthly subscription Is not FCRA-compliant 
While you can’t use it for tenancy, insurance, employment, or credit because it doesn't provide FCRA-compliant background checks, Intelius can give you instant insight into someone’s criminal background. Some people use this to look into potential business partners or even a love interest. It’s the best source for a online background checks if you want instant results—your report is available immediately.
 
You don’t need a Social Security number to access the report, but you’ll need the person’s name, city, and state. For a more accurate report, Intelius will ask questions to help further narrow down results, such as, “Is this person over 30?” and, “Has this person ever lived in Madison, Wisconsin?” You may have a hard time finding the right person if you don’t know much about them or if they have a common name. 
 
Subscription packages start at $24.86 per month for unlimited reports, and you cannot purchase a standalone background check. If you don’t want to continue the trial or subscription, you can cancel online or by calling 888-245-1655. 
 
Intelius was founded in 2003 and is based in Seattle, Washington.
 
An Intelius background check includes:
 
Background check sites help you find the best candidates and tenants by identifying high-risk criminal records and credit history. They can also verify personal information, past employment, education, and personal and professional references.
 
Most background check results come in days, but the most comprehensive reports can take weeks, particularly with international records. You’ll also pay more for these background checks, but it can save money in the long run. 
 
Overalll, we recommend First Advantage for your background check needs because it’s fast, hands-off, and offers international checks. But our other top picks are good options if you're looking for a great value, detailed reports, tenant background checks, or other features.
 In the News: It makes sense to be a bit skeptical of background check results. A February 2024 study, published in the journal Criminology, found that many private-sector background checks contain errors. Researchers found false-positive errors (finding something to be true when it is in fact not true) in 60% of participants in regulated background checks, and 50% of participants in unregulated background checks. False-negative errors (finding something to be false or nonexistent when it is in fact true or does exist) were found in 90% of participants of regulated background checks, and 92% of participants of unregulated checks. 
Investopedia collected key data points from 22 popular companies to identify the most important factors for readers choosing a background check site. We used this data to review each company for price, background check information, and other features to provide unbiased, comprehensive reviews to ensure our readers make the right decision for their needs. Investopedia launched in 1999, and has been helping readers find the best background check sites since 2021.
 
Background check sites are run by companies that provide background checks, which are usually used as part of employment or tenant screening. Some specialize in either employment or tenant checks, while others do both. Some are fairly light on the details, while others are very thorough. In general, the more you're willing to pay, the more comprehensive the report will be. And some companies may have mobile apps for the purchaser or the candidate.
 
Background checks are used to vet a candidate or applicant and make an informed decision. Hiring or approving the wrong person could cost quite a bit of time and money, so relevant, accurate background screening can be invaluable. A thorough background check may consist of several kinds of searches, ranging from basic personal information to deeper analyses of finances, important life events, and online behavior.
 
Candidates usually need to consent to a background check for employment or tenancy. After the background check company gets consent, the candidate is screened in a variety of national, federal, and state databases, including public records, DMV records, court records, and criminal databases (and even social media, in some cases).
 
When the screening is complete, the background check site will present the candidate's information. Different sites will present the results in different ways, and some may make it easier to navigate than others (customer support will vary from company to company, as well). With this information in hand you can make a more informed decision about the candidate or applicant.
 The time it takes to complete a background check will vary depending on the site being used and the level of screening. Some claim to deliver results for certain types of checks within minutes, while others may take weeks for more comprehensive screening. 
These are some of the most important things to look for when considering background check sites.
 
There are a variety of background check searches, ranging from basic information to comprehensive reports on finances, credit, employment, crime, and more. Background check sites may offer different kinds of searches, including:
 
Background check services are typically used by some employers and landlords who want to vet their employees or tenants, respectively. Security clearances often require a background check as well.
 Some background checks are free, while others can cost quite a bit. Rentberry, for example, costs $39.99 for tenant screening; GoodHire costs a minimum of $29.99 per check, and so does Checkr; and Intelius costs $21.13 per month for unlimited People Search reports. In general, the more you pay, the more information you can get. There are a variety of types of background checks, and some are more thorough than others. Employers may use background checks to find driving records, employment history, education, criminal records, and credit history. Pending criminal charges may show up, although some states, like Kentucky, won’t ever show pending charges.  Civil orders, such as a restraining order, won’t usually show up on a background check. However, if it was in addition to a criminal charge, it may show as an annotation to sentencing. Background checks can serve a variety of purposes, but they're commonly used by employers to vet potential employees and by landlords to vet potential tenants. Employers use them to verify personal information, employment history, and education history, and to uncover potentially disqualifying information like criminal records. Landlords can use them to verify employment and residential history, along with credit records and criminal/civil records, among other details. Background checks for pre-employment screening typically take around two to five business days, although some details may be returned almost instantly. Information like credit reports and public records is usually collected fairly quickly, while in-person drug tests at labs and reference checks can take longer (and the more references you have, the longer it'll take to contact all of them). Background checks vary in how far back they go because different checks look at different reports, which contain information from various times. In general, background checks look at criminal and court records going back seven years, although some information (like bankruptcies on credit reports) can reach back as far as 10 years. Expunged records typically do not show up on background checks, and the same is usually true of sealed records. However, certain types of background checks may show expunged or sealed records, such as FBI background checks for positions that require security clearance or sensitive positions like childcare or elder care. Background checks are commonly used by employers to vet potential employees. It's in the best interest of employers to verify personal information, as well as employment and education history. Background checks are also used by landlords to vet potential tenants; landlords may use them to check rental history, employment, and credit records. Some sites do provide background checks at no cost, but free background checks usually don't provide as much information as paid background checks, and sometimes they include outdated or incomplete information. But they may still prove useful in some situations. Free background checks can help you verify a job applicant's identity, and may provide personal information like age, date of birth, relatives, criminal records, driving records, and certain financial details—but it's wise to take free search results with a grain of salt. Some of the tenant background check sites on our list above, like Rentberry and Apartments.com, are free to use for landlords, but prospective tenants must pay when they apply for tenancy. 
Investopedia researched 22 of the most popular background check sites and narrowed it down to the best six options based on a variety of features and considerations. We considered company reputation, price, ease of use, and how long it takes to receive results. If the report is for employment, we also made sure the company is FCRA compliant.
 Hinterhaus Productions / Getty Images LinkedIn. "Rentberry." PR Newswire. "Checkr Announces Acquisition of Good Hire." PR Newswire. "CoStar Group Acquires Cozy Services Ltd., With Plans to Integrate Its Innovative Renter Screening and Rent Payments Solutions Into Apartments.com." Apartments.com. "Apartments.com and Cozy: Answers to Your Top Questions." Apartments.com. "How Much Do Applications and Reports Cost?" Crunchbase. "Apartments.com." Wiley Online Library. "The problem with criminal records: Discrepancies between state reports and private-sector background checks." FTC. "What Employment Background Screening Companies Need to Know About the Fair Credit Reporting Act." CFPB. "What is a tenant screening report?" Background Check Repair. "How Long Does It Take for a Pending Charge to Show Up on a Background Check." Background Check Repair. "Does a Restraining Order Go on Your Record?"