My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now The market traded within a range in the early hours on February 15. On Wednesday morning, the Nifty was down 0.25 percent at 17,884 and Bank Nifty 0.28 percent around 9.50am. On the options front, call writers were building heavy positions at 17,900 on Nifty contracts. This level will be key for bulls if they want to make a comeback during the day. Put writers were most active on the 17,800 level.  Bars reflect change in OI during the day. Red bars show call option OI and green put option OI. On Bank Nifty, point 41,500 was the battle zone. Shijumon Antony, a Kochi-based trader, said he sees the index to bounce back after the initial dip. He has sold puts and is waiting for some more recovery to 'buy' calls. Torrent Power was in focus along with PI Industries, TVS Motor and IndiaMart Intermesh as they saw long buildup, which is a bullish sign and happens when price and open interest rise in tandem. Bharat Forge, Glenmark Pharma, Torrent Pharma and HUL were those that saw short buildup, a bearish sign reflected by drop in prices but rise in open interest.  Sector wise, pharma saw short buildup along with banking. Meanwhile, long buildup was seen in power, textile and chemicals. Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts on Moneycontrol.com are their own and not those of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.   Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.