Google on Tuesday added newer capabilities to its generative AI service, Bard. The large language model can now access and interact with various services, including YouTube, Gmail, and Drive, to deliver personalised results. These new capabilities enable users to plan upcoming trips in real-time, including analysing the cheapest flight tickets and hotels using Google Flights and Google Hotels services. Furthermore, users can now interact with Bard AI in over 40 languages. Google also suggests that the updated large language model is “more intuitive, imaginative, and responsive than ever before.” These new capabilities make Bard AI much more than just an AI chatbot that responds to user queries with textual outputs. When a user connects their Google account with Bard AI, the responses will be even more personal. It can even summarise emails, write the best man’s speech, and can also suggest a trip for an upcoming holiday season by processing various data. Google confirms that personal data will not be used to train its model, and users will have the option to withdraw their data. This can be achieved using the Bard extensions option, where, users can give access to the specific services that the AI can access, which currently includes Google Flights, Google Hotels, Google Maps, Google Workspace, and YouTube. The latest update also focuses on reducing hallucinations, an issue that causes generative AI tools to produce false facts and information. Bard AI’s results are now backed by Google search results, which helps users double-check the statements generated by the LLM. Users can now share their conversations with friends and family, which can be continued by other people. This will be helpful for collaborative projects, allowing more than one person to access all the AI generative responses. Users can also upload images with Google Lens to get image responses and modify Bard AI’s responses. It’s not just Google that has made its generative AI model more capable. OpenAI recently added additional capabilities to its generative model, ChatGPT. Currently limited to premium users, ChatGPT gains voice search capability and can even include images in its responses. 

  In the first round of the Sinquefield Cup, reigning world champion Ding Liren and Indian prodigy D Gukesh played to a draw. This was their third meeting in a classical contest, and likely their last before the World Chess Championship. Despite a few tense moments, Gukesh held his ground and the game ended in a draw.   