Construction continues to lag other industries  in technology adoption, but whether it was Covid-19 or other influences, integration  within the equipment department continues to grow. Organizations that use  construction equipment in their businesses are discovering the value of machine  data not only for asset management, but also for overall organizational  efficiency and financial performance.  An organization’s fleet of construction  equipment is its largest financial asset, and its performance directly affects  bottom line profitability and project efficiency. As equipment managers become  more adept at using data to make sound decisions, upper management is  recognizing the value it adds to cost development, estimating accuracy, and  site performance. Construction Equipment  published its first Technology in Construction report in 2017. This year, we  have partnered with Topcon Positioning Group to shed light on current trends in  technology both in equipment management and construction as an industry. We  invited a select group of the Construction Equipment audience to complete an  online questionnaire; 68 responded. For a more detailed look at the results, click here. Construction Equipment has closely watched the evolution of digital  technology in equipment asset management over the past decades, from early  GPS-guided machine control to development of the ISO telematics standard to  today’s exploration of data-driven service scheduling and predictive  maintenance. Equipment managers understood early that the new information  coming off their machines could be helpful not only to their department’s  performance, but also in aiding the enterprise to meet its financial goals. We define machine data  as information specific to a piece of equipment that can be gathered  digitally—such as hours, idle time, and fuel consumption—and transferred using  telemetry. The industry uses the broad term “telematics” to describe the  transmission of this data into a management format that allows it to be used. The number of equipment asset managers who see  value in machine data continues to grow, even though the implementation is not.  Few doubt that knowing what is happening on a machine increases the manager’s  ability to make decisions that will ensure productive use of that machine. To  take full advantage of the data, however, a fleet needs an analytic  infrastructure designed to collect and interpret it.  For many years, fleet managers have found that  their departments lacked the resources to build this infrastructure, turning to  third-party aggregators or trying to manage dashboards from each brand in the  fleet. Concurrent to this, the number of manufacturers and distributors investing  in their own analytics infrastructure continues to increase. These investments  are driven not only by customer demand, but also by the value data management  has for service revenue. For many fleet managers, such systems provide  opportunities to partner with their dealers on maintenance management while  avoiding investments in in-house technology.  Other fleets, particularly those with larger  estimated replacement values, have benefited from upper management that  recognized the value of incorporating better machine metrics into cost management  of projects currently underway as well as those waiting to be bid. These  organizations have invested in their equipment department’s analytics  infrastructure.  Data can drive equipment efficiency and  performance, and its integration into the financial side of asset management  benefits corporate goals by accurately tracking and estimating the costs of  applying equipment to the projects the organization builds.  One of the most encouraging trends for  equipment managers in recent years is the amount of dealer investment in data  support. Although all are supported by their manufacturers, dealers know that  their service personnel are the face of the brand, and they also now that  service revenue is profitable revenue. The return on investment for a dedicated  data manager can easily be justified. In 2019, we launched the Dealer Excellence  Awards to showcase dealers that are investing in technology to support their  customers. In each case, customer relationships are being strengthened and  their fleet performance improved with data-management partnerships. Last year’s  winner, Bobcat of North Texas, exemplifies how smaller fleets benefit when a  dealer partners on maintenance management. More machines integrated into the nation’s  fleets are capable of transmitting data, according to our study. In 2020, 59  percent of respondents indicated that fewer than 10 percent of their machines  had telematics capabilities. This year, that percentage declined to 45 percent.  This shift is accompanied by a jump in the percentage of respondents saying 10  to 50 percent of their machines are capable, from 20 percent in 2020 to 34  percent this year.  This, of course, only measures the ability to  transmit machine data. When asked if data is actually collected or monitored, 43  percent of respondents said their equipment data collects data, and an  additional 15 percent say their dealers monitor and advise them. Combined,  these data points indicate that more than half of fleets are using machine data  in their equipment management functions. The most common ways equipment managers use  machine data are for monitoring hours or fuel and for scheduling maintenance,  with 74 percent and 70 percent responding, respectively. These types of data directly  influence maintenance management and are seen by many as the low-hanging fruit  as fleets begin using machine data. Of course, this also allows dealer partners  to monitor and even manage preventive maintenance programs. Machine data also has value outside of the  equipment department. Organizations recognize that machine data can drive  profitability and influence acquisition decisions, but more are noting how data  can help mitigate risk. Monitoring data that indicate operator behavior, for  example, can lead to coaching opportunities. In accidents, data can help reduce  or free the organization from liability. Over time, insurance premiums may be  negotiated to more favorable terms. In the past few years, construction firms have begun  accessing and using emerging technologies. Equipment departments, for example,  use mobile apps more consistently than in the past, specifically for  maintenance functions. About half (51 percent) use these apps for equipment inspections,  a key element to maintaining reliability and uptime. Some are able to attach  photos to work orders.  Other apps that have gained acceptance among  construction firms are management tools and safety management.  The use of data in site or project management has  become a goal for many construction firms, yet the realization of integrating  data across various areas of the organization remains elusive. About one in four  (37 percent) said that their organization has implemented such sharing  technologies. Half are using data within various departments, including equipment,  but have not integrated the means for sharing it. Sutton has served as the editorial lead of Construction Equipment magazine and ConstructionEquipment.com since 2001.  Our mission is to help managers of heavy equipment and trucks to improve their performance in acquiring and managing their fleets. One way we do that is with our Executive Institute, where experts share information and ideas that will enable equipment managers to accurately manage equipment costs so that they can deliver the optimum financial benefits to their organizations. We also have a laser focus on product development, performance, and technology; as well as equipment acquisition, disposal, and maintenance. Our exclusive Field Tests take earthmoving equipment and truck into the field for professional evaluations. Check out our free newsletters to see the latest content. You can find Sutton on LinkedIn.