AI, or artificial intelligence, is technology that attempts to simulate human cognitive function. AI has made its way into the software development space in a number of ways. Visit the AI article list to expand your AI knowledge. Learn More Observability is a way for development teams in an organization to view their program state. Failing to provide developers with insight into their tools and processes could lead to unaddressed bugs and even system failures. Read about the latest observability content here Learn More In the past, the CI/CD pipeline was simply a place to integrate code. Developers would write their code in GitHub, pass it through the pipeline, and then deploy it. The pipeline has become a much more critical piece of the software delivery lifecycle today. Learn More Modern cloud-native applications, often leverage microservices, containers, APIs, infrastructure-as-code and more to enable speed in app development and deployment Learn More Sponsored By: Always On, Always Fast Deploy Distributed PostgreSQL in just 90 Seconds Learn More  The Importance of Security Testing With more development teams today using open-source and third-party components to build out their applications, the biggest area of concern for security teams has become the API. This is where vulnerabilities are likely to arise, as keeping on top of updating those interfaces has lagged. Read the Guide Here Mobile App Testing involves analyzing mobile apps for functionality, usability, visual appeal, and consistency across multiple mobile devices. It helps ensure an optimal user experience, irrespective of the device used to access the app. Learn More Today’s distributed software environments incorporate a variety of APIs with every interface your software touches, from mobile to microservices. Each API has to be continuously tested and verified to ensure your software functions as it should. Parasoft’s API testing platform makes quick, efficient, and intelligent work of such requirements. Learn More Ensure your application’s resilience, and make sure your software performs as expected under diverse operating conditions. (sponsored by Parasoft) Learn More    DevSecOps is the DevOps community’s approach to bringing security into the development lifecycle. Businesses want to deliver software, but cannot afford to release unreliable or insecure applications— therefore security needs to be baked in much sooner than it has traditionally been. Learn More Securing an application is just as important as building it in the first place. As data becomes more valuable, there are more people who want to steal it and use it for their own personal gain. Making sure applications are indeed secure has always been a challenge, as hackers try to stay one step ahead of defenders. Learn More Secrets are essential for integrating your infrastructure with databases and SaaS services. Doppler‘s developer-first security platform empowers teams to manage, orchestrate, and govern secrets across any environment. In 2023, there was an 18% decline in the number of open-source projects that are considered to be “actively maintained.” This is according to Sonatype’s Annual State of the Software Supply Chain Report. Learn More Development Managers need a different type of content than developers… They need to know what platforms, tools, trends, and issues they should be thinking about. SD Times delivers those unique topics here Learn More Agile software development has been around since the 1990s, but didn’t get the name until the famous meeting of 17 renowned software development thought leaders at Snowbird, Utah resulted in an Agile Manifesto. The idea behind Agile software development is to reduce time to market by enabling faster iterations of smaller segments of software. Learn More Value stream management involves people in the organization to examine workflows and other processes to ensure they are deriving the maximum value from their efforts while eliminating waste — of resources, time and assets. It is the practice that truly brings the business side and IT side together as partners in creating value for the organization. Learn More Learn More DevOps is a methodology in the software development and IT industry. Used as a set of practices and tools, DevOps integrates and automates the work of software development and IT operations as a means for improving and shortening the systems development life cycle. Learn More Gravitee helps organizations manage and secure their entire API lifecycle with solutions for API design, management, security, productization, real-time observability, and more.  AI, or artificial intelligence, is technology that attempts to simulate human cognitive function. AI has made its way into the software development space in a number of ways. Visit the AI article list to expand your AI knowledge. Learn More Value stream management involves people in the organization to examine workflows and other processes to ensure they are deriving the maximum value from their efforts while eliminating waste — of resources, time and assets. It is the practice that truly brings the business side and IT side together as partners in creating value for the organization. Learn More IndoorAtlas Ltd, the global Platform-as-a-Service leader in geomagnetic indoor positioning technology, today announced it received €2.2 million from the European Commission Horizon 2020 grants program. “This prestigious award from the European Commission recognizes the innovative features and long-term value of IndoorAtlas’ indoor positioning technology,” said Janne Haverinen, CEO of IndoorAtlas. “Developers around the world are using our platform to create location-based applications for a wide variety of indoor venues, and we are committed to continuing our focus on providing them with new features,” added Haverinen. Horizon 2020 is the biggest EU Research and Innovation program, with nearly €80 billion in funding available. Grant recipients, including IndoorAtlas, were selected based on technological breakthroughs with the potential to drive economic growth by taking great ideas from the lab to the market. IndoorAtlas’ researchers originally discovered that each modern building has a unique magnetic fingerprint. They went on to develop software that enables the magnetic sensor within any smartphone to accurately pinpoint and track a person’s location indoors. Developers can now integrate indoor location-based services into their mobile applications. IndoorAtlas’ technology is scalable, accurate and cost-effective. It empowers developers to create customized mobile applications for indoor venues such as shopping centers, airports, resorts, hospitals and much more. 
 Ready to subscribe to SD Times? It's just a click away! Subscribe