In a mobile-first world where most  services are now primarily accessed through mobile apps, the attack surface for  fraudsters has widened. Fraudsters are also getting more sophisticated. They’re  able to use malicious tools to bypass safety and anti-fraud measures, making it  difficult for companies to differentiate between fraudsters and genuine users.  By getting these three things  right, companies will be able to get a complete picture of risks on their  platforms - from devices to the networks they’re on, and at every point on the  user journey. This allows them to gather intelligence about where malicious  actors may be hiding and what tricks they’re using. Every business is unique,  with different priorities and customer journeys, so it's essential to use data  in a way that works for you. For example, inDrive is one of the fastest-growing  online ride-hailing services in the world. With operations in over 700 cities  across 47 countries, hundreds of millions of drivers and passengers use the  service to get from point A to B. However, ride-hailing platforms are plagued  with fraud – from drivers using GPS spoofing to induce fare surges to customers  abusing promotions by creating fake accounts. To take proactive action against  fraud groups, inDrive uses device intelligence to identify the devices used to  create multiple accounts. The company proactively deals with fake accounts,  with a resulting genuine user rate of 99.77%. At the same time, customers also  play a crucial role in choosing where to shop - and the onus is on businesses  to give consumers the assurance that their platform is free from fraud. This  can take the form of social media posts, educational content, or even relevant  industry certifications. When shoppers, partners, and investors know that they  can trust a site, they are more likely to support its growth. Combating  fraud in today's world requires a proactive and multi-faceted approach.  Businesses must gain insights about where the problems lie exclusive to their  business so they can make decisions based on their needs. By evolving their  fraud prevention strategies, companies are able to stop fraud, build trust and  drive growth.