
                     AMH is an independent media house free from political ties or outside influence.
We have four newspapers: The Zimbabwe Independent, a business weekly published every Friday, The Standard, a weekly published every Sunday, and Southern and NewsDay, our daily newspapers. Each has an online edition.
     inDrive, a global mobility and urban services platform with headquarters in California, USA, has announced its expansion into Zimbabwe. With the aim of enhancing accessibility and availability of ride-hailing services in the region, Harare, Zimbabwe becomes the eighth country in Africa and one of over 700 cities worldwide. This move reinforces inDrive's commitment to offering innovative solutions to individuals across the continent. The launch of inDrive in Harare is set to provide a much-needed boost to the local transportation sector and improve the mobility options available to the city's residents. InDrive has gained immense popularity with over 150 million downloads and recognition as the second most downloaded mobility app globally, thanks to its innovative peer-to-peer pricing approach that challenges the injustice of unfair pricing practices in the ride-hailing space. The app's user-friendly interface ensures seamless negotiations and stress-free experience for both passengers and drivers, enabling them to agree on the fare and other crucial elements of the ride. InDrive's unique and fair pricing approach is transforming the ride-hailing industry and redefining the way passengers and drivers interact.  The company is proud to offer a solution that places equal importance on the needs of passengers and drivers, and is dedicated to transforming the way individuals commute How the app works   Distinctive features of inDrive  In case of a safety incident, the company investigates and may provide mental health support resources. Personal information is only disclosed to law enforcement with a valid legal request. Payment is received instantly after completing a ride, and passengers can pay the driver directly via cash or bank transfer. The SOS button is an emergency button that passengers and drivers can use to notify InDrive of a safety concern or emergency during a ride. "We are thrilled to announce the launch of inDrive in Harare, Zimbabwe. We are excited to bring our innovative mobility and urban services platform to this vibrant city and provide our customers with a seamless and convenient experience." Vincent Lilane, Business Development Representative, inDrive Africa. About inDriveinDrive is a global mobility and urban services platform headquartered in Mountain View, California, USA. The inDrive app has been downloaded over 175 million times, and was the second most downloaded mobility app in 2022. In addition to ride-hailing, inDrive provides an expanding list of urban services, including intercity transportation, freight delivery, task assistance, courier delivery and employment search. inDrive operates in more than 700 cities across 47 countries. It supports local communities via its peer-to-peer payment model and community empowerment programs, which help advance education, sports, arts and sciences, gender equality and other vital initiatives.  For more information visit www.inDrive.com  Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! &copy2024. The Zimbabwe Independent. All rights reserved.