
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Mid-East.Info)  Middle East: According to a recent UN study, a staggering 63% of individuals do not feel safe walking alone in their area in the dark. Further insights show that most people instinctively avoid unlit streets and prefer not to wait for their ride in such areas. Because it stands for safer streets, inDrive, the fastest growing international ride-hailing app in 2022, was determined to tackle this problem with its“Light The Night” initiative.
In a city-wide takeover, the global mobility and urban services platform has illuminated the streets of Cairo by transforming billboards into light boxes that maximize brightness, prioritizing safety over advertising. Since April 13, inDrive has flooded 28 carefully selected locations around the city, including the darkest streets, with reassuring bright lights through billboards in a minimalistic design. The billboards feature a URL directing people to the“night light” locations, and a glow-in-the-dark map of the city as its base, ensuring the city's residents easily find these well-lit spots.
inDrive also customized and installed light boxes utilizing special LED tubes that emit 50% more light than conventional billboards, in areas that require additional lighting and have no existing billboards. The project successfully transformed once-dark streets into warm, inviting spaces.
Radio hosts praised inDrive's initiative, raising awareness and informing listeners of the locations of the“Light The Night” billboards. 
The initiative further reinforces inDrive's mission to contribute positively to the city's environment, ensuring that more individuals feel safe both inside and outside their homes
  About inDrive:  
inDrive is a global mobility and urban services platform headquartered in Mountain View, California, USA. The inDrive app has been downloaded over 175 million times, and was the second most downloaded mobility app in 2022. In addition to ride-hailing, inDrive provides an expanding list of urban services, including intercity transportation, freight delivery, task assistance, courier delivery and employment search.

inDrive operates in more than 614 cities across 47 countries. It supports local communities via its peer-to-peer payment model and community empowerment programs, which help advance education, sports, arts and sciences, gender equality and other vital initiatives.
 MENAFN30042023005446012082ID1106142007 Middle East: According to a recent UN study, a staggering 63% of individuals do not feel safe walking alone in their area in the dark. Further insights show that most people instinctively avoid unlit streets and prefer not to wait for their ride in such areas. Because it stands for safer streets, inDrive, the fastest growing international ride-hailing app in 2022, was determined to tackle this problem with its“Light The Night” initiative. In a city-wide takeover, the global mobility and urban services platform has illuminated the streets of Cairo by transforming billboards into light boxes that maximize brightness, prioritizing safety over advertising. Since April 13, inDrive has flooded 28 carefully selected locations around the city, including the darkest streets, with reassuring bright lights through billboards in a minimalistic design. The billboards feature a URL directing people to the“night light” locations, and a glow-in-the-dark map of the city as its base, ensuring the city's residents easily find these well-lit spots. inDrive also customized and installed light boxes utilizing special LED tubes that emit 50% more light than conventional billboards, in areas that require additional lighting and have no existing billboards. The project successfully transformed once-dark streets into warm, inviting spaces. Radio hosts praised inDrive's initiative, raising awareness and informing listeners of the locations of the“Light The Night” billboards.  The initiative further reinforces inDrive's mission to contribute positively to the city's environment, ensuring that more individuals feel safe both inside and outside their homes   About inDrive:   inDrive is a global mobility and urban services platform headquartered in Mountain View, California, USA. The inDrive app has been downloaded over 175 million times, and was the second most downloaded mobility app in 2022. In addition to ride-hailing, inDrive provides an expanding list of urban services, including intercity transportation, freight delivery, task assistance, courier delivery and employment search.

inDrive operates in more than 614 cities across 47 countries. It supports local communities via its peer-to-peer payment model and community empowerment programs, which help advance education, sports, arts and sciences, gender equality and other vital initiatives.
 MENAFN30042023005446012082ID1106142007 MENAFN30042023005446012082ID1106142007 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN