The Mattaur police Wednesday arrested two persons for murdering a 21-year-old cab driver and snatching his car. The accused were produced in the district court and remanded in police custody till May 22. Phase-VII resident Dayanand Sharma, a cab driver associated with InDrive, had gone missing since the intervening night of May 2/3 and the family members had lodged a complaint with the police, following which the police launched an investigation. SP (city) Akashdeep Singh Aulakh said that Dayanad hails from Una district in Himachal Pradesh and was now staying in Phase VII. SP Aulakh added that on the night of May 3, around 1.30 am, Dayanad had dropped his uncle in Sector 68 after picking him from Sector 43 but after that, he went missing and the phone was switched off. SP Aulakh said that during the investigation, it came to light that Dayanad’s cab was booked from Sector 68 and on tracing the phone number which was used to book the cab, it came to light that the number was registered in the name of a person working in a private hospital in Phase VIII. “We questioned the man whose number was used. He told the investigators that one Naib Singh used to provide employees to the hospital. Further investigation revealed that Naib Singh did not return the phone to his fellow employee and used it in the crime. It also came to light that Naib Singh’s real name was Resham Singh,” SP Aulakh said. According to SP Aulakh, they first arrested Resham Singh’s accomplice Punjab Singh on a tip-off and then Resham Singh too was arrested from Godrej Chowk. During the questioning, the accused disclosed that after booking the cab, they asked Dayanand Sharma to take them to near City Park in Sector 68 pretending that one of their friends was waiting for them. “The accused killed Dayanand with a sharp-edged weapon and dumped the weapon and muffler which was used to clean the bloodstains near the city park and then went towards Sector 104 where they dumped Dayanand’s body in a drain,” SP Aulakh said. On the motive for the murder, SP Aulakh said that the investigation had indicated that the accused wanted to snatch the victim’s car and cash. They did not know each other earlier. “Robbery seems to be the motive for the murder. Further investigation is going on,” Aulakh said. A murder case was registered against the accused at Mattaur police station. Anti-war protesters gathered in Chicago during the Democratic National Convention, with some breaking away to tear down a security fence and march as President Biden did a walk-through. Police were present and prepared for the smaller than expected turnout, which included speeches from Cornel West and a small pro-Israel group. Several arrests were made.  