0 By clicking the button, I accept the Terms of Use of the service and its Privacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data. Don’t have an account? Signup  
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us Tata Consultancy Services(TCS) is chosen as a strategic partner by British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) with an aim to fortify its finance and payroll functions. Tata Consultancy Service (TCS) is a well-known name when it comes to global IT services, consulting, and business solutions. Under this transformative collaboration, TCS will utilize its vast contextual knowledge, proprietary platforms, partner ecosystem, and future-ready talent pool to revolutionize the broadcaster's media business model and drive progress in an ever-evolving landscape. The joint venture will focus on managing individual processes spanning strategic and transactional finance operations, leveraging digital technologies to optimize efficiency, process velocity, and overall outcomes. The incorporation of advanced analytics, which will provide BBC with useful insights for quicker and more informed decision-making, will be a hallmark of the relationship. TCS will roll out its artificial intelligence (AI)-driven human-machine collaboration suite, TCS CognixTM, which includes pre-built, cloud-based modules outfitted with AI, ML, and intelligent automation. It will become a formidable force in the sector as a result of these modules' seamless integration with point solutions from several partners. TCS will also be in charge of managing the application estate that supports the HR, procurement, and financial operations of BBC. TCS will close the gap between the business process and application layers by using its unified operations model, allowing for a more comprehensive approach to problem-solving, issue resolution, and change management. "We are pleased to be selected by the BBC as their partner to transform their finance and payroll function. TCS' digital capabilities and domain expertise will help them achieve their business objectives while building greater agility and resilience in their operations," said Amit Kapur, Country Head, UK and Ireland, TCS. "This partnership will strengthen TCS' position as a leader in delivering transformative business services to the media and entertainment industry", writes TCS in its press release. Implementing a cutting-edge partner payroll platform with integrated analytics is a key component of the relationship. With fewer steps and more overall efficiency, this change will streamline BBC's payroll operation. TCS has a solid track record in the UK, where it has been in business for more than 45 years and is affiliated with more than 200 of the most well-known and cherished companies in the country. TCS is one of the top IT employers in the area, employing approximately 21,000 people across the UK and Ireland. According to an unbiased study of CIOs from the major IT spending companies in the UK, their dedication to customer satisfaction has won them the distinction of being the top IT service provider in the country. Both TCS and BBC envision a transformational path towards leveraging the power of technology and innovation, elevating the broadcaster's finance and payroll capabilities as the relationship takes shape. The media and entertainment sector is about to take a dramatic step forward, and TCS is in charge of this transition.    Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    