Being Resilient. That's Live Enterprise. Digital Core Capabilities Digital Operating Model Empowering Talent Transformations Tales of Transformation Industries Services Platforms Infosys Knowledge Institute About Us 
 Bengaluru, India – April 5, 2023 Infosys (NSE, BSE, NYSE: INFY), a global leader in next-generation digital services and consulting, today announced that it has extended its collaboration with LexisNexis, a data and analytics company, to provide end-to-end information services across their range of content, enterprise, and product applications. Through this engagement, Infosys will provide LexisNexis, end-to-end strategic IT services across multiple business domains that include their global content systems, global business systems and product development. These services will provide application maintenance and support, application development and validation, life cycle upgrades, application modernization, and content modernization. As part of the collaboration, Infosys will also provide strategic consultancy for LexisNexis’ downstream, discretionary, and strategic spends. Building further on its 15-year long relationship, Infosys will help ensure continued delivery excellence, while enabling LexisNexis to seamlessly meet expected cost optimization goals and business outcomes. Jeff Reihl, Executive Vice President & Chief Technology Officer, LexisNexis, said, “Our longstanding association with the highly experienced Infosys team has shown excellent results. We at LexisNexis aim to deliver the best content, enterprise, and product application services in the market and we firmly believe that by leveraging Infosys for its downstream, discretionary, and strategic programs, will be in our best interest and we are excited to further expand our relationship with Infosys.” Ashiss Kumar Dash, EVP & Global Head - Services, Utilities, Resources and Energy, Infosys, said, “Our relationship with LexisNexis spans over 15 years, and this new long-term agreement is testament to our great collaboration, delivering true value during that time. Over the coming years, we will continue to bring together industry leading digital capabilities across enterprise applications, content systems, cloud, advanced AI, and talent to continue delivering excellence that reflects the everchanging dynamics of this industry. With a focus on delivering greater innovation and seamless experiences, we look forward to supporting LexisNexis retain and excel its position as a market leader.” Infosys is a global leader in next-generation digital services and consulting. Over 300,000 of our people work to amplify human potential and create the next opportunity for people, businesses, and communities. With over four decades of experience in managing the systems and workings of global enterprises, we expertly steer clients, in more than 50 countries, as they navigate their digital transformation powered by the cloud. We enable them with an AI-powered core, empower the business with agile digital at scale and drive continuous improvement with always-on learning through the transfer of digital skills, expertise, and ideas from our innovation ecosystem. We are deeply committed to being a well-governed, environmentally sustainable organization where diverse talent thrives in an inclusive workplace. Visit www.infosys.com to see how Infosys (NSE, BSE, NYSE: INFY) can help your enterprise navigate your next. Certain statements in this release concerning our future growth prospects, financial expectations and plans for navigating the COVID-19 impact on our employees, clients and stakeholders are forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the 'safe harbor' under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties relating to these statements include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties regarding COVID-19 and the effects of government and other measures seeking to contain its spread, risks related to an economic downturn or recession in India, the United States and other countries around the world, changes in political, business, and economic conditions, fluctuations in earnings, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, our ability to manage growth, intense competition in IT services including those factors which may affect our cost advantage, wage increases in India and the US, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals, time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts, client concentration, restrictions on immigration, industry segment concentration, our ability to manage our international operations, reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication networks or system failures, our ability to successfully complete and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts, the success of the companies in which Infosys has made strategic investments, withdrawal or expiration of governmental fiscal incentives, political instability and regional conflicts, legal restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual property and general economic conditions affecting our industry and the outcome of pending litigation and government investigation. Additional risks that could affect our future operating results are more fully described in our United States Securities and Exchange Commission filings including our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. These filings are available at www.sec.gov. Infosys may, from time to time, make additional written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our reports to shareholders. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that may be made from time to time by or on behalf of the Company unless it is required by law. For more information, please contact: PR_Global@infosys.com Company Subsidiaries Programs Support Connect with us Copyright © 2024 Infosys Limited