The pumpkin and alfalfa is back! The Colorado State football team honors its heritage from when it was known as the Colorado A&M Aggies by wearing the colors from the time, with bright orange jerseys and an "orange out" game. CSU hosts Utah Tech at 5 p.m. Saturday, Sept. 30 for its final nonconference game of the season. Follow along here for updates leading up to kickoff and then throughout Saturday's Ag Day game. Colorado State 41, Utah Tech 20 Rams win to finish nonconference play 2-2. 5 takeaways:Colorado State football struggles, but finally pushes past Utah Tech With the game in hand, true freshman Jackson Brousseau enters the game. First action for the true freshman QB. The CSU defense forces a turnover on downs and gets the ball back to the offense on the 31. It turns into another Horton TD, this one from 6 yards out. Horton has an amazing 227 yards on 10 catches and three TDs. The 227 yards is 7th in CSU's single-game history. Rams lead 41-20 with 6:59 to go. The CSU offense is getting going again. A 34-yard pass to Justus Ross-Simmons and then Dallin Holker with a sensational run-after-catch for a 42-yard TD. It's 34-20 CSU with 11:18 to go. It was a 90-yard drive in just six plays. Colorado State 27, Utah Tech 20 Utah Tech first and 10 at own 45 to start fourth quarter. CSU's defense got a quick stop after the INT and the Rams got the ball back at the Utah Tech 40. A 27-yard pass to Dallin Holker got CSU to the 2 and walk-on Vann Schield ran it in for his first career TD. CSU missed the PAT (Jordan Noyes hasn't been kicking, we're not sure why) and it's a 27-20 lead with 58 seconds left in the third quarter. A 54-yard pass to Tory Horton puts CSU in the red zone, but a reckless third-down throw into a ton of coverage is picked off. It's Fowler-Nicolosi's second pick and third turnover today. Utah Tech ball at own 4, trailing by a point. Utah Tech's Connor Brooksby hits a 52-yard field goal with tons of room to spare. It's now just 21-20 Colorado State with 7:28 left in the third quarter. Both teams go three-and-out on their first drives of the second half. The second half started at 8:01 p.m. MT. The game began at 5:02 p.m. MT. Colorado State 21, Utah Tech 17 The final minute-plus of the second quarter is uneventful and we go into a 20-minute halftime after Utah Tech didn't agree to skipping halftime after the delays. CSU will kick to start the second half. Play resumed at 7:35 p.m. MT after a 26-minute delay. There will be a halftime after the final minute-plus of the second quarter is played. The game is expected to resume about 7:35 p.m. MT. There will be a halftime as both teams didn't agree on an expedited halftime. Ugh. Yet again, lightning delay. At 7:09 p.m. MT with 1:56 left in the first half we enter a lightning delay for the second time. Whenever we resume again it's a 1st and 10 for Utah Tech at its own 22. CSU's defense is really struggling against the FCS foe. Utah Tech goes down the field and has an 8-yard TD pass to cut it to 21-17 CSU with 4:44 left in second quarter. Utah Tech has 196 yards of offense already. Nowhere near good enough from CSU's D. CSU with another quick start, this one after the 50-minute lightning delay. A few strong Vann Schield runs, a 41-yard pass to Dylan Goffney and a 4-yard TD run for Brayden Fowler-Nicolosi and CSU takes a 21-10 lead with 12:15 left in second quarter. It was a 75-yard drive in six plays in just 2:27. Very efficient from the Rams. The game is set to resume at about 6:37 p.m. MT after a roughly 50-minute delay. The game has entered a lightning delay with 14:42 left in the second quarter. CSU leads 14-10. It's CSU ball 1st and 10 at its own 25 whenever we resume. Early in second quarter Brayden Fowler-Nicolosi fumbles while scrambling and Utah Tech gets the ball at CSU's 33. First play, a strike to the end zone. It's now 14-10 CSU with 14:42 until half. All 10 Utah Tech points are off turnovers. CSU 14, Utah Tech 3 CSU 2nd and 6 at own 29 to start 2Q. Utah Tech hits a 25-yard field goal after the interception to get on the board. CSU lead is 14-3 with 9 seconds left in the first quarter. Rams are already rolling in a lot of different players on defense. CSU had a chance to build the 14-point lead but BFN throws an ill-advised pass. Utah Tech picks it off at own 41. This might get ugly, fast. On first play after the INT Tory Horton races 76 yards for a TD on a short pass. He has 136 yards on five catches, two of them for TDs. Fowler-Nicolosi is 7-7 for 147 and 2 TDs. It's 14-0 CSU. Utah Tech drives inside CSU's 20 on first series of the game, but a poor pass from Kobe Tracy goes far too in front of his receiver and CSU safety Jack Howell picks it off near goal line. He returned it out to CSU's 24. It's the first pick of the season for Howell. CSU makes use of having the ball first. Brayden Fowler-Nicolosi hits all six of his passes on the opening drive for 71 yards. Sixty of those yards (on four catches) go to Tory Horton, including a 21-yard TD. Rams up 7-0 with 10:45 left in the first quarter. It's an eight-play, 85-yard drive in 4:07 to begin the game. Perfect start for CSU. CSU won the toss, which usually leads to the Rams kicking. But this time CSU takes the ball. An aggressive intention, it appears. Some big-name former Rams are at Canvas Stadium. Seen so far: Volleyball stars Adrianna Culbert and Marlee Reynolds, football player Weston Richburg and basketball's David Roddy. Roddy, you know, used to play football before going in on his little basketball hobby. Across campus from Canvas Stadium the CSU volleyball team started the day well with a 3-0 sweep of UNLV, one of the contenders for the Mountain West crown. Also, coach Emily Kohan had the outfit of the day. CSU has lost two-straight games against FCS opponents and three of its last four against the lower level. The Rams are looking to break that. The Rams also haven't won back-to-back games since Games 5 and 6 of the 2021 season. Those two victories were followed by six-straight losses to close the Steve Addazio era. Here's a look from CSU's superb equipment staff at preparing the Ag Day helmets. Here's a gameday timeline on campus: OK, Colorado State is favored to win. What are some of the key things to watch for in the game? How about the running back rotation? Will more than one QB play? All that and more: More:What to watch for in Utah Tech at Colorado State football game CSU star Mohamed Kamara leads FBS in sacks per game with five, despite only playing in 2.5 games. He's only a half-sack behind in total sacks (5.5). He's one of the most unique personalities on the team. Read up on the fifth-year senior: The relentless Mohamed Kamara:Meet one of college football’s sacks leaders No, the game isn't on traditional linear TV but it can be streamed online from anywhere. Here's how: More:What channel is Utah Tech vs. Colorado State football on? Time, TV, streaming schedule Henry Blackburn's hit on Colorado's Travis Hunter led to death threats aimed at Blackburn and family. It was an ugly, ugly scene. Out of the mess has come the two at the heart of it: Blackburn and Travis have been in communication since the game and this week they met in-person to chat and go bowling. It's been a mature response from the two young players. Going to Ag Day? Here's everything you need to know about going to a football game at Canvas Stadium: More:Going to a 2023 Colorado State football game at Canvas Stadium? Here's what to know Follow sports reporter Kevin Lytle on Twitter and Instagram @Kevin_Lytle.