There are some children who are so exceptionally talented in music that it makes you have goosebumps. A seven-year-old child prodigy has taken the internet by storm with his amazing guitar skills. The young musician played the classic song ‘Sweet Child O’ Mine’ by Guns N’ Roses in a video posted on Instagram and netizens can’t stop lauding his flawless performance. The boy named Leonardo (@leonardo_fibonaccipatrick2226) has mesmerised the internet with his rendition of various rock songs such as Careless Whisper by George Michael, Blackbird by the Beatles, Wonderful Tonight by Eric Clapton, Money for Nothing by Dire Straits among others. In the video posted on March 9, Leonardo is seen strumming an acoustic guitar perfectly to play the tune of the song ‘Sweet Child O’ Mine’. The song was originally released in 1987. Watch the video below:     A post shared by Leonardo Rockstar (@leonardo_fibonaccipatrick2226) The clip has amassed more than 9.80 lakh views since being posted. “I just don’t understand how he can be so brilliant, so young! He must be a reincarnated someone!” commented a user. “Who taught him this at such an early stage in his life. He’s very Gifted,” said another. “So very talented! Love listening,” appreciated another. Leonardo has 2.17 lakh followers on Instagram. In 2019, an Indian piano prodigy, Lydian Nadhaswaram, wowed the audience with his performance on The Ellen Show. The 13-year-old from Chennai spoke about his love and passion for music and how he mastered playing two pianos at the same time. And then, he played a piece composed by Mozart blindfolded! Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only Vinesh Phogat was disqualified from the Paris Olympics for being around 100 grams over the weight limit. In its ruling, Court of Arbitration for Sport called the decision 'draconian'. But the report recognized fairness of ineligibility for next event. Vinesh Phogat's appeal for shared silver medal was denied.  