Nation's Restaurant News is part of the Informa Connect Division of Informa PLC This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726. George Lessmeister  | Jun 30, 2023 Our team participated in May’s National Restaurant Association Show in Chicago. Dining post-COVID lockdown continues to shift and change. Going into the show, we honestly were curious about the session conversations, show floor promotions and client meetings. One of the main takeaways is that home is the major competitor for restaurants. In terms of staffing, our specialty, how can you compete? Here is what we learned. During the show sessions, conversations revolved around competing for business. Does a family eat out or stay home? The pandemic got everyone accustomed to eating at home. For most people, they go out so they can get personal attention and first-rate service. They remember and return to restaurants that make them feel good. This kind of treatment isn’t limited to table service in five-star restaurants. Even in fast-food establishments, opportunities for excellent service abound. Keeping tables clean, taking orders with a smile, and letting people know you’re glad they came will make customers of even the humblest burger joint feel appreciated and inspired to return. The key to providing excellent service is not only having quality staff but also retaining them. We heard at the show that staff want and need a voice, a predictable schedule, and fulfillment on the job. This was dubbed labor leverage. If you’re not able to give full-time staff this type of culture and workplace, using temporary staff might be a good option. Many people are surprised to learn that temp workers are a more consistent source of quality help because they’ve already been vetted and trained by the staffing agency, and they show up because they’re only assigned to the shifts they’ve already asked for. Before leaving for the conference in Chicago, our team did what any marketing and sales crew would do, we got in touch with attendees to share information about services. We were honestly surprised at the number of meetings and conversations for permanent leadership positions. Why? Because we know restaurants remain short staffed at the hourly level. We’ll keep an eye on this trend. Perhaps new leaders will be charged with solving the staffing dilemma onsite. We all know COVID changed some people’s outlook on food safety. The experience of going into a restaurant where the food handler is touching their face or the tables aren’t clean, and customers won’t go back. They’ll either eat at home or they’ll see if your competitor is doing a better job. When short-handed, it can be hard to keep up with overflowing trash cans and tables that haven’t been bussed, but neglecting those tasks makes the restaurant look unclean and drives down return business. It can be tempting to have the owner/manager pick up the slack and do those jobs, but it’s not cost effective, and it makes the restaurant look desperate. On-call temporary staff could be just the answer for recurrent staffing problems. We heard a lot about using creative seasonal offerings or limited-time menu items to draw in patrons looking for a new taste experience. Themed pop-ups, one-off events, and performances can attract diners who like to eat out for entertainment, not just for a meal. Customers also enjoy fun automated gadgets such as the Coke Freestyle machine and the Heinz Remix to liven up their dining out experience. The growing popularity of sparkling water and the increasing demand for non-alcoholic adult beverage options (as demand for alcohol drops) are also opportunities for adding new or unique offerings to your menu. Staying home also means ordering out for front door delivery. There’s a growing concern among quick service and sit down restaurant owners about these services. Diners don’t understand that their restaurant is a separate business entity. They don’t control the delivery time and how the final food presentation appears when it arrives. This can be reflected in online reviews. While this isn’t a staffing issue, it’s a topic that our team is aware is happening. If the restaurant show taught us anything, it was that experience is the name of the game. Patrons want a dining experience that is different — and better — than what they could have at home. Focusing on the finding the right staff and dining experience will win customers back. Lessmeister is CEO and founder of LGC Hospitality, a national staffing firm headquartered in Indianapolis. LGC has offices in over 40 U.S. cities. Team members work with hotel and restaurant leadership to place executives and temporary workers. More information about text formats Follow us: