The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. AT&T vs. Spectrum? These internet service provider (ISP) titans offer coverage in nearly half of the country, so it may be hard to determine which is better for your home. While all ISPs have lists of both pros and cons, you should try to make the most informed choice for your home so you can save money and receive the best internet service possible. Read on for our guide to AT&T and Spectrum’s home internet services, the pros and cons of each company and why we think AT&T is the better choice overall. AT&T    To determine the best internet provider ranking, the Forbes Home editorial team analyzed third-party data on dozens of companies, with each company’s star rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including: With its relatively-affordable price points, not-as-terribly-regarded customer service and variety of plans covering any internet need, AT&T Internet satisfies a lot of needs.. Changes, upgrades and cancellations of AT&T internet service should be stress-free since there are no annual contracts. Besides offering phone support and live chat, AT&T also offers in-store appointments that can be easily scheduled. A wide selection of plans is available, including the high-speed 1,000-plus Mbps internet plan for gamers and the more affordable 1.5 Mbps plan for those who only check email occasionally. Whichever way you use the internet, AT&T has a speed option for everyone. AT&T offers plans for a variety of different internet speeds so customers can find what best fits their needs. AT&T’s plans are sorted by speeds but not all are available in every area. AT&T’s Fixed Wireless Internet plan is designed for customers with limited internet options. With speeds of up to 25 Mbps, it is a suitable alternative to satellite internet, assuming there is wireless service in your area. We recommend new internet customers start with either 300 or 500 Mbps unless you truly only ever use the internet to check your email. The former, 300 Mbps, is good for one to two people streaming video, but any more people—or any higher internet usage—will need a higher speed plan. AT&T offers only two types of coverage: fiber internet and fixed wireless. Fiber, short for fiber optic, is much faster and significantly more reliable than other types of connections. Fixed wireless is designed for rural areas with poor internet connection availability, and it isn’t considered as reliable. AT&T offers fiber in many states, including: One of AT&T’s biggest benefits is its larger coverage area. Servicing nearly 45% of the U.S., AT&T’s fiber network is one of the largest in the country and beats out Spectrum’s coverage area of around 39%. Another huge benefit AT&T offers is an unlimited home internet data allowance on plans from Internet 500 and faster.. Note that “unlimited data” in many forms isn’t traditionally always unlimited—bottlenecking speed or reducing network priority when you’ve reached a certain limit may become an issue. Read the fine print of any specific agreement you make carefully. Although AT&T’s internet offers competitive pricing and zippy fiber speeds, the DSL internet plans are lacking. AT&T’s prices match or are lower than those of other ISPs serving similar areas. AT&T Fiber speeds range from 300 to 5000 MBps, making them perfect for family members who work, study and have fun online. AT&T DSL speeds are too slow and too unpredictable for us. AT&T Fiber plans come with unlimited data, but AT&T DSL plans have a 1 TB data cap (unless you pay for extra data). Customer service is not something ISPs are known for, but AT&T rates as one of the better internet providers out there. Spectrum    To determine the best internet provider ranking, the Forbes Home editorial team analyzed third-party data on dozens of companies, with each company’s star rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including: Officially called “Charter Spectrum,” Spectrum is the internet service provider brand of Charter Communications which also owns Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks. One of the top three U.S. internet providers, Spectrum is primarily available in major metro areas like New York, Los Angeles, Orlando and Chicago. The company’s tier-based pricing system is easy to understand, and the unlimited data and contract-free options make Spectrum a popular option with cord cutters. Also, Spectrum offers a two-year price lock deal if you’re happy with your internet plan. Unlike AT&T which offers a confusingly long list of plans and pricing options, Spectrum makes its options relatively simple and straightforward. Keep in mind that though Spectrum’s prices are relatively affordable, all three of its plans increase in price after the first year. Additionally, Spectrum’s gigabit plan (up to 1000 Mbps) requires a gigabit-capable router and is only guaranteed with wired connections. Spectrum internet is available in 42 out of 50 U.S. states including Hawaii. The majority of its coverage is in the northeastern U.S., and the five states with the most availability are Ohio, Maine, New York, Wisconsin and North Carolina. One of the biggest benefits with Spectrum internet is that the company offers easy self-installation at a low cost. For only $19.99, compared to AT&T’s $35, Spectrum allows customers to self-install routers—meaning your internet gets up and running sooner, cheaper and without requiring a technician to visit your home. Spectrum also offers discounted TV and internet bundles to allow you to pair one of the company’s cable internet plans with its TV Select service. For $99.98/month (for the first 12 months), customers can bundle Spectrum’s 300 Mbps internet plan with 125+ TV channels. For $119.98/month, customers can bundle Spectrum’s Ultra plan giving them up to 500 Mbps and the TV Select Service in one package. At the end of the day, Spectrum’s too-good-to-be-true prices are exactly that. All of Spectrum’s advertising prices are only locked in for your first year of service, after which your monthly premium will increase. Additionally, while AT&T offers fiber internet service, Spectrum’s wide availability of service is only offered via a combination fiber and coaxial cable connection. Finally, Spectrum has been regularly and repeatedly criticized by customers for its service and its customer support. In fact, Spectrum’s low customer support ratings and its lack of unlimited data are what puts it at the bottom of our best internet providers of 2024 list. AT&T offers a high-speed fiber optic plan, as well as a fixed wireless internet connection plan which uses cellular towers. The latter is great for rural customers who don’t have access to fiber optic or cable internet options and would otherwise depend on either satellite or DSL service. Spectrum’s internet services are offered via a hybrid fiber-coaxial network which delivers a more stable connection than 100% coaxial cable networks because parts of the network consist of fiber. You may still see inconsistent internet speeds with this hybrid network but you will see much faster speeds than standard cable connections. Both ISPs offer relatively affordable services but Spectrum beats AT&T for the best price per Mbps. AT&T, on the other hand, offers significantly more plan options meaning its customers have much more choice in finding the best internet service for their needs. While Spectrum’s prices are significantly more affordable per Mbps than AT&T’s, AT&T offers much faster speeds overall. While Spectrum’s top-speed plan caps out at 1 Gbps or 1000 Mbps, AT&T offers speeds up to 5 Gs or 5000 Mbps. What makes AT&T and Spectrum both great picks for affordable and easy-to-use internet service is that each offers contract-less internet plans with no data caps. Keep in mind that while AT&T’s standard internet service plans do not have data caps, the Fixed Wireless plans do have a 350 GB per month data cap. Bottlenecked speed after a certain threshold has traditionally upset many a customer who thought “unlimited” meant actually unlimited, so be sure to check any specifics in your fine print. Both ISPs have a wide amount of availability across the entire United States. AT&T services about 44% of the U.S. population with its main coverage centered around California, the Midwest and the South. Spectrum reaches approximately 39% of the population with availability in New York, Ohio, California, Texas and much of New England. Both companies offer self-installation services for routers, which makes getting your internet up and running easy and pain-free. Self-installation has been especially beneficial for homeowners during the Covid-19 pandemic, as it means technicians don’t need to enter your home. If you have any trouble with self-installation, both companies offer tech support via phone to get you up and running. AT&T and Spectrum share several similarities in the equipment they use to deliver services. Both companies require customers to use routers and modems to connect to their internet services. The router plays a pivotal role as it serves as a gateway, creating a Wide Area Network (WAN) that enables connectivity with other computers remotely. Meanwhile, modems play a crucial role in receiving and transmitting signals from a service provider, allowing devices in homes or businesses to use the internet. In addition, both companies offer television services. They commonly deploy set-top boxes with features like on-demand content, DVR capabilities and additional services. While AT&T may emphasize its fiber optics for television services, Spectrum relies on cable technology. AT&T and Spectrum offer bundles combining broadband internet service with wireless plans, providing customers with a seamless solution for connectivity needs. With these bundled packages, customers can enjoy high-speed internet at home and on the go, Wi-Fi services and unlimited data plans. Customers can also choose from various internet speeds to meet their specific needs. AT&T and Spectrum have designed these bundled packages to provide a comprehensive solution, ensuring users can access reliable internet and wireless services across multiple devices. In terms of reliability, it’s essential to consider the specific location, local network infrastructure and the type of service available in your area. Reliability is a factor to consider when selecting your internet service provider. You want to ensure that your internet connection is fast, reliable and consistent when needed. AT&T offers services through a combination of fiber-optic and DSL technology, focusing on expanding its fiber-optic network. Fiber-optic technology tends to offer high-speed and reliable internet connections, especially in areas where it is available. However, the availability of fiber-optic services may be limited in some regions. On the other hand, Spectrum primarily relies on cable technology for its internet services. Cable internet is generally known for delivering consistent speeds, but factors like network congestion can influence the reliability during peak hours. When it comes to the choice between AT&T and Spectrum, we chose AT&T as our best internet service provider of the two. No ISP is great, but AT&T has better availability, better customer service and more plan options, which make the company the preferred choice for homeowners across the country. Making the choice between AT&T and Spectrum will likely come down to what you are looking for in terms of speeds and cost. AT&T offers significantly faster speeds (assuming you live within its fiber network coverage area) but overall, it is much more expensive than Spectrum. AT&T also requires higher fees for both professional and self-installation. If you’re looking for the most affordable ISP with decent speeds across the board, Spectrum is likely a better choice for you. Spectrum is a highly-rated internet service provider and ranks tenth on our list for Best Internet Service Providers of 2024. Customers report plenty of internet slowdown with Spectrum, especially in major cities. Spectrum makes it very easy to switch from a previous carrier such as AT&T. You’ll just need your account info from your previous carrier including your Account Number and Account PIN. Make sure to not cancel service with your previous carrier: Spectrum will handle cancellation for you. AT&T takes first place in our Best Internet Services of 2024 list due to a number of factors including the reliability and speed of its internet service. This is highly area-specific, as AT&T offers an extensive fiber network, but also a Fixed Wireless network. Fixed wireless may be significantly slower and/or less reliable than fiber. AT&T offers various internet plans that are ideal for online gaming. If you’re looking for the best experience, you’ll want to choose a plan that offers fiber-optic or DSL services. Fiber-optic is generally faster than DSL, but both are reliable and high-performance connections that will give you the best chance at having a smooth gaming session. The best internet speed for your home depends on the activities you enjoy and how many devices and/or members of your home will be accessing the internet at the same time. While 300 Mbps may be good for one or two devices streaming HD video, it will be too slow for playing online video games or for larger households. 
				Chauncey grew up on a farm in rural northern California. At 18 he ran away and saw the world with a backpack and a credit card, discovering that the true value of any point or mile is the experience it facilitates. He remains most at home on a tractor, but has learned that opportunity is where he finds it and discomfort is more interesting than complacency.
			 
				Corinne Tynan is a highly skilled contributing editor at Forbes Home, with a wealth of knowledge and expertise in various areas such as interior design and home improvement. With over 10 years of experience in writing, editing and SEO content strategy for digital properties, such as Bed Bath & Beyond, buybuy BABY, Harmon and Macy's, Corinne brings a unique perspective and deep understanding of all things related to enhancing and beautifying homes.
			