A MAJOR broadband provider went down leaving customers unable to browse the web. Problems started on Tuesday afternoon (May 23), when thousands of customers logged issues with their Virgin Media services on the outage detection site Downdetector. Over 2,000 customers complained that their landline internet services went down. Affected customers took to Twitter to express their frustration at the outage. One customer said: "Virgin media is embarrassing, down again." Another said: "Please fix your wifi. This is the third time in a month or two that your wifi has died.  "Looking at Downdetector, you've had a spike of over 1,000 reports of  outage." "Anyone else with Virgin Media Wi-Fi just forever in a battle with it," said a third customer. Virgin Media has confirmed that the issue is now resolved and all connections should be restored. A Virgin Media spokesperson said: "There was a very brief issue lasting just five minutes which impacted some customers, predominantly in the North, this afternoon. "This is already resolved and we apologise for any inconvenience caused." Virgin Media services have already gone down for customers several times in the past few weeks. Services last went down for hundreds of customers on May 10. Before this, 2,000 customers lost services just five days beforehand. And a few weeks ago, tens of thousands of internet users were affected by a widespread outage. We've previously revealed how you can check your Virgin Media service status. You may be entitled to compensation if you have suffered issues with your internet, call or mobile services - but not for shorter outages. When it comes to TV outages, the services don't come under that same scheme. Internet firms usually pay out £8 for each day broadband and home phone services are not repaired after two full days of no service. They will also pay £25 for each missed appointment, or for appointments cancelled with less than 24 hours notice, plus you'll get £5 for each calendar day delay to the start of the new service. This is usually automatic. If you're a mobile customer and you suffer from a lack of service then depending on the circumstance you may be entitled to a refund or account credit. If you're without service for a sustained period of time then you may also have the right to leave without incurring a fee, although neither of these is automatic - you need to ask your provider.  If your problem is still unresolved after eight weeks, you can complain to an independent Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) scheme. Virgin Media is signed up to the CISAS ADR scheme. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/