The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. As one of the largest internet service providers in the United States, AT&T helps millions of people get online every day. However, it isn’t without its drawbacks, especially when AT&T internet is slow. Before pointing a finger at AT&T, explore the possible reasons for slow AT&T internet—which include potential issues with the provider as well as some ways you might be contributing to slow internet. The fact is that the majority of us depend on fast, reliable internet every day. The internet helps us work remotely. It helps us stream our favorite shows without lag times. It helps us make video calls to stay in touch with friends and family. On the flip side, if the internet is slow, the frustrations are endless. Start by diagnosing the reason your AT&T internet is slow and then find the solution. With a variety of internet plans, AT&T has internet packages available that can support a lot of devices within one household. The key word there is “can.” Some of the smaller AT&T internet packages, such as Internet 25, are only designed to support three to four devices and aren’t great with large file sharing, streaming in HD, online gaming and so on. Even if you are just using one device (such as a computer) and have too many tabs open or videos cued up at one time, it can slow down the internet. If you have one of the smaller AT&T internet packages and find that the internet is too slow, you may need to consider upgrading to a bigger package. Better yet, if AT&T Fiber internet is available where you live, that will provide AT&T’s fastest internet. Also, be sure your WiFi network is set to private with a password that only you and trusted users know. Otherwise, you are susceptible to outside, unauthorized users tapping into your network and eating up your bandwidth. Your AT&T needs a router to run wireless internet throughout the house. You’ll notice slow internet speeds if the router isn’t working well. It can help to restart your router to clear the cache, which can result in faster internet speeds again. Another possible issue is that you are trying to use a device far away from the router. If you notice your internet speed is faster when you are in the same room as the router and slower when you move farther away, you may want to invest in a WiFi extender that will help your signal reach all corners of the house. If you have AT&T internet, you are allowed to use your own router and modem if you prefer doing that versus renting the equipment through AT&T. Many routers and modems are compatible with AT&T internet. However, you will need to use a critical eye when selecting the right equipment for you so that your router and modem can handle the internet speeds you’re paying for through AT&T. For example, if you have the Internet 100 package through AT&T, you’ll need a router and modem that support download speeds greater than 100 Mbps. AT&T may throttle your internet—which will result in slower download or upload speeds, trouble with gaming and more. As frustrating as that is when you’re paying for service, it’s a relatively common (and legal) practice among internet service providers. AT&T acknowledges that there are situations when the company may throttle your internet. These include times when the network is too busy or if you’ve used up more than 75% of your allotted data for a single bill period. To get around internet throttling, you can consider using a virtual private network (VPN), which will keep your network information secure and prevent AT&T from restricting your speed. However, the best-quality VPNs come at a cost, so the better alternative may be upgrading to a bigger AT&T internet package or switching to AT&T Fiber. If you are already using a VPN and still have trouble with internet speeds, check to make sure there aren’t issues with your devices and consider switching to a VPN that can handle your needs. No one likes dealing with slow internet—especially if you are paying for AT&T with the expectation that it will be fast and reliable. To get your internet running faster as soon as possible, try these troubleshooting steps. To get a clear sense of your internet speed, run a free internet speed test. If your internet speed is running well below what you are paying for through your AT&T package, explore common causes for the slowdown. Several of the entry AT&T internet packages are only suited to handling a few devices at a time. If you are overloading your system, the internet speed on each device will suffer. To improve your internet speed, close out extra windows, tabs and videos that aren’t in use on every device. Then, consider streamlining which devices you want to connect to the network. Restarting your router, modem and even the individual devices can help you get your internet speed back on track. If you suspect your internet is getting throttled by AT&T, a VPN can help prevent that from happening. There are a number of VPNs available, including some free options. However, the best VPNs for supporting high internet speeds typically cost money. It’s worthwhile to weigh whether you should get a VPN or upgrade to another package or internet service provider.
 If AT&T Fiber is available in your area and within your budget, that is the best way to get reliably fast internet from AT&T. Even if AT&T Fiber isn’t yet in your area, switching to a higher capacity package like AT&T 100 will allow you to connect more devices, get a download speed of up to 100 Mbps and stream videos in HD. 
				Since graduating with a journalism degree in 2012, Emily has worked on staff and in freelance roles for a variety of publications, including Realtor.com, as well as local real estate companies. As a long-time member of the Forbes Home team, Emily has shared dozens of informative articles about topics ranging from pest control to solar incentives and much more.
			 
				Sami Allen is an editor with a decade of experience in editorial and who is currently the managing editor at Forbes Home. She got her start in lifestyle writing and editing at Oprah Magazine and more recently sharpened her home repair and design skills at websites like The Spruce and HomeAdvisor.
			