    
   SCROLL TO SITE SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Reviewed By
									 Home internet service has become an essential commodity. Like utility bills or an outdated telephone line, having a home internet plan is just another cost of living. However, unlike most utilities, even some of the best internet services may have capacity limits or data caps. If you use more than your allotted amount of data, you could experience service interruptions, your internet speed may slow to crawl or worse, you’ll have to pay overage fees. That’s where an unlimited internet plan comes in. An unlimited internet data plan allows customers to use as much data as they like each month without incurring overage fees. And while many providers now offer affordable unlimited data plans, each one offers different features. That can make choosing the one right for your household challenging. To help you select the unlimited internet provider that’s right for your needs, we examined each of the top competitors that offer the service and listed the best five unlimited data home internet companies and plans here. We developed our list of the best unlimited internet providers by first identifying competitors that met basic criteria, then reviewing the 23 most widely available companies from that list and scoring them all based on 35 different attributes, focusing primarily on speed and connections. We further pared our list down to the fastest internet providers. Our ratings take into consideration factors like customer reviews, customer support options, plans and pricing, download speed, fiber 5G availability, nationwide coverage and editorial judgment points. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Why you can trust Forbes Home: The Forbes Home team is committed to bringing you independent, unbiased ratings and information. We use data and expert advice to inform all of our content. Plus, our advisory board of licensed professionals fact-checks and reviews our content for accuracy and relevancy. Google Fiber    Offering incredibly fast download speeds and equally fast uploads, Google Fiber lets you choose from four high-speed internet plans—if you live in one of just 30 cities where the service is available. The company’s 1 Gig, 1 Gbps download speed plan includes equally fast uploads and a Nest Wi-Fi. Its other unlimited data plans provide additional hardware and between 2, 5 or 8 Gig speeds. All plans include 1 TB of cloud storage. Google Fiber’s 1 Gig plan can download 30 five-minute songs in the time it takes to say those words and is as fast as most of its competitors’ highest-cost plans. A Google fiber connection is likely faster than most users need. However, the cost is justifiable for serious gamers or those who work online. Learn More:  Google Fiber review Google Fiber offers its 1 Gig and 2 Gig plans for $70 and $100  per month. The plans include symmetrical download and upload speeds, a Next Wi-Fi and 1 TB of cloud storage. The company also offers 5 Gig and 8 Gig plans in select areas that cost $125 and $150  monthly and provide additional hardware and 1 TB of cloud storage. AT&T Internet    Featuring high overall consumer reviews, AT&T Internet has plans for casual and serious internet users, and everyone in between. While the company offers low-cost internet plans  with as little as 10 Mbps speeds and a data cap, its fiber plan options provide much faster speeds and unlimited data. You can also purchase unlimited data in the plans that don’t have the feature. The company’s five unlimited fiber-connected data plans start at a speed of 300 Mbps and top out at its 5 Gig plan. Costs range from $55 to $250 per month  and are only available in select areas. However, if you’re an AT&T wireless customer, you can enjoy a $20 monthly  plan discount. Learn More:  AT&T Internet review AT&T offers six plans that include unlimited data. You can purchase unlimited data in the plans with caps. The unlimited fiber plans range from 300 Mbps for $55 per month  to a 5 Gbps plan for $250  that supports up to 12 devices. Verizon Fios    Verizon is a major player in the telecommunications industry. Its fiber optic unlimited data home internet offers features consistent with that tag. The company’s unlimited plans start with a 300 Mbps plan for under $50, with or without discounts, that includes a free router and a two-year price guarantee. Its fastest plan features up to 940 Gbps downloads, a free router and a four-year price-lock promise. The plan costs $89.99  before discounts. Despite Verizon’s fiber options being limited to nine East Coast states and Washington D.C., the company’s 5G phone service is available virtually everywhere. Bundling your phone and internet reduces the cost of your home internet  substantially, meaning that a 300 Mbps plan could cost as little as $24.99  per month. Learn More:  Verizon Fios review Verizon Fios is available in three plans. The 300 Mbps plan features free router rental and a two-year price guarantee for under $25  when bundled with Verizon 5G Wireless. The company also has 500 Mbps and 1 Gig plans with free router rental and price guarantees available. These plans cost between $44.99 and $89.99, depending on bundling discounts. T-Mobile Home Internet    Regarding unlimited data home internet plans, T-Mobile does it a little differently. Don’t look for super-fast download speeds or serious gaming capabilities with the company’s single plan offering. But for those who just need internet to get things done online without a bunch of hassle, T-Mobile might have the plan for you. The company’s single plan features 5G cellular service that includes a Wi-Fi Gateway device, a price-lock guarantee and unlimited internet data. Plan pricing starts at $55 per month. However, T-Mobile provides several ways to reduce that price. Signing up for auto-pay will take $5  off the bill. Bundling with the company’s Go5G, Magenta or Essential phone plan knocks off another $10  a month. Or, you can bundle with the Go5 Next, Plus or Magenta and reduce your home internet cost to $30  monthly. Learn More:  T-Mobile Home Internet review T-Mobile offers a single unlimited data internet plan that features 5G cellular connectivity, a free Gateway device, a price-lock promise and steep bundling discounts with its phone services. Charter Spectrum    Available in 41 states nationwide, casual internet users and online devotees can benefit from one of Charter Spectrum’s unlimited data plans. Charter Spectrum offers three plans, all of which do not have data caps  or contracts. The plans include the company’s free Advanced Wi-Fi, a free unlimited mobile line and access to its app to control connected devices from your phone. While Charter Spectrum is widely available, it doesn’t feature any fiber optic connection availability. Instead, the company’s 300 Mbps, 500 Mbps and 1 Gbps services operate on a hybrid broadband system with limited fiber availability. Plan costs start at $49.99  per month for the 300 Mbps plan and top out with a 1 Gbps plan that costs $89.99  monthly. Learn More:  Charter Spectrum review Charter Spectrum offers three unlimited data home internet plans, including a 300 Mbps, a 500 Mbps and a 1 Gbps option. All plans feature free Advanced Wi-Fi and a free unlimited mobile line. Plan pricing is $49.99, $69.99 and $89.99  respectively. Determining which unlimited data home internet company and plan will work best for your needs is challenging. The sheer volume of companies and plans available can be hard to grasp and even harder to figure out what they’re all about. Consider the following factors to pare down your choices to a reasonable level when deciding on an internet provider. Perhaps the most important consideration, even more than the data amount, is the speed of your internet connection. While speed is crucial for serious gamers, not having enough for online meetings or browsing is more than a little annoying for casual internet users. Internet speeds for unlimited data plans generally range from 100 Mbps to 1000 Mbps, or 1 Gbps. However, there are outliers down to about 10 Mbps and up to around 8 Gbps. A good speed for most at-home work or meetings and extensive internet use is 300 Mbps. Consider a plan closer to 1 Gbps for serious gaming or simultaneous streaming on multiple devices. Cable is the most common way to transfer internet data from place to place. Generally, most people in the country live in places that cable internet can reach. However, other options exist, such as 5G, satellite and fiber optics, and each has benefits. Fiber internet capability is only available in some places. Customers can enjoy faster download and upload speeds and massive streaming and gaming capacities where it’s available. Deciding between fiber and cable usually comes down to speed. While fiber is slightly more costly than cable, speeds above 1 Gbps are common with the technology and service is more reliable. Cable connections can only achieve speeds up to around 1 Gbps but generally cost less and are readily available in far more places. The definition of unlimited internet data is sometimes a gray area. When choosing an unlimited data internet provider, ensure the plan is truly unlimited unless you’re confident you won’t need more than advertised. While some providers insist their plans have no data caps, in reality, you may be able to use as much data as you like; however, your connection speed may slow after a certain amount of data is used. Completely avoiding these plans isn’t necessary if you won’t exceed the invisible data cap. In fact, if choosing the option saves money, it may be worth the limitations. However, it’s better to make sure first for complete data freedom. With the fierce competition for your business, promotional pricing, and discounts are quite common among internet providers. It’s possibly not the most important reason to choose one provider over another. However, if you’re deciding between two of them and one offers a discount, taking advantage of it can be a good thing. Many internet providers offer first-time customer discounts or lower-cost promotional periods. Other telecommunications companies offer permanently lower monthly rates if you bundle your internet with other services they provide, such as cell phone or television packages. While many households benefit significantly from having no data limits on their internet, the service isn’t necessary for everyone. Choose an unlimited data plan if one or more of the following factors apply. If you or your family go through large amounts of data, having an unlimited data plan can minimize costs and increase confidence that your speed will remain fast throughout the month. Serious online gaming or frequent large video downloading are both good excuses for an unlimited data plan. Large families tend to use a lot of data just because of volume. The number of devices in your household will undoubtedly increase the amount of data used. In addition to unlimited data, your family will likely benefit from higher download and upload speeds to handle multiple devices operating at any given time. Many internet service providers charge hefty fees for exceeding your data limit. Even if you’re only near your current data cap sometimes, having peace of mind knowing you’ll never run out of connectivity or owe extra fees due to overuse can be worth having an unlimited data plan. Determining a hard number reflecting how much internet data the average household uses is next to impossible. Current estimates range from around 400 GB to almost 800 GB. The wide range is due to the numerous variables between families and usage habits and needs. To determine the best unlimited internet company ranking, the Forbes Home Improvement editorial team analyzed 24 major providers, with each company’s star rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including: Overall customer reviews encompassed 18% of our ranking score for each company. Scores were based on information and reviews from the Better Business Bureau, Trustpilot, Consumer Affairs, Google Reviews and Facebook. Customer support parameters such as live chat and phone service availability, as well as customer access to a knowledge base, community forum or blog information, made up our customer support scores. Plan availability, prices, contract requirements, installation options, and discounts and promotions made up the largest percentage of our scoring. Type of available connections and estimated connection speeds in each plan made up 19% of our rating score. The number of states and availability within those states represented 15% of our ranking score for each company. We reserved a small portion of bonus points for companies with outstanding features or benefits that separated them from the crowd as determined by our expert reviewers. Consumers in most areas of the country can get unlimited internet without much trouble. Satellite internet connections are often available for customers outside areas serviced by internet cable or fiber optic lines. Be wary of companies claiming unlimited data capacity but slow your connection speed after a certain amount. Each home’s needs are different, and the best unlimited plan for your household will depend on several factors, including the size of your family, the number of devices and how you use those devices. Our pick for the best unlimited data company is Google Fiber because it offers the fastest speeds at reasonable prices. There are several ways to get unlimited internet for free without having to be a computer genius. Government programs are available to help pay for internet for families in need. Public Wi-Fi is often available in large cities. There are also apps available that can help you spot nearby free Wi-Fi hotspots. If a public Wi-Fi service is available where you live, you can simply log onto the public system. However, using a VPN is recommended to protect your information. You could also use a cellular hotspot to connect to your home computer without having a dedicated internet provider. Unlimited data plans provide an absolutely unlimited amount of data. However, many companies will slow your internet connection after a certain amount of data use in a single month. You can still use data. It just may be frustratingly slow. To avoid unexpected occurrences, ensure your unlimited provider doesn’t have these restrictions or that the data provided before being “throttled” is large enough for your needs. 
				Having spent 30+ years in residential construction, contracting, remodeling, maintenance and home repair, Deane now contributes DIY, informational and financial content as a freelance writer and consultant for several publications such as Angi, Trusted Company Reviews, USNews and World Report and Small Spaces Great Life.
			 
				Sami Allen is an editor with a decade of experience in editorial and who is currently the managing editor at Forbes Home. She got her start in lifestyle writing and editing at Oprah Magazine and more recently sharpened her home repair and design skills at websites like The Spruce and HomeAdvisor.
			