The Windows Club TheWindowsClub covers authentic Windows 11, Windows 10 tips, tutorials, how-to's, features, freeware. Created by Anand Khanse, MVP. If you have installed a new internal or external hard drive or SSD, and its status on the left side of the Disk Management Tool displays Disk 1, Unknown Not Initialized then it means that Windows can’t the initialize disk and you, therefore, are not able to use the hard drive or SSD. This can happen randomly even with existing drives and if you face this error, here is what you can do about it.  Many a time your partition or drive does not appear in File Explorer. To check if it’s physically there, open the Disk Management. Check if you see it as Not Initialized. If yes, then it simply means that the disk doesn’t have a valid signature, i.e., it’s not properly registered with the system. A disk is registered when you format it at least once. If the disk was available before, then its probably corrupted somehow. To fix this Unknown Not Initialized error follow these suggestions: To initialize the drive manually, using the WinX menu, open Disk Management. Here you can find the non-initialized disk. Right-click on the disk and select Initialize Disk option. In the next step, you need to select the partition style. It is suggested to use MBR instead of GPT or GUID Partition Table. After clicking the OK button, your disk should initialize and run without any error. This is the most common and working solution to this problem. It is possible that because of driver issues, the hard drive is not working properly. It’s always a good idea to check on the Drive Manager to see that drive listing has a yellow exclamation mark next to it. If that’s the case: If you see this problem with the internal hard drive or SSD, you should verify if the wires are well connected and working or not. There should be two cables: If any of these cables are missing or not working correctly, you will face this issue. Try changing them and see if that helps. Related read: Troubleshooting common Disk Management error messages. Updated on April 30, 2022Tags: Disk Anand Khanse is the Admin of TheWindowsClub.com, a 10-year Microsoft MVP (2006-16) & a Windows Insider MVP (2016-2022). Please read the entire post & the comments first, create a System Restore Point before making any changes to your system & be careful about any 3rd-party offers while installing freeware.   July 25, 2024 July 18, 2024 August 13, 2024 August 9, 2024    Copyright © 2024 The Windows Club