[Image: Instagram/Inno Morolong] Inno Morolong was recently exposed for posing with someone else’s money. The influencer posted an Instagram photo of herself with a stack of cash in her ear. She wrote that she pushed her multiple streams of income to acquire the funds. However, one of her friends quickly jumped in and called her out for the alleged lie. The friend who exposed Inno Morolong for posing with someone else’s money said the money belonged to her, instead. She says it was R40 000 that she got from her Congolese male friend, who is very wealthy and private. The friend claimed she sent a driver to drop off the mula, and Inno took pictures pretending the money was hers.     Inno failed a gold-digging attempt According to the friend, Inno wanted the rich Congolese male for herself. She asked the woman to hook them up together, but the guy said she wasn’t his type. She allegedly wanted him so he could help fund her lavish lifestyle. Influencers and celebrities sometimes get exposed for posing fake lives on social media. Reality show star Faith Nketsi is one of the influencers. She posted roses that belonged to another influencer on one Valentine’s Day. However, fans called her out, and she admitted to it, saying she forgot to take a picture of hers.     Other Mzansi stars like Inno who were exposed for posting a fake life include: Brenda Mhlongo and Shauwn Mkhize. Both women are successful and wealthy but were exposed for wearing fake expensive, branded clothing. Both were exposed for wearing fake Gucci on a regular basis. Although Inno was exposed for posing with someone else’s money, the influencer assured fans that she works for her money. Her most recent Instagram stories show her living her best life hosting in Cape Town. She was working simultaneously with  Dj and actress Thuli Phongolo at a club in Cape Town.   
Follow Us on Google News for Immediate Updates
 
Brian is a passionate and dedicated administrator at iHarare. He brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise to his role at iHarareJobs, a subsidiary of iHarare News specializing in connecting jobseekers to relevant job vacancies. When he's not hard at work on iHarareJobs, he loves to flex his writing muscles and contribute exciting sports articles to iHarare. He is a self-motivated team player with a keen interest in creating content that engages readers and drives positive change.  Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  Δ  © 2023 iHarare - All Rights Reserved  © 2023 iHarare - All Rights Reserved