Lavish casino buffets, once a Vegas staple, have become less common in recent years, as food halls have largely taken their place. Part of the makeover involved installing a new wall of windows to frame views of the pool, gardens and the Sphere. Robert Telles had collected more than 100 images of Review-Journal investigative reporter Jeff German’s home before the journalist was killed, a witness testified Monday in Telles’ murder trial. You may be familiar with an abandoned waterpark off Interstate 15 near Barstow, California, but do you know its history? Nevada is the only state with licensed brothels — but tourists should be aware of the penalties around illegal prostitution. Nearly 1,500 vehicles have been reported stolen from various Strip casinos/resorts within the past five years. Luis Lopez, one of the suspects in the fatal shooting of Marketon security guard Alexander Maceo-Sanabria, is now charged with murder with a deadly weapon. A 78-year-old bicyclist died Friday after being struck by an SUV earlier this month. Nevada and California transportation officials met to discuss how to better handle situations similar to July’s hazardous materials crash on I-15. John, Paul, George and Ringo played two shows on Aug. 20, 1964, during their only trip here. It was just the second stop on their first North American tour. The Raiders made the right decision by naming Gardner Minshew their starting quarterback. But he needs to improve if the team is going to win games this season. Former President Donald Trump will be hosting an event in Las Vegas this week focused on a campaign promise that is growing in popularity. Harry Reid International Airport had more flight delays of 15 minutes or more than any other major airport in the United States, the FAA says in a new report. Project 2025 is a 900-page blueprint of policy proposals written by authors close to Donald Trump that a Republican presidential candidate could implement in 2025. Here’s how it could affect Nevada. BattleBots is developing a new concept to open in September. Suing F1 for compensation is not out of the question. Unless proper training has been given in design, most people won’t even think about the type of lighting they have in their homes. They will simply accept the kind of lighting they have and won’t revisit the subject until their lightbulb dies out and they are forced to visit their nearest hardware store. Most might […] Aces coach Becky Hammon spoke out after her team’s win against the Los Angeles Sparks on Sunday, six days after it and the WNBA were named in a federal lawsuit. Jurors heard testimony from 24 witnesses during the first week of the murder trial for Robert Telles, the former elected official accused of killing RJ reporter Jeff German. Giovanni Ruiz was sentenced Thursday in the death of 19-year-old UNLV student Paula Davis. The NFL season is almost upon us, and it’s time for the Las Vegas Review-Journal’s annual NFL bars listing. Let us know if your favorite bar should be included. 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP