Country star Morgan Wade opened up about a recent health decision. The "Psychopath" singer, who is releasing an album of the same name in August, spoke to Page Six at London’s Highways Festival on Saturday about her decision to undergo a mastectomy. "I had the BRCA gene, it's a breast cancer gene so I'm having a double mastectomy in November," she explained. "I'm going really hard up until November so then November and December I have off to rest." Wade said that she was "feeling fine" about the procedure but was "pissed" that she wouldn't be able to work out during recovery. She shared that her mother had the surgery and that her younger cousin is also in the process. When people like Wade say they have the "BRCA gene," what they are referring to is a mutation in one or more of their BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes, which all people have. Those genes, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, protect you from certain types of cancers. When they work properly, they keep breast, ovarian and other types of cells from changing or dividing rapidly. Chief of Gynecology Service at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Dr. Nadeem R. Abu-Rustum previously told Yahoo Life, "People inherit these genes from their parents and the BRCA gene is well-known to increase the risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer in women. People can be tested for these genes using a blood test in the setting of a qualified genetic consult or expert health care provider who can explain the results and ramifications." The link between ovarian and breast cancer was initially discovered for the BRCA gene mutations in the mid-1990s, leading some people to make the decision to remove their breasts, as well as organs like the ovaries, in order to lower the risk of cancer developing. Wade is not the first public figure to talk about undergoing a mastectomy in order to lower cancer risk. In 2013, actress Angelina Jolie, whose mother died of breast cancer, shared that she had undergone a preventative double mastectomy in an op-ed for the New York Times. She wrote that her doctor estimated she had an 87% chance of developing breast cancer due to her "faulty" BRCA1 gene. Following the surgery, she said her odds of developing breast cancer dropped to less than 5%. "I am writing about it now because I hope that other women can benefit from my experience," Jolie wrote at the time. "Cancer is still a word that strikes fear into people’s hearts, producing a deep sense of powerlessness. But today it is possible to find out through a blood test whether you are highly susceptible to breast and ovarian cancer, and then take action." More recently, journalist Jenna Wolfe took to social media in March to share that she had tested positive for the BRCA gene mutation, leaving her chances of getting breast and ovarian cancer "really high" — and leaving her "little wiggle room" to "mull over" her choices. “Without a ton of options, I stared down my fears, took a deep breath and opted for two pretty big surgeries," she wrote in an Instagram post taken from the hospital, where she was first having a hysterectomy, a procedure to remove the uterus in order to lower the risk of uterine cancer. "With anything in life, the only way is through," she continued. "And I'm going through. I realize everyone has a story. This is mine. (Well, it's part of mine). As I embark on it, I'll be thinking about you and yours." Wellness, parenting, body image and more: Get to know the who behind the hoo with Yahoo Life's newsletter. Sign up here. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.