Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  High on Life immediately throws the player into a violent and chaotic universe-ending epic with little in the way of hand-holding, but don’t worry; it’s still keeping the jokes at the forefront. After a hysterical tutorial, the game throws the player character right into the fray. Pick up a talking gun, blow away some alien goons, and escape through an instantaneous form of space travel relying on microwaves, and the adventure has only just begun.
                         The first directive given to the player is to explore Blim, a sprawling spaceport, looking for famed bounty hunter Gene Zaroothian. High on Life likes to stuff its art design with a lot of spectacles, so finding Gene may seem a more daunting task than it actually is. So, where is Gene in this metropolis?
      RELATED: High on Life Review
                     From the front door, look up and to the left to see a giant poster of the famed alien the player is looking for. The real Gene can be found just below that poster.
                         Finding Gene may make the player feel a bit silly because it is easy to miss. Several aliens around Blim can be interacted with. Each of them will have some interesting words to say about Gene. A purple alien directly in front of the house can inform the player that they saw Gene on a bench nearby.
                         Straight ahead of the house and to the left, Gene is sitting on a bench, looking a bit different from his stylized billboard. He’s clearly homeless, missing both legs at the knee, and one of his eyes seems deflated. Interacting with Gene will give the player access to his bounty hunter suit and allow progression in High on Life. Don’t worry about all of those pop-ups, though. The pawn shop that the suit directs you to can fix those.
                         From here on out, Gene can be found making himself at home in the player’s house. He’ll post up on the couch and assist insofar as he can from there. He does muddy up the floors a bit, but cleaning the house is certainly the least of the problems to be faced at the moment. Once the bounty hunter suit is fixed up with the correct programming, head back home to get an assignment from Gene that will test the player's bounty-hunting future.
      High on Life is available on PC, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.
      MORE: High On Life: How Long to Beat
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. After months of speculation since Tekken 8's launch, it has been confirmed Heihachi Mishima is returning as a DLC fighter, raising some questions. A Red Dead Redemption 2 fan thinks there is a Harry Potter reference in the game involving John Marston's scar that is hiding in plain sight. Tekken's main antagonist is making a triumphant return in Tekken 8's DLC after his death in the previous game, here's what fans can already expect. The price of Until Dawn Remake leaks online and sparks debate among players regarding the cost of remakes in the gaming industry. The islands of Palworld consist of unique and powerful factions, and their different qualities set them apart from one another. Districts were a solid mechanic in Civilization 6, and Civilization 7 can bring them back while also changing a few key details. Linked Horizon released their final album to celebrate the ending of Attack on Titan, but a peculiar notice in "Soyogi Fractal" may imply otherwise.