The restaurant, which opened in late 2022, specializes in a modern take on the cooking of Mexico’s Baja Peninsula. June and July set records by several degrees for the highest average daily temperature. August is on track to do the same. The state rested its case on Monday afternoon, after calling 28 witnesses over four days of testimony during the trial. Lavish casino buffets, once a Vegas staple, have become less common in recent years, as food halls have largely taken their place. But Monday’s much-hyped “super blue moon” isn’t one of them — at least not according to astronomers. The 63-acre fire broke out Monday along the Colorado River between Bullhead City and Laughlin, according to a Clark County news release. Paseo Verde scored in the top of the sixth inning to beat Hawaii in its second game of the Little League World Series on Monday. Nearly 40 employees received the bonus ahead of the property’s 30th anniversary on Friday. Investors appear to be buying in to the company’s live entertainment lineup and its strategies involving the Sphere Experience and “Postcard from Earth.” Bishop Gorman (5A), Somerset-Losee (4A) and Moapa Valley (3A) are No. 1 in the Review-Journal’s first high school football rankings. Check out where every team stands after Week 1. A Summerlin man who police said fatally shot his neighbor in May has pleaded not guilty. Nevada — a battleground state whose six electoral votes could be the determining factor in determining the next presidency — will be of great importance at the Democratic National Convention. You may be familiar with an abandoned waterpark off Interstate 15 near Barstow, California, but do you know its history? Former Nevada Gov. Grant Sawyer is considered the father of modern gaming, and the Control Board chairman wants a tribute to him as regulatory boards move to new campus. These twins are ready to find their forever home, bringing double the love and their own sweet personalities! Click to learn how you can adopt Jayden & Jayon.   Clark County’s Department of Family Services’ Find My Forever program helps families adopt foster children. For those interested in adopting a child or sibling group highlighted […] Aces coach Becky Hammon spoke out after her team’s win against the Los Angeles Sparks on Sunday, six days after it and the WNBA were named in a federal lawsuit. Jurors heard testimony from 24 witnesses during the first week of the murder trial for Robert Telles, the former elected official accused of killing RJ reporter Jeff German. Giovanni Ruiz was sentenced Thursday in the death of 19-year-old UNLV student Paula Davis. The NFL season is almost upon us, and it’s time for the Las Vegas Review-Journal’s annual NFL bars listing. Let us know if your favorite bar should be included. 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP