Search Restaurant Business Incentivio, a startup that powers digital ordering, loyalty and marketing services for restaurants, has raised $10 million to keep growing. The company’s tech is built around the concept of the “guest journey.” It helps restaurants capture customers with branded mobile apps, websites and online ordering. It then gives restaurants loyalty and marketing tools to help build relationships with those guests and get them to spend more money.  That includes using AI to predict when a customer is in danger of leaving the brand and automating offers designed to win them back.  Restaurants have become more sophisticated in how they collect and use customer data for marketing purposes. Incentivio said it wants to give small and medium-sized brands the same digital capabilities as big chains.  “The largest enterprise brands have an unfair advantage in leveraging data to drive business results,” said COO and co-founder Sash Dias in a statement. “We want to level the playing field so that all brands can thrive in this digital-first economy.” The Boston-based company works with “hundreds” of brands in North America, including Intelligentsia, Huey Maggoo’s and Bread Zeppelin.  With the new funding, the company plans to invest in reaching more restaurants and in continuing to develop its AI and machine learning tools. The Series A round was led by Osage Venture Partners with participation from Ardent Venture Capital and Grotech Ventures. Members help make our journalism possible. Become a Restaurant Business member today and unlock exclusive benefits, including unlimited access to all of our content. Sign up here. Get today’s need-to-know restaurant industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from Restaurant Business on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from Restaurant Business, sent straight to your inbox. The Latest More on this Topic The Bottom Line: The marketing campaign was one of the most successful in restaurant industry history. But that promotion is stuck in consumers’ memory, making its offers more difficult. Reality Check: Supermarkets are suspected of exploiting tech to boost prices. You know, like the capabilities that are as common as napkins in the restaurant business. The Bottom Line: In hiring Brian Niccol, the coffee shop giant opted to bring in an experienced hand, rather than focus purely on culture.  Do not sell my personal infoPrivacy PolicyCode of ConductContact UsRSS Copyright © Informa Connect 2024