Get an annual AARP membership for only $12. Limited time offer. 
                            Bay Alarm Medical is our top choice for medical alert systems thanks to its affordable prices, caregiver mobile app, and robust features. 
                         SeniorLiving.org is supported by commissions from providers listed on our site. Read our Editorial Guidelines After hours of hands-on testing and research, our medical alert experts chose the best medical alert systems for seniors. After hours of hands-on testing and research, our medical alert experts chose the best medical alert systems for seniors. Our senior tech experts spent hundreds of hours testing and comparing dozens of the latest medical alert systems to help you find the one that’s right for your needs and budget. We also consulted with Linda Schlenker, home health occupational therapist and home safety expert, on her top picks and advice. We evaluated each system based on important criteria like pricing and value, features for caregivers, response times, usability, and more. 
                        Testing out Medical Guardian's MGHome Cellular system
                     After all of our research and testing, three medical alert companies came out on top:   
                        Testing out a Medical Guardian help pendant
                     Since 2014, we have purchased, used, and tested every medical alert system on the market. We unbox the systems, set them up ourselves, and wear them around our homes, at the grocery store, and even while hiking local trails. When a system claims to be waterproof, we test that too! From there, we select the best medical alert systems, evaluating them for quality, reliability, speed of emergency responses, price, aesthetics, extra perks, and value. To ensure everything we publish is expert vetted, occupational therapist Linda Schlenker lends her expertise to our content. Linda has over three decades of experience advising seniors and caregivers on how to age in place safely with products like medical alert systems. We also recruit older adults to try out these systems and get their feedback whenever possible. To learn more, head to our methodology section. And be sure to see all of our medical alert system review videos. 
Why They Made the Cut
 
                        Bay Alarm Medical's SOS Mobile with fall detection is small and portable
                     Bay Alarm Medical’s prices start at $19.95 per month. The prices for at-home and on-the-go options are less expensive than much of the competition, including Medical Guardian. They also come packed with top-of-the-line features. That means you get the most bang for your buck. And, if you want more than one system, you can bundle two for even bigger savings. Current Deal: Bay Alarm Medical is currently offering 20 percent off, free shipping, and one free month of service on select plans. Check out our Bay Alarm Medical pricing guide to learn more about the latest costs and deals.  There are some providers that offer in-home systems at the same price. For instance, MobileHelp’s prices start at $19.95 per month. However, Bay Alarm Medical’s inexpensive on-the-go prices, bundles, and caregiver app make it our pick for best value. Plus, the provider offers seasonal discounts. » Dive Deeper: Most affordable medical alert systems Bay Alarm Medical’s systems are simple to install and operate. SOS Mobile is sleek, small, and lightweight. When trying out the system, we felt it was easy to carry around. And, it was much lighter than MobileHelp’s systems. The SOS Smartwatch is one of our favorite systems for active seniors looking for a discreet safety device. We could track our steps, set daily goals, and connect to the 24/7 monitoring center. You don’t need a smartphone or any internet-connected device to use it. This is similar to other medical alert watches, including the Medical Guardian’s MGMove system. » Further Reading: Bay Alarm Medical review Placing a test call took only 10 seconds. That’s five seconds faster than Medical Guardian’s average response times. We simply pressed the watch’s help button, which connected us to an agent. Then, we informed her that we were testing the watch. She confirmed it was a test and verified our identity. 
                        Bay Alarm Medical SOS Smartwatch
                     Response times for the SOS Home, Bay Alarm Medical’s in-home system, were quick too! We were connected to an operator in about 20 seconds. Bay Alarm Medical advertises that a response takes up to 45 seconds, so we found that this claim was accurate. However, we were disappointed that you can’t add automatic fall detection to the landline version of SOS Home. Most other providers, including Medical Guardian and ADT Health, offer fall detection for landline systems. Bay Alarm Medical offers a mobile app packed with caregiver features. We could track our device, view the battery life and signal strength, and ring the device if lost. The ability to track your loved one’s location is excellent, especially if they have dementia and are prone to wandering. We wore the SOS Mobile system at the house, while running errands, and on a walk. Using the mobile app, we could see the system’s exact location on a map. If there was an issue, we could easily locate the user. 
                        Navigating Bay Alarm Medical's companion mobile app
                     The mobile app also lets you set up an emergency plan. It features everything that first responders would need during an emergency, including the user’s emergency contacts, home entry information, and medical history. If a fall is detected, the response agent will have all of this information on hand to provide help quickly. Many other providers have a similar emergency response plan, too. As we've mentioned, Bay Alarm Medical offers affordable prices, great value, and systems for different lifestyles. However, there are a few things about the company’s equipment that we didn’t love. When we tested the SOS Mobile, we put it on like a necklace and tucked it beneath our shirt to hide it. We noticed that the system’s blue light flashes every 26 seconds, which indicates that the device has solid cell reception and battery. That was a bit annoying, as we wanted the system to be discreet in public, and we could see the light flashing through the shirt. While it’s conspicuous, it’s nice to have the assurance that the system is functioning properly. » You Might Like: Best mobile medical alert systems Additionally, the SOS Home’s base unit is a bit of an eyesore, and it stood out on our kitchen counter. This is pretty typical with in-home systems, but some companies have started offering sleek equipment. For instance, Medical Guardian’s MGHome Cellular is streamlined and modern. However, with Bay Alarm Medical’s prices starting at just $19.95 per month, it might be worth the appearance. 
                        Bay Alarm Medical and Medical Guardian in-home systems
                     
Why They Made the Cut
 
                        Testing out Medical Guardian's MGHome Cellular system
                     Medical Guardian is always one step ahead when it comes to high-tech, customizable features. It offers everything from discreet on-the-go systems to the MyGuardian mobile app and desktop portal. Medical Guardian adds flair and versatility that competitors like ADT Health and MobileHelp don’t offer. Whether you’re looking for a simple medical alert system or one with advanced features, Medical Guardian offers five packages to meet your needs. We tested all the essential features, including fall detection, water-resistant help buttons, and at-home and on-the-go systems. I found that Medical Guardian offers deals throughout the year, so be sure to keep an eye on their website! Current Deal: Medical Guardian is offering 50 percent off its top products, as well as a free month of service, free shipping, and a free lockbox on new annual subscriptions. See our Medical Guardian pricing guide to learn more about how you can save. We started the MGHome Cellular system setup by plugging it into an outlet. Then, we pressed the red button on the back of the base unit. A button on the front of the system turned green to indicate a strong signal, and a voice said, “Device ready.” We put on the help pendant and the setup was complete. Medical Guardian’s response times are very fast. An operator answered our calls for the MGHome Cellular, MGMini, and MGMove in about 15 seconds — just five seconds slower than our results for Bay Alarm Medical’s mobile systems. 
                        Testing out Medical Guardian's MGMini Lite
                     MGMini Lite, the company’s latest on-the-go system, was a little slower. It took about one minute for an operator to answer after we pressed the emergency button. This is still a reasonable amount of time, but in a real emergency, every second counts. We were in a new location when we tested out MGMini, and we might not have had the best cell reception. Similar to the other cellular systems on our list, you will need a strong cellular connection to use Medical Guardian’s mobile options. » Want to Learn More? Medical Guardian review During testing, we were pleased to discover that the MGMove smartwatch system offers fall detection. Medical Guardian’s previous smartwatch system, called Freedom Guardian, didn’t offer fall detection, so this is a step up! Watch our video below to learn more about this system for active users.  The best feature for caregivers is the MyGuardian portal and mobile app. If you manage the billing on behalf of your parent or grandparent, the app makes it easy to pay for the Medical Guardian subscription. You can also update health and safety information to assist emergency response agents. 
                        Setting reminders in Medical Guardian's MyGuardian mobile app
                     The app has a variety of useful features. We could check the system’s location, status, connection quality, battery level, and alert history. Similar to Bay Alarm Medical’s app, we could also update our health and safety information, including our medical history, emergency contacts, and household information. We could also set reminders and calendar events in the app, which is a unique feature. If your loved one has a hard time keeping track of appointments or taking medications, you can set alerts in the app. We set a reminder to take our medications. The alert was audibly announced through the MGHome Cellular base unit at the time we designated. » Learn About: Best medical alert apps Medical Guardian’s fall detection pendants are very sensitive. When we tested our fall detection pendant, we experienced multiple false alarms throughout the week. » Related Reading: Best medical alert systems with fall detection Sometimes, when we bent over or set the pendant down on the counter, the system recorded a fall and connected to the emergency response center. Luckily, we could easily cancel the call by pressing the button on the mobile base unit. However, on one occasion, we set the pendant down in the kitchen and walked to a room on the other side of the house. We didn’t realize that the system had recorded a fall, and we didn’t hear the response agent trying to speak to us through the system’s base unit in the kitchen. To our surprise, first responders showed up at our front door shortly afterward asking if everything was OK. While we appreciate that Medical Guardian sent help when they couldn’t get in touch with us, it isn’t something you want to happen regularly. Now, we keep our system’s base unit nearby so we can quickly cancel any false alarms. 
Why They Made the Cut
 
                        Testing out MobileHelp Classic
                     MobileHelp made this list thanks to their Duo alert systems designed for two users. The company offers a versatile lineup of systems designed for at-home and on-the-go use, whether you need protection for just yourself or for a partner as well. While many companies charge an extra fee or require you to purchase two separate systems to add a spouse, MobileHelp offers multiple two-in-one systems. We found the systems were easy to test, as two of us could use the two-in-one system at the same time! Current Deal:  MobileHelp is currently offering 50 percent off fall detection and a free month of service! Visit our MobileHelp pricing guide to learn more about this provider’s monthly rates and packages. Setup for the MobileHelp Duo system, which comes with an in-home system and on-the-go unit, was simple. For the in-home unit, we just plugged in the base station and put on the wearable help button, which is waterproof. Then, we plugged the mobile unit’s charger into the wall and set the unit on the charger. It was fully charged in a few hours. We recorded response times between 25 and 30 seconds, which is slower than the other providers on our list, but still fairly fast. We were most impressed with the system’s in-home coverage range. The in-home unit features a range of 1,400 feet, perfect for larger houses. We placed a test call at one end of the house using our help button, while the system’s base station was on the opposite end of the house. The system still detected the call and connected us to an emergency response agent. 
                        Our Editor Jeff Hoyt Testing Out MobileHelp
                     MobileHelp Connect is the company’s one-stop portal for caregiver features. We tested the standard version (which is free), and we received automatic alerts whenever we pressed the system’s emergency alert button. It also provided GPS-based location detection to track the system’s movement. » Dive Deeper: 2024 MobileHelp review The MobileHelp Connect portal also allows you to upload important health information in the MobileVitals section. However, some features are hidden behind a paywall. For instance, medication reminders cost an extra $6 per month. Other providers like Medical Guardian and Bay Alarm Medical offer all app features at no extra cost, so we were disappointed in these additional fees. A lot of MobileHelp’s equipment could use some updating. The company’s in-home systems are both pretty bulky, similar to Bay Alarm Medical. And while most companies have started making smaller, more lightweight mobile systems, the Mobile Duo equipment hasn’t been updated in years. While the company has released smaller mobile units, like the Solo and Micro, there aren’t discreet mobile options for two users. MobileHelp could also simplify its offerings. The company has eight different systems, which is more than any of the other companies on our list. While we appreciate these options for different lifestyles and budgets, it can be difficult to choose the system that’s right for you. We had a hard time distinguishing some of the systems, including the Solo and Micro, which are very similar. Still, MobileHelp has an online quiz to help you pick a system, and the customer service team can answer questions as you shop. 
Why They Made the Cut
 
                        ADT Health's Medical Alert Basic system
                     ADT is best known for its 150-year history of providing reliable, innovative home security. The company has applied that same standard of excellence to its medical alert systems to protect seniors and their families. ADT Health doesn’t skimp on service. Every person we interacted with during the testing process knew exactly what to do and responded to all of our questions quickly. We were most impressed with the professionalism of their monitoring centers. ADT’s Emergency Response Monitoring Center is U.S.-based and company-owned. It’s also company-operated and monitored 24/7 by senior-sensitivity-trained professionals. In the middle of an emergency, older adults can rest assured they will speak with a top-trained ADT professional, just as we did during testing. » Further Reading: ADT Health review ADT has three systems, including on-the-go and in-home models, plus add-on features like fall detection and home temperature monitoring. If you already have an ADT home security system, make sure you mention it to your customer representative, as you may be eligible for a discount on an ADT medical alert system. We tested all three of ADT Health’s medical alert systems, which include Medical Alert Basic (landline home system), Medical Alert Plus (cellular home system), and On-The-Go. The setup was easy and only took a few minutes for each system. Similar to Medical Guardian and MobileHelp, we plugged in the in-home base stations and charged the mobile unit. The responses we got from the ADT emergency monitoring center were phenomenal. On average, an agent responded in as little as 10 seconds, and they showed compassion and professionalism with every interaction. The devices have very powerful speakers that make it easy for those with hearing loss to hear the agent on the line. The voice prompts of the Medical Alert Plus base unit were loud enough that they startled us the first time we heard them. Luckily, we found that the system had an adjustable volume control, so we could turn it down. » Also Check Out: Best medical alert systems for seniors with hearing loss We also had a great experience with the On-The-Go system. It held a decent signal while we drove around town. Similar to MobileHelp, the system is dependent on AT&T coverage, so it won’t be right for those who live in areas with spotty AT&T service. 
                        Testing out ADT Health's Medical Alert Basic system
                     While ADT Health can send caregivers mobile alerts in an emergency, it doesn’t offer a companion app or portal. We wish there were more features to loop caregivers into the health and well-being of their loved ones. Medical Guardian and Bay Alarm Medical have really upped the game with caregiver features, so hopefully we’ll see some upgrades from ADT in the future. ADT’s product lineup is pretty limited, with two in-home units and one mobile unit. These systems haven’t changed or advanced much in terms of tech or appearance over the years. You won’t find any high-tech systems like a smartwatch or sleek in-home system here. ADT Health doesn’t offer a mobile app with GPS tracking or activity monitoring either, which is a drawback for loved ones who want to stay in the loop. But if your main concern is the quality of service and you’re not fussed about aesthetics or the latest features, ADT Health is a great choice. 
Why They Made the Cut
 
                        My grandma trying out the Jitterbug Smart4
                     We often hear seniors say they don’t want to wear a medical alert device everywhere they go. Lively’s senior-friendly phones are a practical solution. The phones feature built-in medical alert technology, which is more discreet than wearing a pendant. Did You Know? You can buy Lively products at brick-and-mortar stores including Walgreens and Best Buy. If you don’t want a phone alert system, Lively also has a stand-alone medical alert system, called Lively Mobile2. You can also get Lively’s health and safety services for popular devices you might already own, like iPhones, Apple Watches, and Alexa-enabled devices. Using your own device means you’ll already be familiar and comfortable with it. Plus, you can avoid the cost of purchasing a device. Lively offers three phone plans starting at $19.99 per month with health and safety features that vary by plan. Lively’s monthly costs for the Lively Mobile2 system start at $24.99 per month. You can choose from features like 24/7 monitoring, on-call nurses, and even concierge services like accessing a personal operator to call you a Lyft ride. We tested the Jitterbug Smart4, Jitterbug Flip2, and Lively Mobile2. The Jitterbug Smart4 was our favorite device. It’s a senior-friendly smartphone with medical alert features. Its Urgent Response button was clearly displayed at the top of the screen at all times, so we could easily call for help whenever needed. » Further Reading: Best smartphones for seniors We also liked the Jitterbug Flip2, Lively’s senior-friendly flip phone, because it was simple to navigate. The flip phone features a large, red Urgent Response button on the keypad for easy access. For a closer look at both phones, head to our Lively phone review. 
                        One of our writers testing out the Jitterbug Flip2
                     We found that the Lively Mobile2, Lively’s mobile medical alert system, was very responsive. It’s not as large and bulky as its predecessor, the Lively Mobile Plus, which we appreciate. It is small, sleek, and lightweight — about half the length of a pen. » You Might Like: Lively Mobile2 review The system is excellent for older adults who already have a phone and just want medical alert protection. After pressing the Emergency Response button, we were connected to one of Lively’s agents in about 10 seconds with the Lively Mobile2 and around 15 seconds with both Jitterbug phones. 
                        Charging the Lively Mobile2
                     The Lively Link mobile app is pretty basic, but it provides important updates and real-time location tracking. When we went out for the day, we could see exactly where the device was and its status. If we pressed the Emergency Response button on either of the devices, we got an alert from the app. We could also see an emergency call log, the status of the device, and a summary of the week’s updates. Caregiver apps are pretty standard for medical alert systems, but they’re rare with cell phones, so this is a perk. 
                        Testing out the Lively Link app's location tracking feature
                     Lively’s phones have a few drawbacks to consider. The Jitterbug Smart4 was very slow and often lagged. Sometimes, we had to press a button multiple times before the phone would respond and load, which was frustrating. But remember, these are basic cell phones without major processing power — and they’re designed to be that way. That makes them an excellent choice for older adults who are new to cell phones or just want a simple phone. Lively’s standalone medical alert system, the Lively Mobile2, is a decent mobile option. Similar to Lively’s phones, it sticks to the basics. We wish the company offered a few more systems to choose from. Lively doesn’t offer any at-home systems for those who want a more traditional base unit and pendant. However, we just wore our Lively Mobile2 unit around the house so it doubled as our system for at-home and on-the-go use, which was an easy fix. 
                        Testing out Medical Guardian's MGHome Cellular system
                     Our tech experts spent 300 hours researching and testing more than 20 medical alert systems. We evaluated every system and performed 10 test calls. With this information, we created a comprehensive ranking for every product. Our testing process consists of several important decision-making factors: FYI: Read our medical alert system methodology guide to learn more about the testing process. Here’s a closer look at some of the other systems we tested that didn’t make the cut. They may still be great options for some users. Pro Tip: Want to know how one of our top picks compares to a runner-up? Check out our comparison of LifeFone vs. Medical Guardian. Medical alert systems, also called personal emergency response systems, help prevent life-threatening injuries from falls and other health emergencies. How? By quickly connecting users to a 24/7 monitoring center with the press of a help button. 
                        Testing out a Medical Guardian fall detection help pendant
                     Most medical alert systems feature a base unit with a help button and a two-way speaker. That unit is paired with a wearable help pendant or bracelet. In an emergency, the user presses the help button on the base station or pendant. That button will call a live operator, who can send first responders or whatever help is needed. If you’re incapacitated and the operator can’t contact you, they’ll send help right away. » Check Out: Best medical alert bracelets. Medical alert systems provide many benefits. They can help the wearer stay and feel safer. They also give loved ones and caregivers peace of mind. And research shows that using a medical alert system can help you remain in your own home for longer, boost your confidence in your ability to complete everyday tasks, and reduce anxiety about falling.1 
                        Our editor's grandma is aging in place with the help of her medical alert system
                     Below are some other reasons older adults might need a medical alert system: » Related Reading: Best medical alert systems for seniors with dementia As you shop for a medical alert system, keep these key features in mind: Did You Know? According to a 2024 survey by U.S. News & World Report, 47 percent of seniors feel safer while using assistive technologies like medical alert systems.  Watch our video below to learn more about important considerations when choosing a system.
 The cost of a medical alert system depends on the provider, the type of system, and any add-ons that you choose. The costs can range from about $20 to $50 per month. But the monthly fees are just part of the equation. Here are other upfront costs to consider: Money-Saving Tip: If you want to save, you might consider one of the best medical alert systems without monthly fees. Just keep in mind that these systems connect users to 911, not a 24/7 monitoring center. There are several easy ways to save on a medical alert system: » Related Reading: Best medical alert systems for veterans The answer to this question will vary based on your needs. Bay Alarm Medical offers the best value, Medical Guardian has the most high-tech systems, and MobileHelp has the best devices for two users. No, Original Medicare (Part A and Part B) doesn’t cover medical alert systems. Some Medicare Advantage plans may cover them, but this varies greatly by carrier and plan. MobileHelp offers the longest range for in-home systems — up to 1,400 feet from base unit to help button. AARP doesn’t endorse any medical alert systems from a particular brand. However, the company does offer a 15 percent discount on Lifeline medical alert systems for AARP members. The best monitored medical alert systems have a monthly fee. There are some systems without monthly fees, but they don’t offer 24/7 monitoring, which is the most important feature of a medical alert system. National Insitute on Aging (NIA). (2022). Falls and Fractures in Older Adults: Causes and Prevention. Australasian Journal on Ageing. (2008). Brief Report: Personal emergency alarms: What impact do they have on older people's lives?. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2023). Facts About Falls.   Name


  Email


  Phone


  What would you like to share with us?


 
 The content, including without limitation any viewpoint or opinion in any profile, article or video, contained on this website is for informational purposes only. Any third party contributor to any such profile, article or video has been compensated by SeniorLiving.org for such contribution. It is advised that you conduct your own investigation as to the accuracy of any information contained herein as such information, including without limitation any medical advice, is provided "as is" for informational purposes only. Further, SeniorLiving.org shall not be liable for any informational error or for any action taken in reliance on information contained herein. © Copyright 2024 SeniorLiving.org a Centerfield Media Company