Looking for an alarm system to make you feel more secure? We've tested all the top professional-install and DIY home security packages to help you decide which one is right to protect your family and property. I’ve been working with computers for ages, starting with a multi-year stint in purchasing for a major IBM reseller in New York City before eventually landing at PCMag (back when it was still in print as PC Magazine). I spent more than 14 years on staff, most recently as the director of operations for PC Labs, before hitting the freelance circuit as a contributing editor.  I’m PCMag’s executive editor of reviews, steering our coverage to make sure we're testing the products you're interested in buying and telling you whether they're worth it. I've been here for more than 10 years. I previously managed the consumer electronics reviews team, and before that I covered mobile, smart home, and wearable technology for PCMag and Gigaom.  
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 Thanks to smart home security systems, it's easier and more affordable than ever to monitor your home from pretty much anywhere. At PCMag, we have been reviewing smart home security solutions for nearly 20 years. We test these products in our own homes to give you the accurate, unbiased information you need to pick the best smart home security system for your needs and budget. Backed by our Editors' Choice and Readers' Choice awards, the SimpliSafe Home Security System is our top pick overall for its flexibility, ease of use, and value. But it isn't your only choice. Whether you're searching for a DIY or professionally monitored system, we have you covered. Read on for the best smart home security systems we've tested, followed by all of the factors you should consider before deciding how to secure and monitor your home. 
*Deals are selected by our commerce team
 Ease of use, affordability, and flexible configuration and monitoring options make the SimpliSafe Home Security System our top choice for a home security system. SimpliSafe offers preconfigured packages for homes of all sizes, and its individual components can be purchased separately to create your own package, or expand on one. Plus, it offers professional instillation and monitoring at a reasonable cost, should you require it.  If you’re looking to save a bundle on home security components, installation, and monitoring, put the SimpliSafe Home Security System at the top of your list. It’s incredibly easy to install and configure, and you can switch between self-monitoring and a 24/7 professional option without worrying about a contract. There are other outstanding options on this list, but SimpliSafe remains the system of choice for PCMag readers, winning our Readers’ Choice award for six consecutive years.  The Vivint Smart Home security system is a full-blown home security system that gives you 24/7 monitoring and full control over door locks, cameras, thermostats, and lights. You can even monitor your cars while they are on the road. This pricey system provided speedy emergency response times in testing and is easy to control via a colorful, 7-inch touch-screen video panel, a mobile companion app, or Alexa and Google Assistant voice commands. The Vivint Smart Home is ideal for homeowners who require a professionally monitored home security system but don’t want to be bothered with installation issues. A trained professional installs every component and the company provides excellent telephone and in-home technical support. You can save some money with a DIY system from SimpliSafe but, in that scenario, you have to install everything yourself and forgo the touch-screen video control panel. Aptly named, the Abode iota All-In-One Security Kit uses a base station with a built-in camera and motion sensor. It contains Wi-Fi, Z-Wave, and Zigbee radios that allow you to add a plethora of third-party devices such as door locks, sirens, and lights in addition to Abode’s first-party lineup of entry, water, and glass break sensors. It offers on-demand professional monitoring and supports Apple HomeKit, Alexa and Google Assistant, and IFTTT, thus making it one of the most versatile home security systems available.  The Abode iota All-In-One Security Kit provides an excellent starting point for anyone looking to add a DIY smart security system to their home or apartment. It’s easy to install, extremely expandable, and compatible with nearly every home automation platform on the market. Despite being the most expensive home security system we’ve tested, the ADT Command earns our Editors’ Choice award for its excellent white glove customer service, expansive lineup of security and home automation components, and outstanding mobile and web applications. And, in addition to ADT's first-party lineup of cameras, doorbells, and sensors, you can add third-party Z-Wave devices that enable you to control the system via Alexa and Google Assistant commands. The ADT Command is a solid choice for homeowners who require a professionally installed, professionally monitored, soup-to-nuts home security system with class-leading service and seamless home automation features. This system works with a generous assortment of security and smart home devices, though, of course, this protection doesn’t come cheap. The Ring Alarm Pro is a hybrid DIY home security system that doubles as a Wi-Fi 6 mesh router. It earns high marks for its easy setup process, reasonably priced monitoring options, and ability to bring Wi-Fi 6 connectivity to all corners of your home. It has an auxiliary battery that keeps everything running for up to 24 hours and uses a cellular radio to provide internet connectivity in the event of a power loss.  If you’re in the market for a smart home security system and want to upgrade your home network to Wi-Fi 6 at the same time, the Ring Alarm Pro accomplishes both tasks. You can customize this versatile system with a variety of sensors and it's compatible with all of Ring’s video doorbells, cameras, and lighting devices. It also has a built-in Eero 6 router that you can pair with satellite nodes to blanket homes of all sizes in Wi-Fi 6 goodness. ADT's Self Setup Home Security system brings together the company's 24/7 monitoring service with Google's lineup of Nest cameras, thermostats, and smart hubs. Add-on door/window and motion sensors allow you to expand coverage across your entire home. You must subscribe to a monthly plan to use the ADT+ companion app, but the system's easy setup, reliable voice controls, and Z-Wave support are all points in its favor.  If you already have a home full of Nest devices or are planning to buy them, the ADT Self Setup Home Security system is worth a look. You can hand off monitoring to ADT or keep an eye on everything yourself, thus giving you some flexibility in how you manage your property's security. The Arlo Home Security System works with the company’s full lineup of smart home devices, plus many third-party products via IFTTT. It gives you the option to keep an eye on your property yourself or pay for a 24/7 monitoring plan that unlocks many emergency response options and a suite of family safety features via the separate Arlo Safe app. We really like the system’s multifunction sensors that can detect motion, water leaks, ambient lighting, and more, though we wish the hub included battery backup and cellular capabilities (those features require an add-on). If you already own or are planning to buy Arlo smart home devices, this is the security system to get. Its multifunction sensors are also an advantage if your home is prone to any sort of environmental problems, such as water leaks or freezing temperatures.   The Ring Alarm Security Kit is an affordable five-piece DIY home security system that is expandable and offers professional monitoring at a reasonable price. It works with the entire Ring lineup of video doorbells, indoor and outdoor security cameras, and lights, as well as with lots of third-party Z-Wave and Zigbee smart devices including door locks and smoke alarms. The system performed wonderfully in our tests and is easy to install. Add-on components are comparable in cost with those for SimpliSafe or Abode systems. The Ring Alarm Security Kit is a smart choice if you already own one or more Ring doorbells, cameras, or lights. You can choose to self-monitor via the Ring mobile app or subscribe to a Ring Protect Plus plan that unlocks 24/7 professional monitoring and unlimited cloud video storage for your Ring cameras. A smart home security system connects to your Wi-Fi network so you can monitor and control your security devices via an app. There are many different systems available across a wide range of prices. Depending on your needs, you can go with a system that you monitor yourself, or pay a subscription fee to have professionals surveil your home 24/7 and contact your local fire or police departments when an alarm triggers. You can even take advantage of on-demand monitoring services when you're away on vacation. Of course, the more coverage you have, the more you should expect to pay. Entry-level systems cost the least and usually include some door and window sensors, a motion detector, and a hub that communicates with these devices via one or more wireless protocols such as Wi-Fi, Z-Wave, Zigbee, or a proprietary mesh network. (Matter is another standard to keep an eye on. It has launched and products are arriving slowly.) You can add extra door, motion, and window sensors to provide coverage for your entire house and build a comprehensive system that includes door locks, garage door openers, indoor and outdoor surveillance cameras, lights, sirens, smoke and CO detectors, water sensors, and more. A word about wireless protocols before we go further: In a perfect world, all home security components would use the same wireless standard to communicate with the main hub, but factors such as power requirements, signal range, price, and size make it virtually impossible to settle on just one. For example, smaller components such as door and window sensors typically use Z-Wave or Zigbee technology because they don't require a lot of power and can run on smaller batteries. They also operate in a mesh topology and can help extend the range of networked devices. However, neither protocol provides the bandwidth that you get with Wi-Fi, which security cameras rely on to provide smooth video streaming, for instance. Moreover, a hub connects and controls Z-Wave and Zigbee devices, whereas you can control Wi-Fi devices on your home network from an app. Finally, Z-Wave and Zigbee devices use AES 128 encryption and operate in a closed system with a dedicated hub, making them more secure than Wi-Fi devices. Any smart security system worth its salt offers components that work together seamlessly and adhere to custom rules. For example, you can create rules to have the lights turn on when a sensor detects motion, have your doors unlock when a smoke alarm goes off, or set a camera to begin recording when a sensor triggers. Some systems store recordings locally on an SD card or a solid-state drive, whereas others offer cloud storage. Local video storage is a good choice for do-it-yourselfers on a budget, but you have to be careful not to overwrite video you might need later. Cloud storage makes it easy to house and access videos, but it can cost hundreds of dollars per year depending on your subscription. Some systems offer both cloud storage and local storage, and some provide a dedicated storage drive that gives you DVR capabilities with time-lapse recording, thus making it easy to find a video event that took place at a specific time. All of the systems we've tested feature an app that lets you use your smartphone as your command center to arm and disarm the system, create rules, add and remove components, and receive push notifications when alarms trigger. Most apps also allow you to view live and recorded video, lock and unlock doors, change thermostat settings, and silence alarms. Some apps even use your phone's location services to automatically arm and disarm the system based on your physical location. The more expensive systems usually come with a wall-mounted panel that acts as a communications hub, with a touch-screen display that allows you to do everything the app does. The display lets you communicate with a professional monitoring service when an alarm goes off and view video from any of the installed security cameras. Do-it-yourself security setups are ideal for budget shoppers because they can save you a bundle on installation charges and subscription fees. Most DIY systems are easy to install and are available as kits that you can configure to suit your needs. As your needs change, you can order additional sensors and other components at your convenience and pair them with the system in a matter of minutes. A basic, entry-level DIY system might support only one or two wireless protocols and usually offers a limited selection of add-on components, whereas more expensive DIY systems support multiple wireless protocols and are compatible with dozens of add-on components. Some DIY systems are self-monitored: You still receive alerts when devices trigger, but it's up to you to contact the local authorities if there's a break-in or a fire. That said, DIY vendors are increasingly offering professional monitoring services. If you're leaning towards the DIY route, see our story on how to build a home security system. Although many systems use wireless components that you install with double-sided tape, some high-end systems use components that require professional installation. These soup-to-nuts systems typically cost considerably more than DIY systems and most offer 24/7 professional monitoring, but you may have to enter into a multi-year contract and pay a hefty termination fee if you break it. They usually use touch-screen hubs that contain RF, Wi-Fi, Zigbee, and Z-Wave radios, allowing them to communicate with and control a multitude of components including door and window sensors, door locks, glass break detectors, indoor and outdoor cameras, light switches, motion and water detectors, smoke and CO alarms, thermostats, video doorbells, and a host of other home automation devices. With a professional monitoring system, an agent will first try to reach you via the two-way control panel before calling your listed phone number if a smoke or intrusion alarm triggers. If you fail to respond, the agent calls 911 to dispatch an emergency responder to your home. The nice thing about professionally installed systems is you don't have to lift a finger; after you place your order, a technician comes to your home, sets everything up for you, and shows you how the system works. It's important to note that, in some areas, you may have to file for a permit to have a security system installed in your home. Nearly all of the latest DIY and high-end home security systems offer support for voice control via Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and, in some cases, Siri. Those voice assistants let you unlock doors, change thermostat settings, open the garage, and arm or disarm your system with a simple command to a connected device like a smart speaker. If you want to stick with Alexa for your smart home security system, make sure to check out our setup guide. Many systems also support IFTTT applets, thus letting you configure a floodlight to turn on if your garage door opens (or similar).  For more on DIY vs. professional home security systems, see our story on ADT vs. SimpliSafe. Whether you decide to go with a DIY system or opt for a professionally installed system, you have to pay a monthly or annual fee if you require monitoring, and, in some cases, you need to pay a monthly fee to offset hardware costs as well. With most DIY systems, such as the SimpliSafe Home Security Kit and the Ring Alarm Security Kit, you purchase the hardware outright and can avoid any monthly fees if you decide to self-monitor. If you add monitoring, fees vary: SimpliSafe charges $20 per month for its no-contract monitoring service, for instance.  Monitoring for professionally installed systems tends to be more expensive. We detail these prices in each of our reviews. If you live in a small apartment and want to keep tabs on things when you're not home, a security camera can get the job done for a lot less money than a full security system. Nearly all standalone security cameras connect to your home's Wi-Fi so you can see what's going on from your phone or tablet. Most also have built-in sensors that can detect motion or sound and subsequently send you a notification of those events. You can usually tweak the camera's motion sensitivity to prevent false alarms due to pet activity or passing cars if the camera is near a window, as well as create a schedule that turns the sensors on or off during certain hours of the day. Some of the more expensive cameras feature humidity and temperature sensors, plus interact with other connected home devices such as thermostats and smart lighting systems. If you want to save some money and not pay a monthly fee, look for a camera with an SD card slot that allows you to record video when motion or sound events occur; just remember to back up your recordings every so often before the camera overwrites them. Alternatively, look for a camera that offers a cloud storage plan. An outdoor camera is ideal for keeping an eye on what's happening outside of your home. These devices are weatherproof and typically require a nearby ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) outlet to supply power, although a handful of battery-powered models are also available. As with their indoor counterparts, outdoor cameras connect to your Wi-Fi network and allow you to view live video from your phone. They are fairly easy to install but, if you're not familiar or comfortable with electrical wiring, you may want to hire a professional electrician for the setup. Most outdoor cameras offer motion detection with push and email notifications, night vision, and cloud storage for event-triggered video. Some pull double duty as floodlights or porch lights. Other models can even tell the difference between a passing car, an animal, and a person. Look for an outdoor camera that integrates with other smart home devices such as garage door openers, external sirens, and smart switches. Video doorbells offer an easy way to see who is on your front steps without having to open or even get close to the door. These devices connect to your Wi-Fi network and send an alert when someone approaches your doorway. They record video when someone presses the doorbell or when they detect motion, plus usually offer two-way audio communication so you can speak with the visitor remotely from your phone. Most video doorbells use your existing doorbell wiring (two low-voltage wires) and are fairly easy to install, but battery-powered models install in minutes. Some work with other smart devices such as door locks and sirens, plus support Alexa voice commands and IFTTT. Look for a model that offers a high resolution (1080p), a wide-angle lens (140 to 180 degrees), a night vision range of up to 30 feet, and affordable cloud storage for recordings. Sometimes it's helpful to be able to see what happened just before or after a visitor approaches your door. For that, you need a doorbell that uses pre-buffering to record the action that occurs before someone presses a doorbell or sets off the motion sensor. A smart lock is typically part of a robust smart home security setup, but you don't have to invest in a full-blown system to use one. If you use a home automation hub to control things like lighting and thermostats, you can add a Z-Wave or Zigbee smart lock to the system without much effort. Alternately, if you don't have a home automation hub, look for a Wi-Fi or Bluetooth lock that comes with a mobile app. Smart locks use standard pre-drilled holes and are fairly easy to install. Some models use your existing keyed cylinder and deadbolt hardware to attach to the inside of your door, whereas others require you to remove your existing interior and exterior escutcheons as well as replace the deadbolt and strike hardware. (The former type is ideal for renters.) You can open or close smart locks via a mobile app and most models can notify you when someone locks or unlocks a door. Many smart locks even allow you to create permanent and temporary access schedules for family members and friends based on specific hours of the day and days of the week. Features to look for include geofencing (uses your phone's location services to lock and unlock the door), voice activation (via Alexa, Google Assistant, or Siri), support for IFTTT, and the ability to integrate with other smart home devices. Plenty of smart lock models are available, including keyless no-touch locks, touch-screen locks, combination keyed and touchpad locks, and locks you can open via a biometric fingerprint reader.   We also have a beginner's guide to setting up a smart home if you want to do more than just secure your property. Depending on your provider, you might be able to get a discount on your home insurance if you have a home security system or other protective devices such as monitored smoke detectors or a sprinkler system. Allstate, Progressive, and State Farm are just a few homeowners insurance providers that acknowledge such discounts.  "While the home security insurance discount you might receive for installing a security system won’t cover the cost of the system itself, the peace of mind and sense of protection for you and your family may be worth it in addition to any future savings you may also incur," according to Progressive.  Discounts vary by company, so be sure to contact your home insurance agent to learn how you may be able to lower your rates and see if you qualify.  Like any product that connects to the internet and uses wireless technology, smart home security systems (particularly those that lack encryption) are vulnerable to hacking. Hackers can sit outside your home and use a laptop and software to intercept wireless signals coming from your system, thus allowing them to suppress alarms and disable sensors. Other devices allow hackers to generate radio noise that can jam communications between the sensors and the hub. Additionally, malicious actors can hack devices that connect via Wi-Fi, such as security cameras and smart door locks, to gain access to your home network. A skilled hacker can then use your Wi-Fi devices and other network resources to carry out Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks against larger networks. Perhaps even more disturbing is the idea of some stranger monitoring video from your indoor and outdoor security cameras.  Following a series of Wyze security breaches that exposed users' camera feeds, we are no longer recommending the company's affordable Home Monitoring system or security cameras. You can take several steps to make sure your home security system is safe from cyber intruders. For starters, you can replace the system's default password with a unique one that contains a mix of letters, numbers, and symbols. If possible, change your password from time to time. Additionally, make sure your home network is secure. Check the security settings on your wireless router and consider models that add an extra layer of software protection. Some security system vendors use frequency hopping tech to prevent signal jamming, whereas others use embedded encryption, but neither feature is standard; check with the manufacturer if you require an extra layer of security. In addition, keep an eye on your camera access logs. If you notice camera activity at odd hours or at times when you know that nobody is at home, it may be an indication of a system compromise. Finally, make sure your system software and all of your connected devices are up to date. Firmware updates often address security issues and can help protect your system from infiltration. Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I’ve been working with computers for ages, starting with a multi-year stint in purchasing for a major IBM reseller in New York City before eventually landing at PCMag (back when it was still in print as PC Magazine). I spent more than 14 years on staff, most recently as the director of operations for PC Labs, before hitting the freelance circuit as a contributing editor.  Read John R.'s full bio I’m PCMag’s executive editor of reviews, steering our coverage to make sure we're testing the products you're interested in buying and telling you whether they're worth it. I've been here for more than 10 years. I previously managed the consumer electronics reviews team, and before that I covered mobile, smart home, and wearable technology for PCMag and Gigaom.  Read Alex's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.