 We use cookies to help our site work, to understand how it is used, and to tailor ads that are more relevant to you and your interests. By accepting, you agree to cookies being stored on your device. You can view details and manage settings at any time on our cookies policy page. Welcome to the Institute for Communications Systems (ICS), home of the 5G/6G Innovation Centre (5G/6GIC), one of the largest and most renowned academic research centres in its field in Europe. Leveraging the wealth of technical and commercial experience among our industry partners, we are setting out a socially and commercially credible vision for beyond 5G and 6G (PDF), and pioneering technologies which will underpin the future. We are taking the global lead on research topics which will be crucial for the successful deployment of 6G, and will enable a rich new fabric of digital services. Our research and innovation strengths include:  Get an overview of our 6G research strategy on Integrated Communication and Sensing in a Network of Networks (PDF)  Our Centre brings together leading academics and key industry partners in a shared vision to help define and develop the 5G and 6G infrastructure.  Help us shape a world-class centre of excellence in 5G/6G. You'll gain access to world-class academics and researchers, and to our state-of-the-art 5G/6G technology evaluation facility. We are working in key areas where context is used to enable advanced communications capabilities that will provide an unparalleled user experience. These include artificial intelligence, satellite communications, ‘internet of things’, connected vehicles, mobile communications, drone communications and large intelligent surfaces. We offer a wide range of masters courses as well an Information and Communication Systems PhD. We have numerous partnerships with businesses around the globe and are always looking to work with national partners.  Study with us  Collaborate with us  Work with us Head of the Institute for Communication Systems (ICS)  10 APR 2024  14 MAR 2024  31 OCT 2023 Accessibility | Data protection | Cookies | Disclaimer | Freedom of information | Modern Slavery Statement (PDF) © University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH, United Kingdom. +44 (0)1483 300800