We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Lead Writer Content Management Specialist  Assigning Editor | student loans, student loan repayment plans, and education financing Many or all of the products featured here are from our partners who compensate us. This may influence which products we write about and where and how the product appears on a page. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money.  High sales volume 5.0 NerdWallet Rating  Overall POS system 5.0 NerdWallet Rating  Online business to in-person sales 5.0 NerdWallet Rating  E-commerce platform integration 4.5 NerdWallet Rating Helcim POS on Helcim POS's secure website Best for High sales volumes In-person: 0.4% + $0.08 Online: 0.5% + $0.25 Plus interchange  on Helcim POS's secure website Stripe Terminal on Stripe Terminal's secure website Best for Online business to in-person sales In-person: 2.7% + $0.05 Online: 2.9% + $0.30   on Stripe Terminal's secure website Square POS on Square POS's secure website Best for Overall POS system In-person: 2.6% + $0.10 Online: 2.9% + $0.30  and up.  on Square POS's secure website Shopify Retail POS on Shopify POS's secure website Best for E-commerce platform integration In-person: 2.6% + $0.10 Online: 2.9% + $0.30  and up for e-commerce plans with POS Lite; Can upgrade to POS Pro for an extra $89. on Shopify POS's secure website Clover POS on Clover POS's secure website Best for Choosing your own payment processor In-person: 2.3% + $0.10 Online: 3.5% + $0.10  and up. on Clover POS's secure website Toast POS on Toast POS's secure website Best for Restaurants doing dine-in and online business if you buy hardware upfront; 3.09% + $0.15 for pay-as-you-go option. Starter Kit; $69 Point of Sale plan; custom Build Your Own plan. on Toast POS's secure website SpotOn Restaurant on SpotOn Restaurant's secure website Best for Restaurant-specific add-on features For most cards in paid plans. and up. on SpotOn Restaurant's secure website SumUp POS on SumUp POS's secure website Best for Automated marketing In-person: 2.6% + $0.10 Online: 3.5% + $0.15  for card readers only; $99 for Connect Lite plan; $199 for Connect Plus plan; $289 for Connect Pro plan. on SumUp POS's secure website Lightspeed Retail POS on Lightspeed Retail POS's secure website Best for Inventory management In-person: 2.6% + $0.10 Online: 2.9% + $0.30  for Basic plan, $179 for Core plan, $289 for Plus plan. on Lightspeed Retail POS's secure website TouchBistro on TouchBistro's secure website Best for Offline functionality for restaurants Quote-based. and up. on TouchBistro's secure website U.S. Bank Merchant Services POS on U.S. Bank Merchant Services POS's secure website Best for Bank POS provider In-person: 2.6% + $0.10 Online: 2.9% + $0.30  and up. Varies dependent upon account setup. on U.S. Bank Merchant Services POS's secure website Lavu on Lavu's secure website Best for Cash discount program Quote-based. and up. on Lavu's secure website PayPal Zettle Best for Mobile POS software In-person: 2.29% + $0.09 Online: 3.49% + $0.09   Payanywhere POS Best for Managing customer reviews In-person: 2.69% + $0.00 Online: 3.49% + $0.19  and up.  Our pick for High sales volumes As a full-service merchant services provider, Helcim can essentially do it all for a business: payment processing, point of sale, invoicing and business management. Because it offers volume discounts, Helcim is especially cost-effective for businesses with high sales volumes. on Helcim POS's secure website Pros Cons Our pick for Online business to in-person sales Stripe accepts payments in more than 135 currencies, making it a strong fit for businesses with global reach. Stripe Terminal is not a POS system but an integration that allows you to extend your online business to in-person sales. With some coding, it can be connected to your POS app.
 on Stripe Terminal's secure website Pros Cons Our pick for Overall POS system Square’s transparent pricing, lack of long-term contracts, strong integrations and free POS plan, which has more functionality than some competitors’ base-level offerings, push it to the front of the group. Other standout perks include a free online store, inexpensive hardware options and no chargeback fees. The provider can accommodate a range of industries, too, including retail, restaurants and service-based businesses.
 on Square POS's secure website and up.  Pros Cons Our pick for E-commerce platform integration Shopify seamlessly unites online and in-store sales with its integrated POS and e-commerce plans. And its in-house payment processing solution makes it a one-stop-shop for businesses.  on Shopify POS's secure website and up for e-commerce plans with POS Lite; Can upgrade to POS Pro for an extra $89. Pros Cons Our pick for Choosing your own payment processor Clover’s most distinguishing feature is its ability to work with other payment processors. In other words, Clover merchants aren’t locked into using Clover as their payment processor. However, Clover hardware can’t be reprogrammed so you’ll need to purchase it directly from your payment processor of choice and will only be able to use it with that processor.
 on Clover POS's secure website and up. Pros Cons Our pick for Restaurants doing dine-in and online business Toast lets customers integrate online ordering options with their existing Toast POS system. If your restaurant has multiple locations, customers can choose where they’d like to pick up their order.  on Toast POS's secure website if you buy hardware upfront; 3.09% + $0.15 for pay-as-you-go option. Starter Kit; $69 Point of Sale plan; custom Build Your Own plan. Pros Cons Our pick for Restaurant-specific add-on features SpotOn Restaurant solutions are custom fit for your specific restaurant needs and numerous software integrations can round out your system. The company’s Restaurant Advisory Council provides regular feedback for continual improvement. on SpotOn Restaurant's secure website For most cards in paid plans. and up. Pros Cons Our pick for Automated marketing SumUp’s Connect Plus and Pro POS plans come with marketing tools that automatically send customers targeted promotions and allow them to accumulate rewards.  on SumUp POS's secure website for card readers only; $99 for Connect Lite plan; $199 for Connect Plus plan; $289 for Connect Pro plan. Pros Cons Our pick for Inventory management Lightspeed’s POS designed specifically for retailers offers several strong features, but it stands out particularly for its inventory management capabilities. The system is especially well suited for businesses with more than one location. on Lightspeed Retail POS's secure website for Basic plan, $179 for Core plan, $289 for Plus plan. Pros Cons Our pick for Offline functionality for restaurants TouchBistro is a POS system designed specifically for food-industry businesses. And since it stores data both locally and in the cloud, it's a great option for restaurants that don't have a reliable internet connection.  on TouchBistro's secure website Quote-based. and up. Pros Cons Our pick for Bank POS provider U.S. Bank Merchant Services offers payment processing and business bank accounts in addition to POS solutions, making it a one-stop shop for small businesses.
 on U.S. Bank Merchant Services POS's secure website and up. Varies dependent upon account setup. Pros Cons Our pick for Cash discount program Lavu makes iPad-based POS systems for different types of restaurants, from delis and coffee shops to full-service dining establishments. The company’s cash discount program helps business owners save on processing fees by passing some of the costs onto customers who choose to pay with cards instead of cash. Those who pay cash can skip the fees, so be sure your business is equipped to handle cash transactions. on Lavu's secure website Quote-based. and up. Pros Cons Our pick for Mobile POS software This all-in-one mobile POS and payment processing system is built for quick and easy setup and integrates seamlessly with many big names in business-related software. PayPal Zettle’s POS software is free, so business owners pay only for hardware and payment processing. Pros Cons Our pick for Managing customer reviews Payanywhere stands out for its reputation management platform that helps you monitor online reviews from Google and social media, and respond to them all from one place. You can also use it to create competitor profiles and stay up to date with how other businesses in your area are performing.
 and up.  Pros Cons How much does a POS system cost? Meet the editorial team Lisa A. Anthony Lead Writer | Small-business lending, payroll, marketing Karrin Sehmbi Lead Content Management Specialist | Small business Hillary Crawford Lead Writer | Business software Ryan Lane Assigning Editor | Small business, student loans Compare features, pricing, and expert reviews for your business software needs - all in one place. Compare features, pricing, and expert reviews for your business software needs - all in one place. Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105