

@hey.itsjo/TikTok


Nixx Photography/ShutterStock

(Licensed)
 Vladimir Supica Trending 
Posted on Apr 29, 2023
 A TikTok video showcasing a McDonald’s “hack” has gone viral, amassing over 452,800 views, but leaving many viewers disappointed. The video, posted on March 28 by user @hey.itsjo, reveals a menu option that could save McDonald’s customers a significant amount of money. The TikTok features a text-to-speech voice explaining how to access the “shareables” menu option on the McDonald’s app and get two large fries for just $2.59, instead of the regular price of $3.99 for one pack of large fries. “There we go! You saved $5.39,” the voice says triumphantly. While some viewers praised the hack and thanked @hey.itsjo for sharing the information, most were not impressed.  Many commenters complained that the price is location-based and different than what was advertised in the TikTok, with one saying: “2 large fries on shareables in California $8.19.”  “2large in wv 5.50 one is 3.29,” a second added, pointing to the price discrepancy. “2 large fries on shareables in virginia $5.49,” a third added. Other commenters complained that the option wasn’t available in their area at all. “I don’t have the option,” one user shared. “no option for that on mine,” a second commented. “lies I don’t have that option,” a third remarked. Despite the seemingly negative reaction in the comment section, the video still went viral, and is not the first one of its kind to do so. Last year, a video offering a $2 McDonalds Breakfast “hack” went viral,  The Daily Dot reached out to @hey.itsjo via email and to McDonalds via their press email. ‘You should be ashamed of yourselves’: Customer calls YETI cooler a ‘rip-off’ after ice melted in 1 day ‘If you order Amazon every day…’: Amazon driver has PSA for those ‘same houses’ that order ‘every day’ ‘Can I just take a cinnamon roll every morning?’: Health gurus recommend taking cinnamon every morning. It backfires ‘Collectors don’t play’: Man goes into the back, gets in a scuffle with the McDonald’s workers for the collectible cups Share this article TAGS  Vladimir Supica is a Serbia-based freelance writer for the Daily Dot. He enjoys traveling through Europe, reading non-fiction books, and playing with his dog Max.