This farmer wants a wife. Love Island is back on our screens for its second winter run, and the 2023 cast members are already hard at work to find love. While sparks have been flying between various contestants, one islander not having much luck so far is Will Young – no, not the singer Will Young, but the TikTok farmer who entered the ITV2 show's South African villa on Monday night. Despite his huge TikTok following, Will is yet to find romantic success on the show, and is the only single contestant after bombshell Tom Clare swooped in and stole his partner Olivia Hawkins during a recent recouping. With things looking uncertain for Will and another recoupling set to unfold on Friday, as well as the first dumping of the season, here's what you need to know about the contestant. Age: 23 Job: Farmer Instagram: @farmer_will_ From: Buckinghamshire Couple up with: Nobody Will is a fan of Sir David Attenborough, naming him as the star he’d most like to see appear in a film of his own life. “Imagine hearing his calming voice talking while he’s feeding the animals, his top off, some short shorts… he would rock it,” he says. Do we have a joker in our midst?  The demands of his rural lifestyle have meant that Will has struggled to balance his personal life with his work responsibilities, so he’s hoping that his stint in the villa will give him the opportunity to focus on romance. “Having grown up on a farm, it’s been quite difficult juggling relationships and work,” he admits. “Love Island will give me time away from the farm to solely go out and find love. I think I’m at the time of my life where I’m mature enough to go and find a wife.”  You can follow Will on Instagram on @farmer_will_, where his videos showing him shearing sheep and posing with his very sweet pet lamb have earned him 116,000 followers. He’s even more popular over on TikTok, where he uses the handle @farmerwill_ and has managed to clock up 1.1 million followers. However, Will’s social media accounts will be going quiet while he’s in the villa, as new Love Island duty of care rules mean that contestants have to pause posting while appearing on the show. This new measure is designed to "protect both the islanders and their families from the adverse effects of social media". We know that Will is a fan of meditation after learning about it from a former date, so any future love interests might want to take note. “Every night I light a candle and meditate for 20-25 minutes,” he says. “A girl I was seeing told me to meditate, I tried it and loved it. I stopped seeing her and carried on meditating! It’s a nice way to self reflect, taking a minute on my day/week. It’s really nice and sets me up for a nice sleep.”  Previous seasons of Love Island are available on BritBox – you can sign up for a 7-day free trial. Love Island continues on ITV2 and ITVX every night at 9pm. If you're looking for something to watch, check out our TV Guide or Streaming Guide. Visit our Entertainment hub for all the latest news. Try Radio Times magazine today and get 12 issues for only £1 with delivery to your home – subscribe now. For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to the Radio Times View From My Sofa podcast. Try 10 issues for just £10! Sign up to our reader offer newsletters and be entered into a monthly prize draw. August's prize is a Roberts Play 11 radio. Rising house prices make equity release more attractive to homeowners. Get a free guide and find out if equity release could work for you. Sign up to receive our newsletter! By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time.