In an attempt to seemingly quiet split speculation, Kaitlyn Bristowe has sparked more questions about her relationship with Jason Tartick. The 38-year-old former Bachelorette shared a series of eyebrow-raising Instagram posts on Tuesday, August 1, after Bachelor Nation flooded her and Tartick’s comments sections with questions about whether they broke up. Hours after posting a Nikita Gill poem about self-improvement, Bristowe allegedly went off via Instagram Stories, writing, “I cannot believe the audacity of people to expect things from me when I haven’t even been able to process things for myself. Have a f—king heart. You’re scaring me with your comments and demands. I’m almost worried about YOU.” While the post is no longer on Bristowe’s social media account, screenshots were captured in her “Off the Vine” Facebook group. She subsequently shared the lyrics of her 2020 song “If I’m Being Honest,” encouraging her followers to “stream wherever you listen to music.” “Just 'cause I'm an open book / Don't mean you get the whole story,” the lyrics state. “And if I'm being honest / I’m not always as tough as I seem / And I can have my moments / But words can get the best of me / And the words that I say to myself / Are the ones that hit the hardest.” Bristowe has been bombarded with fan inquiries about her status with Tartick, 34, after she ditched her engagement ring on the beach on a vacation without her fiancé late last month. She also posted a crying selfie over the weekend, writing in part, "Just know that the highlights are mostly posted about. You're not alone in your struggles." Tartick’s social media followers are also seeking answers after he went on a trip with his family during the same week. While both Bristowe and Tartick have since returned to Nashville — where they currently reside — he fueled chatter on Tuesday when he documented a seemingly solo outing with their two dogs (who were with Bristowe the night prior) upon his return home. Bristowe and Tartick started dating after her engagement to Bachelorette season 11 winner Shawn Booth — who recently announced he’s going to be a father — ended in 2018. Tartick proposed to Bristowe in May 2021, but the twosome struggled to make progress on wedding planning. “Jason and I are so funny. Like, if we talk about a venue — we actually have such different styles, different tastes, different everything that it’s almost frustrating,” she said on Us Weekly’s “Here for the Right Reasons” podcast in August 2022. “Because I’ll be like, ‘I’m in love with this venue and it’s perfect and it’s open.’ And he’ll be like, ‘Oh, no, that’s no. That’s not the style we’re going for at all.’ … I’m so not traditional that I’m like, ‘Why can’t we go to the courthouse?’ Because I would. He’s not down.” Us Weekly has reached out to Bristowe’s team for comment. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.