Local health officials are probing screenshots that appear to show a local physician assistant shared, on several occasions, confidential information related to at least three patients, as well as shaming patients for their health claims. The photos indicate that Annalee Knowles, of Naples, a physician assistant at NCH, has shared patients' information to her Instagram story. She has been removed from her shifts at NCH, officials say. The last social media update was dated Oct. 2. Her account has since been closed. Records indicate that Knowles, whose age couldn't be verified, specialized in kidney care and has been a physician assistant since at least 2014. A physician assistant conducts physical exams; diagnoses and treats illnesses; and orders and interprets tests. Documents shared with this news organization show at least three Instagram stories, which remain active for 24 hours. At least one post refers to race, others mock the reasons patients went to the hospital in a handwritten Bingo square format: Diarrhea, can't poop; ABD (abdominal pain) asking to eat; Asking 4 Dilaudid. The post had the comment: Tell me you work in the ER without telling me you work in the ER. The latest, posted Monday, shows a photograph of a patient's emergency-room note that reads, "CT findings discussed with patient. He denies anal sex or other anal trauma. States 'nah I'm straight I got kids and [redacted].'" The photo included the date and time of the incident, with the comment: convincing enough for me I guess. Another posting, dated Sept. 20, include a mirror selfie tagging NCH Healthcare Northeast that reads, "I have been at work for 1 hour and multiple patients have questioned my age and therefore seem skeptical at my ability to do my job... it's definitely the braids." "Recently, a provider made inappropriate comments on social media about their clinical practice," Rebecca Delgado, a spokesperson at NCH, wrote in a statement. Delgado said the provider is employed by a third-party medical group that is not owned or controlled by NCH. "We are working closely with the provider's employer to investigate the matter," Delgado wrote. "It is important to note no patient health information was posted; patient confidentiality and privacy were not compromised." TeamHealth, the contract company for physicians and staff, said they were first made aware of Knowles' posts Tuesday. Hospital grades: Most SWFL hospitals earn high marks for patient safety and outcomes "Her posts do not reflect the values of TeamHealth nor the high quality care we provide to patients and the communities we serve," Josh Hopson, spokesperson for TeamHealth, wrote in a statement. "We took decisive action to immediately investigate her posts and have removed her from future scheduled shifts." The Daily News couldn't reach Knowles for comment. Tomas Rodriguez is a Breaking/Live News Reporter for the Naples Daily News and The News-Press. You can reach Tomas at TRodriguez@gannett.com or 772-333-5501. Connect with him on Threads @tomasfrobeltran, Instagram @tomasfrobeltran, Facebook @tomasrodrigueznews and Twitter @TomasFRoBeltran. This article originally appeared on Naples Daily News: Naples PA leaked ER patient records on Instagram, screenshots show New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.