Global site navigation PAY ATTENTION: Be the first to follow YEN.com.gh on Threads! Click here! Ghana Black Stars player and Ajax Football Club attacking midfielder Mohammed Kudus turns 23 years today, August 2, 2023. Fans and friends of the footballer have shared well-wishing messages on social media as they celebrate with him. Ajax Football Club have taken to social media to celebrate the birthday of one of their star players, Mohammed Kudus.  The Ghanaian midfielder, who has been making waves in the footballing world, received an outpouring of love and birthday wishes from fans and fellow athletes. Read also Van Vicker thanks God as he turns 46, shares youthful photos The photo shared by Ajax on Instagram quickly garnered widespread attention and engagement, amassing thousands of likes, comments, and shares within hours.  PAY ATTENTION: Сheck out news that is picked exactly for YOU ➡️  click on “Recommended for you” and enjoy! Fans flooded the comments section with messages of felicitation, expressing their admiration for the philanthropic player and conveying their best wishes for his birthday. Many of his supporters referred to him as a future legend and commended his remarkable contributions to his teams' success. See Ajax's birthday post to celebrate Kudus below:  Some fans of Mohammed Kudus reacted positively to the photo as they sent well-wishing messages to him. Others shared videos of his football celebrations in the comment section to celebrate him.  Read also Kofi Kinaata congratulates Samini after graduating from GIMPA terrynewman_ commented: akesesem9 commented: akesesem9 commented: juniormarcelovieira commented: Meanwhile, YEN.com.gh reported earlier that Kudus won the Player of the Year Award at the Ghana Football Awards. He received the prestigious award from legendary footballer Asamoah Gyan.  Kudus Mohammed, only 22 years old, has risen to the top of Ghanaian football due to his exceptional play and dedication to the game. New feature: Сheck out news that is picked for YOU ➡️  click on “Recommended for you”  and enjoy! Source: YEN.com.gh 

                David Otu-Aboagye                            
David is a journalist with three years of experience in creating entertainment articles.
He attended Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology and graduated in 2021.
His journalism journey started at Opera News as a writer/editor, from where he left to join YEN.com.gh in 2023.
Reach out to him via: david.otu-aboagye@yen.com.gh
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you