The creator economy could approach half-a-trillion dollars by 2027.  Think this is nice? It’s a version of the weekly Under 30 newsletter and would be even better in your inbox. One thing is clear: The creator economy is booming. Goldman Sachs estimates it could approach half-a-trillion dollars by 2027. And those on our 30 Under 30 Social Media list are powering it, from Addison Rae to Elsa Majimbo to Khaby Lame. But one 2022 Social Media lister, Will Kim, is working to help those creators get their finances in check. This week, his startup Karat—which offers credit card and banking to folks who sell via social media—announced $70 million in new funding, bringing its total funding to more than $100 million. Kim and cofounder Eric Wei reason that traditional finance institutions might be slow to understand and lend to influencers. Karat aims to replace the traditional credit score by offering its users lines of credit based on their following on apps like Instagram, YouTube and Twitch. “You could be a YouTuber literally making millions of dollars, walk into a bank and get treated like trash,” Wei told my colleague, reporter Emmy Lucas, this week. Read more about their plan for disrupting the fintech industry here. Barbie World: Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling as Barbie and Ken; the cast of 'Barbie' and director Greta Gerwig on the pink carpet; Gerwig and Robbie celebrate their summer blockbuster. She’s here, she’s there, she’s every pinkin’-where. With Margot Robbie’s summer blockbuster arriving in theaters and ubiquitous merchandise collaborations, the world’s favorite doll is about to launch the Mattel cinematic universe. Joseph Laresca, CEO of NOISE, a full-service marketing, advertising and creative agency that works with many public figures and brands. Laresca appeared on our Under 30 Marketing & Advertising list in 2022.  We’re bringing you the scoop on a new Under 30 community member each week. Up this week: Joseph Laresca, CEO of NOISE, a full-service marketing, advertising and creative agency that works with many public figures and brands. Laresca appeared on our Under 30 Marketing & Advertising list in 2022. Favorite app? Threads! For once, I don't think this is overhyped. I actually think it's properly hyped. I also don’t think that it’s a Twitter killer. There’s social pressure on Twitter to sound smart and curate — that doesn’t exist on Threads (yet!). We’ve seen this before. The Instagram Story (aka: Snapchat) brought life and more engagement to Instagram because it meant more spontaneity and less pressure to post something “permanent.” Threads is to Twitter as Instagram Stories is to an Instagram Feed. People are being their authentic selves on Threads and that’s how the user base + general community is being established. There’s a ton of room for both companies and personal brands to build an audience on Threads, especially since Meta will be favoring the algorithm to the most active. A staple of your morning routine? Spotify, gym, steam and cold plunge. I do these religiously. That being said, I would say music and the gym are two things I definitely can’t live without. It helps me win the day and it's usually where I come up with my best ideas. What do you think is overrated (in your field, or in the world in general right now)? AI. Technology will always make the world more efficient and create more opportunities holistically. That said, you’ll never be able to replace the way a human draws on their life experiences — the ups, the downs, the people, the places, etc., their unique perspectives and overall DNA to beautifully and thoughtfully craft an idea. It’s like music — sure, you can get AI to dub or create a song just like Michael Jackson, Bad Bunny, The Beatles or Drake. But, you’ll never be able to replicate the brand, the emotion and everything in between to deliver something from human to human. What do you think is underrated? Agencies. Today, businesses need to continuously drive attention and revenue. The best agencies know how to do that. It’s not that the agency business isn’t respected, but I’ve found that a lot of the rhetoric around the industry is that it's an added cost versus a competitive advantage. In my opinion, the best agencies become an extension to your team and help you get to your goals quicker, keep you creative and push you to continue innovating. What do you do to unwind? Boxing. Boxing has become one of my favorite things to do. It’s also one of the hardest things I’ve ever done. I’m actually doing a charity boxing event in November called Haymakers for Hope — an organization focused on fighting cancer. Best piece of advice for young founders trying to build a profitable business? Stay lean. Most businesses are bloated. The Covid and post-Covid world exposed that. It continues to reveal inefficiencies and where companies could spend less. -Isometric, a carbon removal registry platform, launched Tuesday with $25 million in seed funding from Lowercarbon Capital and Plural. With Eamon Jubbawy, founder and CEO of Isometric and a 2016 30 Under 30 Europe Technology lister, the company hopes to bring transparency to whether carbon removal efforts actually represent the climate impact companies claim. -RADAR, a company that uses RFID labels to help retailers track inventory and eliminate the checkout line, announced last week that they raised $30 million in Series A funding, bringing its total funding to $63 million. RADAR plans to use new cash to expand its customer base, accelerate product development and to hire new talent. Investors include Align Ventures RX Ventures, the Venture Capital Arm of South American retailer Lojas Renner and The Ferrante Group. The company was founded by 2022 Retail & Ecommerce lister Spencer Hewett, who says RADAR is looking to make the shopping experience more efficient. -With its $3.3 million in seed funding, PingSafe, an organization that uses its technology to provide security against cloud hackers, came out of stealth mode Wednesday. Investors in the startup’s seed round include Peak XV Partners, Sequoia Capital India and several angel investors. Before working on PingSafe, Anand Prakash, a 2017 Asia Enterprise Technology Lister, worked on finding security vulnerabilities in companies such as Meta, Uber and Twitter.   One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.