NBC / Contributor/Getty Images HGTV fans are used to seeing Ben and Erin Napier’s faces not only knocking down walls on television, but on Instagram posts, advertisements, and a lot more. The couple has been willing to share a lot of their lives with their fans, but one thing you almost never see is the faces of their two young daughters. There’s a very good reason for that. The Napiers sat down with Today.com for an interview and shared their thoughts on social media, particularly how it could impact the lives of their daughters, five-year old Helen and 21-month old Mae. While the couple occasionally shares photos of their girls online, they keep their faces hidden. The Napiers made that choice both to protect their kiddos’ privacy, but also to allow them to grow up as far from the spotlight as possible. “How would I feel about it, if I went back in time and saw my mom posted all of this stuff for the world to see? How would I feel about that?” Erin told TODAY.com. Ben agreed: “What if you went back 30 years and started publicizing the things that I did, and my brothers and my friends, before I knew better?” While their daughters are still young, the Home Town Takeover stars have already outlined their policies for how their daughters will spend their time online. They told Today that it was their "personal policy" to not allow the girls "any access to social media until they're done with high school" when they're "old enough to see it for what it is." "It's our job to build a hedge of protection around their heart until they're strong enough to fight that battle," Erin later said. It’s a worthy goal, but as most parents to teenagers will agree, it may be very hard to enforce without a fight or a lot of teenage attitude. For more Southern Living news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on Southern Living. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.