Arsenal summer signing Jurrien Timber is currently sidelined with an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury which he sustained during his Premier League debut last month Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Arsenal defender Jurrien Timber has taken to social media to send supporters a message after watching his side defeat PSV Eindhoven 4-0 in Wednesday evening's UEFA Champions League clash. The Gunners delivered a vintage first-half display, with Bukayo Saka breaking the deadlock from close range after just eight minutes.   Fellow forwards Leandro Trossard and Gabriel Jesus then put Mikel Arteta's side three-up before the half-time whistle before club captain Martin Odegaard added a fourth in the second period. After the full-time whistle, summer signing Timber took to Instagram, posting a picture of the pre-match Champions League light show on his story.   "There we go (fire emoji)," his caption read. The Dutch international is currently on the treatment table after suffering an anterior crucial ligament (ACL) injury during his Premier League debut last month.   The 22-year-old will now likely miss the majority of the 2023/24 campaign but Arteta has predicted the versatile defender to play a major part in Arsenal's future over the next few years. “We are all human beings and you know that one plus one isn’t always making two," the Spaniard said last week regarding transfer business.  "In the end, it’s a bet. When buying a player, it’s a bet – and that bet can go wrong... because it’s a human. You have to bring them from different countries, cultures and styles of play. “Then they have to live and adapt within a different system and environment. Sometimes it takes time. Sometimes it works. Sometimes it doesn’t. I feel extremely responsible, especially when we’re demanding to buy players for huge amounts. You have to make sure we’ve done the work to make it happen. But sometimes it doesn’t.” READ MORE: Thierry Henry aims subtle Arsenal jibe at Harry Kane ahead of North London Derby   READ MORE: Jamie Carragher and Peter Schmeichel disagree on David Raya amid brutal Arsenal title prediction “Look at Jurrien," he continued. "We’re extremely happy but, for a different reason, we don’t have him on the field. We paid a lot of money and he’s a player that’s going to be really important. But it’s not working at the moment because he can’t fulfil his job. "Sometimes, it’s for that reason. But sometimes they’re not fitting in because they’re not playing well enough – and the coach makes so many mistakes that he doesn’t get the best from a player.“ Sign up to our Arsenal WhatsApp community and get all the latest breaking news and in-depth stories from football.london's dedicated Arsenal writers straight to your phone! By signing up to this free service you will be the first to know the news from the Emirates Stadium as it happens. To join our Arsenal community, all you have to do is click this link and you can join! If you're curious, you can check out our privacy policy here.  