While the number of daily active users on Threads has decreased by an estimated 70% since its meteoric launch, according to recent data from Sensor Tower, many influencers and brands are still very active on the new social-media platform. Meta-owned Threads made its debut on July 5 and boasted over 150 million downloads in its first month. Many of its earliest users included influencer-marketing experts, creators, and brands. According to a recent report by the influencer-marketing platform Izea, social-media influencers who were already on other platforms like TikTok, YouTube, and Instagram were quick to sign up for the new app. In fact, 54% of influencers in the survey said they had already posted sponsored content on Threads. Creators like Kristen Bousquet have been paid by brands to promote certain services or products, already establishing this app as a new source of income. The trend is expected to continue, since 1/3 of influencers said they plan to post sponsored content in the near future, according to Izea's report. Izea surveyed 1,230 social media users in the United States on July 15 and July 16, 29% of whom were influencers, to better understand how the platform evolved during its first 10 days. About 30% of the surveyed users were between the ages of 45 and 60, and roughly 45% were Gen-Z and Millennial users between the ages of 18 and 44. Here were 4 takeaways from Izea's report: Influencers flocked to Threads. About 61% of influencers surveyed reported that they signed up for Threads within the first 10 days of launching. Influencers and content creators were more likely to join Threads than non-influencer social-media users, according to Izea's data. Paid sponsored posts are making their way to Threads. Izea found that 84% of social-media influencers were open to monetizing their Threads posts, and 54% of influencers reported that they'd already posted paid branded content to the new app. Roughly 30% of influencers said they planned paid Threads sponsorships in the near future. Threads usage is slipping, however. Only 21% of users reported that they were still actively using the Threads app, according to Izea's survey. In fact, 24% of new users indicated that they had deactivated or deleted their accounts within the first 10 days of launching Threads. Some everyday users and influencers had concerns about Threads. While approximately 50% of Threads users reported in Izea's survey that Meta's ownership of Threads positively impacted their opinion of the app, 28% also reported that Meta's ownership was a concern. The top concerns among those surveyed included privacy and data security issues. Read more about how influencer marketing is making its way to Threads 
                                Read next
                               Jump to