Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 An impairment charge highly distorted the financial picture for this company. Shares of fashion apparel company Capri Holdings (CPRI 1.35%) fell on Wednesday after the company released financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter of 2023. As of 1 p.m. ET, Capri Holdings stock was down 10% and hitting 52-week lows. In Q4, which ended April 1, Capri Holdings had revenue of $1.3 billion, which was down 10.5%. However, don't blame the decline in revenue for the stock's performance today. Revenue of $1.3 billion was about 5% higher than management's guidance. Rather, Capri Holdings stock is down because of its profitability -- or rather its lack thereof. The company had a loss from operations of $40 million compared to operating income of $119 million in the prior-year period. For perspective, management had guided for an 8.5% operating margin in Q4, which would have equated to operating income of over $100 million.  To be fair, Capri Holdings had a $130 million impairment charge in Q4 which pulled down its operating income on an accounting basis. Without this, financial results would have been much closer to expectations. For fiscal 2024, Capri Holdings' management expects revenue of $5.7 billion, a 16.5% operating margin, and earnings per share (EPS) of $6.40. For perspective, in fiscal 2023, the company had revenue of $5.6 billion, an operating margin of 12%, and diluted EPS of $4.60. Therefore, management is guiding for modest top-line growth but major improvements in profitability year over year. Moreover, management for Capri Holdings is rewarding shareholders with profits through share repurchases. It spent $400 million in Q4 and still has $400 million of buyback authorization remaining. For me, Capri Holdings stock isn't my highest conviction idea for a market-beating investment. That said, the company is still growing, profits should rebound, and shareholders are getting rewarded, which leads me to believe the market is overreacting to its financial results today. Jon Quast has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.