MUNICH, GERMANY - SEPTEMBER 05: Visitors look at a  Porsche Mission X electric concept sports car at ... [+] the IAA Mobility 2023 international motor show on September 05, 2023 in Munich, Germany. This year's IAA is running from September 5 to September 10 at the Munich trade fair grounds and at several other locations across the city. (Photo by Hannes Magerstaedt/Getty Images) It’s been a busy year in automotive technology and IAA Mobility 2023 proved more big advancements are on the way. This year, 750 companies from 38 different countries were in attendance to showcase their latest products. It’s no surprise that technology took center stage with artificial intelligence, electrification, sustainability, and revolutionary designs inside and out prevalent on the show floor. The following are just a few of the highlights from one of the most exciting automobile-focused events of the year. Qualcomm announced a new partnership with Amazon Web Services (AWS) to help advance innovation within the industry. The goal is to accelerate the development of autonomous driving and software-defined vehicles (SDVs) and democratize vehicle software development. As an example, the Qualcomm Technologies software stack will allow developers to use the cloud to test and simulate new advanced solutions without the need for hardware testing. This option allows technology to advance more quickly throughout the entire industry. In addition to its partnership with AWS, Qualcomm announced expansion of its Snapdragon Digital Chassis with two new platforms for 2-wheelers and micro-vehicle marketplace. The platforms, QWM2290 and QWS2290, offer better safety, infotainment, cloud-connectedness and personalization, especially for the expanding sharing economy. The company’s Auto 4G and 5G also allow for new revenue opportunities, over-the-air updates, predictive maintenance, asset tracking and more. I was also able to get an inside look at Qualcomm’s new Snapdragon Concept Car that showcases all of the technology. It provided a glimpse into what has driven the company’s rapid ascent in the automotive space, which has made its automotive business a standout performer during a slowdown for the broader PC, mobile, and handset markets.  Additionally, Qualcomm announced new or expanded Snapdragon partnerships with BMW Group, Mercedes-Benz, Mahindra and Jaguar/Land Rover.  This is clear indication that more and more auto manufacturers around the world are feeling the push to innovate and add new technologies to their vehicles. Valeo and Mobileye announced a new partnership aimed at more advanced imaging radar for next-gen driver assist and automated driving. The imaging radar is a key part of more advanced ADAS solutions and “eyes-off” automated driving opportunities. An integrated system-on-chip design will help create detailed, 4D imaging of surroundings up to 300 meters away, including a 140-degree field of vision at medium range. This will do wonders for driver safety, as well as fully automated driving. Even though automakers BMW and Mercedes Benz had the home field advantage at the event, China proved it’s here to play. Chinese manufacturer BYD showcased six new models, including an economical EV priced below $32,000. BYD sold 1.8 million EVs in 2022–more than Tesla. Reps from BYD said they plan to sell 2.5 million in 2023. China’s formidable presence showed they indeed intend to make a play for EV market share globally. Audi isn’t messing around with its new “Digital Stage” cockpit, which features three screens that span from driver to passenger side and features gauge clusters, infotainment displays and nav controls. The Q6 e-tron even features an augmented reality display on the windshield that projects information like speed and other nav information. BMW introduced its “Vision Neue Klasse,” an electric concept car that also includes a panoramic display that projects information across the windshield. In addition, the vehicle includes things like iDrive infotainment system to make the car more experiential. Honestly, the updates on individual car advancements were endless at IAA. The main takeaway here is that the technology and automotive industries are no longer separate entities. Every vehicle being created today is equipped with the same–or better–connectivity and entertainment options we’ve come to expect in the home or office. Do we really need infotainment in every vehicle or more opportunities to monetize while people drive? Of course not. But if the trend is connectivity everywhere, connected vehicles are a must for the consumer market. Another huge takeaway: the electric vehicle isn’t going anywhere but up. As manufacturers attempt to make more affordable models for the everyday drive, adoption will also continue to grow. And, as customers continue to push for different variations–cars, trucks, two-wheeled vehicles–the options will only continue to grow. It’s been a challenging few years for the auto industry. Supply chain and chip issues took their toll on many manufacturers, but continued strong demand has also served as an industry catalyst. IAA 2023 made one thing clear: the technology teams in the automobile marketplace are serious about moving the vehicle industry forward driving closer partnerships between OEMs and technology leaders taking us into the future of more connected, sustainable, and AI powered vehicles.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.