

Published 1 year ago.
About a 6 minute read.
Image: Chanel launched its first clean beauty line, N°1 DE CHANEL in 2021 | Chanel
 New research quantifies the financial value of sustainability perceptions for hundreds of the world’s biggest brands — and the substantial risks of not living up to them. First launched at the World Economic Forum in Davos earlier this year, Brand Finance's Sustainability Perceptions
Index showed that
for many of the world’s most valuable businesses, there can be billions of
dollars of financial value to be gained from enhanced ESG action and associated
communication. Now, for the new Sustainability Gap
Index,
brand-valuation consultancy has
recalculated the valuations of each brand by considering its ESG performance,
utilizing data from CSRHub. The newly derived values,
in conjunction with the Sustainability Perceptions Scores (SPS) disclosed in the
new report, expose whether public perceptions align with the actual performance
of each brand — and the financial risks associated with any gap. As Robert Haigh, Strategy
& Sustainability Director at Brand Finance, explains in the report: As detailed in the report, where a brand’s sustainability performance exceeds
that of public perception, there is an opportunity to rapidly generate value by
communicating the brand’s genuine commitment to sustainability more effectively.
Conversely, where perception exceeds performance, value is at imminent risk — as
brands leave themselves open to public
backlash
and a ‘correction’ of their sustainability perceptions value. Join us to hear insights from brands including Applegate on marketing lessons from consumer response to sustainability claims on CPG packaging, at SB'24 San Diego — October 14-17. For example, Brand Finance found Amazon to have the
highest sustainability perceptions value of any brand — US$19.9 billion. The
ecommerce giant may not be perfect; but consumers appear to have confidence that
it is committed enough to minimizing its impacts for them to continue to use its
services. But if Amazon fails to keep pace with perception through a
precautionary approach to improving its sustainability
performance,
and honest communication about its
progress,
those billions of dollars of value could be at risk. 
View larger graphic here. Another such brand is Tesla. Known as a pioneer of
electric-vehicle, solar and battery technologies, Tesla’s image has clearly
carried across into the perceptions held by global consumers. The company has
the highest proportion of value underpinned by sustainability perceptions of any
brand (26.9 percent) resulting in a Sustainability Perceptions Value of US$17.8
billion. However, the strength of this perception creates its own
risk
— because whilst Tesla performs well on environmental components of
sustainability, it is weaker on governance and measures of social
sustainability. Tesla’s weaker CSRHub scores therefore create a value at risk of
up to US$4.1 billion — more than any other brand in the table. Conversely, Microsoft has the highest
positive gap value of any brand according to Brand Finance’s research — US$1.5
billion. This reveals that Microsoft’s sustainability
performance
largely exceeds its public sustainability perception, thanks to a phenomenon on
the flipside of greenwashing known as
‘greenhushing’
— in which brands under-report their sustainability progress or credentials for
fear of being accused of greenwashing — which, Brand Finance posits, means there
is an opportunity for Microsoft to generate up to US$1.5 billion by speaking
more loudly and clearly about its sustainability initiatives and services. 
View larger graphic here. Meanwhile, luxury fashion house Chanel is an
example of a brand that has both a (relatively) high Sustainability Perceptions
Score (4.88/10) and a high CSRHub score. By engaging with a wide range of
stakeholder groups, Chanel can better align its sustainability performance with
its sustainability perception through strong, authentic sustainability
communication. “The Sustainability Perception Index is a much-needed tool for marketers and agencies to steer their efforts and get the balance right between greenhushing and greenwashing," says Thomas Kolster — a globally renowned speaker and author on the intersection of marketing, business and sustainability. "Ultimately, it showcases the value of real action — not just shouting against the wind.” While Brand Finance found that sustainability plays a powerful role in brand
perception at the premium end of all sectors, the research also found that it is
more likely to act as a differentiator for brands in certain sectors. For
instance, the average role of sustainability in driving choice in the luxury
auto sector is 22.9 percent (which could partly explain the lasting halo
effect
for Tesla). It might seem counterintuitive that brands often associated with
high fuel consumption are reliant on a reputation for sustainability. However,
in luxury auto — where the purchase is discretionary and the brand is publicly
expressed — the appeal of sustainability is further enhanced. Other sectors in
which sustainability plays a powerful role are soft drinks (13.7 percent),
supermarkets (12.6 percent), media (10.1 percent) and personal-care products (10
percent). For soft drinks and supermarkets, the potential impact of the
products in
question
is a lot more tangible for consumers than in many sectors — due to growing
understanding of impacts such as plastic
pollution,
deforestation
and other agricultural
impacts,
or food miles. In cosmetics, many brands have
found success marketing attributes including
clean
and sustainable
ingredients;
avoidance of animal
testing;
and ethical supply chain
initiatives. The bottom line is, the time that companies could ignore the tangible financial
link between sustainability and brand perception has come and gone — as has the
era of
greenwash.
In the report, IAA Public Policy Council Chair Jeffrey A.
Greenbaum offers brands a great
starting point for proceeding authentically: "One thing that every advertiser
should do is review their marketing with a view toward replacing ambiguous,
general environmental benefit claims that could have the capacity to mislead
consumers with claims that promote specific environmental benefits that are
backed up by proper substantiation.” Published Jun 23, 2023 8am EDT / 5am PDT / 1pm BST / 2pm CEST