e-Edition Evening Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition Evening Edition 
			Top Picks:		 The blue crab, a valuable commodity among Chesapeake Bay commercial and recreational fishermen, is wreaking havoc in the Mediterranean Sea, causing significant damage to the clam market and potentially upsetting other ecosystems.The conditions in the Mediterranean have proven favorable to the blue crabs — native to the North and South American east coasts, as well as the Gulf of Mexico — where they have an abundance of food sources such as a wide range of shellfish, and few natural predators, according to a senior scientist at the nonprofit Chesapeake Bay Foundation.“I think there are some very, very legitimate concerns about some segments of aquaculture especially that may have some very dire consequences as a result,” said Chris Moore. “If you take away the shellfish you’re taking away other food sources for other organisms that are living there. You could have collapse of various fisheries as a result of that.”The surge of blue crabs has particularly affected Italy, the largest producer of clams in Europe and the third largest in the world. The crabs have damaged 50% of the country’s production of clams, mussels and oysters, according to the Associated Press, jeopardizing the livelihoods of those involved in the supply chain. Blue crabs are omnivores, feeding on shellfish and even smaller blue crabs, along with plant and animal waste.It’s not clear why their numbers have increased so drastically, but Moore said it could result from warming waters making the region more favorable. Experts have speculated, according to Moore, that the crabs likely made it to the other side of the Atlantic in the ballast water of international container ships beginning decades ago — and new species have been introduced into the Chesapeake Bay the same way.“It seems like climate change may be playing a pretty big role in this, because waters are warming and that’s making these areas even more friendly in terms of habitat for crabs, it also seems obvious they don’t have a lot of natural predators over that way so you’re in a situation where they can expand their range,” Moore said.
In Italy, fishermen have sounded the alarm following a surge in the population of the fast-reproducing invasive species, blue crabs.The crabs are devouring stocks of eels, clams and mussels. pic.twitter.com/vQi4WQSakJ
— The Associated Press (@AP) August 28, 2023 

Dealing with an invasive species isn’t easy. Moore said the blue crab situation resembles the spike in blue catfish in the Chesapeake Bay some decades ago. Officials have begun the strategy of creating a large commercial market for them. Blue crabs are the most valuable fishery in the Chesapeake Bay, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, generating between $22 to $38 million a year.The blue crab population has fluctuated dramatically in the Chesapeake Bay in recent years. In 2022 they reached their lowest population since 1990, but rebounded over the last year, though still below the target levels.Gavin Stone, 757-712-4806, gavin.stone@virginiamedia.com The conditions in the Mediterranean have proven favorable to the blue crabs — native to the North and South American east coasts, as well as the Gulf of Mexico — where they have an abundance of food sources such as a wide range of shellfish, and few natural predators, according to a senior scientist at the nonprofit Chesapeake Bay Foundation. “I think there are some very, very legitimate concerns about some segments of aquaculture especially that may have some very dire consequences as a result,” said Chris Moore. “If you take away the shellfish you’re taking away other food sources for other organisms that are living there. You could have collapse of various fisheries as a result of that.” The surge of blue crabs has particularly affected Italy, the largest producer of clams in Europe and the third largest in the world. The crabs have damaged 50% of the country’s production of clams, mussels and oysters, according to the Associated Press, jeopardizing the livelihoods of those involved in the supply chain. Blue crabs are omnivores, feeding on shellfish and even smaller blue crabs, along with plant and animal waste. It’s not clear why their numbers have increased so drastically, but Moore said it could result from warming waters making the region more favorable. Experts have speculated, according to Moore, that the crabs likely made it to the other side of the Atlantic in the ballast water of international container ships beginning decades ago — and new species have been introduced into the Chesapeake Bay the same way. “It seems like climate change may be playing a pretty big role in this, because waters are warming and that’s making these areas even more friendly in terms of habitat for crabs, it also seems obvious they don’t have a lot of natural predators over that way so you’re in a situation where they can expand their range,” Moore said. In Italy, fishermen have sounded the alarm following a surge in the population of the fast-reproducing invasive species, blue crabs.The crabs are devouring stocks of eels, clams and mussels. pic.twitter.com/vQi4WQSakJ — The Associated Press (@AP) August 28, 2023  Dealing with an invasive species isn’t easy. Moore said the blue crab situation resembles the spike in blue catfish in the Chesapeake Bay some decades ago. Officials have begun the strategy of creating a large commercial market for them. Blue crabs are the most valuable fishery in the Chesapeake Bay, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, generating between $22 to $38 million a year. The blue crab population has fluctuated dramatically in the Chesapeake Bay in recent years. In 2022 they reached their lowest population since 1990, but rebounded over the last year, though still below the target levels. Gavin Stone, 757-712-4806, gavin.stone@virginiamedia.com Copyright © 2024 Daily Press