The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Heidi Borst or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Heidi Borst,
                                                    Jennifer Lyerly, O.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Blurry vision is the most common vision problem, according to the Merck Manual, and since it makes it difficult to see clearly, basic tasks like reading and driving can become a challenge. In some instances, blurry vision comes on gradually over time, but it can also occur suddenly, which warrants an immediate trip to the eye doctor. Because there are many potential reasons why someone experiences blurry vision, it’s important to consult with an eye care professional to determine the exact cause of your symptoms. That way, you can find the best treatment option. Here are common causes of blurry vision, from dry eyes to diabetes, as well as how (and when) to seek care. Blurry vision is when your vision becomes less sharp or clear. You may experience blurry vision as a lack of focus, or a “ghosting” of images (a shadow that overlaps the object you’re looking at), explains Nathaniel Simmons, M.D., a board-certified ophthalmologist and refractive cataract surgeon at Southtowns Eye Center in Orchard Park, New York. Usually, blurry vision worsens gradually (and is even considered a normal part of the aging process) but certain medical conditions can bring on sudden blurry vision. There are an array of causes of blurry vision, including the following: Refractive errors, or vision problems related to the shape of the eye, like nearsightedness (myopia), farsightedness (hyperopia) and/or astigmatism, make it harder to see clearly, says Yuna Rapoport, M.D., a board-certified ophthalmologist, founder and director at Manhattan Eye in New York. These conditions can be treated with glasses, contact lenses and refractive surgery like LASIK, she says. Dry eye is a common eye problem, causing symptoms such as foreign body sensation, redness, itching, tearing (this occurs as the body attempts to compensate for dry eye), blurry vision and fluctuations in vision, says Dr. Simmons. Treatment includes the use of artificial tear eye drops, humidifiers and warm compresses. Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a common condition occurring with age in which you lose your central vision and ability to see finer details, but your peripheral vision is normal. It’s separated into two categories—wet and dry, explains Dr. Rapoport. Wet AMD occurs when blood vessels in the macula (the center part of the retina) bleed, causing a decrease in central vision; dry AMD occurs when drusen (yellow deposits of lipids and proteins) are present in the macula, she explains. While there’s no treatment for early/dry AMD, eating healthy, regular exercise and quitting smoking can help prevent the progression of the disease, and intermediate AMD may respond to certain vitamins and minerals, according to the National Eye Institute. Wet AMD can be treated with eye injections called anti-VEGF drugs or a combination of injections and laser treatment to prevent further vision loss. Optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve, the cable that carries visual information from your eye to your brain, says Dr. Simmons. Symptoms include sudden loss of vision, usually in one eye, and a deep piercing pain that gets worse when moving the eyes around, he says, adding that symptoms may worsen with a rise in body temperature, such as with exercise or during a shower. Treatments for optic neuritis start with high-dose intravenous steroids followed by oral steroids, adds Dr. Simmons. Because optic neuritis is often the initial presenting symptom for multiple sclerosis (MS), individuals diagnosed with optic neuritis should see a neurologist to be evaluated for the condition. Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases that cause damage to the optic nerve, resulting in increased intraocular pressure (pressure in the eye), says Dr. Rapoport. While there is no cure for glaucoma, it’s essential to lower the intraocular pressure to a safe level in order to preserve and protect vision. Intraocular pressure can be lowered with prescription eye drops and/or surgery or laser treatment. Sometimes, pressure in the eye builds rapidly due to a problem with fluid drainage, says Dr. Simmons. This is called acute angle closure glaucoma, or AACG, and requires emergency medical treatment such as eye drops, oral pills or IV medications to prevent permanent vision loss, he says. Cataracts (a cloudy area in the lens of your eye) can cause blurry vision, even when you’re wearing glasses, says Dr. Rapoport. They are due to a natural age-related process that causes the lens of the eye to become opaque, or cloudy, from a buildup of proteins. Other symptoms include glare and halos, colors not being as vivid and needing more light to read, adds Dr. Rapoport. It’s treated with cataract surgery. Corneal ulcers occur due to infections of the cornea caused by viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites, states Dr. Simmons. They occur due to poor contact lens hygiene (i.e. sleeping in contacts ), trauma and ocular surface disease, he says, adding that they can also be spontaneous, like cold sores. Treatment typically consists of antimicrobial eye drops or oral medications to clear the infection, he explains. Retinal detachment is when the retina (a light-sensitive layer of tissue at the back of the eye, per the National Eye Institute) pulls away. It can be asymptomatic, but individuals experiencing a retinal detachment often notice a sudden onset of floaters (small lines, dots, circles or specks in your field of vision) and flashing lights, shadowy vision and decreased vision in one eye, says Sarah Talley, O.D., an optometrist at Image Optical in Nashville. Quick surgical intervention is necessary to prevent vision loss, she notes. Eye strain from excessive screen time can cause fatigue-related blurry vision, says Dr. Talley. She recommends the 20/20/20 rule—look at an object 20 feet away for 20 seconds after 20 minutes of screen time. Taking more visual breaks from your electronic devices and relaxing your eyes as much as possible will also provide relief, she adds. Sometimes, health conditions can result in blurry vision. These include: Diabetes causes fluctuations in blood sugar levels that can result in blurry vision, says Dr. Talley. In severe undiagnosed and/or uncontrolled diabetes, diabetic retinopathy (retinal changes such as swelling and hemorrhaging) can also lead to vision blur, she notes. A stroke in the brain may cause vision loss in one or both eyes. A stroke can also happen in a vein or an artery within the eye, causing blurry vision; arterial strokes are more serious, and cause more permanent vision loss than those occurring from a vein, she explains. A concussion is a type of traumatic brain injury that results from a sudden movement, like a bump or blow, that causes the head and brain to move quickly back and forth. It can cause blurry or double vision along with many other symptoms, and should be considered an urgent matter requiring immediate medical evaluation, says Dr. Talley. A tumor can cause central or peripheral vision loss, depending on its location, notes Dr. Rapoport. If the tumor is within the optic nerve, an individual’s entire vision will be gone, but if it’s located in the brain, only part of the visual field will be disturbed, she explains. Sickle cell anemia can cause microinfarctions (mini strokes) and bleeding in the central and peripheral retina that can sometimes lead to retinal detachments, says Dr. Rapoport, thus resulting in blurry vision, but this is rare. A migraine that happens in the occipital lobe (the part of the brain responsible for vision) can cause about 30 minutes of visual disturbance, often described as zig-zag lines floating across the field of vision, says Dr. Rapoport. Experts note that migraine-related visual disturbances typically occur in both eyes at the same time and last no more than two hours, with vision returning to normal once the migraine is over. Preeclampsia, or persistent high blood pressure during pregnancy, can lead to vision changes such as aura or flashing lights, light sensitivity, blurred vision and dark spots in the field of vision, explains Dr. Talley. When a doctor examines the eye, experts note a few hallmark signs of preeclampsia include bleeding inside the eye or swelling. The pregnant individual should contact their OB-GYN immediately to address any elevated blood pressure issues. Treatment for systemic causes of blurry vision is condition-specific. Refractive errors can present in one or both eyes, while other common causes of vision blur, such as cataracts, dry eyes and macular degeneration will most often present in both eyes, according to Dr. Talley. Meanwhile, as a general trend, blurry vision related to systemic disease presents in both eyes, she says, noting that one eye may be worse than the other. Your Clear Vision Partner Experience unmatched expertise and savings at LASIK.com, with the nation's largest network of trusted surgeons. On LASIK.com Sometimes, blurry vision can be caused by something benign, but a very serious systemic issue can also be at play, adds Dr. Rapoport. Sudden blurry vision that comes on all at once can be caused by the following, and requires an immediate trip to your doctor: If you notice a change to your vision, reach out to your provider to give them a rundown of the symptoms you’re experiencing—that way, they can evaluate the urgency of your situation and guide you toward a proper treatment plan, says Dr. Talley. Thankfully, most causes of blurred vision can be easily remedied with glasses, contact lenses or surgical options, she adds. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Heidi Borst is a freelance journalist, healthcare content writer and certified nutrition coach with a love of all things health and wellness. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, National Geographic, Good Housekeeping, MSN, Yahoo and more. Based in Wilmington, North Carolina, Borst is a lifelong runner and general fitness enthusiast who is passionate about the physical and mental benefits of sleep and self-care.
			 
				Dr. Jennifer Lyerly is an optometrist who specializes in contact lenses and myopia management and practices in Raleigh, North Carolina. She’s the founder and author of Eyedolatry, an educational blog that focuses on patient communication, practice guides for new optometrists and women’s leadership in optometry. She has also written articles for Review of Optometry, Invision Magazine, Review of Optometric Business, Women in Optometry, and Optometry Times, as well as served as a contributor for O: The Oprah Magazine. Dr. Lyerly is a co-founder of Defocus Media, optometry’s leading livestream and podcast platform.
			