Most of the layoffs were among former Zapproved employees. Oregonian file photo Beaverton legal technology company Exterro said Monday it has laid off less than 3% of its workforce following its acquisition of a Portland competitor, Zapproved, earlier this month. Exterro said most of the nearly two-dozen layoffs are in the Portland area. “It is common for synergies to be discovered and roles to be eliminated as part of an acquisition,” Exterro Chief Marketing Officer Bill Piwonka wrote in an email to The Oregonian/OregonLive. He said the combined company is trying to be thoughtful about its new product structure and to position itself for success. When Exterro announced the transaction 10 days ago, the company initially indicated it planned to keep all 131 Zapproved employees. That would have given the combined company a workforce of about 750. Monday’s cuts primarily affected Zapproved employees, according to Exterro. On social media, Zapproved employees reported job losses in their engineering and product organizations. Both Exterro and Zapproved make software to help companies manage their legal matters. Zapproved’s technology helped companies track electronic information relevant to lawsuits and other legal issues, while Exterro offered more services to help businesses comply with regulations, manage their online data and to preserve electronic privacy. But there was some overlap between the two product lines and the companies had been occasional competitors for many years. Exterro’s cuts are the latest in a series of job losses at Oregon companies and major regional employers this month, with layoffs concentrated in the tech industry: Oregon’s jobless rate has risen a full percentage point since summer, to 4.5%. But up until recently, most of that increase was due to people entering the workforce to look for jobs and people who had quit their jobs without another lined up. The recent spate of layoffs may begin to change that picture. -- Mike Rogoway | mrogoway@oregonian.com | 503-294-7699 Our journalism needs your support. Please become a subscriber today at OregonLive.com/subscribe If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices