
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- EIN Presswire)   
Connected car market registering a CAGR of 17.1% to 2027
PORTLAND, OREGON, UNITED STATES, March 23, 2023 /einpresswire.com / -- According to a recent report published by Allied Market Research, titled,“connected car market by Technology, Connectivity Solution, Service, and End Use: Opportunity Analysis and industry Forecast, 2020-2027,”the global connected car market was valued at $63.03 billion in 2019, and is projected to reach $225.16 billion by 2027, registering a CAGR of 17.1% from 2020 to 2027.
North America dominated the global connected car market in terms of revenue in 2019, followed by Europe, Asia-Pacific and LAMEA. During the forecast period, Europe is expected to experience growth in the global connected car market owing to a better CAGR as compared to other regions.
Connected car can be defined as a car that is equipped with a wireless local area network (Wireless LAN) and usually with internet. This connectivity allows the car to share data and internet access with any other device both outside and inside the vehicle. In addition, the car is also installed with special added technology that connects to internet or wireless LAN and provides additional benefits such as navigation, vehicle diagnosis, and others to the driver.
Get a PDF Sample for Industrial Insights and Business Intelligence @  
Connected car swiftly gained popularity among vehicles due to the introduction of advanced features such as advanced driving system, on-board entertainment, as well as vehicle and mobility management. The concept of connected car has also gained traction due to several government regulations, which has enabled the original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket players to grow their business, which eventually boosts the growth of the connected car market.
Over time, various connectivity solutions have been developed by car manufacturers and service providers. This include the machine-to-machine (M2M) connectivity platform. This M2M feature in a car enables interconnectivity between two connected cars. The car is equipped with numerous sensors and processors, which provide accurate and real-time information to the driver. This in turn fuels the adoption of connected cars across the globe, thus supplementing the growth of the connected car market.
Make an Inquiry Before Buying-  
Current trend for the installation of better and efficient connected car system in vehicles has increased due to its advantages such as better and increased vehicle efficiency. This has enabled the manufacturers to make continuous enhancements in existing connected car service; therefore, boosting the growth of the connected car market.
Factors such as rise in trend of connectivity solutions and ease of vehicle diagnosis fuel the growth of the connected cars market. In addition, increase in need for safety & security boosts the market growth. However, threat of data hacking and high installation cost hinder the market growth. Moreover, unavailability of uninterrupted & seamless connectivity restricts the growth of the market. Conversely, integration of intelligent transportation system in connected cars and improved performance of autonomous vehicles are anticipated to provide remunerative opportunities for market expansion.
Purchase Complete Report @  
Key Findings of The Study
- By technology, the 5G technology is expected to experience growth owing to an increased CAGR.- By connectivity solution, the embedded connectivity solution segment is expected to experience growth during the forecast period.- By region, North America is the highest revenue contributor in the global connected car market owing to the wider adoption of connected car service among the vehicles running across the region.- By region, Europe is expected to lead the market owing to better growth rate as compared to other regions, during the forecast period.
The key players analyzed in this report include Airbiquity Inc., CloudMade, Continental AG, Intellias Ltd., LUXOFT, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., Robert Bosch GmbH, Sierra Wireless, Tesla, and ZUBIE, INC.David Correa
Allied Analytics LLP
+1-800-792-5285
email us here  MENAFN23032023003118003196ID1105843223  Connected car market registering a CAGR of 17.1% to 2027 PORTLAND, OREGON, UNITED STATES, March 23, 2023 /einpresswire.com / -- According to a recent report published by Allied Market Research, titled,“connected car market by Technology, Connectivity Solution, Service, and End Use: Opportunity Analysis and industry Forecast, 2020-2027,”the global connected car market was valued at $63.03 billion in 2019, and is projected to reach $225.16 billion by 2027, registering a CAGR of 17.1% from 2020 to 2027. North America dominated the global connected car market in terms of revenue in 2019, followed by Europe, Asia-Pacific and LAMEA. During the forecast period, Europe is expected to experience growth in the global connected car market owing to a better CAGR as compared to other regions. Connected car can be defined as a car that is equipped with a wireless local area network (Wireless LAN) and usually with internet. This connectivity allows the car to share data and internet access with any other device both outside and inside the vehicle. In addition, the car is also installed with special added technology that connects to internet or wireless LAN and provides additional benefits such as navigation, vehicle diagnosis, and others to the driver. Get a PDF Sample for Industrial Insights and Business Intelligence @   Connected car swiftly gained popularity among vehicles due to the introduction of advanced features such as advanced driving system, on-board entertainment, as well as vehicle and mobility management. The concept of connected car has also gained traction due to several government regulations, which has enabled the original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket players to grow their business, which eventually boosts the growth of the connected car market. Over time, various connectivity solutions have been developed by car manufacturers and service providers. This include the machine-to-machine (M2M) connectivity platform. This M2M feature in a car enables interconnectivity between two connected cars. The car is equipped with numerous sensors and processors, which provide accurate and real-time information to the driver. This in turn fuels the adoption of connected cars across the globe, thus supplementing the growth of the connected car market. Make an Inquiry Before Buying-   Current trend for the installation of better and efficient connected car system in vehicles has increased due to its advantages such as better and increased vehicle efficiency. This has enabled the manufacturers to make continuous enhancements in existing connected car service; therefore, boosting the growth of the connected car market. Factors such as rise in trend of connectivity solutions and ease of vehicle diagnosis fuel the growth of the connected cars market. In addition, increase in need for safety & security boosts the market growth. However, threat of data hacking and high installation cost hinder the market growth. Moreover, unavailability of uninterrupted & seamless connectivity restricts the growth of the market. Conversely, integration of intelligent transportation system in connected cars and improved performance of autonomous vehicles are anticipated to provide remunerative opportunities for market expansion. Purchase Complete Report @   Key Findings of The Study - By technology, the 5G technology is expected to experience growth owing to an increased CAGR.- By connectivity solution, the embedded connectivity solution segment is expected to experience growth during the forecast period.- By region, North America is the highest revenue contributor in the global connected car market owing to the wider adoption of connected car service among the vehicles running across the region.- By region, Europe is expected to lead the market owing to better growth rate as compared to other regions, during the forecast period. The key players analyzed in this report include Airbiquity Inc., CloudMade, Continental AG, Intellias Ltd., LUXOFT, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., Robert Bosch GmbH, Sierra Wireless, Tesla, and ZUBIE, INC. David Correa
Allied Analytics LLP
+1-800-792-5285
email us here  MENAFN23032023003118003196ID1105843223 MENAFN23032023003118003196ID1105843223 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN