  Most of us use technology for many of our work processes and then turn to our personal devices for information, entertainment and productivity. Even so, the average user isn’t an expert and probably isn’t realizing all the advantages their tech applications and devices can offer. The members of Forbes Technology Council know how to maximize the benefits of tech tools and better understand “how it all works.” Below, 20 of them share their favorite tech tips to help average users increase their productivity, expand their devices’ capabilities, extend the life of their equipment and generally improve their relationships with technology. Determine both your current and potential future needs before looking for new technology products. It is better to spend a little more research time and/or money to find a device you can “grow into” than to replace an inadequate device later. Save time and money by doing a bit of planning. - Sarah Goffman, TCE Communications, Inc. Learn keyboard shortcuts! They can drastically increase your productivity by reducing the time you spend on common tasks. For example, on a PC, you can use Ctrl + C to copy and Ctrl + V to paste. Also, regularly updating your software can improve your device’s performance, extend its life span and enhance security. Lastly, periodic cleaning and proper storage can prevent physical damage and prolong the life of your equipment. - Ishraq Khan, Kodezi Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? Embrace curiosity about artificial intelligence and its potential to enhance various aspects of our lives. This can include productivity apps, personal finance tools, or even fitness and health trackers. By actively experimenting with these technologies, average users can discover new ways AI can improve their daily routines and make their lives more efficient. - Ken Pomella, RevStar One valuable tech tip is to explore and leverage modern low-code or no-code platforms, such as Microsoft Power Platform. These platforms empower non-technical users to create applications, automate workflows and solve business problems without needing extensive coding knowledge. - Roman Reznikov, Intellias I cannot stress this enough: Use a password manager! As a human, you cannot create randomness, and you cannot remember randomness. So, instead of trying to manage a bunch of different passwords, create one very strong password to protect all of your other machine-generated passwords. The variety of passwords will limit the impact of any one data leak. - Nicholas Domnisch, EES Health My favorite tech tip is to never give up on coding. By committing to an “hour of code” each day and blocking that time in your calendar, you’ll continually develop problem-solving skills and enhance your productivity. Consistent practice will help you stay current with technology, make the most of your devices and tools and, ultimately, improve your relationship with tech. - Asanka Abeysinghe, WSO2, Inc. Install apps only from trusted sources to maintain your devices’ cleanliness and security. Excessive unused apps and background services can negatively impact device performance and battery life. For company-owned devices, it is advisable to only install approved apps. Implementing mobile device management software helps businesses effectively manage apps on mobile devices. - Satish Shetty, Codeproof Technologies Inc Regularly clean up and optimize your device’s storage by uninstalling unused apps, deleting old files and clearing cache and temporary data. This can improve your device’s performance and help you avoid storage-related issues. Also, regularly backing up important data to a secure location can prevent data loss due to hardware failure, theft or accidental deletion. - Jagadish Gokavarapu, Wissen Infotech Leverage the power of cloud storage. Not only does it help keep your devices uncluttered, but it also ensures your data is safe and accessible from anywhere. Regularly back up your data to a cloud service such as Google Drive or Dropbox. It’s a simple yet effective way to expand your device’s capabilities, work from anywhere and collaborate in real time. - Marc Fischer, Dogtown Media LLC Get back to basics and learn where information is stored on your device. Depending on the device, Web downloads, screenshots and messaging attachments can end up in different places. When you’re not in a hurry, take time to practice finding these local files, then opening, editing, sending and deleting them to build some muscle memory for the future. - Luke Wallace, Bottle Rocket My favorite tech tip is to try to “do it yourself” rather than always trying to track down a workaround for whatever you’re doing, whether it is writing code, building machines, downloading or using an app, doing searches and research, and so on. Technology needs to be “figured out.” If you don’t give up easily but instead try to figure out how to use and troubleshoot technology yourself, you’ll likely find ways to do things better and faster. Find and apply new ideas. - Rajat Sharma, Zensar Technologies I would advise using an external hard drive or solid-state drive for backup. Cloud services are great, but having a local backup of your important files can be a lifesaver. Regular backups can save you from unexpected data loss due to hardware failure or accidental deletion. It’s noteworthy as well that physical backup is the best way to secure your data. - Sandro Shubladze, Datamam My favorite is this: Always experiment with new solutions if you think it will help. For instance, I tried about 20 different planning and time management apps before finally finding one that meets all of my needs. If you don’t experiment, you may end up using a tool for years that holds you back from your full potential. - Thomas Griffin, OptinMonster When it comes to their technology devices and products, many people don’t take the time to “read the manual”—or, in modern terms, fully explore the features. If you really understand the capabilities of your device or app, you can discover helpful capabilities, increase productivity and use your tech to its fullest extent. The best thing you can do is spend some time learning features—what’s possible might surprise you. - Christopher Rogers, Carenet Health Shut down and restart your devices regularly. There are a lot of apps that run in the background and take up memory, slowing your device and shortening battery life. You can stop all those processes by simply shutting a device down. A bonus is that it’s also a reminder to look up from the screen every once in a while! - Merav Yuravlivker, Data Society Declutter, declutter, declutter! Make sure your digital workspace is as organized as your physical space, because it can improve your focus and efficiency. Set up a folder hierarchy, delete old files and pictures and transfer unnecessary files to an external disk drive. Cleaning up your digital life will improve your interactions with devices and boost your efficiency. - Margarita Simonova, ILoveMyQA It’s essential to stay up to date with software updates and security patches. These updates often include bug fixes and performance improvements to help your device run more smoothly, and they also often address security vulnerabilities that could put your personal information at risk. Ensuring your device is always running the latest software can help keep it secure and functioning correctly. - Cristian Randieri, Intellisystem Technologies Leverage browser extensions to supercharge your online experience. Extensions are like mini apps that add functionality to your browser, helping with productivity, security and customization. From ad blockers to password managers and from time trackers to language translators, the right combination of extensions can transform your browsing experience and make your tech life more enjoyable. - Andres Zunino, ZirconTech Try to avoid always using quick-charge technologies with your mobile devices. It puts a strain on your battery and is a sure way of shortening your device’s life span. And don’t be afraid to do multiple short charging sessions per day—modern phones are designed to handle it, and the battery will last longer than it will if you always leave your phone plugged in overnight. - Przemek Szleter, DAC.digital Know what purpose technology has in your life, and try to use it for that purpose only. Our phones are great, but they’ve slowly crept into every aspect of our lives, blurring the lines between work time and personal time. If your phone is a work phone, only use it for work. If it’s your personal phone, delete Slack. Label your technology and what you use it for, then stick to it. - Lewis Wynne-Jones, ThinkData Works 