Darshan Naik is Chief Growth and Strategy Officer of Telco, Media and Technology Markets at Capgemini Americas.   The year 2022 built the framework for a drastic change in the technology, media and telecom (TMT) industry. As we enter the new year, leaders in this field will continue to drive larger industry transformation through the enhanced rollout of 5G and the explosion of the metaverse into the business landscape, paired with the growth of value-added services—despite macroeconomic challenges looming. The broader economic climate will result in the first half of the year heavily focusing on cost reduction, but despite these economic challenges, the TMT sector will continue to push the boundaries of what is possible for consumers and drive evolution across sectors such as life sciences, automotive, retail and beyond. I believe organizations will build on existing momentum in 2023, with a special focus on time-to-value (TTV)—embracing intelligent growth by leveraging new technologies, connectivity and data ecosystems to ultimately improve customer experience (CX). Here are my top five predictions for the technology trends I expect to see gain traction in 2023. As the desire for more flexible consumer models expands, companies will continue to pivot towards more subscription-based services and new business models. In the high-tech space, this is closely tied with the concept of verticalization—as we see organizations beginning to expand their commodity business into a more sophisticated ecosystem of applications. One example of this I expect to see in 2023 is semiconductor companies evolving into software companies with a focus on a “chip-to-cloud” strategy operating on a subscription-based model. This concept of “purpose-built silicon” started back when industry leaders began designing their own ARM-based chips for specialized use cases. This trend should continue as more use cases for industrial artificial intelligence emerge—each with its own unique need for power, connectivity and compute. Additionally, legacy hardware companies will begin shifting their operating models to subscriptions. Picture purchasing a laptop on a pay-for-use subscription model at a price of $25 per month. After a few months or a year, the consumer can trade this laptop in for a new one—at the same subscription fee. This “compute-as-a-service” will require the bundling of products for customized offerings, such as personal computing or purpose-built gaming rigs. Beyond semiconductor and hardware companies, hyperscalers are also increasingly focused on industry-specific clouds to enable unique use cases, another trend we will see continue. In recent years, telecommunications enterprises have spent large quantities of capital on the infrastructure developments needed to roll out 5G. Despite these massive cost increases, the consumer price point has remained consistent. The price of 5G has not been reflected in monthly phone and internet bills, meaning telcos themselves are covering this multi-billion-dollar investment. This has left many organizations wondering how they will monetize their 5G investments without breaking the bank for consumers. With rising interest rates driving the higher cost of debt service, solutions for monetizing 5G will be a massive area of focus for telecoms in the coming year. Another challenge for telecom enterprises is that the bulk of their revenue comes from selling direct to consumer (DTC). We will begin seeing many of these organizations focus on business-to-business (B2B) selling—providing value-added services such as intelligent products and consumer entertainment, with 5G as the backbone. This pivot will drive growth for telcos and unlock an entirely new customer segment built on increased value. A successful B2B strategy will require end-to-end transformation across four major areas: product portfolio, commercial enablement, customer experience and business model. Business and consumer hype around the metaverse will continue into the coming year, with more and more organizations seeking ways to monetize its potential. For example, by layering in augmented and virtual reality (AR and VR), media organizations will begin developing ways to carry an individual consumer’s online persona and preferences across the digital world. Developments like this will allow consumers to establish a one-stop shop for their online profile, which can carry from social media to streaming to online gaming and increase personalization to new levels that haven’t been possible until now. To be successful in this vision—whether within the consumer metaverse, industrial metaverse or business metaverse—industry leaders must come together to be more inclusive and embrace Web3 open technologies. Today’s consumer demands much more than lazy advertising—but many media organizations have yet to catch up. Advertising is the single biggest revenue spend on the internet, followed only by commerce. But organizations monetizing ad-based revenue have traditionally relied heavily on cookies and other stealth technologies, with a lack of focus on privacy. With privacy taking center stage and regulations increasing, the fundamental model of ad tech is changing—and will require new ways of improving targeting and personalization. As enterprises in this sector increase their focus on content creation and ad licensing, the shift away from linear television ad spend is only accelerating. Rather than perpetuate the current climate of ad fatigue, ads of the future will personalize a profile for each consumer and understand their likes and dislikes to build a recommendation engine for future purchases. However, to be successful, media companies will have to offer innovative ways to engage and collect data, with privacy at the core. While each of these trends is important for the industry, we cannot advance forward unless we are doing so with climate impact in mind. The longevity and adoption of these technologies will hinge on the ability of leaders to make sustainability an investment rather than simply treating it as another incurred cost of doing business. As organizations and leaders continue to push the envelope to develop new and exciting platforms, products and services, the new year is shaping up to be a hopeful place for consumers and enterprises. Forbes Business Development Council is an invitation-only community for sales and biz dev executives. Do I qualify? 