The Windows Club TheWindowsClub covers authentic Windows 11, Windows 10 tips, tutorials, how-to's, features, freeware. Created by Anand Khanse, MVP. Is your Microsoft Surface device not connecting to or detecting the monitor through the dock? It could be because Surface is compatible with only certain monitors. So, if the monitor is not compatible, you may see a blank screen or a No Signal message.  But, if the issue occurs even with compatible monitors, it could be due to a problem with the cables or adapters. Some of the other reasons why your Surface Dock is not working with the monitor could be outdated graphics driver or firmware, incorrect video input settings or port version, incompatible video cable, or accumulated display cache. If your Microsoft Surface device is not working, connecting to or detecting the monitor through the dock, we have some proven solutions to help you fix the issue. Before you proceed to try the primary troubleshooting methods, here are a few steps you can try to rule out any complex issues. Read: How to connect your Surface wirelessly to your TV and other displays  To extend your Surface display through the dock to the external monitor, press the Win + P shortcut to open the Project to screen mode. This will help you select the correct external display. You can now choose a way to project.  If your Surface dock is not working with the monitor, there could be an issue with the video cable. Hence, it’s important to check if the video cable is appropriate: Read: Fix Surface sound and audio problems & issues with accessories  For those using adapters like a USB-C to HDMI Adapter, USB-C to DisplayPort Adapter, or USB-C to VGA Adapter, disconnect and reconnect the adapter firmly to the Surface docking station. But if the external display doesn’t support DisplayPort or USB-C, you may use HDMI. Otherwise, you may use a DVI or VGA cable.  If you are trying to connect your Surface Dock to an external monitor, the display can reach a maximum refresh rate or resolution. The data shown below indicates the maximum refresh rate and display resolution for Surface devices that are using a single or two external monitors: When connecting to a single monitor: Surface Dock model Max display resolution 4096 x 2304 Surface Dock 2 7680 x 4320 Surface Dock 2 3840 x 2160 Surface Thunderbolt™ 4 Dock 3840 x 2160 (USB4/Thunderbolt™ 4)* Surface Thunderbolt™ 4 Dock 3840 x 2160 (USB-C, DisplayPort 1.3 or later – HBR3)* Surface Thunderbolt™ 4 Dock 3840 x 2160 (USB-C, DisplayPort 1.2 or later – HBR2)* When connecting two monitors: Surface Dock model Max display resolution Surface Dock 4096 x 2304 Surface Dock 2560 x 1600 Surface Dock 2 3840 x 2160 Surface Thunderbolt™ 4 Dock 3840 x 2160 (USB4/Thunderbolt™ 4)* *Data courtesy – Microsoft  You may also clear the display cache to fix the issue when Surface is not detecting the monitor through the dock. You may follow Solution 2 in our detailed guide on how to fix Surface Book Dock issues & problems. Read: Surface won’t Turn on, Startup, or Wake from Sleep  It could be possible that the firmware of the Surface Dock does not support the monitor or the accessories (cable/adapter). Therefore, it’s recommended to visit the Surface Support website and update the Surface firmware to the latest version to avoid such issues. To connect the Surface Dock to your monitor, firstly, you need to connect your USB computer attachments to the USB ports of your docking station. Then, connect the video cable of your monitor to the Mini DisplayPort and make sure it’s compatible. But, if the monitor cable doesn’t have a Mini DisplayPort connector, you would need to invest in a compatible adapter or cable. To display your Surface on a monitor, connect the USB-C cable from the adapter to the USB-C port of your Surface. Now, plug the video cable from your external monitor or TV into the adapter. Make sure you use an appropriate cable based on the display’s video connection type, for example, DisplayPort, HDMI, or VGA. Published on September 29, 2023Tags: Surface Madhuparna is an MBA and holds a postgraduate diploma in Computer application. She is passionate about the latest technology and has a strong inclination toward AI, chatbots, crypto, and Windows troubleshooting.     July 25, 2024 July 18, 2024 August 13, 2024 August 9, 2024    Copyright © 2024 The Windows Club