Login 
Yordan 
06 February 2023
 
Tecno Android
 Tecno previously confirmed its presence at MWC 2023, and today the company revealed it's bringing a really intriguing device that will be announced on February 28. The new smartphone will be called Tecno Phantom V Fold, and it already leaked on Twitter in a hands-on video. The company’s first foldable will be powered by a Mediatek Dimensity 9000+, which has a slightly more powerful CPU than the chipset in the current flagship - the Phantom X2 Pro. The short video of the foldable reveals a camera design similar to the X2 Pro. We can see a power key on the side that is most likely a fingerprint scanner as well, and the hinge closes completely, leaving a zero gap between both sides. Tecno Phantom V Fold 🔥 pic.twitter.com/mEnzA7whn3 Given the global character of the launch, we expect Tecno to actually bring the foldable to its international markets. So far, only Samsung is offering its Galaxy Z Fold4 vertical foldable outside China, but  it's finally about to  get some competition from this new device, as well as the Honor Magic Vs that is also going global. Via Tecno is a fast growing technological race and I am very happy for them for how they are making the computer age to be easy for man. I am a tecno fan and I wish I can have access to such portable phone coming out soon. May God continue to increase th... I hope it will finally be a reasonably priced folding phone! It's been years since they first appeared, but they're all still ultra expensive :( I'm a little more interested to see how the Mediatek Dimensity 9000+ holds up.  From a design standpoint, the phone itself doesn't look like it brings anything to the table we haven't seen already.  


Phone finder
 


All brands



Rumor mill

 
Home
News
Reviews
Compare
Coverage
Glossary
FAQ
RSS feed
Youtube
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
 
© 2000-2024 GSMArena.com
Mobile version
Android app
Tools
Contact us
Merch store
Privacy
Terms of use
Change Ad Consent
Do not sell my data
