 About us | Advertise with us | Contact us      List view / Grid view    28 June 2024 | By Alison Gibson - Clearview Intelligence In one of the winning essays from the 2024 ITS UK Early Careers Essay Competition, Alison Gibson of Clearview Intelligence discusses how a fatal HGV crash in Fairlie, North Ayrshire, led to the implementation of innovative, real-time speed compliance technology that aims to enhance road safety. 7 June 2024 | By SFEY Cities around the world are taking significant steps towards a more sustainable tomorrow with micro-mobility options. One of the projects aiming for a greener future is Freebike, a platform for bike and e-bike sharing. Offering a convenient, accessible, and environmentally friendly way for residents and visitors to explore their urban… 30 May 2024 | By Intelligent Transport The two 2024 winners of Intelligent Transport Systems UK’s 2024 Early Careers Essay Competition have been announced. 12 March 2024 | By SFEY The adoption of open-loop payment systems in public transport goes beyond individual convenience. As cities aim for a fair and conservation-oriented future, the powerful influence of contactless payments highlights how technology shapes urban mobility to be sustainable, inclusive, and responsive. 17 January 2024 | By SFEY Statistics show a growing demand for greater convenience and accessibility at EV charging stations. According to studies, 90% of EV users prefer to pay with a payment card and 50% of EV owners would be more likely to use public charging stations if they could pay with a payment card. 17 January 2024 | By Andy Bien - Huawei Huawei’s vision and ambition is to build a fully connected and intelligent airport in the near future. Read Intelligent Transport’s interview with Andy Bien, the Chief Digital Officer for Global Aviation Business, Aviation and Rail BU at Huawei, to see how this vision will be fulfilled. 6 December 2023 | By Intelligent Transport Learn from Transport for West Midlands' Anne Shaw about the role of geospatial technology in supporting TfWM’s operational, strategic planning, incident management and congestion reduction and mitigation efforts.  23 November 2023 | By Transport for New South Wales (TfNSW) For Intelligent Transport, Transport for New South Wales provides a detailed insight into the agency’s Transport Connected Bus programme, discussing the significant role it has had in shaping the future of public transport in the region by integrating cutting-edge telematics technology, offering real-time tracking, automated passenger counting and improved accessibility… 8 November 2023 | By SFEY Building a greener world extends beyond recycling and walking. Cashless payments are key - boosting convenience and sustainability, a vital ingredient for eco-friendly cities. 20 September 2023 | By Parametric GmbH Parametric SDS announces the release of the latest iteration of the RET wireless vibration and audio measurement system, incorporating time-synchronised sampling of distributed signals with microsecond range accuracy and introduces innovative sensors with Single Pair Ethernet connectivity. 13 September 2023 | By Bobbi Nunes - MOVE America MOVE America 2023 is coming to Austin, Texas, in September to bring together the best in mobility, showcasing the most disruptive technologies in the mobility ecosystem. 12 September 2023 | By Intelligent Transport The launch of the new services on the DTC App is part of Dubai Taxi Corporation's efforts to provide safe and sustainable digital transportation services. 7 September 2023 | By Intelligent Transport In Issue 3 2023 of Intelligent Transport, we feature exclusive content from leading industry experts and thought leaders discussing: exploring the power of contactless and open-loop payment systems in delivering a seamless ticketing experience; navigating short- and long-term strategies to ensure an enhanced customer experience; moving towards a greener and more… 9 August 2023 | By NEC Corporation NEC Corporation India partners with Mowasalat to integrate smart transportation solutions for tournament bus services in Qatar. 20 July 2023 |  By  President of Schweiger Consulting All subscriptions include online membership, giving you access to the journal and exclusive content. Write for us | Advertise with us T: +44 (0)1959 563311
F: +44 (0)1959 563123     Intelligent Transport is published by: Russell Publishing Ltd.Court LodgeHogtrough HillBrasted, Kent, TN16 1NUUnited Kingdom © Russell Publishing Limited, 2010-2024. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy Website design and development by e-Motive Media Limited. This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorised as "Necessary" are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. For our other types of cookies "Advertising & Targeting", "Analytics" and "Performance", these help us analyse and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these different types of cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. You can adjust the available sliders to 'Enabled' or 'Disabled', then click 'Save and Accept'. View our Cookie Policy page. Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Advertising and targeting cookies help us provide our visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. Performance cookies are includes cookies that deliver enhanced functionalities of the website, such as caching. These cookies do not store any personal information. Analytics cookies collect information about your use of the content, and in combination with previously collected information, are used to measure, understand, and report on your usage of this website.