Truist Financial analyst Barry Jonas maintained a Buy rating on International Game Technology (IGT – Research Report) on October 9 and set a price target of $37.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $31.26. Jonas covers the Real Estate sector, focusing on stocks such as MGM Resorts, Red Rock Resorts, and Bally’s Corporation. According to TipRanks, Jonas has an average return of 8.6% and a 38.31% success rate on recommended stocks.  Currently, the analyst consensus on International Game Technology is a Strong Buy with an average price target of $42.25. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> The company has a one-year high of $33.78  and a one-year low of $16.03. Currently, International Game Technology has an average volume of 1.05M.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  International Game Technology (IGT) Company Description: International Game Technology Plc engages in the designing, manufacturing, and marketing of electronic gaming equipment, software, and network systems. It operates through the following segments: North America Gaming and Interactive; North America Lottery, International, Italy, and Other. The North America Gaming and Interactive segment develops and delivers leading games, systems and solutions for land-based casinos, DoubleU Games DoubleDown casino free-to-play social casino app, and interactive for-wager online play. The North America Lottery segment is involved in the development and delivery of lottery solutions, performing research and development for all lottery-related products globally. The International segment specializes in end-to-end solutions and services across all channels to regulated clients in Commercial Gaming and Lottery sectors such as strategic development and operation management. The Italy segment is responsible for lottery and machine gaming concessions, as well as ports betting, interactive gaming, and commercial services. The company was founded on July 11, 2014 and is headquartered in London, the United Kingdom. 
 Read More on IGT: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks