
			The Harlequins player retains his place at No 8 for England despite heavy speculation he would be dropped after struggling against France
		 Alex Dombrandt is often described as a highlights player, the type who inordinately catches the eye. Last Saturday, Dombrandt’s contributions against France went viral for the wrong reasons. The first clip came just before half-time. Dombrandt took the kick-off and started to run the ball back. But as the French kick chase, spearheaded by Francois Cros, arrived, Dombrandt flinched and then turned his back into the contact, going straight to ground. Dombrandt was turned over and a penalty conceded. “That is atrocious, absolutely atrocious,” Dewi Morris, the former England scrum-half, said of the Harlequins No 8 on television commentary. Paul Grayson, the astute summariser on BBC 5 Live, was equally scathing, pointing out how Cros had smashed Dombrandt backwards with a carry earlier in the game. Given a chance for retribution, Dombrandt woke up and chose to avoid violence. Worse was to come. The game was long gone by this point and England were flagging badly. Even so, when Gael Fickou kicked wide, Dombrandt had a 10-metre head start on wing Damian Penaud. That buffer quickly disappeared with Dombrandt ambling like he was on a country walk to a pub. By the time Penaud gathered the ball, the urgency of the situation dawned on Dombrandt, but his attempted tap-tackle was more of a wave goodbye.  Taken in isolation, pretty much any England player could have been made to look leaden-footed with selective editing. The post-match statistics revealed that Dombrandt had made the most carries and metres of any English forward.  He also topped England’s tackle chart. In the previous round against Wales, Dombrandt had been among England’s best performers so he deserves the benefit of the doubt. Yet, there is something about Dombrandt that is failing the sniff test of an international No 8, the totem of any pack.  Think Lawrence Dallaglio or Dean Richards, men for whom a backwards step is anathema. When the going got tough, they carried their teams on their broad shoulders.  At club level, Dombrandt works brilliantly as an arrowhead, often in tandem with Marcus Smith. But as much as Harlequins are renowned for their free-flowing, care-free rugby, they still need the platform of their underrated tight five. With momentum on his side, Dombrandt looks like an All Black as he flies down the wide channels.  The question that hangs over Dombrandt is whether he can generate momentum off his own bat? Is he a thoroughbred or show pony? Rampaging into open space is one thing, but close-quarter traffic is another. They are called hard yards for a reason.  Saturday’s match feels like a seminal one for Dombrandt and a number of English players who underperformed against France. Several international careers are hanging in the balance.  As defence coach Kevin Sinfield stated, this week we will discover a lot about these players’ DNA and character. The setting could hardly be more foreboding.  After a week of Irish winners in Cheltenham, Andy Farrell’s side are looking to win a first Grand Slam in Dublin; on St Patrick’s weekend. Sixteen years ago on a similarly emotional day at Croke Park, in which Farrell played, England were overwhelmed by the occasion and the opposition.  In their last competitive match before the World Cup, victory may be beyond the capabilities of this England team but they at least need to rediscover their defiance and their devil. None more so than Dombrandt.