Save up to 74% Subscribe to Kiplinger This gigantic forest products company has sold or will sell many operations and assets to reinvent itself as a maker of packaging and uncoated paper.  
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Exactly four years ago, as the stock market emerged from a long dark period, International Paper traded for $34.80 a share. On March 7, 2007, IP (symbol IP) closed at $34.90. You're not looking at typos. The stock is up a dime over the past four years. And there wasn't much up-and-down action for traders to exploit, either. The more things changed in the market, the more they stood motionless for investors in IP. Despite the expanding economy, paper is a tough business. Weak demand and wide substitution of cheaper grades hurts, as well as pressure from e-mail and online publishing. Orders for newsprint (not one of IP's businesses) are sinking. Plus, rising energy costs clobber this industry. No wonder many of the stocks in the paper and forest-products sector appear both cheaply valued and deeply out of favor, says manager Peter Langerman of the bargain-hunting Mutual Shares fund. Yet IP is on his list of buys, and if you look closely, you might add it to yours. Since 2005, and more frequently in the past few months, IP has sold or put up for sale a list of what it considers either lousy businesses or distractions, such as chemicals, kraft paper (the stuff of grocery bags), plywood and lumber, and forest land, among others. Some have gone to competitors and some to private-equity investors. Be a smarter, better informed investor. Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and more - straight to your e-mail. Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice - straight to your e-mail. The result: $10 billion in cash, which IP is using to retire debt, buy back shares, shore up the pension fund, and invest overseas. Business is strong at the remaining operations -- uncoated free sheet paper, one type of which is used in computer printers, and all sorts of boxes and cardboard packaging, from coffee cups to industrial-shipping boxes. IP is essentially betting that simple is better. It hopes that investors will find it more attractive and easier to understand as a smaller company with a healthy cash position rather than an unwieldy giant with the burden of being the world's largest paper and forest-products company. IP stock isn't easy to evaluate because the company is changing so radically. Ignore the full reported fourth-quarter profit number. Much of it came from proceeds of selling assets. If you consider what Standard & Poor's calls core operating earnings (from continuing businesses), IP still sells at 26 times the past 12 months' profits -- way too much for a company with low-margin operations and so many uncertainties, from the cost of electricity to a growing number of operations in such emerging nations as Brazil, Russia and China. But improved profit margins at the remaining businesses, cost and debt reductions, and better management that is able to focus on fewer businesses should help boost profits. SP thinks that IP can earn $2.15 per share from operations in 2007. That would be a more reasonable P/E of 16, a good price for a stock that also yields an above-average 3%. IP hasn't raised dividends since 1995, but it hasn't cut them, either. Corporate makeovers don't always do much for ordinary shareholders, but here's a case where the old plan -- or lack of planning -- was shaky. The new International Paper sounds like a better version. Profit and prosper with the best of Kiplinger's advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and much more. Delivered daily. Enter your email in the box and click Sign Me Up. 
Tax Credits
Trump’s vice presidential nominee has suggested enhancing the federal child tax credit. Here’s why it matters.
 
By Gabriella Cruz-Martínez

Published 19 August 24

 
If you have plenty of retirement savings but still feel like you need to limit your spending, you might need an integrated retirement plan.
 
By Barry H. Spencer, Registered Investment Adviser

Published 19 August 24

 
The main indexes closed out the session and week higher as the stock market rebound continued.
 
By Karee Venema

Published 16 August 24

 
Signs that consumer spending remains strong sparked a major rally on Wall Street.
 
By Karee Venema

Published 15 August 24

 
Warren Buffett
Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway sold Apple and Snowflake but picked up Ulta Beauty and Heico, among other moves in Q2.
 
By Dan Burrows

Published 15 August 24

 
The Nasdaq Composite ended flat, though, as Alphabet sold off on more regulatory woes.
 
By Karee Venema

Published 14 August 24

 
A promising reading on wholesale inflation and the upcoming consumer price report have investors anticipating a rate cut in September.
 
By Dan Burrows

Published 13 August 24

 
Nvidia helped keep the Nasdaq and S&P 500 above water Monday, though the Dow Industrials wasn't so resilient.
 
By Karee Venema

Published 12 August 24

 
Palantir Technologies and Sweetgreen were two notable gainers Friday, while Intel continued to fall.
 
By Karee Venema

Published 9 August 24

 
Initial jobless claims fell more than expected last week, which helped calm fears of a slowing labor market.
 
By Karee Venema

Published 8 August 24

 Kiplinger is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 