EWING, N.J.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–$OLED #OLED—Universal Display Corporation (Nasdaq: OLED), enabling energy-efficient displays and lighting with its UniversalPHOLED® technology and materials, announced today that the technical committee of the International Conference on Display Technology (ICDT) selected Universal Display Corporation’s paper on “Highly Efficient Near-Infrared Phosphorescent OLEDs” as the winner of the Excellent Paper Award of ICDT 2022. The award was presented to UDC on December 8th during the virtual 2022 SID Display Week New Technology Review Workshop.
  
“We are honored that the ICDT committee recognized the significance of our research and development work of enabling a new class of highly efficient near-infrared phosphorescent OLEDs for biomedical or sensing applications, which encompasses photo-biomodulation light therapy,” said Dr. Julie Brown, Executive Vice President and Chief Technical Officer of Universal Display Corporation. “UDC’s unwavering mission is to be a key enabler in the OLED ecosystem. Our unique global team is continuously discovering, developing and delivering novel OLED technologies including our flagship phosphorescent materials systems to meet our customers’ increasing specs and to support the growth of the OLED industry.”
 
Dr. Zhiqiang Ji of Universal Display Corporation virtually presented the near-infrared phosphorescent OLEDs (NIR PHOLEDs) paper during International Conference on Display Technology (ICDT) 2022 (2022年国际显示技术会议) August technical symposium. Dr. Ji highlighted the development of a NIR PHOLEDs with minimal visible emission and photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) exceeding 39% and record external quantum efficiency (EQE) of ~9% at a drive current of 10 mA/cm2. The authors of the award winning paper are Zhiqiang Ji, Eric Margulies, Pierre-Luc T. Boudreault, Bert Alleyne, and Julie J. Brown.
 
About Universal Display Corporation
 
Universal Display Corporation (Nasdaq: OLED) is a leader in the research, development and commercialization of organic light emitting diode (OLED) technologies and materials for use in display and solid-state lighting applications. Founded in 1994 and with subsidiaries and offices around the world, the Company currently owns, exclusively licenses or has the sole right to sublicense more than 5,500 patents issued and pending worldwide. Universal Display licenses its proprietary technologies, including its breakthrough high-efficiency UniversalPHOLED® phosphorescent OLED technology that can enable the development of energy-efficient and eco-friendly displays and solid-state lighting. The Company also develops and offers high-quality, state-of-the-art UniversalPHOLED materials that are recognized as key ingredients in the fabrication of OLEDs with peak performance. In addition, Universal Display delivers innovative and customized solutions to its clients and partners through technology transfer, collaborative technology development and on-site training. To learn more about Universal Display Corporation, please visit https://oled.com/.
 
Universal Display Corporation and the Universal Display Corporation logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Universal Display Corporation. All other company, brand or product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks.
 
All statements in this document that are not historical, such as those relating to the projected adoption, development and advancement of the Company’s technologies, and the Company’s expected results and future declaration of dividends, as well as the growth of the OLED market and the Company’s opportunities in that market, are forward-looking financial statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements in this document, as they reflect Universal Display Corporation’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Universal Display Corporation’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, in particular, the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Universal Display Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Universal Display Corporation disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained in this document.
 
Follow Universal Display Corporation
 
TwitterFacebookYouTube
 
(OLED-C)
  Contacts  
Universal Display Contact:Darice Liu
investor@oled.commedia@oled.com+1 609-964-5123