If not listed, please contact your TV provider. The Western Kentucky Hilltoppers (3-2) go on the road to face a conference foe in the Louisiana Tech Bulldogs (3-3) on Thursday night. Both teams ended two-game losing streaks last week. The Hilltoppers beat Middle Tennessee 31-10. Meanwhile, the Bulldogs upended UTEP 24-10. Western Kentucky is second in Conference USA in scoring (31.6), while Louisiana Tech is averaging 27.0 points per game.  Kickoff from Joe Aillet Stadium in Ruston is set for 8 p.m. ET. The Hilltoppers are 6-point favorites in Western Kentucky vs. Louisiana Tech odds, while the over/under for total points is 58.5. Before making any Louisiana Tech vs. Western Kentucky picks, be sure to check out the college football predictions and betting advice from SportsLine's proven computer model. The SportsLine Projection Model simulates every FBS college football game 10,000 times. Since its inception, it has generated a stunning profit of more than $2,000 for $100 players on its top-rated college football picks against the spread. Anyone who has followed it has seen huge returns. Now, the model has set its sights on WKU vs. Louisiana Tech and just revealed its picks and predictions. You can visit SportsLine to see the model's CFB picks. Here are several college football odds and trends for Louisiana Tech vs. WKU:  The Hilltoppers aerial attack has been explosive and dynamic. They head into this battle leading Conference USA in passing yards per game (286). Junior receiver Malachi Corley continues to thrive as the No. 1 option. Corely is evasive with the ball in his hands and owns superb contact balance. The Florida native is tied for third in the conference in receiving yards (331) and second in yards per game (82.8). In his last outing, Corley had eight grabs for 81 yards.  Redshirt freshman receiver Easton Messer is another shifty pass-catcher. Messer runs good routes and has a knack for creating separation. The Kentucky native is second on the team in receptions (22) and receiving yards (280) with three touchdowns. On Sept. 23 versus Troy, he reeled in six passes for 96 yards and one touchdown. See which team to pick here. The Bulldogs are able to push the ball downfield and have plenty of capable pass-catchers. Senior receiver Smoke Harris is a reliable and explosive playmaker who is consistently featured in the offense. Harris is first in the conference in catches (37), second in receiving yards (368), and sixth in receiving yards per game (61.3). In Week 5 versus Nebraska, Harris had 10 catches for 73 yards. Sophomore receiver Cyrus Allen is another big-play threat for Louisiana Tech. Allen has great hands and speed to stretch the field vertically. The Louisiana native has reeled in 18 passes for 331 yards and two touchdowns. He's also averaging 18.4 yards per reception. On Sept. 16 against North Texas, Allen had five grabs for 82 yards and a touchdown. See which team to pick here.  SportsLine's model is leaning Over on the total, projecting the teams to combine for 65 points. The model also says one side of the spread hits over 60% of the time. You can only see the model's pick at SportsLine.  So who wins WKU vs. Louisiana Tech, and which side of the spread hits in over 60% of simulations? Visit SportsLine now to see which side of the spread you need to jump on, all from the model that has notched a profit of more than $2,000 on its top-rated college football spread picks, and find out.  © 2004-2024 CBS Interactive. All Rights Reserved. CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc. Commissioner.com is a registered trademark of CBS Interactive Inc. The content on this site is for entertainment purposes only and CBS Sports makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of the information given or the outcome of any game or event. There is no gambling offered on this site. This site contains commercial content and CBS Sports may be compensated for the links provided on this site. Images by Getty Images and US Presswire