My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Motilal Oswal's research report on MAS Financial Services MAS Financial Services (MASFIN)’s 1QFY24 PAT rose 23% YoY to INR573m. NII grew 30% YoY to ~INR1.4b, while opex stood at INR427m, up 23% YoY. PPOP rose 34% YoY to INR746m during the quarter. Credit costs jumped 18% QoQ to INR188m (est. INR160m). Total Covidrelated provisions stood at ~0.3% of on-book assets. Standalone disbursements grew 6% YoY to ~INR23b in 1QFY24. Asset quality was stable QoQ, with GS3/NS3 at 2.15%/1.5%. In MSME and SME lending, MASFIN performed relatively better than its peers. Capital adequacy and liquidity on the balance sheet remained healthy. Outlook We cut our FY24E EPS by ~3% to factor in the lower margins. Reiterate BUY with a TP of INR900 (premised on 2.5x FY25E BV). For all recommendations report, click here Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions. MAS Financial Services - 04 -08 - 2023 - moti   Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.