The University at Buffalo is proud of its traditions of academic excellence and for having one of the most diverse academic communities in the United States. UB offers you assistance from state-wide experts to manage your international employee or guest needs. International students and scholars can use the UB-provided application Sprintax to prepare federal (U.S.) tax returns at no cost. You have invested in UB by deciding to further your education here; we have invested in you through scholarships and on-campus jobs. Your participation in these opportunities contributes to UB's standing as a premier, research-intensive public university dedicated to academic excellence. As an international student you can receive payment from UB for: Each payment type has a definition and requirements. Your tax filing requirements as international students, scholars and employees varies depending on your visa category, the purpose of your visit and the length of your stay in the U.S. This information is used to determine your tax status as either a Nonresident Alien (NRA) or a Resident Alien (RA). Your tax status is NOT the same as your immigration status * Prior visits may change status. UB calculates your residency status with each payment. Contact us immediately if you have questions about your taxation. Carlos Gallardo International HR Services  Phone: 716-645-4430 Email: cg36@buffalo.edu Amanda Brown Manager International HR Services  Phone: 716-645-4429 Email: amandab@buffalo.edu If you are an F-1 student, you must have verification of employment before you can get an SSN. Follow these steps to get the verification you need: 1. Your department completes the form Social Security Letter Request and submits it to:             Carlos Gallardo             Human Resources             Townsend Hall             South Campus 2. Human Resources' International Services will return a letter to the department 3. The student employee takes the letter to International Student Services (ISS):             International Student Services             201 Talbert Hall             North Campus 4. ISS provides the student with documentation to apply for a SSN International employees at UB are required to pay taxes on all or a portion of their income and may have different requirements and regulations than a U.S. citizen. When you first associate with UB, complete the federal and New York state withholding tax forms so that UB can withhold the correct tax from each payment. Submit completed forms to your supervisor. You may be exempt from FICA taxes if you meet one (1) of the following criteria: Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax is a U.S. federal payroll (or employment) tax imposed on both employees and employers to fund Social Security and Medicare — federal programs that provide benefits for retirees, the disabled and children of deceased workers. You are required to file an income tax return with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) if you meet all the following criteria: UB will send one or both of these wage and tax statements to you: · Are mailed to you so update your address when you move or leave UB · W-2 forms arrive by mail by the end of January for the preceding tax year · 1042-S forms arrive by mail in March for the preceding year   UB sponsors the online application, Sprintax, for scholars, students and faculty to prepare federal income tax reports at no charge Tax program is available for current tax year only Each spring UB will announce the availability of the new tax program for  and how to get the access code.   This system is designed exclusively for nonresident aliens to prepare U.S. federal income tax forms using tax forms: If you meet eligibility criteria, but are NOT currently an employee or student, contact UB's international employment specialists to get an access code for the tax service. You should file an income tax return with NYS if you meet the following criteria: We recommend that you prepare your U.S. (federal) income tax report first. Federal and state reports use the same income data and depend on the same declarations about your personal status. UB's supported online tax preparation service now prepares state income tax forms for a small fee. If you choose not to use it, you can get assistance from any of the following:  * Elapsed years instead of calendar years UB provides support to some international students with scholarships and fellowships. Understand how this income is treated by the federal government. Scholarships, fellowship grants and other grants from UB are tax-free (qualified) If the amounts you receive are used to pay for tuition and fees required for enrollment or attendance, or for fees, books, supplies and equipment required for courses. Taxable payments include: State fellowships are paid directly to the students in a lump sum once a semester. Therefore, these payments are considered nonqualified and taxable at 14 percent unless there is an applicable tax treaty exemption.  International students: Without these credentials, any payment must be taxed at 30%. To apply for an ITIN please contact our local IRS office to make an appointment: Internal Revenue Service 130 South Elmwood Ave Buffalo, NY 14202 1-844-545-5640 (to make appointment) Scholarship and fellowship recipients at UB are required to pay federal taxes on all or a portion of their income and may have different requirements and regulations than a U.S. citizen. Scholarship and fellowship recipients do not have to file a federal witholding form (W-4) or a New York state withholidng form. UB  taxes recipients at 14% unless a scholarship treaty stipulates otherwise. Submit completed forms to your supervisor. You are required to file an income tax return with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) if you meet all the following criteria: UB will send one or both of these wage and tax statements to you: · Are mailed to you so update your address when you move or leave UB · W-2 forms arrive by mail by the end of January for the preceding tax year · 1042-S forms arrive by mail in March for the preceding year   UB sponsors the online application, Sprintax, for scholars, students and faculty to prepare federal income tax reports at no charge Tax program is available for current tax year only Each spring UB will announce the availability of the new tax program for  and how to get the access code.   This system is designed exclusively for nonresident aliens to prepare U.S. federal income tax forms using tax forms: If you meet eligibility criteria, but are NOT currently an employee or student, contact UB's international employment specialists to get an access code for the tax service. Carlos Gallardo International HR Services  Phone: 716-645-4430 Email: cg36@buffalo.edu Steven Stich International HR Services  Phone: 716-645-4423 Email: stevenst@buffalo.edu Amanda Brown Manager International HR Services  Phone: 716-645-4429 Email: amandab@buffalo.edu Buffalo.edu uses cookies to help build a better website experience for our visitors. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.