Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software is a business resource designed to centralize your customer data for streamlined marketing and account management. As you might’ve guessed from the name, it specifically helps you and your business manage your relationships with your customers with the goal of increasing productivity, sales, and a wide range of other business metrics. As far as how successful it is at helping to improve the operations at your business, we’ve collected a whole lot of statistics to help you understand how it works, what it does, and how it can help your company go from drab to fab. Take a look at these CRM statistics below and check out some of the best CRM software providers while you’re here. You can use any of the graphics you see on this page by heading over to this Google Drive folder. Just be sure to credit us by linking back to this article. Enjoy! Find the best CRM providerfor your business with our free comparison tool In this guide: CRM software is a great way to ensure your business runs productively and efficiently. Here are a few key stats that will give you a good idea of how important this business resource can be.  People wouldn’t invest in CRM software if it didn’t improve their business in some way. Fortunately, there are lots of benefits to using this business tool, and we’re going to show you a few statistics that prove it. CRM can boost conversion rates by 300% (Finances Online) CRM software is built to manage and even automate the lead creation process, making it easier to turn leads into sales. You can create a sales funnel that will organize your operations from top to bottom. Simply put, if converting is a problem for your business, CRM software can help. The ROI of a CRM software system, when properly implemented, can exceed 245%. (IBM) No one ever wants to spend money, but CRM software is a classic “you have to spend money to make money” situation. The return-on-investment for CRM is high to say the least, as you’ll start seeing a lot more profit than you’re spending on the monthly fee, which typically range from only $8 to $69 per month. 50% of teams improved their productivity by using a mobile CRM (Forrester) Considering paperwork and communications are some of the most time-consuming tasks at a wide range of businesses, tools like CRM software — which are designed to organize, digitize, and automate most company processes — can be a big difference maker, even when used on something as simple as a smartphone. Here are a few other notable statistics about the benefits of CRM software to small businesses: Loading  While popular options like Salesforce have made CRM software a well-known business too, many still struggle to understand the tool for all it’s worth. Take a look at a few statistics that outline some CRM challenges that users face. Learn how to create a sales funnel with our handy guide  You aren’t the only business owner thinking about purchasing CRM software. In fact, the industry has seen a windfall of interest, particularly since the start of the pandemic with businesses trying to keep up with the remote work boom. Here are a few statistics about CRM usage across the industry. Overall CRM usage increased from 56% in 2018 to 74% in 2019 (Stellaxius) Success in business is built on the ability to adapt to changing times, and the reality is that businesses are using CRM to run their businesses. CRM adoption rates certainly aren’t getting any lower and for good reason. They’re effective, they’re affordable, and they make operations easier from day to day. Even if you’re one of the many businesses that believes embracing new technology is a challenge, you should consider this digital tool. CRM is expected to achieve over $80 billion in revenue by 2025. (Grandview research) The CRM industry is making money because it makes small businesses money. CRM revenue is up, CRM usage is up, and if you don’t want to be left filling out forms by hand for the foreseeable future, you need something to bring your business into the 21st century.  CRM software needs to be implemented properly to be effective and understanding your customer base is the best way to make sure that happens. After all, the CRM is just the fishing pole, you need to know where to cast to catch anything. Fortunately, these stats will help you get a better idea of how customers go from prospect to customer. For more information, check out our CRM pricing guide  If the above statistics have piqued your interest enough to look into getting CRM software for your business, we don’t blame you! Fortunately, we’ve collected plenty of statistics on specific providers, like Salesforce and HubSpot, to help you make the right decision for your business. Plus, you can always check out our CRM comparison page to learn more about your best options. Check out our full Salesforce review for more information Check out our full HubSpot pricing review for more information Check out our full monday.com CRM review for more information Check out our full Zoho CRM review for more information Check out our SugarCRM pricing guide for more information Check out our full Microsoft Dynamics review for more information Check out our full Zendesk review for more information To say you’ve got a lot of information in terms of CRM statistics would be quite the understatement. But with all this data, you should be able to make an informed decision about investing in CRM and pave the way for a seamless business experience. Now for the next steps. With our handy CRM comparison chart, you can get a little more information about how much this helpful software will cost your specific business. Or, simply clicks the links below for more information.     Verifying Get the latest tech news, straight to your inbox Stay informed on the top business tech stories with Tech.co's weekly highlights reel.  By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Privacy Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time.   We're sorry this article didn't help you today – we welcome feedback, so if there's any way you feel we could improve our content, please email us at contact@tech.co 