Using the online tool, you can access your past QuickBooks Desktop reports and download them as a CSV file to your computer for safe keeping.  This online tool is especially useful if you need to refer back to certain customer transactions that weren’t included when you moved to QuickBooks Online, or if you require a report for an HMRC inspection.  In this article, we’ll take a look at what you can download using the online tool, as well as what you can’t download. While you can use this online tool to view and download reports, there are a few things that you should know:  You can use this tool if you:  Here's a list of things you can download using the online tool: Here's what you can’t do with the online tool: Before you use the online tool, make sure you have these things ready:  The files will be downloaded in the Temporary Files section under My Files. The name of the file is pre-defined, so make a note of the file name so you’ll know what you’re looking for before you start your search. That’s it! You have saved your QuickBooks Desktop reports to your computer. As technology continues to develop and evolve, it’s essential for businesses to help ensure their data is accessible. While desktop applications can offer reliable read-only access, they are limited by the hardware, software or operating systems they’re installed on. To provide future-proof long-term access to data, an online tool is needed – one that is not dependent on any hardware or software components. Fortunately, this solution has already been developed in the form of our data export tool. This tool allows you to download all your data from a cloud server, making it available until 2030. It also means that if you need to refer back to the information in future years (up until 2030) you will have a copy of your data ready and waiting. You can download your data manually by exporting your desktop data in an Excel or CSV format. Read our step-by-step guide on how to do this. Note: There are a few third-party export apps from Intuit's App store. For example, Access lets you download and transfer your data to other applications. Back up your data and keep a copy. This way, you'll have a copy if something goes wrong during migration. If you have a licence you purchased via one-off payment, either directly from Intuit or through a retail outlet like Staples or Curry's, your perpetual access will be retained post June 30, 2023.  Note: Older versions of QuickBooks Desktop, excluding the 2021 version, will not have received updates nor important security patches. The risk associated with no updates will be compounded after June 30 with no customer support available for UK customers. To help ensure the highest level of security for our users, and after careful consideration, we decided to opt for AWS (Amazon Web Services) as it is the most flexible cloud computing environment. Additionally, when uploading data to AWS, the data is only available for 3 hours after which point it is automatically and permanently deleted. You can use the QuickBooks Desktop report centre to see data and export it the same way you would have on Desktop. It also offers convenient formats including but not limited to Excel, CSV and PDF. From reports you can drill down and view data at a transaction level, which is helpful if you're looking for specific information. If you need additional help or have questions, or you require assistance at any point in this process, start a discussion with an expert in our QuickBooks Community.  See articles customized for your product and join our large community of QuickBooks users. More like this