The unique packaging design eliminates the need to heave heavy bags over the shoulder while also addressing the common issue of torn bags during transport. An inventor from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, has developed a patent-pending invention aimed at simplifying the process of transporting bags of mulch and fertiliser. Thank you. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. The new design, known as the Yard Work Packaging, offers an alternative to traditional shoulder-carrying methods, addressing the issue of torn bags in the process. The Yard Work Packaging was born out of the need to find a more convenient way to transport bulky bags of mulch from the store to the backyard. The innovative packaging design eliminates the requirement to carry heavy bags over one’s shoulder and, in turn, helps prevent bag tearing. The Yard Work Packaging design offers a practical solution that eases the task of transporting bags of mulch and fertiliser. By eliminating the need for shoulder-carrying, the bag saves time and effort and reduces the physical strain associated with moving heavy bags. This innovation is not limited to a specific audience, making it suitable for a wide range of users, including households and landscaping professionals. Moreover, the design is adaptable to various bag sizes, enhancing its versatility. The original design for the Yard Work Packaging has been submitted to the National Sales Office of InventHelp and is now open for licensing or sale to manufacturers and marketers. InventHelp is a US company specialising in invention services, facilitating the submission of ideas to companies and providing patent referral assistance. This development may pave the way for a more convenient and efficient method of handling bags of mulch and fertiliser, ultimately benefiting those who engage in gardening and landscaping activities. Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Inside Packaging : Packaging Gateway Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the packaging industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024