TOP OF THE CHARTS: YouGov Profiles reveals that APAC consumers are increasingly more drawn to brands that are conscious about their impact on the society and environment.  
Source: YouGov Profiles 
Key findings: 
Methodology: YouGov Profiles is based on continuously collected data and rolling surveys rather than from a single limited questionnaire. Profiles data for Australia is nationally representative of all adults (18 years or older), weighted by age, gender, and region, and reflect the latest Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) population estimates. 
Profiles data for Hong Kong is representative of the adult online population (18 years or older), weighted by age and gender, and reflect the latest Hong Kong Census and Statistics Department (C&SD) population estimates. Profile data for Indonesia represents the adult online population (18 years or older), weighted by gender, age, socioeconomic class, and city tier, and reflects the latest Indonesian Bureau of Statistics (BPS) population estimates. 
Profiles data for Singapore is nationally representative of all adults (18 years or older), weighted by age, gender, and ethnicity, and reflect the latest Singapore Department of Statistics (DOS) estimates. 
Profiles data for Thailand is representative of the adult online population (18 years or older), weighted by gender, age, region and monthly household income, and reflects the latest National Statistical Office of Thailand (NSO) population estimates. 
Other findings: 
  Top news, insights and analysis every weekday Sign up for Campaign Bulletins 
As dozens of new retailers with first-party data offer new advertising options, measurement will make or break effectiveness of media spend.
 
Interview with Meha Verghese, managing partner, head of strategy (Campaign Greater China Women to Watch 2021, Campaign Women Leading Change Awards Asia-Pacific 2024: Emerging Leader Winner) and Amanda Ma, business director (Campaign Greater China Women to Watch 2024) at EssenceMediacom China.
 
The 'demure' trend has officially infiltrated the marketing playbook for brands such as Ssense, Maybelline, Marc Jacobs and even Jennifer Lopez.
 
EXCLUSIVE: Powered by .XYZ, the future strategy and innovation arm of We Are Social, Vector aims to leverage a global creative collective to provide brands with innovative solutions that aim to go beyond traditional agency models.
 
Terms & Conditions / Contact Us
 

© Haymarket Media Ltd.
