CINCINNATI (WXIX) - An officer-involved shooting is under investigation in Evendale early Friday after police say a man armed with a gun did not comply with an officer’s commands to drop his weapon. Police say the officer’s shot failed to stop the suspect, who then led them on a chase for several miles from Evendale into Downtown Cincinnati. The pursuit ended when the suspect’s vehicle crashed into a Metro bus at Race Street and Central Parkway, according to police. It all started at about 11:44 p.m. Thursday. Evendale police say they were on a traffic stop in the area of the 10000 block of Reading Road and heard a gunshot south of their location. Officers ended the traffic stop to begin investigating the gunshot and notified other officers. While investigating the gunshot, at around 11:50 p.m., an Evendale officer pulled onto the parking lot of Speedway at 10760 Reading Road and “encountered a man standing outside of his vehicle with a long gun,” the police statement says. They identified him as Carlos Ramirez, 21. “The officer gave Mr. Ramirez commands to drop his gun, however, he did not comply,” Evendale police wrote in a statement early Friday. Court records show Ramirez proceeded to his vehicle. “The officer discharged his firearm at Mr. Ramirez but was unsuccessful at stopping him. Mr. Ramirez then fled in his vehicle.” Ramirez was apprehended after his vehicle crashed into the Metro bus and charged with felonious assault, four counts of aggravated menacing and inducing panic, according to Evendale police. He is being held without bond at the Hamilton County Justice Center and is scheduled for a 9 a.m. court appearance Saturday. The Evendale Police Department contacted the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation to investigate the officer-involved shooting. As the investigation continues, additional charges may be filed., according to police. Due to the ongoing criminal investigation, Evendale police say they will not be releasing any additional information at this time and without consultation with the Hamilton County Prosecutor’s Office. This is the second police-involved shooting this week. The Hamilton County Prosecutor’s Office is expected to hold a press conference and release police body camera video Friday in an officer-involved shooting early Monday that killed 28-year-old Joe Frasure, according to Wyoming Police Chief Brooke Brady. Police said in a news release Frasure “almost struck an officer ... causing that officer and another officer on scene to fire their duty weapons.” See a spelling or grammar error in our story? Please include the title when you click here to report it. Copyright 2023 WXIX. All rights reserved.