Universal Music Singapore, a division of Universal Music Group (UMG), has appointed music industry veteran Alice Kent as its new General Manager. Kent previously served as the Marketing, Partnerships, and Business Development Director for Live Nation Entertainment Singapore, where she developed brand partnerships and content for the live entertainment company. She also previously served as Business Development, Sync, and Partnerships Director for Warner Music Group Singapore, and as Regional Marketing Director for Sony Music Entertainment Asia. Among the highlights of her career include landing significant sponsorship agreements for K-Pop group Blackpink, collaborating with Billie Eilish and the Singapore Tourism Board, and forging partnerships with companies like Singtel and PayPal.  As Universal Music Singapore’s new General manager, Kent will oversee all aspects of the company’s operations including artist and repertoire (A&R) initiatives, marketing endeavors, partnership ventures, and business expansion.  Kent will report directly to Calvin Wong, CEO South East Asia and SVP Asia for Universal Music Group. Her primary objective in the role will be to bolster the company’s presence in Singapore and further expand its reach across the region, the company said. “We welcome Alice’s enthusiasm and industry savvy to Universal Music Singapore as General Manager,” said Calvin Wong.  “She brings with her a pioneering spirit and a wealth of experience from her decades of working in the music and entertainment industry, covering many aspects of the business from brand partnerships, label marketing and artist management to sync deals, non-traditional sales, live shows and concerts. All of which, combined with her passion for music, will help Universal Music Singapore drive continued growth.”  “Singapore is such a diverse and dynamic market, and this is where I will be focusing on the growth potential for all creative partnerships and brand deals.” Alice Kent, Universal Music Singapore Commenting on her appointment, Kent said: “I am honored and excited to be part of the dynamic and multi-faceted Universal Music team. I look forward to making a positive impact and bringing my industry expertise and creativity to the strong body of works and artist roster that Universal Music has.” “We welcome Alice’s enthusiasm and industry savvy to Universal Music Singapore as General Manager.”  Calvin Wong Kent continued: “Singapore is such a diverse and dynamic market, and this is where I will be focusing on the growth potential for all creative partnerships and brand deals. In addition, I intend to take a keen eye on domestic and regional artists’ prospects, while strengthening our repertoire and artist development efforts, building upon Universal Music’s leading position.” Kent’s appointment came three years after Universal Music Singapore appointed Simon Jerome Nasser as Managing Director and Head of Live, Southeast Asia. Universal Music continues to expand its presence in Singapore and the wider South East Asia. In September 2019, the company launched two labels, Def Jam South East Asia and Astralwerks Asia, focusing on hip-hop and electronic music, respectively. Music Business Worldwide The best of MBW, plus the most important music biz stories on the web. Delivered for FREE, direct to your inbox each day.