ISSA GUIDELINES, KNOWLEDGE-SHARING, AND INNOVATION Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is a crucial component of social security systems, contributing to their quality and performance. This course is designed to develop the capacities of social protection professionals in the implementation, reform and governance of the ICT aspects of social security systems. The principal aim will be to impart the skills required to find practical solutions for social security systems by using ICT. The focus will be on two main areas of the ISSA Guidelines on ICT: (1) governance and management, and (2) key technologies. The course is designed for social security professionals of ISSA member organizations. Participants should hold positions directly related to the design and implementation of social security systems and should be interested in applying ICT to improve their systems' quality and performance. The following requirements are therefore essential for participation in this course: the ability to access and use a computer with an internet connection; a working knowledge of written English. This course uses the ISSA Guidelines on Information and Communication Technology as a framework for assessing challenges and identifying innovations. This course is designed specifically for social security professionals from ISSA member organizations. The course consists of 60 total hours of learning, broken up into three phases. This course is part of a Diploma programme. To achieve the Diploma, successful candidates must complete four courses within a five-year period and undertake a capstone assessment. Get updates, stories, and practical information delivered straight to your inbox. International Training Centre of the ILO
Viale Maestri del Lavoro, 10
10127 Turin - Italy
 International Training Centre of the ILO
Viale Maestri del Lavoro, 10
10127 Turin - Italy © 2022 International Training Centre of the ILO. All rights reserved. Privacy.
 © 2022 International Training Centre of the ILO. All rights reserved. Privacy.