The Chinese Netflix-like streaming platform iQiyi has announced the upcoming release of over 270 new titles as part of its strategy to continue driving high-quality growth. "Content is the key value of long-form video platforms, and high-quality industry partnerships, strong teams and an industrialized management system are the fundamental building blocks for iQiyi's robust premium content creation capabilities," said Gong Yu, founder and CEO of iQiyi. Gong recently shared at the 2023 iQiyi World Conference in Beijing that the focus of the company's future development efforts will be content, the above fundamental building blocks, as well as monetization capabilities such as membership services and advertising services. To create more innovative content and better cater to users' evolving interests, iQiyi announced during the conference the upcoming release of more than 270 films, drama series, variety shows and content in other entertainment genres. During the conference, iQiyi also held a forum to showcase the development of its overseas business. "This year, we will continue to promote Chinese-language content vigorously and expand the overseas reach of Chinese-language content, especially in key emerging markets, and achieve further user growth," said Yang Xianghua, president of Movie & Overseas Business Group of iQiyi. According to Yang, the iQiyi international app went through the initial exploration phase in the oversea markets and is now profit-driven. Yang said it has achieved breakthrough growth in key markets such as Southeast Asia and North America. To date, iQiyi international services have distributed over 7000 episodes, and the services are globally accessible across 191 countries and regions. ouyangshijia@chinadaily.com.cn 
            Copyright 1995 -  . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form.
          