Most unintentional drug overdose deaths in Thurston County between 2020 and 2022 had at least one opportunity for intervention, according to Washington state data. That statistic appears in the Unintentional Drug Overdose Data dashboard, a new tool for the public to use to review the characteristics and circumstances of overdose deaths. The state Department of Health announced the dashboard in a news release late last week. “Our new Unintentional Drug Overdose Data dashboard is an innovative tool that empowers our communities with data to understand, address, and combat the public health crisis caused by substance use disorders in Washington state,” Tao Sheng Kwan-Gett, Chief Science Officer for DOH, said in the news release. Thurston County is one of 13 counties that are included on the dashboard. DOH says those 13 counties account for 88% of statewide overdose deaths and more counties will be added later. The state already has an opioid and drug overdose data dashboard that shows all overdose deaths, hospitalizations and EMS responses with filters for residence, age, sex, race and ethnicity for each county. That dashboard shows overdose deaths have been increasing in recent years. In 2022, the data shows Thurston County had an adjusted overdose death rate of 43.3 per 100,000 people. In 2020, adjusted rate for the county was 16.5. Local officials have blamed this trend on an influx of fentanyl, a synthetic opioid that’s 50-100 times stronger than morphine and often mixed with numerous other drugs, The Olympian previously reported. The new dashboard displays more demographic, drug category and circumstance details for unintentional and undetermined overdose deaths. It’s updated in the spring and fall with data from the state Unintentional Drug Overdose Reporting System, or SUDORS. That system includes information from coroner and medical examiner reports, toxicology, autopsy and available prescription drug monitoring program data. Kwan-Gett said it’s important to raise awareness, increase access to treatment and provide people who use drugs with naloxone, a medication that can reverse an opioid overdose. “Together, through transparency, compassion, and collaboration, we can turn this data into action to build a safer, healthier future for all Washingtonians,” Kwan-Gett said. The state’s overdose data dashboard indicates there were at least 266 drug and opioid overdose deaths in Thurston County from 2020 to 2022, including 126 in 2022 alone. Those numbers are based on death certificates and include accidental poisoning by drugs, intentional self-poisonings by drugs, assault by drug poisoning and drug poisoning of undetermined intent. Thurston County Coroner Gary Warnock previously said the number of overdose deaths in 2022 exceeded 150 in March. At the time, he said that figure was fluid due to a number of pending cases. The new dashboard shows SUDORS recorded 178 unintentional and undetermined overdose deaths in Thurston County from 2020 to 2022 as of Feb. 17. That includes 52 deaths in 2022. John Doyle, a public information officer for DOH, clarified that the SUDORS data displays geographic information by county of death rather than county of residence. SUDORS also contains data through June 2022 while the other dashboard includes numbers for all of 2022, Doyle said. Illicitly manufactured fentanyl accounted for 60% of the 178 deaths reported from 2020 to 2022 in the new dashboard. The data also shows 73% of drug overdose deaths had at least one opportunity for intervention, meaning circumstances potentially allowed for the decedent to receive care or life-saving measures prior to their death. Bystanders were present in 49% of Thurston County overdose deaths, according to the dashboard. The decedent had a known history of mental health diagnosis in 35% of deaths and 19% had current or prior substance use disorder treatment. Other potential intervention opportunities included 14% who were recently released from an institutional setting, 10% whose fatal drug use was witnessed by another person and 9% who had a known history of drug overdose. Notably, 82% of decedents had a known history of drug misuse. Only 14% were experiencing homelessness, according to the data. A majority of the overdoses, 56%, occurred in a house or apartment and 10% occurred outdoors or in natural areas, per the data. Meanwhile, 8% occurred at an unknown location, 7% occurred at a hotel or motel, 7% occurred in a motor vehicle, 6% occurred at a supervised residential facility and 5% occurred at other locations. Naloxone, a medication that can reverse an opioid overdose, was administered in 30% of overdose deaths. The data also shows that 31% of drug overdose deaths involved drugs being administered via smoking, 20% involved injection, 18% involved ingestion and 14% involved snorting. The dashboard does not show numbers less than 10 in any given category to protect the privacy of those who have died. More information on preventing, recognizing and responding to overdoses can be found on the Washington State Department of Health website. Naloxone, which reverses opioid overdoses, is available over the counter at many pharmacies. A search engine for where to find naloxone can be found at stopoverdose.org. Those in need of help for substance abuse or mental health concerns can call the Washington Recovery Help Line at 866-789-1511. Anyone experiencing a crisis can call 988 to reach a national lifeline. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha Former President Trump attacked CNN commentator Van Jones on Sunday as a “lowlife” who never thanked him for helping pass a bipartisan bill in 2018 that reformed parts of the criminal justice system. “Lightweight Political commentator Van Jones begged me, while in the Oval Office and with tears flowing from his eyes, to help get… BROSSARD, Que. — The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris. Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married."