Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Temporary declines don't faze the Oracle of Omaha. Warren Buffett isn't all that different from any other investor in several key ways. Most importantly, he wants the stocks he buys to perform well. But as is the case for investors without multibillion-dollar fortunes as well, not every stock he buys always does precisely what he wants. In fact, several of the Oracle of Omaha's biggest holdings aren't performing well these days. Why has Buffett invested over 18% of Berkshire Hathaway's (BRK.A 0.87%) (BRK.B 0.96%) in these three recently underperforming stocks? The main U.S. stock market indexes are up so far in 2023, as is Berkshire Hathaway's share price. However, some of Buffett's favorite stocks are down. Shares of Bank of America (BAC 0.84%) have been hit especially hard, sinking close to 15%. The stock has been negatively impacted by a banking crisis that featured the failures of several U.S. regional banks. Chevron's (CVX 0.82%) stock decline is neck and neck with BofA's. While shares of the oil and natural gas giant soared by 53% last year, they've tumbled by nearly 14% so far in 2023. The main problem for Chevron is that oil prices have declined somewhat. It also hasn't helped the stock that fears have increased that a recession is coming. Such an economic downturn could cause  demand for oil and natural gas to fall even further. Occidental Petroleum's (OXY -0.38%) share price is holding up a little better than Chevron's. It's still down close to 6%, though, for the same reasons that caused Chevron's decline. Buffett obviously likes all three of these companies. Bank of America ranks as Berkshire Hathaway's second-largest equity holding, making up 8.7% of its total portfolio. Chevron is the fifth-largest at 6%. Occidental comes in at No. 7, comprising 3.7% of the conglomerate's stock portfolio.  And while Buffett exited or trimmed his positions in several bank stocks in the first quarter of 2023, he bought even more shares of Bank of America. He also increased Berkshire's stake in Occidental. However, Buffett did sell roughly $6 billion worth of Chevron shares in Q1.  It's not hard to figure out why the legendary investor is a fan of BofA and Occidental. He has praised the CEOs of both companies. Buffett also no doubt likes the valuations of both stocks. With a forward earnings multiple of less than 8, Bank of America is cheaper than it has been in quite a while. Occidental trades at only 9.8 times expected earnings. Why did Buffett decrease Berkshire's position in Chevron? Perhaps the best guess is that Buffett was simply rebalancing Berkshire's portfolio. Chevron has been a big winner for the conglomerate in a relatively short period.  Your investment goals and risk tolerance are almost certainly different from Buffett's. Therefore, you shouldn't buy or sell stocks just because he did. However, I think that many investors might want to consider owning these beaten-down stocks. Bank of America's share price has been dragged down by the turbulence in its industry, but the institution itself appears to be as strong as ever. I predict that the stock will rebound in a major way once the dynamics in the banking industry and the overall economy improve. Sure, a recession would probably create headwinds for Chevron and Occidental, and cause their stocks to struggle. But with a dividend yield of nearly 4%, Chevron remains an especially attractive stock for income investors. I suspect that Berkshire's ongoing purchases of Occidental shares could bolster the stock. More importantly, both Chevron and Occidental should benefit from increasing energy demand over the next decade. Bank of America is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Keith Speights has positions in Bank of America and Berkshire Hathaway. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bank of America and Berkshire Hathaway. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.