Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  This was CNBC's live blog tracking developments on the war in Ukraine on Aug.18, 2023. The United States has approved sending F-16 fighter jets to Ukraine from Denmark and the Netherlands, according to an unnamed U.S. official, as reported by Reuters. The aircraft would be sent as soon as pilot training is completed, the report said. Ukraine has long been lobbying Western allies for the war planes, and while U.S. President Joe Biden agreed to training Ukrainian pilots in May, no timeline had been set for delivery of the aircraft. Meanwhile, Germany has delivered two IRIS-T air defense systems to Ukraine after first agreeing to supply Ukraine with the weapons in June 2022. Moscow reported a drone attack on a non-residential building overnight, just kilometers away from the Kremlin. Officials say the drone was shot down, and that there were no casualties. Russia says that it downed a Ukrainian drone in the center of Moscow. Moscow mayor Sergei Sobyanin said in a Telegram post that drone debris fell near the Expocentre Fairgrounds, located in the Moscow City complex, home to multiple Russian government agencies. CNBC was unable to independently verify the reports. Russian authorities have reported at least five drone strikes on the capital since the start of summer, including attacks on the Moscow City complex. — Karen Gilchrist Canada's Foreign Ministry said it was imposing sanctions on 15 Russian individuals and three entities in response to what it dubbed "rising levels of human rights violations and state-sponsored violence faced by political opponents." The sanctioned individuals and entities are senior officials of the Russian government, judiciary and investigative committee, as well as federally funded courts, the ministry said in a statement. — Karen Gilchrist A large fire broke out at Russia's Novorossiysk oil export terminal, according to state media outlet RIA Novosti. Wooden pallets covering an area of 1,300 square kilometers were burning, RIA Novosti wrote in a Google-translated post on Telegram. The fire in the terminal was later extinguished, RIA reported. — Hannah Ward-Glenton Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov thanked his Swedish counterpart Pal Jonson for a security assistance package worth 270 million euros ($293 million). Reznikov wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter, that the money would help "drive [R]ussian occupiers out" of Ukraine. Jonson said Tuesday that a package of ammunition and spare parts for previously donated weapons was being prepared. "We have to prepare ourselves for the fact this could be a long-lasting war and we also have a long-term perspective so that we can support those platforms that we are sending to Ukraine in a lasting manner," Jonson told a news conference, as reported by Reuters. — Hannah Ward-Glenton Germany has given Ukraine two new IRIS-T air defense systems, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. In his nightly address, Zelenskyy thanked Germany for its help in protecting Ukraine, and described the systems as "powerful and much-needed." IRIS-T systems are short-range, air-to-air missiles designed to provide medium-range, high-altitude cover. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz agreed to supply Ukraine with the weapons in June 2022 following pleas from Kyiv for Germany and other Western allies to step up their arms supplies. — Hannah Ward-Glenton The United States has approved sending F-16 fighter jets to Ukraine from Denmark and the Netherlands, according to an unnamed U.S. official, as reported by Reuters. The aircraft would be sent as soon as pilot training is completed, the report said. The news comes after air force spokesperson Yuriy Ihnat reportedly told Ukrainian television Wednesday night it was "obvious" Ukraine would not have F-16 jets for fighting before the end of 2023. Ukraine has long been lobbying Western allies for the war planes, and while U.S. President Joe Biden agreed to training Ukrainian pilots in May, no timeline had been set for delivery of the aircraft. — Hannah Ward-Glenton A Ukrainian drone crashed into a building in central Moscow Friday after it was shot down by Russian air defences, Moscow officials said. The drone fell on Moscow's Expocentre, according to a Telegram post by the Russian Ministry of Defense, according to a Google translation, but there were no casualties or significant damage to the building. The Expocentre is a large array of exhibition spaces and multi-purpose halls in central Moscow that is within a few kilometers of the Kremlin. — Hannah Ward-Glenton Only Ukraine can decide when peace talks with Russia could take place, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Thursday. "It is the Ukrainians, and only the Ukrainians, who can decide when there are conditions in place for negotiations, and who can decide at the negotiating table what is an acceptable solution," Stoltenberg said at a conference in Norway, according to comments reported by Reuters. Stoltenberg's comments come after a senior NATO official Stian Jenssen caused controversy earlier this week when he suggested Ukraine could end up ceding territory to Russia as part of a "possible solution" to ending the 18-month conflict. Jenssen later said the remarks had been a mistake. Referring to the remarks, Stoltenberg said "his [Jenssen's] message, and which is my main message, and which is NATO's main message, is, firstly, that NATO's policy is unchanged — we support Ukraine," Stoltenberg said. Tensions have emerged recently between Ukraine and its NATO allies, particularly ahead of the most recent meeting of the defense alliance in July. Kyiv had pushed for allies to agree a schedule on when it would be invited to join the alliance. NATO said it would extend an invitation when "allies agree and conditions are met," a move that disappointed and angered Ukraine. — Holly Ellyatt The CEO of Ukraine's largest oil and gas company Naftogaz, Oleksiy Chernyshov, said Kyiv should discuss the Russian gas transit deal with the EU, in a Thursday interview with CNBC's Joumanna Bercetche. "I believe we should discuss it, together with European Union consumers, and understand the position of the European Union," Chernyshov said, when asked on the future of the arrangement that currently allows Russia to send gas to Europe via Ukraine. The deal is set to expire at the end of 2024. On Wednesday, Ukrainian Energy Minister German Galushchenko had signaled that Ukraine would not discuss a renewal of the contract with Russia, according to Reuters. Chernyshov said that the gas transit deal is for the sake of European countries, rather than Ukraine, and that the fees that Ukrainian companies receive for allowing the movement of the supplies "will never be justified in the current full-scale war situation." "Naftogaz is continuing doing that and servicing this transit only in favor, only in support of certain European countries that are not capable to stop the consumption of gas right now, that is the only reason," he said. "We will take it into consideration while viewing the future of this contract," Chernyshov added. Russia previously said it would consider extending the contract. The European Union has pledged to no longer rely on Russian gas by 2027. — Hannah Ward-Glenton Russia's rising inflation and plunging currency have spotlighted an emerging discord between the Kremlin and the country's central bank. The Central Bank of Russia (CBR) at an emergency meeting on Tuesday jacked up interest rates by 350 basis points to 12% in a bid to halt a rapid depreciation of the ruble currency, which slumped to a 17-month low of near 102 to the dollar on Monday. You can read the full story here. — Elliot Smith Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by