GO AD FREE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES SINCE 1854 SINCE 1854   Home   What's On   Article A day is spent with one of the best-known theatre agents in the latest production by Robin Hood Theatre Company ­— Peggy For You. The Peggy of the title is Margaret ‘Peggy’ Ramsay who managed some of theatre’s greatest writers, including Joe Orton, Iris Murdoch, John Mortimer, David Hare, Alan Ayckbourn, Caryl Churchill, and Willy Russell. She even had a strong relationship, albeit at a long distance, with Newark-born Sir Donald Wolfit through many extended telephone conversations. She was apparently delighted when Wolfit took the lead in two plays that she represented, A Stranger In The Tea by Lillian and Edward Percy and Bill Naughton’s All In Good Time. Peggy For You ­— written by another of her clients, Alan Plater ­— is staged at the Robin Hood Theatre, Averham, from Tuesday to Saturday. In his foreword to Peggy For You, Plater says that when he started writing he could hear Margaret Ramsay’s voice saying, ‘just make sure it’s a pack of lies, dear’. He says it largely is, claiming to have done no research, but relied totally on a blend of memory, anecdote, myth, and legend. The resulting play is very funny and gives a wonderful insight into not only Peggy but the British theatre and its playwrights in the Sixties, Seventies and Eighties. It depicts an imagined day in the life of Peggy Ramsay Ltd, set in her third-floor office at 14a Goodwin’s Court, St. Martin’s Lane in London in the late Sixties. It gives a fascinating insight into who she was personally and professionally, and into the profound influence she had in shaping the story of 20th century British theatre. We see Peggy interacting with three very different clients, Simon ­— a would be playwright just starting out on his career, Philip who has shows running in the West End and on Broadway, and Henry, a long-standing client but perhaps past his prime ­— and, of course, Tessa, her long-suffering secretary. It was first produced in 1999 with Maureen Lipman playing Peggy Ramsay and revived in 2021 with Tamsin Gregg in the title role.