The FBI announced it is joining the search for two teenage sisters who disappeared more than a month ago from their home in northern Michigan. Tamara Perez, 15, and her sister, Iris Perez, 14, were reported missing on June 28 after vanishing from their adoptive parents' home in Prudenville, an unincorporated community in Roscommon County near the shores of Houghton Lake. The Roscommon County Sheriff’s Office initially began investigating the disappearance of the girls, with the FBI's Detroit field office joining the search this week. 'Grateful that this day came':Texas woman exonerated 20 years after choking death of baby she was caring for The girls had moved in March from Florida to Michigan with their adoptive parents after being found in the Port St. Lucie, Florida home of their biological mother, whose had lost custody rights, according to the FBI. Surveillance video from around the time of the Perez sisters' disappearance, coupled with the account of one juvenile witness, has led investigators to believe the sisters may have been traveling at some point in a newer white Jeep Cherokee. On the day they disappeared, the sisters had been playing outside with another child who reported seeing them climb into the SUV and leave, Detective Lt. Angela Ackley with the sheriff's office told USA TODAY on Tuesday. The FBI further said that a neighbor had spotted the girls between 7:30 and 8 p.m. headed toward nearby woods the day they went missing. "Our understanding is there was a vehicle seen leaving the area after the girls left the view of their neighbor," Special Agent Mara R. Schneider with the FBI's Detroit Field Office told USA TODAY. "We can't say what happened after they left their neighbor's sight." Connecticut:Mom accused in child's death from 3rd floor window was subject of prior reports, state says The girls also have family in Winchester, Tennessee, according to the FBI. Both Tamara and Iris Perez are Black and the FBI said Iris Perez has a distinctive star tattoo on the left side of her neck. Anyone with information on the whereabouts of the Perez sisters can call the Roscommon County Sheriff’s Office in Michigan at 989-275-5101 or contact any FBI field office. Anonymous tips can be submitted at tips.fbi.gov Eric Lagatta covers breaking and trending news for USA TODAY. Reach him at elagatta@gannett.com.