Undergraduate Taught master's Postgraduate research Postgraduate certificates and diplomas Online and blended learning Continuing professional development courses Student terms and conditions, policies and procedures Open days Virtual Manchester Get ready for Manchester Making a payment The Manchester Experience International Research beacons Research structure Research strategy and achievements Research Explorer Research impact and innovation Research partnerships Postgraduate research Researcher development Research environment Research vacancies Business engagement services Policy Give to Manchester Inspiring local communities Global influence News The University of Manchester Magazine Events Key dates Bicentenary Maps and travel Manchester University institutions Open to the public History and heritage Social responsibility Environmental sustainability People Conference venues Facilities Structure of the University Vision and strategic plan Teaching and learning excellence Governance Privacy and information governance Jobs Alumni Teachers and careers advisers Social media Contact us Alternatively, use our A–Z index Attend an open day Discover more about Pharmacy at Manchester Year of entry: 2024 Our MSc in Pharmaceutical Technology and Quality Assurance is aimed at pharmacy, health and biomedical professionals working in technical services for the NHS or private sector organisations who want to update their skills and knowledge while gaining an academic qualification.  This three-year part-time course allows you to choose from a range of optional units to enable you to develop in your chosen field of interest. Some units allow you to learn alongside students from other healthcare disciplines.  Some of the topics covered by the course are radiopharmacy, aseptics, production, quality control, role of the qualified person, medical gas testing and clinical trials.  You will learn from experts from the NHS and industry, who deliver lectures and workshops as part of the course.  You will also be able to apply what you learn in practical workshops and visits to and placements in NHS and industrial environments.  
PhD with integrated master's 
 
If you're planning to undertake a PhD after your master's, our       Integrated PhD programme
 will enable you to combine your postgraduate taught course with a related PhD project in biology, medicine or health.      
You can also visit this page for       examples of projects
 related to integrated master's courses.     
Deadline for applications:
 1st September We aim to provide you with an understanding of core principles and features of pharmaceutical science and professional training.    Successful completion of the course will enable you to: Students who complete the full MSc qualification will achieve the objectives for the PGDip, and will also critically and creatively evaluate current issues in practice and conduct research that advances pharmaceutical technology, quality assurance and decision-making related to patient care.   This is a blended learning course combining distance learning with residential modules. Units will include a compulsory taught component delivered online and in Manchester that is supported by extensive experience achieved in the workplace and on visits to specialist facilities.  We use a blend of online and face-to-face methods. This will include small group tutorials, workshops and experience-based learning. You will have a nominated tutor at the University and your practice base to provide guidance on work-based activities and written assignments.   There will be a combination of remote study and face-to-face sessions. Dates are yet to be confirmed, but for 2023/24 they were as follows:  Remote study dates:  Face-to-face study dates:  Each unit has a designated leader who is responsible for individual assessments, under the guidance of the course director. All assessments will be monitored and reviewed by the exam board.  You must satisfy the course requirements in Year 1 before you can proceed to Year 2 of the course.  You will take course units covering a wide range of topics within:  You will complete two course units:  You will choose from the following subjects within the course units:  You will complete your research dissertation. The course unit details given below are subject to change, and are the latest example of the curriculum available on this course of study. 
Visit the       blog
 to read about recent graduate Stephen Bishop's experience on the course.       
Practical support and advice for current students and applicants is available from the       Disability Advisory and Support Service
.     Social media directory