
                
                August 8, 2023
                     • 
 News/Media Release
 •  
Bookmark +

 Cal Fleet Advisor is a new program to assist small fleets and owner-operators with a transition to ZEV technology in California. Photo: CARB/Calstart/HDT Illustration The California Air Resources Board and transportation nonprofit Calstart recently launched Cal Fleet Advisor, a free assistance program to help small fleets and owner-operators make the transition to zero emissions trucks. The program, Cal Fleet Advisor, is focused on assisting smaller businesses and independent owner-operators. Applications for the program are now being accepted. Drayage owner-operators are encouraged to apply now, CARB noted, since the requirements for their transition toward zero emissions start in 2024. "The transition to zero-emissions transportation — and to cleaner air — means working collaboratively with the owners and operators who provide a critical service to California’s economy by transporting goods across the state,” said CARB Chair Liane Randolph in a release. The program will prioritize smaller businesses and independent owner-operators, with a focus on disadvantaged communities that, according to a CARB press release, often have challenges accessing government assistance programs. CARB said other services provided will include document tracking assistance and liaison support as needed. CARB said Cal Fleet Advisor was launched to provide personalized guidance in understanding and meeting the requirements, including getting information about funding and other assistance that will be made available. Participants in Cal Fleet Advisor will receive assistance through an assigned program expert that will serve as a single point of contact for questions and needs. That expert will provide an individualized action plan that will provide information about approved technology and funding options for fleet owners and single operators. In April, CARB approved the Advanced Clean Fleets rule, which puts in place a phased-in transition to accomplish the California governor’s goal of fully transitioning the trucks that travel across the state to zero-emissions technology by 2045. Under the new rule, some vehicle types where zero-emissions technology is currently available must start the transition by 2024. Other vehicle types have later deadlines, and options to transition a percentage of their fleets to meet required zero-emissions milestones. To learn more about Cal Fleet Advisor application requirements and how to receive personalized assistance, visit the Cal Fleet Advisor website. Related: Experiencing the Latest Zero-Emission Trucks [Photos] Staff 
                    Our editorial staff has selected and edited this news release for clarity and brand style because we believe it is relevant to our audience.
                 
                Comments are moderated and may not appear for 24 hours or more. Comments that include personal
                attacks or slurs, hate speech, demonstrably false information, excessive profanity, or that are thinly veiled promotions for a product, will not be approved.
              See all comments 
We respect your data and privacy.
                            By clicking the submit button below, you are agreeing with Bobit Business Media’s Privacy Policy and this outlined level of consent.
                         Serving Car & Truck Fleet Management Professionals Serving Small Fleet Owners & Managers Serving EV Intenders & Professionals In Commercial & Public Fleets Serving Public Sector Fleet Professionals Serving Medium & Heavy Duty Commercial Truck Professionals Serving Transit Bus, Private Motorcoach, & Passenger Rail Professionals Serving School & Pupil Transportation Fleet Professionals Serving Vocational & Service Fleet Professionals 
We respect your data and privacy.
                            By clicking the submit button below, you are agreeing with Bobit Business Media’s Privacy Policy and this outlined level of consent.
                         
            The secure and easy all-access connection to your content.
            Bookmarked content can then be accessed anytime on all of your logged in devices!
         Already a member? Log In