Las Vegas attorney April Becker, who previously ran for Congress and the Nevada state Senate, announced her candidacy for Clark County Commission against Ross Miller in 2024. Las Vegas Republican real estate attorney April Becker, who ran unsuccessfully for the 3rd Congressional District last year, has announced her 2024 candidacy for Clark County Commission in District C, a seat currently held by Democrat Ross Miller. “I’m running to restore honesty, transparency, and accountability to Clark County’s commission,” Becker said in a Tuesday statement. “I look forward to getting results for the people who call our community home and bringing leadership with integrity to our county commission.” Becker previously ran against Democratic Rep. Susie Lee in Congressional District 3 in 2022, but lost by less than 4 percentage points — the closest a challenger came to defeating a congressional incumbent in Nevada in the midterms. Miller won his election in 2020 by just 10 votes against then-Las Vegas Councilman Stavros Anthony, although a recount later added five votes to Miller’s total. Becker, a UNLV alumna and “top litigator” in Las Vegas, said she is running to bring accountable leadership to the Clark County Commission, calling the commission a “source of constant embarrassment,” pointing out the recent ethical concerns surrounding Commissioner Justin Jones. She criticized Miller for not calling on Jones to step down. In a campaign statement to the Review-Journal, Miller said that he welcomes and respects all challengers’ right to run. “For the next year, however, I’m totally focused on protecting neighborhoods in District C and enhancing public safety,” he said. Becker also ran for Nevada state Senate against Democratic Majority Leader Nicole Cannizzaro in 2020, losing a close race by just 631 votes. Contact Jessica Hill at jehill@reviewjournal.com. Follow @jess_hillyeah on Twitter. Former Nevada Gov. Grant Sawyer is considered the father of modern gaming, and the Control Board chairman wants a tribute to him as regulatory boards move to new campus. The Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board is scheduled to consider the application at its meeting on Aug. 20. The mixed-use attraction featuring 600-foot twin towers on a 10-acre lot south of Fontainebleau also will have a 439-foot amusement ride and a swimming pool local residents will be able to use. The CCSD survey will be used to determine desired characteristics for the next superintendent after former Superintendent Jesus Jara resigned this year. Clark County and the Las Vegas Grand Prix are again partnering to launch a text line to keep motorists on top of the latest road work tied to preparing, then dismantling the circuit for this year’s race. The Paradise Town Advisory Board voted to allow the Sphere to exceed Clark County noise limitations in a meeting Tuesday night. Clark County moved more than 100,000 registered voters who had failed to verify their address to “inactive” status. Those voters can still vote but won’t receive mail-in ballots. A Clark County commissioner wants a crackdown on illegal pet breeding, an issue that officials argue is contributing to an overpopulation crisis at animal shelters. A private buyer has bought the land for $28 million, according to Colliers, who represented the buyer. Last year’s infrastructure-related work — which caused traffic headaches for those traveling in-and-around the Strip — involved six months of repaving operations, something that won’t be seen this year. 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP