Best Science and Technology Books for UPSC cover generic biology, physics, and chemistry topics from the CSE prelims syllabus.   Science and Technology Books for UPSC are extremely important for the candidates to cover all the science and tech-related topics that can be asked in the civil services exam. Science and technology are a major part of the UPSC Prelims GS Paper 1 and IAS Mains syllabus (GS III). With this, science subjects like Physics, Chemistry, Biology, etc are part of the list of the UPSC Mains optional topics. Thus, it is important to pick the top science and technology Book for UPSC preparation as it would be helpful for students having both science and non-science backgrounds. Basically, the best UPSC books for science and tech include topics prescribed in the CSE Prelims Syllabus.  The science and tech sections mainly focus on the scientific and technological developments. Reading the right UPSC science and technology books will not help them to acquire scientific knowledge but also enhance their logical thinking which is an important quality of the civil servant. Apart from the best science and technology books for the UPSC, candidates should refer to other study resources as well which include mock papers, previous year's question papers, sample papers, etc. In this blog, we have shared the list of best science and technology books for UPSC along with the list of additional study resources and preparation strategies for the ease of the aspirants. Choosing the right books and study material for the preparation of the science and technology section can be a challenging task. However, there are a plethora of NCERT science and technology books available in PDF versions. This would help candidates to get a strong grip on the basic concepts. This will allow the aspirants to understand the concepts of advanced-level science and technology books for UPSC easily. If you are studying the science & tech section for the UPSC Prelims exam, then reading these NCERTs, and reference books, and memorizing the current affairs of this topic would be sufficient.  Candidates should choose the latest edition of the science and technology books for UPSC in order to cover all the aspects of the sections. Here, we have compiled the list of the UPSC Toppers and expert-recommended books for the preparation of the Science and Tech section. Along with the standard books, candidates can also refer to some additional science and technology Books for UPSC to utilize their remaining time in the best possible manner. They should read “The Hindu” newspaper daily to cover daily current affairs of science and tech and should also solve current affairs quizzes and previous year question papers to get an idea of types of questions often asked in the exam. Check the list of additional science and technology books for UPSC below: Apart from choosing the best books, candidates should build a robust strategy to align their preparation with the exam requirements. Presently, the UPSC questions are more related to the applied sciences than theoretical concepts. Thus, it is important to use the best science and technology book for UPSC that is based on the latest trend and patterns. Check the best preparation strategy to excel in the science and tech section of the civil services exam: Get here latest School, CBSE and Govt Jobs notification and articles in English and Hindi for Sarkari Naukari, Sarkari Result and Exam Preparation. Download the Jagran Josh Sarkari Naukri App. Get here latest School, CBSE and Govt Jobs notification and articles in English and Hindi for Sarkari Naukari, Sarkari Result and Exam Preparation. Download the Jagran Josh Sarkari Naukri App. MOCK TEST 1 UPSC Prelims 2024-25 English/Hindi MOCK TEST 2 UPSC Prelims 2024-25 English/Hindi MOCK TEST 3 UPSC Prelims 2024-25 English/Hindi  Difference between Catholic and Christian  UP Police Admit Card 2024: Download UPPRPB Constable Call Letter at uppbpb.gov.in  India Post GDS Result 2024 OUT at indiapostgdsonline.gov.in: Download Circle-wise 1st Merit List Here  India Post GDS Result 2024 Released: इंडिया पोस्ट जीडीएस की पहली मेरिट लिस्ट जारी, यहाँ देखें सभी सर्किल का PDF Link   इंडिया पोस्ट GDS रिजल्ट 2024 जारी हुआ, यहां देखें स्टेट वाइज 1st मेरिट लिस्ट PDF  Math Puzzle: You have a high IQ if you can solve this math puzzle in 12 seconds!  Brain Teaser: Only High IQ Sherlocks Can Find the Hidden Different Emoji in This Brain Teaser  Picture Puzzle IQ Test: Spot the Seal Hidden Among Penguins in Just 12 Seconds!  Dr MGR Medical University Result 2024 OUT at tnmgrmu.ac.in; Direct Link to Download UG and PG Marksheet  Optical Illusion IQ Test: Only 1% With Eagle Eyes Can Spot the Snail in 5 Seconds!  Visual Skill Test: Find the odd rose in the picture in 5 seconds!  Happy Rakhi 2024: 40+ Unique Bonding Quotes, Wishes, Messages for Brother and Sisters  Happy Raksha Bandhan 2024: 50+ Images, Quotes, Wishes, Messages to Share with be Loved Brother and Sisters  Challenge Your Raksha Bandhan IQ: Test Your Festive Knowledge  Seek and Find Puzzle: Sharpen Your Eyes and Test Your Wit By Finding the Hidden Mouse in 11 Seconds  Brain Teaser: Can Your High IQ Help You Find the Four-Leaf Clover in This Puzzle?  Tripura NEET UG Counselling 2024 Registration Begin, Apply at dmeonline.tripura.gov.in   10 Interesting Facts About Raksha Bandhan  AP EAPCET Counselling 2024 Final Phase Registration Begin, Apply Until August 21 at eapcet-sche.aptonline.in  Happy Raksha Bandhan 2024 Quotes in Hindi: इस रक्षाबंधन भाई-बहन के रिश्ते में इन शुभकामनाएं और संदेश से घोलें मिठास 