 


The Tech Outlook - Daily Tech News, Interviews, Reviews and Updates

 HAMILTON, Ontario, Aug. 03, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) — Reliq Health Technologies Inc. (TSXV:RHT or OTC:RQHTF or WKN:A2AJTB) (“Reliq” or the “Company”), a rapidly growing global healthcare technology company that develops innovative Virtual Care solutions for the multi-billion dollar Healthcare market, is pleased to announce that it has signed contracts with 20 new Rural Health Clinics (RHC’s) in California, Nevada, Puerto Rico, Texas and the US Virgin Islands that are expected to add over 50,000 patients to its iUGO Care platform by the end of December 2024. “Building on our success to date with Rural Health Clinics in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands, we are now expanding into RHCs on the US mainland as well as adding new RHCs on the islands,” said Dr. Lisa Crossley, CEO at Reliq Health Technologies, Inc. “The Rural Health Clinic program is intended to increase access to primary care services for patients in underserved, rural communities. Clinics that are granted RHC status receive enhanced reimbursement rates for providing Medicare and Medicaid services to their patients. Reliq specializes in delivering virtual care solutions to remote and rural communities and is uniquely positioned to address the needs of RHCs and their patients. We will begin onboarding the first five RHCs next month and expect to add over 10,000 patients to our iUGO Care platform by mid-2024 through these clinics, at an average revenue of $60 per patient per month. The remaining 15 RHCs will be onboarded in 2024 and are expected to add a further 40,000 patients to the platform by the end of the 2024 calendar year.” Reliq Health Reliq Health Technologies is a rapidly growing global healthcare technology company that specializes in developing innovative Virtual Care solutions for the multi-billion dollar Healthcare market. Reliq’s powerful iUGO Care platform supports care coordination and community-based virtual healthcare. iUGO Care allows complex patients to receive high quality care at home, improving health outcomes, enhancing quality of life for patients and families and reducing the cost of care delivery. iUGO Care provides real-time access to remote patient monitoring data, allowing for timely interventions by the care team to prevent costly hospital readmissions and ER visits. Reliq Health Technologies trades on the TSX Venture under the symbol RHT, on the OTC as RQHTF and on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the WKN:A2AJTB. ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD “Dr. Lisa Crossley” CEO and Director For further information please contact: Company ContactInvestor Relations at [email protected] US Investor Relations ContactInvestor RelationsLytham Partners, LLCBen ShamsianNew York | Phoenix646-829-9701[email protected] Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward Looking Information Certain statements in this press release constitute forward-looking statements, within the meaning of applicable securities laws. All statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation, statements regarding future estimates, plans, programs, forecasts, projections, objectives, assumptions, expectations or beliefs of future performance, are “forward-looking statements”. We caution you that such “forward-looking statements” involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual and future events to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to commercial operations, including technology development, anticipated revenues, projected size of market, and other information that is based on forecasts of future results, estimates of amounts not yet determinable and assumptions of management. Reliq Health Technologies Inc. (the “Company“) does not intend and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements except as required by law. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties relating to, among other things, technology development and marketing activities, the Company’s historical experience with technology development, uninsured risks. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. SOURCE: Reliq Health Technologies Inc.   

Dr Hani Asfar, Founder & Ceo of GCB International, Strikes everyone with his… 

  

Mark Cuban Foundation Brings Free AI Bootcamp to Honolulu Teens 

  

Intermap Wins Phase Two of Prime Contract with the U.S. Air Force 

  

InspireSemi Announces Extension of Private Placement and Closing of First Tranche 

 


Our Reviews 

  
TOZO PA1 Portable Bluetooth Speaker Review: Where Affordability Meets Sturdiness 
  
TOZO PA 2 Bluetooth Speaker Review: A Top-Tier 16W Powerhouse 
  
Tozo S5 Smartwatch Review: A perfect blend of features and… 
  
TOZO OpenEgo Open Ear Earbuds Review: The Perfect Blend of Comfort and… 
 


Fact Check 

  
Xiaomi Japan Apologised For The Confusion It Caused… 
  
A Giant Asteroid Said to have Crashed into the Atmosphere… 
 


Reviews 

  
TOZO PA1 Portable Bluetooth Speaker Review: Where… 
  
TOZO PA 2 Bluetooth Speaker Review: A Top-Tier 16W… 
 


Offers 

  
Google Pixel 7 Pro (12GB/128GB) Available At An Amazing 47%… 
  
Get Sony’s Range Of Bravia TVs At Amazing Discounts And… 
 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.
Accept
Read More
