There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the Technology sector as 3 analysts just weighed in on Emerson Electric Company (EMR – Research Report), Salesforce (CRM – Research Report) and Rapid7 (RPD – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. Emerson Electric Company (EMR) In a report released today, Deane Dray  from RBC Capital maintained a Buy rating on Emerson Electric Company, with a price target of $107.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $85.38. According to TipRanks.com, Dray is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 10.3% and a 59.4% success rate. Dray covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Atkore International Group, Evoqua Water Technologies, and Mueller Water Products. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Emerson Electric Company with a $103.78 average price target.
		  See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Salesforce (CRM) In a report released today, Daniel Ives  from Wedbush maintained a Buy rating on Salesforce, with a price target of $200.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $173.27. According to TipRanks.com, Ives is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 16.9% and a 58.2% success rate. Ives covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as SoundHound AI, Inc Class A, Palo Alto Networks, and Tenable Holdings. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Salesforce with a $188.68 average price target, implying an 8.9% upside from current levels. In a report issued on February 6, JMP Securities also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $250.00 price target.
		  Rapid7 (RPD) RBC Capital analyst Matthew Hedberg  reiterated a Buy rating on Rapid7 today and set a price target of $60.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $50.84. According to TipRanks.com, Hedberg is a 2-star analyst with an average return of -0.1% and a 47.1% success rate. Hedberg covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as CrowdStrike Holdings, Palo Alto Networks, and Netscout Systems. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Rapid7 with a $49.38 average price target, implying a -4.3% downside from current levels. In a report issued on February 1, Robert W. Baird also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a price target. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on EMR:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks