Stifel Nicolaus analyst Ruben Roy maintained a Hold rating on Viavi Solutions (VIAV – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $11.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $9.03. According to TipRanks, Roy is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 19.1% and a 68.26% success rate. Roy covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Nvidia, Advanced Micro Devices, and Coherent Corp. Viavi Solutions has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $12.08, which is a 33.78% upside from current levels. In a report released on April 18, B.Riley Financial also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $11.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> VIAV market cap is currently $2.05B and has a P/E ratio of 27.62.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 59 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of VIAV in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Viavi Solutions, Inc. engages in the provision of network test, monitoring, and assurance solutions. It operates through the following segments: Network Enablement, Service Enablement, and Optical Security and Performance. The Network Enablement segment offers integrated portfolio of testing solutions that access the network to perform build-out and maintenance tasks. The Service Enablement segment covers solutions and services primarily for communication service providers, and enterprises that deliver and/or operate broadband and IP networks (fixed and mobile) supporting voice, video, and data services as well as a wide range of applications. The Optical Security and Performance segment leverages its core optical coating technologies and volume manufacturing capability to design, manufacture, and sell products targeting anti-counterfeiting, consumer and industrial, government, healthcare, and other markets. The company was founded in 1979 and is headquartered in San Jose, CA.  Read More on VIAV: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks