 The convert command from the ImageMagick suite of tools provides ways to make all sorts of changes to image files. Among these is an option to change the resolution of images. The syntax is simple, and the command runs extremely quickly. It can also convert a image from one format to another (e.g., jpg to png) as well as blur, crop, despeckle, dither, flip and join images and more. Although the commands and scripts in this post mostly focus on jpg files, the convert command also works with a large variety of other image files, including png, bmp, svg, tiff, gif and such. To resize an image using the convert, you would use a command like this: The syntax is “convert -resize resolution currentfile newfile”. The resolution should be expressed as the desired width (in pixels), followed by an “x” and then the desired height. Note that if the numbers aren’t numerically related to the current dimensions of the image, the resultant resolution might not be what you expect. Generating a 1200×1000 image from a 2400×2000 is one thing. Asking for it to be saved as a 2000×1200 will result in one that is only 1440×1200. If you intend to convert a number of images or will be resizing images often, it’s a good idea to use a script. The first script shown below would create a “smile_2.jpg” file from a “smile.jpg” file using the 1200×800 resolution. Note how it extracts the file extension from the filename so that it can build the new filename. The next script will create a 1200×800 resolution file from each of the jpg files in the current directory and will display each of the new files after it has been set up. If you run the script, you would see something like this: The next script will ask you what type of image files to convert and will then run through the files of the type in the current directory. Like the previous script, it adds a “_2” to the file names to differentiate them from the originals. This can easily be changed, of course, if some other character or string works better for you. This last script asks for the name of a single image file and then creates new versions of the image using three different resolutions. It also adds the intended resolution to the file name. The resultant files might look like this: The convert command makes resizing image files extremely easy. To learn more about some of the command’s other options, check out this post on converting and manipulating image files on the Linux command line. Sandra Henry-Stocker has been administering Unix systems for more than 30 years. She describes herself as "USL" (Unix as a second language) but remembers enough English to write books and buy groceries. She lives in the mountains in Virginia where, when not working with or writing about Unix, she's chasing the bears away from her bird feeders.
The opinions expressed in this blog are those of Sandra Henry-Stocker and do not necessarily represent those of IDG Communications, Inc., its parent, subsidiary or affiliated companies. Sandra Henry-Stocker has been administering Unix systems for more than 30 years. She describes herself as "USL" (Unix as a second language) but remembers enough English to write books and buy groceries. She lives in the mountains in Virginia where, when not working with or writing about Unix, she's chasing the bears away from her bird feeders. The opinions expressed in this blog are those of Sandra Henry-Stocker and do not necessarily represent those of IDG Communications, Inc., its parent, subsidiary or affiliated companies.