ORF – AIditor platform Selin Güngör (TRT) BBC – Private 5G Network for Contribution   Publicly available 5G mobile networks are subject to unpredictable public demand and thus are currently too unreliable for professional content providers. The BBC has created and used a private 5G network in the UK that has the quality and reliability needed. The network can be deployed where needed and has been used successfully for news contributions at national events such as The Coronation. Jaime Sánchez Roldá – Open Source LTE-based 5G Broadcast Platform   Radiotelevisión Española – 5G and beyond  RTVE's long-running ‘5G and beyond’ project creatively leverages several key concepts and features of future mobile technology for a production and news gathering solution that can deliver many of the potential advantages of 5G with existing infrastructure. Petri Karlsson (YLE) – ORTER  ORTER is a virtual design workflow built on game engines that allows TV and film production crews to visualize and try out ideas for set designs and camera angles in pre-production. Sveriges Radio – 'News Values' public service algorithm Sveriges Radio constructed a new editorial algorithm with the aim of giving users a more personalized mix of news stories while at the same time promoting the values of outstanding public service journalism. The algorithm is used to automate SR’s news playlists. The 2020 T&I Award went to two winning entries from France Télévisions and Belgian broadcaster RTBF. France Télévisions – AI tool for political reporting  France Télévision's winning project consists of an AI system helping news data journalists to distil key information from public election debates taking place in different parts of the country and to relate this information back to users. RTBF – Control Room 42  The winning RTBF project consists of a new programme production control room, affectionately labeled ‘Control Room 42’, that replaces physical hardware with a fully programmable interface, allowing for greater flexibility and streamlined operations. tpc (SRG SSR) – "UHD1" all-IP UHD Outside Broadcast vehicle  UHD1, as the new OB truck is known, has allowed tpc and its clients – including SRG SSR – to put IP-based production to the test. Importantly, the truck is designed to use equipment that complies to open standards like SMPTE ST 2110. BBC, France Télévisions, IRT and b<>com – EBU ADM Renderer (EAR)  Renderers for Next Generation Audio encode programme material designed to deliver highly adaptable audio for immersive and personalised experiences and access services. The EAR implementation, which is based on open standards and designed to be a reference platform for further development, facilitates innovation by allowing the broadcast community to explore and make use of the potential of the technology. Sveriges Radio (SR) – NXG Project   SR received the T&I Award for their light-weight outside broadcasts solution, designed to be self-operated by radio journalists. It was developed together with Lawo. VRT Sandbox – LiveIP Studio  Built as a proof-of-concept, LiveIP Studio became the world's first working IP-based production environment based on open standards. It went on to win both the IBC Award and the TVB Award 2016. The 'Technology & Innovation Award' and the 'Young Technology Talent of the Year Award' are presented annually at the EBU Technical Assembly. The Technical Assembly gathers the technical leadership of most public service media organizations in Europe and beyond. It is generally hosted by an EBU member organization in June. Collectively, the two categories are referred to as the 'Technology & Innovation Awards' (plural). The EBU recognizes, encourages and supports outstanding technical solutions developed by Member organizations with the 'Technology & Innovation Award'. Winning teams and organizations benefit from a significantly raised profile within the broadcasting community, with press and online coverage through the EBU, the option to have a presence on the EBU's stand at IBC in Amsterdam later in the year, and often speaking opportunities. Every member of the winning team also receives a certificate. The annual 'Young Technology Talent Award' honours recipients for an outstanding innovation or effort in media technology. The Award aims to strengthen the technology talent ‘pipeline’ and specifically recognizes achievements that were generated as part of professional training or studies or at the start of a professional career. It rewards work that shows evidence of novelty and potential value to media organizations and that can be showcased through demonstrations, prototypes, proof of concepts, trials or similar. The Award also highlights the importance of graduate level work for future media technology. The winner will receive an invitation to attend the EBU Technical Assembly of that year, plus free access to 2 key EBU T&I industry events (events that are open to both Members and non-Members), with travel and accommodation offered, as well as free online access to all major T&I industry events for 12 months. Further information on our events can be found at https://tech.ebu.ch/events.   Please scroll down for the rules of the 'Young Technology Talent of the Year Award'. What kind of work qualifies for the Award? The Award is intended to acknowledge individuals or groups that have developed technologies, systems, or services with the potential to have a major impact on broadcast media in the coming years. In order to qualify, the work needs to have been completed or have reached a major milestone in the two years prior to the nomination. Essentially, the contribution or project needs to be ‘making a difference’ to media production systems and/or services provided via broadcast, cable, or broadband. Who can be nominated? Some examples of candidates for the Award are: a) a team within a broadcaster that has undertaken an important and successful project; b) an EBU Project Group that has developed an important new technology, software, or methodology; c) individuals who have made a significant and or essential technology contribution. Who can make nominations? EBU Members, Associates, Approved Participants and members of EBU T&I working groups can make nominations. This includes members of the EBU Technical Assembly and EBU Technical Liaison Officers, to whom the requests for nominations are sent. Who selects the winners? The jury is comprised of the elected Members of the EBU Technical Committee (TC). TC Members are elected for a two-year term, on a personal basis, to speak for EBU Members who have similar circumstances to themselves. The individual jurors rate the nominations according to a pre-determined set of criteria and submit their respective results to EBU Technology & Innovation. The data is then collected to determine three finalists, and, among them, the winning entry. What are the selection criteria? Proposals will be examined for attributes that include the following: Finalists The three finalists are expected to produce a 1-minute video to be shown at the Award ceremony held as part of the annual Technical Assembly, immeditiately prior to the public announcement of the winner. How often is the Award presented? The Award is presented annually if there are nominations with sufficient merit. Awards may not be given every year.   What is the Young Technology Talent of the Year Award? The Award aims to invigorate the media technology talent pipeline below management level by rewarding individuals that have demonstrated excellence, novelty and relevance in work done either during their studies or at the start of their careers. What kind of work qualifies for the Award? All achievements that relate to media creation, media production, media services (direct to the end-user) or media operations are eligible for consideration if they are evidenced by demonstrations, prototypes, proof of concepts, trials or similar. Eligibility extends to all domains of media technology, from engineering to software. Who can be nominated? The Award is for Who can make nominations? Candidates can nominate themselves if the contact details of the relevant professor, tutor, supervisor or line manager are provided. The latter can also nominate candidates directly. Who selects the winners? The jury is comprised of the elected Members of the EBU Technical Committee (TC). TC Members are elected for a two-year term, on a personal basis, to speak for EBU Members who have similar circumstances to themselves. The individual jurors rate the nominations according to a pre-determined set of criteria and submit their respective results to EBU Technology & Innovation. The data is then collected to determine three finalists, and, among them, the winning entry. Criteria for entries How often is the Award presented? The Award is presented annually at the Technical Assembly if there are nominations with sufficient merit. Awards may not be given every year and this is at the discretion of the Technical Committee. Nominations for the EBU Technolgy & Innovation Award can be submitted by employees of EBU Members, Associates and Approved Participants, including those active in EBU T&I working groups. Candidates for the Young Technology Talent Award can nominate themselves or be nominated by a sponsor. For self-nominations, contact details for the professor, tutor or supervisor of an educational institution, or the line manager at an EBU Member organization, must also be provided. Professors, tutors, supervisors or line managers can also nominate candidates directly. The deadline for submissions is 29 April. The Awards are presented at the Technical Assembly of that year. Technical Assemblies are typically hosted by an EBU Member organization in the country of that organization. Please return your form(s) by email to Françoise Davies. How many projects may I submit?  
There can be more than one nomination per submission. 
 There can be more than one nomination per submission.  Can I submit a project that was nominated last year? Yes, on the condition that the project has been continued since. How do I know if EBU has received the nomination? You will receive an e-mail confirmation within 3 working days. If you do not receive a confirmation, please contact Françoise Davies, Executive Support Manager, EBU Technology & Innovation. Are there shortlists and finalists in addition to the winners? We announce three finalists for the Technology & Innovation Award, one of which will be named the winner. How do I learn if I have won? For the Technology & Innovation Award, the 3 finalist projects will be contacted in advance of the Technical Assembly and confidentially informed of their status. Similarly, the winner of the Young Technology Talent Award will be informed in advance. Please ensure that the email addresses and telephone numbers provided will be valid for the duration of the selection process. Do I need to do be prepared for anything else? All finalists of the Technology & Innovation Award are asked expected to produce a 1-minute video to be shown at the annual Technical Assembly prior to the announcement of the winning project. All finalists and winners are invited and encouraged to join the Technical Assembly of that year.   Françoise Davies Executive Support Manager francoise.davies@ebu.ch   
The European Broadcasting Union is the world’s foremost alliance of public service media, representing over a hundred organizations worldwide. We strive to secure a sustainable future for public service media, provide our Members with world-class content through the Eurovision and Euroradio brands, and build on our founding ethos of solidarity and co-operation to create a centre for learning and sharing.  out more about us.
 The European Broadcasting Union is the world’s foremost alliance of public service media, representing over a hundred organizations worldwide. We strive to secure a sustainable future for public service media, provide our Members with world-class content through the Eurovision and Euroradio brands, and build on our founding ethos of solidarity and co-operation to create a centre for learning and sharing.  out more about us.