  To subscribe, simply enter your email address on our website or click the subscribe button below. Don't worry, we respect your privacy and won't spam your inbox. Your information is safe with us. Share Minister of Youth, Sport and Arts Elvis Nkandu says Government is committed to improving the welfare of Artists in the country through the provision of funds. Mr Nkandu says he is impressed with the innovations among youths who have brilliant ideas but lack funding to actualise their business models. He was speaking when he toured various exhibitions at Mulungushi Conference Centre where innovators have displayed their activities as part of this year’s youth day celebrations. Mr Nkandu underscored the point that the innovations that the Zambian youths have, can transform the economic activities in the country and can culminate in job creation. “As the Ministry we are ready to provide resources to these youths who have brilliant and workable ideas to transform the economic outlook of the country, as you are aware, the Government is committed to improving people’s livelihoods through job creation,” he said. And Minister of Small and Medium Enterprise development Elias Mubanga has called on the Zambia Development Agency to link the young innovators to markets for their products. Mr Mubanga also urged the Youths to utilise his office by applying for funds to develop their business models in a bid to foster social and economic development in the country. “Money is there at my Ministry so I encourage you to take advantage of the funds to grow your business in order to better the lives of the people in the country,” he said. Mr Mubanga expressed happiness with some of the innovations in the area of mitigating climate change which has been ravaging the country and the world at large. Meanwhile, Minister of Tourism and Arts Minister, Rodney Sikumba disclosed that Government has come up with a lot of incentives to promote the tourism industry Mr Sikumba added that his Ministry has allocated funds in this year’s national budget to allow the film industry to purchase equipment on duty free in a quest to boost the Artists. He said that his Ministry has introduced duty free on the importation of art equipment in order to make the film and Arts industry more competitive. The Minister further encouraged Zambians especially youths to venture into the Tourism industry as the industry is not the preserve of the foreigners only. The exhibitions are part of the youth day commemorations slated for March 12, 2023 and will run up to the eve of Youth day. By innovation they mean gayness Comments are closed. Read more Company Trending Categories © Lusaka Times Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive. 

Type your email… 
  







 
Subscribe 
 Continue reading