Or email
                    s
 Use the form below to send story to a friend. 
                            Event Ended On: Wednesday October 18 2023
                         

Registration Questions?



                **Please note we have pricing tiers based on ticket availability. Ticket prices will increase once we sell out of the current pricing tier. We cannot redeem a lower price once the ticket prices have been raised.
                **Bisnow is a cashless, checkless operation. Please only submit payment via credit card.
 What You'll Learn   Key Projects & Relevant News:    How You’ll Do More Business By Attending This Event: Join us for this premier experiential retail and mixed-use event for the DFW commercial real estate industry. Local thought leaders will discuss key developments and trends throughout the Dallas-Fort Worth market. Gain insight into how developers, investors, city officials and other key stakeholders are redefining the future of this asset class. This event is a great opportunity to stay ahead of the curve in commercial real estate with knowledge, connections and inspiration to elevate your projects to new heights.    Who You'll Network With: Architects, designers, general contractors, developers, owners, tenants, brokers, and more.    For questions, recommendations, comments, or press inquiries please email our Sales Director, Hussain Masumi at hussain.masumi@bisnow.com. To request disability-related accommodations, please contact shannon.dearaujo@bisnow.com no later than 7 business days prior to the event.   Hilton Anatole  2201 N Stemmons Fwy Dallas, TX 75207 Ballroom: Grand A , Grand B (networking) Parking Information: Park in Lot 2 - $10.00 Self-Parking Help us curate the content for you.  or click here to copy link to clipboard LOGIN TO BISNOW We're not asking for your money. This is not a step
                        towards a paywall. Our news is free and we intend to keep it that way. Enter your email below. We will email you a link to reset your password. Use the form below to reset your password. Company Info Newsletters Other Stuff © Copyright 2024 Bisnow. All Rights Reserved Upcoming regulations in the European Union require us to show this pop-up and ask you to agree to keep using Bisnow.com. We want to take 15 seconds to tell you what's going on: Sound good? Just hit yes and continue on your way. 