Nairobi — The government has released Sh16.7 billion to over one million beneficiaries of the Inua Jamii Cash Transfer Programme. Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua said on Thursday confirmed that the money had been released by the National Treasury. "Today the government has released through the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection Sh16,725,856 for disbursement to 1,072,226 beneficiaries enrolled in the Inua Jamii programme," he said. "In addition, 11,185,000 will be pe paid as to up for beneficiaries under the nutrition improvement through cash and health education complementary programme." Each beneficiary will receive Sh16,000 with the amount released in two tranches in June and July, which will come in four cycles that will cover arrears from November 2022 to June 2023. Recipients include orphans, vulnerable children, elderly persons and persons living with severe disabilities. "The payments will begin on 28th June through the six government contracted banks which are cooperative bank, Equity bank KCB, Kenya Women Microfinace Bank, the National Bank and the Post Bank," he said. Gachagua added that the Cabinet has approved a memorandum directing the National Treasury to be releasing money meant for Inua Jamii timely and predictable manner with effect from June 1, 2023. Read the original article on Capital FM. AllAfrica publishes around 500 reports a day from more than 100 news organizations and over 500 other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica. To address comments or complaints, please Contact us. 
          AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 500 news and information items daily from over 100 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Abuja, Johannesburg, Nairobi and Washington DC.
         Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy. Almost finished... We need to confirm your email address. To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you. There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.