Machakos — Disbursement of Inua Jamii cash transfer commenced on Monday in Machakos County for the beneficiaries on the payroll. Machakos Gender and Social Development officer Galgalo Dida, while speaking to KNA in his office on Tuesday, said that the money is already in the bank and the payment cycle is from July to October 2022. Galgalo added that each beneficiary will be receiving Sh8,000 in their contracted banks in parts of Machakos. "The older persons, orphans, vulnerable children and persons with severe disability will be receiving their stipend at six contracted banks such as Cooperative Bank, Equity, KCB, KWFT, National Bank and Post Bank," said Galgalo. He further noted that the number for Machakos County older persons receiving the stipend is 27,855. Orphans and Vulnerable Children are 5,941 and people with severe disability number 917. This comes days after the government through the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection announced that it has released over 8.5 billion as payment to 1,072,226 Inua Jamii beneficiaries in the country to cover the July, August, September and October cycles. The Inua Jamii Programme was launched in 2015 by President Uhuru Kenyatta as one of the channels for his administration to tackle poverty and cater for the under-privileged in society. Read the original article on Capital FM. AllAfrica publishes around 500 reports a day from more than 100 news organizations and over 500 other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica. To address comments or complaints, please Contact us. 
          AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 500 news and information items daily from over 100 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Abuja, Johannesburg, Nairobi and Washington DC.
         Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy. Almost finished... We need to confirm your email address. To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you. There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.