The Lotto winner is currently holidaying in the Big Apple but teased that she might be heading somewhere sunny next. Get the latest entertainment news sent straight to your inbox with our weekly Showbiz newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest entertainment news sent straight to your inbox with our weekly Showbiz newsletter We have more newsletters Scots Lotto winner Jane Park has left little to the imagination as she posed in a red bikini.  The 27-year-old is currently holidaying in New York but the cold climate has got her dreaming of her next sunshine getaway. On her Instagram grid, Jane has posted a series of snaps in the Big Apple, all wrapped up in a cosy coat and posing near the famous yellow cabs but Jane took to her Instagram to say that she feels a warm holiday on the horizon, alongside a video of her posing in a skimpy red bikini top and skirt. She wrote: "A [sic] can feel a sun holiday coming up!" Since winning the £1million jackpot back in 2013, making her the youngest ever EuroMillions winner at age 17, Jane has been living a jet-set lifestyle and enjoys travelling the world and visiting different countries. Whilst she frequently flies to Dubai to soak up the sunshine, the OnlyFans star recently travelled stateside as she hinted a 'mystery project'. One of her pals shared a snap of the pair together in LA and wrote: "So proud of this one being in LA. BIG BIG things coming to you. Remember you deserve this. Go smash it and we love you." It turns out the big project was a dating TV show, however Jane later expressed her anger that the show supposedly wanted to give camera crews access to film her having sex while being recorded. A source said that Jane was furious about the contract clause. A source of Jane told The Scottish Sun: "Jane's not ultimately against the idea of having sex on TV, however she doesn’t think any contract should specify that a camera crew has access legally."  She branded the showrunners "perverted" for the contract clause although she still hopes to break through in Los Angeles, and is reportedly looking for a dating show now she's single. The source added: "The scenes the show wanted to film wouldn’t have been graphic, it would have been similar to Big Brother’s night footage."  At the time Jane won the lottery, she was living in an Edinburgh council estate, working as an admin temp for £8 an hour. And now Jane has cashed in on several money-making ventures including an OnlyFans which reportedly earned her more than £25,000. Get the latest celebrity gossip and telly news sent straight to your inbox. Sign up to our daily Showbiz newsletter here. 