Fruitcakes are forever linked with Christmas, but one of the most popular versions of this baked good almost vanished a few years ago. For more than 80 years, shoppers picked up their Jane Parker fruitcakes each holiday season at their local A&P supermarkets. But then those stores slowly closed, eventually ceasing to exist totally in 2015. And with that end, it appeared the popular fruitcakes would also vanish. But then two Astoria, N.Y., brothers, Alex and Chris Ronacher, stepped in and rescued the brand, acquiring the rights to recipes for Jane Parker baked goods in early 2017, including the iconic fruitcake with plump, juicy raisins, glazed pineapple, red cherries and crunchy pecans. To those who remember the A&P Jane Parker fruitcake, every bite of the brothers' desserts will bring a taste of nostalgia. "When we heard that the Jane Parker brand would be lost forever, our first thoughts were that we had to rescue it," Alex Ronacher said recently. "How would the holidays ever be the same without a Jane Parker fruitcake?" The brothers remember that in their large close-knit family with grandparents and great-grandparents fruitcake was always a part of the holiday celebration. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Fruitcake fun:Louise Carroll: Fruitcake is meant to be enjoyed Previously, the Ronachers had an online site where they sold candy manufactured by others, but quickly Jane Parker became their sole interest. As business partners, the brothers faced hurdles to re-launch the product; including pan redesigns and labeling and marketing challenges. With the support of their family, help from friends and the solid relationship they formed with their baker and suppliers, they were able to successfully bring this beloved brand back into production and right here in the United States. "We are so pleased to know that rescuing this iconic American brand has brought happiness to so many families across America," Alex Ronacher said. "Everyone can once again enjoy a premium quality Jane Parker Fruitcake, and the tradition continues." As a special offer to our readers, the Ronachers are giving a 5% discount and free shipping on orders to any US address valid through Dec. 31, 2022. Just use the code ECL5. : https://janeparker.com/discount/ECL5 The Ronacher brothers are proud of the quality of their fruitcakes and have received many rave reviews. Ronacher said that in 2020 when they began receiving a surprisingly large amount of orders from the Los Angeles area they checked into it and found that the Los Angeles Times had a competition and the Jane Parker dark fruitcake was the overall winner. The Times article said "Made with molasses and brown sugar, this cake is a little earthier and, well, cakier than some of the others, and does a good job balancing the citrus flavors, which dominated the Claxton fruitcake. This one tastes a bit sweeter than the rest, which might be due to what seemed to be a heavier-than-normal reliance on glacé cherries." On the Association of Mature American Citizens website, Jane Parker Fruitcakes also got a very high rating. "They stand head and shoulders above all other brands using original recipes and a masterful balance of rich and premium quality ingredients. The expert bakers use the maximum fruit-to-nuts ratio to create moist cakes packed with plump sweet raisins, rich orange peel, glace red cherries, and golden pineapples, tasty pecans, and more," the site said. Fruitcake isn't just for the holidays, it is for any time of the year if you think outside the Christmas fruitcake tin. It is a tasty sweet to add to a charcuterie board and according to Jim Newcomb, a certified sommelier, fruitcake pairs well with sweet wines. From 1859 to 2015, A&P was a household word. From 1915-75, A&P was the largest grocery retailer in the United States and, until 1965, the largest U.S. retailer of any kind. With over 16,000 A&P Supermarkets nationwide and in Canada, it was as well known as McDonald's is today. Although they were among the first supermarkets, they did not keep up with the times, however, and went bankrupt twice, finally ceasing to exist six years ago. A&P had several locations in the region including in Aliquippa, Ambridge, Rochester and Beaver Falls, according to online historical records. In Ellwood City, the first A&P store was on Fourth Street, across from Johnnie's Pizza, and in the '50s it was at 316 Sixth St. In the early '70s, it was in the 900 block of Beaver Avenue until it closed. December fun:December Fun: So much music (& more) in the Beaver Valley