You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Jul 12, 2024, 1:36pm When you’re on the go, mobile banking can be a lifesaver. The below list details the best mobile banking apps based on available features and ease of use. Read on to learn the pros and cons of each app and how to choose the best mobile banking app for your needs. 
                        Why you can trust Forbes Advisor
                     Our editors are committed to bringing you unbiased ratings and information. Our editorial content is not influenced by advertisers. We use data-driven methodologies to evaluate financial products and companies, so all are measured equally. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and the banking methodology for the ratings below. Forbes Advisor’s criteria for the best mobile banking apps include user-friendliness, security, features and accessibility. We also considered whether the apps are available for both iOS and Android users, as well as any other relevant factors. Here are the best mobile banking apps available today. Account details are accurate as of July 12, 2024. Citi Mobile is at the top of our list for a few reasons. Not only is the app easy to navigate—even if you aren’t tech-savvy—but it’s also highly secure. Citi uses multiple layers of security, including biometrics, to keep your information safe. You can also set up alerts to notify you of suspicious activity on your account. The app is also packed with features. You can check your account balance, track your FICO score, set savings goals, lock and unlock your debit card, transfer money, pay bills and more. You can even view a quick summary of your Citibank accounts without logging in. And if you need help, customer service is just a tap away. The Citi Mobile app is available on iOS and Android. The Bank of America mobile app has many standard features you’d find with other apps. You can view and manage bank, credit and investment accounts, activate debit and credit cards, deposit checks, pay bills and more. In addition, the BofA mobile app has a few stand-out features that go above and beyond. First, the app has a built-in spending tracker and budgeting tool to help you take control of your money. Second, there’s a security meter that will tell you how secure your accounts are and what steps to take to reduce your fraud risk. And third, the BofA mobile banking app comes with a virtual assistant named Erica that can help you find transactions, pay bills and gain valuable insights into your spending. The Bank of America Mobile app is available on iOS and Android. A healthy financial life starts with knowing where you stand. That’s why the Chase Mobile app offers a suite of tools to help you manage your money and improve your financial health—all in one place. With its “Credit Journey” tool, you can get a free credit score and credit report card, so you can track your progress over time. Plus, its built-in budget planner makes it easy to see where your money is going and find areas where you can save. And if you’re looking to grow your money, Chase even has an investment tool that lets you view your portfolio and make trades on the go. Plus, you can track and redeem credit card rewards in the app. The Chase Mobile app is available on iOS and Android. Ally Bank’s mobile app is one of the most comprehensive and user-friendly apps on the market. While you can perform standard activities like view account balances, deposit checks and locate ATMs, Ally’s mobile app has many savings features that make it stand out. One savings feature lets you round up debit card purchases to the nearest dollar and have the spare change automatically moved to your savings account. You can also set up “savings buckets” inside the mobile app for individual savings goals, like emergencies, down payments, vacations, weddings and retirement. Plus, you can send and receive money with Zelle, track your Ally Invest portfolio, get help from a roboadvisor and more. Ally Bank is also one of the few banks that doesn’t charge any fees, so your hard-earned money is working for you, not against you. The Ally: Banking & Investing mobile app is available on iOS and Android. If you need to be able to access your accounts from anywhere, Discover’s mobile app makes this easy. It’s simple to use and packed with features for managing your finances. You can monitor your credit score, apply for new accounts, pay bills and redeem rewards—all from the app. If you’re looking for a tech-forward, low-fee bank account, Discover is a great option. The bank has competitive interest rates and charges very few fees compared to traditional institutions. The Discover Mobile app is available on iOS and Android. 
 When we set out to find the best mobile banking apps, we looked for options that were free, easy to use and offered a good variety of features. We compiled a list of popular bank apps and then rated each one based on the following factors: The mobile banking apps that scored the highest are the ones that made our best list. To learn more about our rating and review methodology and editorial process, check out our guide on How Forbes Advisor Reviews Banks. A mobile banking app is a smartphone application that lets you access your bank account from anywhere, at any time. With a mobile banking app, you can check your account balance, transfer money, pay bills and more. Most people find that banking apps are even more convenient than physical bank branches because they can be accessed anywhere at any time. With a mobile banking app, you can: When it comes to choosing an online banking app, there are a few things you’ll want to keep in mind: Banking apps offer a wide range of features and benefits that can be extremely helpful for anyone who uses them. If you’re not currently using a banking app, it’s definitely worth considering. Not only will you be able to take advantage of all the features and benefits they offer, but you’ll also find that, in most cases, they’re much more convenient than physical bank branches. Cassidy Horton is a finance writer covering banking, life insurance and business loans. She has worked with top finance brands including NerdWallet, MarketWatch and Consumer Affairs. Cassidy first became interested in personal finance after paying off $18,000 in debt within 10 months of graduating college. She later went on to triple her salary in two years by ditching her 8-to-5 job to write for a living.