What does it mean to “Jane Birkinfy” your bag? “It girlies” on TikTok have the answer. In recent months, fashion aficionados have immortalized their “Jane Birkified” bags by sharing them on TikTok — that is, their handbags, shoulder bags and tote bags that they’ve added personal, unique touches to in the spirit of late British actress and French icon Jane Birkin. Birkin, who died on July 16 at the age of 76, was a prolific actress in French cinema who also made an indelible mark on the fashion world, serving as the inspiration for Hermès’s coveted Birkin bag, which was released in 1984. She had requested that a bag be created that was four times the size of the existing Hermès Kelly bag. Even prior to her death, many TikTok creators had drawn inspiration from her eclectic bag decor and its “jingle and jangle” sound, per an interview with CBS News from 2018. “Birkin preferred to add unique touches to her handbag. Tapping into her passion for activism, she often covered it in stickers promoting her favorite causes,” WWD reports. “Birkin also accessorized its handles with beads, charms and ribbons.” Creators have been taking a page from Birkin’s playbook and decorating their bags in a similar, maximalist fashion. On July 6, 22-year-old Anna Martin (@annalanemartin) of Austin, Texas, revealed how she used her charms and thrifted jewelry to accessorize her vintage Nine West bag. “Need to do this,” @samisingleton wrote. “the girls that get it, get it,” @teleport.app commented. A stylist who goes by the name Femme Fatalee (@officialfemmefatalee) shared on July 6 how they “yassified” their client’s handbag à la Birkin. On June 8, a TikTok creator who goes by the handle @y0urgraduati0n posted a video expressing their desire to apply the “Jane Birkin effect” to everything in their life. Grace Han (@gracattackk), on May 14, also showed how she put her trinkets to “perfect use.” Despite costing $2,000 when it was first produced, today the Birkin bag in standard leather clocks in at around $10,000, while a diamond-encrusted Birkin bag can cost $200,000, per Sotheby’s, and is the “most sought-after” Hermès bag. While celebrities like Kylie Jenner, for instance, have purse collections that include several Hermès Birkin bags that appear to be in practically perfect condition, Birkin treated the bags as a regular, everyday tote. She was recognized for using the piece until it wore down, rather than treating it as something that belonged on a shelf. “I never have more than one bag at a time. I think one is already quite enough. Also, I hate changing bags, so I never have the thing of having ten bags,” Birkin previously told Vogue. “There’s no fun in a bag if it’s not kicked around, so that it looks as if the cat’s been sitting on it — and it usually has. The cat may even be in it!” In The Know by Yahoo is now available on Apple News — follow us here! The post What does it mean to ‘Jane Birkinfy’ your bag on TikTok? appeared first on In The Know. More from In The Know: There's a Filipino American Barbie in the upcoming film, and fellow Filipinos are ecstatic: 'Now THIS is representation' New York City women come forward on TikTok to accuse man of using fake identity and 'scamming' people 7 black handbags you can get during the Nordstrom Anniversary Sale from Coach, Marc Jacobs and more This perfect, flattering J.Crew maxi dress is 75% off during the big End of Season Sale New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.