Patlytics, an AI-powered patent analytics platform, wants to help enterprises, IP professionals and law firms speed up their patent workflows, from discovery, analytics, comparisons and prosecution to litigation.  The fledgling startup…  A fledgling Dutch startup wants to help companies extract data from large volumes of complex documents where accuracy and security is paramount — and it has just secured the backing…  Low-code dev platforms have gained momentum in recent years, in large part because they promise to shorten what’s otherwise typically a lengthy app development cycle. According to data from analytics…  A young startup is setting out to transform the command line interface (CLI) into something a little more fitting for the modern age — something a little more glamorous. Charm…  Contrary to what you might’ve heard, the era of large seed rounds isn’t over — at least in the AI sector. CentML, a startup developing tools to decrease the cost…  Much in the same way as companies adapt their software to run across different desktop, mobile and cloud operating systems, businesses also need to configure their software for the fast-moving…  LastMile AI, a platform designed to help software engineers develop and integrate generative AI models into their apps, has raised $10 million in a seed funding round led by Gradient,…  Spline, a no-code design tool for creating 3D assets, today announced that it raised $15 million in a seed round led by Gradient Ventures with participation from First Round Capital,…  Collective, a platform and advisory team that provides bookkeeping, payroll and tax advice to freelancers, today announced it raised $50 million in a funding round led by Gradient Ventures, Innovius…  Google’s venture capital arm Gradient Ventures has made another foray into Europe, investing as part of a $3.2 million seed round in two-year-old German startup Weflow. Weflow is the latest…  Secret sprawl, where companies store authentication credentials and similar sensitive data across multiple locations, is a real and growing problem for any company wanting to avert a security breach. Companies…  Generative AI has undoubtedly been the big buzzword of the past year, driven in large part by Microsoft-backed OpenAI and ChatGPT. But while the ability to create all manner of…  Vault, an online banking platform serving small-to-medium sized business (SMBs) in Canada, is launching to the public today after raising $3.7 million in seed funding. Founded in late 2021 by…  Axle allows users to connect their insurance account to trusted companies in seconds and then automates insurance verification.  Dozer touts itself as as a plug-and-play infrastructure backend that allows any developer to create low-latency data APIs.  BlockJoy, a startup providing white label blockchain nodes as a service, raised a total of $12 million from its seed and Series A rounds, the company exclusi1vely shared with TechCrunch.…  Software spend is becoming a prime target for cuts as it grows into a larger line item in enterprises’ budgets. According to one recent report, customers are putting 53% more…  We’re thrilled to announce the three early-stage startups that will take the stage and go head-to-head in the pitch competition at TC Sessions: Crypto — this Thursday, November 17, in…  Payload, which develops a headless open source content management system (CMS), today announced that it has raised a $4.7 million seed round led by Google’s AI-focused Gradient Ventures. Other investors…  Many small to mid-sized food distributors still run on pen and paper. This makes it difficult to pinpoint things like how certain products are performing and customer churn. It also…  One of the most popular activities at a TechCrunch conference is watching top-notch early-stage founders square off in a pitch competition. Seriously, who doesn’t love a pitch-off? And the Crypto…  Headroom, a startup developing AI-powered software to make meetings ostensibly more efficient, today announced that it raised $9 million in funding led by Equal Opportunity Ventures with participation from Gradient…  It’s not unusual for a tech company to be born by accident. Famously, Slack was created as a byproduct of a now defunct gaming company. Similarly, when Dropbase founders Jimmy…  Shypyard provides tools for entrepreneurs who want to start an e-commerce business but don’t know how to do it.  With supply chain woes affecting commerce, Syrup Tech provides real-time inventory recommendations so merchandisers know if they need to quickly reorder or can wait.  Pensions, by just about any estimation, are a good thing. Ever since the U.K. government introduced auto-enrolment to the national workforce back in 2012, forcing employers to provide a workplace…  More than 80% of food delivery orders in Latin America are still made over phone calls and settled with cash. OlaClick, a young startup that is helping these restaurants sell…  The company offers technology in the form of APIs and widgets that businesses can use to create investment products for their customers.  Walnut was founded by Roshan Patel and Yash Joshi to bring the buy now, pay later model to healthcare, arguably the home of some of the least transparent and taxing…  A year ago, inside of the corporate leviathan Alphabet, Black Googlers and other Black Alphabet employees were invited to some informal programming around angel investing during Black History Month. It…  Powered by WordPress VIP