

							Lifetime						
 The third part of the “Surviving R. Kelly” docuseries, subtitled “The Final Chapter,” is premiering on Monday, January 2 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on Lifetime. If you don’t have cable, you can watch the show live or on-demand on DirecTV Stream or Philo TV, which both include Lifetime and come with a free trial. Those are the two best live stream options if you’re cutting cable, but there are also some other alternatives, so here’s a full guide on the different ways to watch “Surviving R. Kelly” Part III online: DirecTV Stream has four different channel packages: “Entertainment,” “Choice,” “Ultimate” and “Premier.” Lifetime is included in every one, and you can pick any package and any add-on you want with your free five-day trial: DirecTV Stream Free Trial Once signed up for DirecTV Stream, you can watch “Surviving R. Kelly” Part III live on the DirecTV Stream app, which is available on your Roku, Roku TV, Amazon Fire TV or Fire Stick, Apple TV, Chromecast, Samsung TV, any device with Android TV (such as a Sony TV or Nvidia Shield), iPhone, Android phone, iPad or Android tablet. Or you can watch on your computer via the DirecTV Stream website. If you can’t watch live, DirecTV Stream also comes with 20 hours of Cloud DVR storage (with the ability to upgrade to unlimited hours). You can watch a live stream of Lifetime and 60-plus other TV channels on Philo TV, which comes with a seven-day free trial: Philo Free Trial Once signed up for Philo, you can watch “Surviving R. Kelly” Part III live on the Philo app, which is available on your Roku, Roku TV, Amazon Fire TV or Firestick, Apple TV, Chromecast (compatible on Android mobile), any device with Android TV (such as a Sony TV or Nvidia Shield), iPhone, Android phone, iPad or Android tablet. You can also watch on your computer on the Philo website. If you can’t watch live, Philo allows you to DVR programs and watch them up to 30 days later. And even if you forget to DVR something, Philo also comes with a 72-hour rewind feature, which lets you to watch most shows on-demand if they have aired in the last three days. You can watch a live stream of Lifetime and 30-plus other TV channels via Sling TV’s “Sling Orange” or “Sling Blue” bundle. This option doesn’t include a free trial, but it’s the second-cheapest (behind Philo) long-term streaming service with Lifetime, and you can get your first month half off: Get Sling TV Once signed up for Sling TV, you can watch “Surviving R. Kelly” Part III live on the Sling TV app, which is available on your Roku, Roku TV, Amazon Fire TV or Fire Stick, Apple TV, Chromecast, Xbox One or Series X/S, Samsung TV, LG TV, any device with Android TV (such as a Sony TV or Nvidia Shield), airTV Mini, Oculus, Portal, iPhone, Android phone, iPad or Android tablet. Or you can watch on your computer via the Sling TV website. If you can’t watch live, Sling TV comes included with 50 hours of cloud DVR. You can watch a live stream of Lifetime and 65+ other TV channels via Hulu With Live TV, which includes access to both ESPN+ and Disney+ at no added cost: Get Hulu With Live TV Once signed up for Hulu With Live TV, you can watch “Surviving R. Kelly” Part III live on the Hulu app, which is available on your Roku, Roku TV, Amazon Fire TV or Fire Stick, Apple TV, Chromecast, Xbox One or Series X/S, PlayStation 4 or 5, Nintendo Switch, Samsung TV, LG TV, any device with Android TV (such as a Sony TV or Nvidia Shield), iPhone, Android phone, iPad or Android tablet. Or you can watch on your computer via the Hulu website. If you can’t watch live, Hulu with Live TV comes with both its extensive on-demand library (which includes most shows after they air) and 50 hours of Cloud DVR storage (with the ability to upgrade to “Enhanced Cloud DVR,” which gives you 200 hours of DVR space and the ability to fast forward through commercials). You can watch a live stream of Lifetime and 65+ other TV channels on Vidgo. It doesn’t come with a free trial: Get Vidgo Once signed up for Vidgo, you can watch “Surviving R. Kelly” Part III live on the Vidgo app, which is available on your Roku, Roku TV, Amazon Fire TV, or Firestick, Apple TV, Chromecast, any device with Android TV (such as a Sony TV or Nvidia Shield), iPhone, Android phone, iPad, or Android tablet. Or you can watch on your computer via the Vidgo website. “Surviving R. Kelly” is a docuseries exploring the sexual abuse allegations against singer Robert “R.” Kelly; in June 2022, the singer was convicted and sentenced to 30 years in prison for his crimes. The first part of the docuseries aired over three nights in January 2019; the second part aired over three nights in January 2020. Now the third part will air over two nights on January 2 and January 3, both beginning at 8 p.m. Eastern and Pacific times on Lifetime. The third part of the series will focus on the fall out of the former R&B superstar’s crimes as he faces multiple federal and state trials. The Lifetime press release reads: The groundbreaking, Peabody award-winning, Emmy-nominated, documentary series Surviving R. Kelly concludes with the final installment following the former R&B superstar as he faces multiple federal and state trials. While millions have read the headlines, the final chapter connects the shocking fine print with unspeakable details never shared with the public, culminating in the verdict heard around the world. Night one follows Angelo Clary’s recount of Azriel Clary’s journey as its revealed she was instructed to lie in the infamous R. Kelly interview with Gayle King. The family also details the intimidation tactics launched at the family by R. Kelly supporters while legal experts and journalists provide insight on racketeering charges Kelly faces. Night one also provides an inside look at the aftermath of the infamous gun threat at the premiere screening of the documentary. Night two will focus on Jane Doe #1 and the revelation of John Does who take the stand as new survivors also emerge. The series concludes with the survivors sharing their victim impact statements as they hear the final verdict against R. Kelly. With over 60 voices and testimonials, “Surviving R. Kelly Part III: The Final Chapter” brings the epic saga to a fitting conclusion. Resources will drive to the National Sexual Assault Hotline and to RAINN as part premiere on air, and on social. The first two episodes are titled “30 Years in the Making” and “Taking the Stand” and their description reads, “R. Kelly’s New York Federal trial is underway; survivors and their family members bravely recount harrowing stories that paved the way to the monumental day.” Then on January 3, comes two episodes titled “Jane Doe #1” and “The Verdict.” Their description reads, “Aaliyah, Jane Doe #1, becomes the cornerstone of the New York Federal trial; a new survivor comes forward after nearly 30 years of remaining quiet.” “Surviving R. Kelly” The Final Chapter” premieres Monday, January 2 at 8 p.m. Eastern and Pacific times on Lifetime. 
Andrea Reiher covered entertainment and sports for Heavy.com from 2017 to 2023. She has been reporting on celebrity and entertainment news since 2008 and is a former Senior Editor at entertainment site Zap2It. Andrea's bylines include Entertainment Weekly, Variety and Collider.  More about Andrea Reiher  
					Stay Connected				