NEW YORK, Jan. 17, 2023 — commercetools, the leading provider of composable commerce, today launched commercetools Frontend, a best-in-class FaaS solution that enables businesses to compose and deliver digital websites and applications. With its extensive ready-to-use APIs, commercetools Frontend helps businesses gain all the advantages of implementing headless commerce such as unlimited customization, freedom to experiment, and scalability without sacrificing time to market. To remain competitive in ecommerce, businesses must be able to experiment, pivot, adapt and customize their experiences faster than ever without friction. commercetools gives customers a competitive advantage by allowing them to seamlessly create and roll out experiences that look and work exactly how they want it, rather than having to fit their ecommerce structure into a pre-existing architecture. With the capabilities of Frontend, customers are able to rapidly deploy  rich marketing and merchandising experiences for their shoppers, all within a headless architecture. “At commercetools, we invest in advancing flexible, fast, and agile technologies and this includes our acquisition of Frontastic,” said Michael Sharp, Chief Product Officer at commercetools. “With commercetools Frontend, brands will have the ability to build new pages in minutes, new features in hours, and launch in new regions in a matter of days. We’re proud to continue innovating and engineering rich end-customer experiences through the enablement of customizable commerce infrastructures at scale.” Enterprises from varying industries across the globe –– including flaconi, Lakrids by Bülow, Tom Tailor and CHRONEXT–– are already using Frontend to manufacture distinct customer experiences. In fact, the marketing team at flaconi, a European leading online beauty retailer, uses Frontend to build dynamic, visually appealing web pages while the company’s technical team focuses on new component development. As a result, flaconi is able to support 50 million API calls per day and more than 100,000 SKUs, all while ensuring a smooth peak order uptake of 300 orders per minute. commercetools Frontend enables merchandisers, marketers, and developers to leverage a robust portfolio of site experience APIs and business tooling to continuously evolve, optimize,  and deliver relevant experiences for the shopper. Paired with commercetools Composable Commerce, Frontend gives brands and retailers the ability to create and deliver digital storefronts quickly and efficiently while continuously innovating their commerce architecture without limits. Combining balance, speed, performance, adaptability, and customization options, the two products together best enable a customer-facing headless commerce implementation that can be used to future-proof a business’ architecture for shifting market forces and emerging retail trends. commercetools Frontend can utilize additional functionalities through integrations with technology partners such as Algolia, Contentful, Adyen, ZineOne, Klarna and Klevu, and is also available in prepackaged solutions, known as accelerators, developed and owned by several commercetools system integration partners including Vaimo, Orium and Mindcurv. To learn more about commercetools Frontend, please visit www.commercetools.com/features/frontend. The inventor of headless commerce, commercetools is an innovative technology disruptor that has established itself as an industry-leading eCommerce software provider. Today, some of the world’s most iconic brands and growth-focused businesses trust commercetools’ powerful, flexible, scalable solutions to support their ever-evolving digital commerce needs. As the visionaries leading the modern MACH (Microservices-based, API-first, Cloud-native and Headless) architecture movement, commercetools provides customers with the agility to innovate and iterate on the fly, merge on and off-line channels, drive higher revenue, and future-proof their eCommerce business. Based in Germany, with offices across Europe, Asia, and North America, commercetools is singularly focused on leading a future of limitless commerce possibilities. Step Up Your Fraud Prevention Approach in 2024 Unleashing GenAI Magic: Transforming Visual Commerce for Unbeatable Customer Experiences Returns Challenges, Opportunities Covered in New Webinar Multichannel Merchant: Editorial Spotlight on Returns in 2023 Webinar: The Generative AI Genie is Out of the Bottle High-Touch Returns Become Point of Differentiation for 3PLs Goods-To-Person E-Fulfillment Technology: Flexing Along With Demand Foreign Trade Zones: A Hidden Gem for Retailers Automation and Robotics: Moving Past Limitations to Gains Shipping Capacity Management: The Outlook for 2022 Peak Season Content-Based Marketing: A Post-Cookie Evolution Generative AI in Customer Service: A Balanced Blueprint Why Digital Wallets are The Key to Modern Loyalty Marketing ESG and Your Supply Chain: 3 Steps to a Streamlined Strategy Retail Cyber Threats: 5 Ways to Protect Your Business