MENU Business.com aims to help business owners make informed decisions to support and grow their companies. We research and recommend products and services suitable for various business types, investing thousands of hours each year in this process. As a business, we need to generate revenue to sustain our content. We have financial relationships with some companies we cover, earning commissions when readers purchase from our partners or share information about their needs. These relationships do not dictate our advice and recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates and recommends products and services based on their research and expertise. Learn more about our process and partners here. It's time to go paperless. DMS like DocuWare securely digitizes and stores the information that keeps your business running. At business.com, our team of technology experts has analyzed hundreds of tools and services designed to improve essential business operations, from POS systems to GPS fleet management services to remote PC access software, and we use these experiences to provide business owners with actionable guides and industry insights. Every playbook and explainer is infused with advice from real IT consultants, implementation experts, security specialists, software developers and more. Our rigorous product review process involves in-depth industry research, vendor interviews, hands-on testing and service comparisons. Each analysis — whether for a business phone system, CRM platform, call center software or website builder — is independently verified by a business.com editor to ensure our recommendations are free of bias and errors. Learn more about our editorial process. To identify the best document management software on the market, we conducted hands-on testing to examine how each solution functioned. We paid particular attention to features like optical character recognition, file-sharing, storage capacity, workflow automation,... To identify the best document management software on the market, we conducted hands-on testing to examine how each solution functioned. We paid particular attention to features like optical character recognition, file-sharing, storage capacity, workflow automation, collaboration tools and document security. We considered how it easy it was to navigate the system, as well as whether it could be augmented with third-party integrations. Last but not least, we considered pricing and the availability of free trials. evaluated researched chosen To identify the best document management software on the market, we conducted hands-on testing to examine how each solution functioned. We paid particular attention to features like optical character recognition, file-sharing, storage capacity, workflow automation, collaboration tools and document security. We considered how it easy it was to navigate the system, as well as whether it could be augmented with third-party integrations. Last but not least, we considered pricing and the availability of free trials. evaluated researched chosen Poor document management can damage internal efficiency and leave companies vulnerable to loss of important data and, in the worst cases, subject them to financial penalties for failing to comply with regulations. The latest document management software (DMS), such as Revver and M-Files, solves these issues by storing all of your documents securely in one place and making it easy for your staff to find and retrieve them on demand. To help you find the best document management software for your business, we’ve spent dozens of hours researching all of the top platforms. We compared them against each other on a range of factors from features and ease of use to cost and customizability.  Store files easily and find them quickly using metadata and other criteria. (Source: Revver) Storage Capacity Ease of Use Scalable Integration Productivity No 30-day free trial 30-day free trial 30-day free trial No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Requires a quote Four tiers; requires a quote Requires a quote Requires a quote Requires a quote 20TB Dependent on server-side storage capacity 32GB-4TB 250GB-1000 GB for cloud storage. Custom options also available Max storage dependent on use case Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Customer service form, chat, phone number, email FAQ page, video channel, solution catalogue, M-Files community, e-mail Email, form, FAQ, Knowledge Base Support request form, community forums, educational articles Phone, email, FAQ, videos Revver is an excellent option for businesses concerned about having enough storage space. In fact, it’s the only choice on our list that offers a 20TB storage option (most of its competitors max out at 5TB). Revver is ideal for large teams that handle and store a lot of information. This cloud-based solution also favors remote work, allowing employees to connect from anywhere through its mobile or desktop app. There are multiple service plans to choose from that vary by price, storage options and included features. This software impressed us with more than just the amount of documentation it can hold. We love its wide range of core and customizable features, like quick search and automated workflows. We found the ability to import attachments and emails directly into Revver’s folders particularly useful and well-executed. We also appreciated how tightly the platform is integrated with key cloud services like Google Drive and Microsoft OneDrive. This makes managing, synchronizing and importing your documents seamless and efficient between the apps you use. The recently revamped dashboard also stood out to us as it simplified even further an already very intuitive user interface.  We were impressed during our demo at how Revver makes it easy to access essential documents and files instantly. (Source: Revver) You need to call the company to get a quote for service, but our contact told us during the demo that pricing starts at around $2,000 a year and that storage sizes of 1TB, 5TB, 15TB, and 20TB are available. We also learned that while many features were included in your subscription, other features were an additional cost, notably additional users and access to space over your limit. On TrustRadius, users of the platform award the platform 8.7 out of 10. Customers rate the system for its ability to improve workflows, its e-signature capabilities and its centralization of all documents and subsequent easy retrieval. One client stated that “eFileCabinet is great for the smaller CPA office for document storage. It is priced well within the means of a small firm’s budget”. Click here for our full Revver review With M-Files, users can quickly and seamlessly organize and manage electronic documents. Its sleek and intuitive user interface offers the familiar feel of Windows File Explorer, reducing the learning curve for new users. Across all the systems we reviewed, M-Files was by far the easiest to use, with a highly intuitive dashboard and minimal employee training needed. There’s much to commend the M-Files as a system though in addition to its user-friendly controls. For example, we love how the built-in M-Files Smart Metadata technology simplifies, speeds up and enhances the classification, search and retrieval process on the platform. The new M-File Ment no-code visual editor is a stand-out for automating the creation of documents across all departments from sales contracts and security policies to internal instructions and process documents. The platform’s marketplace has a wide range of out-of-the-box integrations to Google, Microsoft, and Adobe so you can connect M-Files easily to your existing business apps for enhanced productivity.  The M-Files dashboard offers a superior user experience, easy accessibility to documents and files in storage, and an indication on the volume of storage space you have left. (Source: M-Files) M-Files does not publish pricing on its website – you need to contact the company for a tailored quote for your company. Additional services are available for an extra fee, including a no-code automation tool (M-Files Ment), HubShare (extranet creation), advanced security, advanced rendering, and more. M-Files’ users highly rate the platform, awarding it 9.1 out of 10 on TrustRadius. Customers cite the ease of use M-Files offers, its scalability, search and retrieve functionality, and enterprise-level security as the features they most appreciate. Click here for our full M-Files review We found FileHold to be the best scalable document management software, as it offers numerous service plans, features and pricing options that make it easy to scale up or down depending on your business’s specific needs. Standard features include Google-like or advanced search methods, version control, scanning and imaging, OCR and indexing, electronic forms, and Microsoft Office integration. As your business’s needs become more sophisticated, you can add on tools such as document workflow, print-to-FileHold and automatic document importation. You can also get custom features, including those for multiple languages, auto-filling, and rebranding the look and feel of the software. Two stand-out features of the company’s after-sale support we loved are its extensive online knowledge base and the bi-monthly online workshop FileHold organizes where customers can interact with the company.  FileHold gives each document its own unique number which makes it easy to find and manage. (Source: FileHold) FileHold offers customized pricing based on your specific needs. There are two different versions of the platform – cloud-based and on-premise. Which of these two options you choose, together with how much you use the software and the storage space you require, will determine the price you pay. You need to reach out to a Filehold sales representative to get specific pricing information. There are two main payment options: If you trade in your old system, FileHold will reduce subscription and purchase fees. The company offers a two-week free trial to businesses wanting to test the software. Clients score FileHold highly on TrustRadius, awarding the platform 7.1 out of 10. One user remarked that ‘FileHold is great for any size department or organization that is looking to “go paperless.”’ Reviewers valued the platform’s overall performance, usability and ease of integration with their other systems, with one commenting that, since adoption, they have improved employee efficiency and approval process speed. Click here for our full FileHold review DocuWare is document management software that excels in integration. The software integrates with over 500 applications, including popular financial software Sage and QuickBooks, as well as Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Dynamics, SAP and Oracle. DocuWare offers easy integration options, which ensures you have numerous ways to connect the software to the programs you use most. This level of integration helps ensure more consistency, organization and real-time updated data for your business. DocuWare also offers a free trial, so your team can test out the software and integrations before making a commitment. DocuWare’s secure storage works hand-in-hand with integration: Business emails can be archived directly and safely with native Microsoft Outlook integration. Secure content can also be accessed from your CRM, ERP and other applications through integrations. We were also impressed by the workflow automation capabilities of DocuWare to streamline business processes and improve overall efficiency.  We were impressed by how you can drop documents into DocuWare, and the system extracts key data automatically. (Source: DocuWare) Docuware does not publish prices on its site. We were, however, informed during the review process that prices typically vary between $25 and $100 per user per month. There are cloud-based and on-premise options, as well as a mixture of the two. On-premises pricing can be as low as $5 per user per month. For its cloud-based software, it offers the following options: You can test the system at no cost by requesting a free trial from Docuware. Scoring 9.2 out of 10 in customer reviews on TrustRadius, users report that they are happy with the feature set, usability, level of customer support, implementation and pricing of DocuWare. One user mentioned that they moved 250,000 documents from filing cabinets onto DocuWare whose platform made it “much less time-consuming than it otherwise would have been.” Click here for our full DocuWare review We found DocuPhase to be the best document management solution for fostering productivity. This cloud-based system has many tools and features to help your team stay organized, remain on task and finish projects faster. We especially like the auto-indexing tool, which allows users to create preset tags that can be automatically assigned to incoming files, ensuring consistent document organization. We also love the speed and accuracy with which the OCR technology extracts data from files and documents. Data handling and organization on DocuPhase are exceptional thanks to the advanced search functions that help staff find and retrieve documents quickly.  The DocuPhase dashboard is pleasingly intuitive, with one- or two-click navigation to key features on the platform. (Source: DocuPhase) Like most document management vendors, DocuPhase does not publish its prices. You have to contact a sales rep for a tailored quote. However, during our research, a company representative told us that its cheapest plan is around $11,000 per year for five users. The company offers a free demo and a free trial option to try the system before committing. DocuPhase scores 10 out of 10 on TrustRadius, a site that collects and aggregates real world reviews from customers. At time of writing, this was the only review on the platform however this mirrors the high scores the platform receives on other user review sites. Click here for our full DocuPhase review In addition to the five document management software packages reviewed above, the following vendors’ platforms are excellent and you should consider them for your shortlist of suppliers. isoTracker uses a Windows-based file structure, which makes it easy to navigate. It utilizes several drop-down menus that make inserting and categorizing documents a simple process. The cloud-hosted software provides users with a centralized document repository, valuable workflow tools and automated notifications. It also includes integrated analytics and reports. isoTracker offers multiple support channels customers can reach out for help on including phone support, online contact forms and live webchat.  We were also impressed with the video guides, which give users step-by-step instructions on how to use the software. They cover topics like how to add new documents and check in a new document version. There is a 60-day free trial to test the system before committing. We were impressed at the robust set of security features Canon has built into its intuitive and flexible document management software platform. The technology underlying this is imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX,, specifically designed to maintain data confidentiality, accessibility and availability to the highest standards. Canon’s system allows companies to assign different roles and strictly limit what documentation and associated data is available to people within given roles. The platform also features multiple authentication gateways, including One Login, Azure Active Directory, OKTA, and Open ID. This is great for enhanced security and streamlined access management. We also liked the addition of McAfee’s Embedded Control and Canon’s Intrusion Detection System tech to the platform that continuously monitors for threats like unauthorized access and data breaches. The intuitive Kyocera dashboard makes it easy to create automated workflows to fit in with or improve your current business processes. We loved the Kyocera Cloud Information Manager (KCIM), a smart tool that reads extra characters from scanned documents with one-click indexing. The file routing is first class and ensures that the right document reaches the right person with the correct access permissions, without the need for manual intervention. Finding and retrieving documents is quick and easy thanks to the platform’s smart management solution. We were impressed with the versioning feature on the Kyocera system, which keeps track of document changes and allows colleagues to see comments. The Kyocera Enterprise Information Manager (KEIM) uses REST API to integrate with third-party platforms for seamless data exchange, ensuring everyone in the business is working from the same data and document resource. While many document management platforms have created cloud-based versions of their software, Dropbox was built from the ground up as a remote solution.  The platform’s business version enables automatic document synching to all team members and their devices. We like how designated managers can create mobile offline folders to access important documents without an internet connection and perform remote account wipes to manage connected devices, wherever they are. We were impressed with Dropbox’s eSignature tool, which allows team members to create signable documents in just a few clicks and recipients to return them just as quickly. Dropbox offers a free service, so you can test it before committing. A document management system scans the physical document or downloads a digital version via email or using other applications. Then, the document is classified with tags, keywords and metadata, making it easy for those within an organization to find what they need when needed. From there, the document is organized into a centralized location/folder. Since many document management systems are cloud-based, members of an organization can access files from anywhere with an internet connection. Pricing for document management systems varies greatly depending on several factors. The hosting method you choose can significantly impact the pricing. Cloud-based document management software is generally based on a monthly subscription rate, while on-premises solutions require a one-time fee upfront, plus an annual subscription for software updates and technical support. Some companies offer a hybrid model that blends on-premises and cloud-based solutions. Monthly subscriptions are based on a per-user-per-month model, so the number of users you need greatly influences the total cost. Many document management systems offer multiple tiers with different features for organizations with differing levels of need.  Here’s a closer look at some of the core document management software features we looked for in our best picks: A search tool lets you quickly and easily filter documents stored in the software. Most search functions include the ability to sort by date created, date edited and a variety of metadata tags, which can be applied to a document upon upload or any time thereafter.  Search and retrieve files quickly with a document management software app. (Source: M-Files) OCR automates the process of metadata selection and streamlines searchability even further. OCR turns text from paper documents into searchable text once a file is digitized. Software with an effective OCR tool makes it even easier to organize and sort your documents. Most document management software offers multiple ways to upload files, including importing them from another database or scanning them in from a compatible scanner or printer. Once uploaded, documents can be affixed with unique metadata to help organize them for easy search and retrieval later on. Many document management software employs a file cabinet style navigation. This includes an organization structure that follows a cabinet/folder/file system, similar to the one employed by Windows File Explorer. This system makes it easy to organize documents and locate them quickly, even without using the search function. Version control, or versioning, is critical to safeguarding and tracking editable documents within a document management system. When documents are regularly updated or changed, versioning allows you to keep track of old versions and quickly identify new ones. Minor changes, such as light proofreading, can often be identified by a minor version update (often displayed as “v 1.1”). More significant changes will be denoted by a major version update (which could be displayed as “v 2.0”). Workflow automation allows users to assign tasks related to specific documents to other users of the system. Users are then notified that action is needed from them on a particular document. They can then pass off the document to another user once their task is complete. Workflow automation tools can be set up to automatically trigger notifications for documents that follow a routine step-by-step workflow. Security features are essential to preventing an organizational data breach, especially for businesses that store sensitive customer data or trade secrets. Security features, such as encryption, vary depending on the document management solution. One common security feature, though, is an audit log, which keeps tabs on every single activity performed in the software.  Gain full control over document distribution, access and security with a document management service. (Source: Dropbox) Many applications come with a mobile access component. As remote work increases, mobile apps or mobile web browser access is an important element of document management software for many companies. Document management software is a crowded field, so choosing a vendor can be difficult. The most basic software serves as digitization software and centralized document storage, while more complex systems allow for built-in collaboration and task management among team members. Research the market and read through customer reviews to identify market leaders. When choosing a document management system, it’s important to know what you need. Are you looking for a digital archive that can be periodically updated, or do you require software that enables daily creation and editing of new documents? Do you prefer a locally hosted, on-premises solution, or do you prefer a cloud-based solution managed by your vendor partner or a third party? Many businesses operating in regulated industries are required by law to track, maintain and audit business documents. Among the document management solutions we reviewed, many comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), Sarbanes-Oxley, Good Manufacturing Practices required by the Food and Drug Administration, or ISO 9000/9001 regulatory compliance requirements. This is a critical capability that many businesses cannot afford to do without. If your business is required to comply with federal regulations, it is critical to know which applications offer regulatory compliance support. If your business utilizes a top CRM application or an ERP database, limit your search to document management software that integrates seamlessly with the programs you use daily. While you can use software that doesn’t integrate with your CRM or ERP program, choosing compatible software allows you to access, edit, back up and monitor digital files and documents created within your CRM or ERP program, further increasing the efficiency of your office. Pinpointing what you’re looking for is half the battle, and asking the right questions will help you determine which system is right for your business. Some questions to ask software providers include the following: As always, closely read any legal documents, including contracts, before signing. The vendor should put everything you’ve discussed in writing and specify which features you are getting for your money. Always have an exit strategy in writing as well in case things don’t go as expected. If the service you’re considering won’t allow you to cut ties without paying cancellation fees, consider it a red flag. To determine the best document management software on the market, our team of technology experts and software analysts evaluated an initial list of 72 systems. After whittling our list down to 10, we chose five document management solutions as our top recommendations. Our experts and analysts studied each program’s functionality and evaluated the products on more than 25 factors. These factors were weighted differently in our overall conclusion. The weights were determined based on how much business owners prioritize these criteria when shopping for business software and services and making purchasing decisions. Based on these criteria, we not only determined which document management systems our readers could trust but also the ways in which each solution could best serve different business needs. Some programs were better at certain tasks than others or more suited to a particular type of company. These takeaways informed the “Best for” use cases you see on this page. To learn more about our methodology, see our full editorial process Document control software helps you streamline document management processes like review, approval, distribution, retrieval and disposal. Additionally, it automates records management policies to help monitor access and ensure compliance with standards such as ISO, FDA, Sarbanes-Oxley and HIPAA. When managing files on your computer, create main groups and subfolders within those groups. Apply a single file-naming system to all your files so everyone in your organization can easily navigate them. Record (or document) management has several benefits, including increased security, centralized location for easy navigation and collaboration, and eco-friendliness. Document management systems are used for securely storing documents and sensitive data, tracking edits and updates to said documents, and easily sharing them between members of an organization. Additionally, these systems help companies ensure compliance with necessary standards. In 2024, document management software will continue moving to the cloud and away from the on-premises model. While the on-premises model, which allows companies to maintain the software and data on-site in local servers, grants additional control to businesses, it requires a significant upfront capital investment and a team of experienced IT professionals to maintain. Cloud-based models are more affordable and require little maintenance, putting the burden of ensuring uptime and security on the software provider. For this reason, many businesses have opted for a cloud-based model, and software companies offer several types of subscription-based document management plans. Look for this trend to continue in 2024. In addition, the expansion of document management software within mobile platforms will continue. As many workers continue to do their jobs remotely, they need to access shared documents on their smartphones, tablets and laptops. Software vendors are increasingly launching apps or enabling usage of their solutions via mobile web browsers. The document management software industry is experiencing steady growth. Fortune Business Insights’ market research suggests the industry will grow from $6.23 billion in 2023 to $18.97 billion by 2030, representing a 17.2 percent year-over-year growth. Much of this increase in value is driven by the rise in AI-based solutions. Many document management platforms can now automate workflows and processes, from categorizing documents to extracting and finding relevant data. Businesses can also leverage AI within document management systems to analyze broad data sets, identify patterns and predict trends. AI-powered solutions can also automatically detect potential threats, encrypt files and prevent unauthorized access, as well as keep document management software in compliance with regulatory requirements. We expect that, with technological advancements, the capabilities and adoption of AI in document management will only grow in 2024. B. newsletter is your digest of bite-sized news, thought & brand leadership, and entertainment. All in one email. Our mission is to help you take your team, your business and your career to the next level. Whether you're here for product recommendations, research or career advice, we're happy you're here!