Just months after inking two long-term shoe licensing deals with Authentic Brands Group, Aldo Group is expanding its relationship with the brand development, marketing and entertainment firm once again. Jonathan Frankel, president of Aldo Product Services at the Aldo Group, told FN in an interview that the company has signed a new licensing agreement with Authentic to design, produce and distribute footwear for the firm’s newly acquired Roxy label. More from Footwear News Reebok and Global Citizen Deliver Their Equity-Focused 'Take Action' Collection How Shaquille O'Neal Became the Second Largest Investor in the Company That Owns Reebok, JCPenney and Forever 21 The first collection of Roxy footwear for women’s and girls managed under Aldo Group will launch in fall 2024 across the brand’s established retail network in the U.S. and Canada just in time for back-to-school. Frankel said the team developing the Roxy footwear line will work across Aldo’s headquarters in Montreal, a soon-to-be open office in New York City above Aldo’s Fifth Avenue store, and the brand’s showroom in Los Angeles. “We’ve also brought on a few people from Roxy’s previous Boardriders team to execute the collection,” the Aldo exec said. “We plan on drawing from the brand’s lively and effortlessly cool DNA, combining fresh and novel concepts that will further cement Roxy’s position in the action sports industry.” As for what types of styles to expect from Roxy, Frankel noted that the label will release a range of sandals and comfort shoes – two core categories for the brand – utilizing more mixed materials to diversify from only using canvas uppers. “We will also roll out slip-on styles, slippers and then boots as well,” Frankel said. “Through fall ‘24, we want to make sure that we stabilize the Roxy business and really nail the basics,” Frankel added. “We will look to reengage with existing retail clients as well as bring on some new ones. And then we’ll do a big push into spring and summer 2025. That’ll be a big breakout moment into a lot of new categories, a lot of new price points as well, without shifting where the brand drives a lot of its volume. And then we’ll build on fall ‘24, as we go on to fall ‘25, with expanding into even more categories.” Asked if we can expect more licensing deals like this one, Frankel said that they are gearing up to launch another major partnership “in a couple of months.” In the meantime, Frankel insists that Aldo Group is not in search mode for additional licenses. “First and foremost, I think there’s quite a lot out there on the market right now,” Frankel said. “So, we’re being very selective on what’s coming our way. And so, I think that the answer is yes, we are open to more licenses, but we’re not looking for two, three or four more. We’re looking for only one significant deal that we can bolt on to the great brands we’ve already got. Also, when we think about different category penetration, I think there is a bit of room in our portfolio to find something very strong in handbags and bags, as well.” As for Authentic, David Brooks, EVP of the company’s action & outdoor sports and lifestyle, said that he’s “excited” to expand the partnership with Aldo Group. “We chose to work with the Aldo Group again for Roxy footwear because of their dedication and commitment,” Brooks said. “Roxy is an iconic brand that celebrates the power of women and there is no one better than the Aldo Group to capture that type of strength. They bring unmatched expertise in footwear and we are confident that through this partnership, Roxy will continue to deliver the high-quality products for which the brand is known and loved for.” Asked about the goals Authentic has for this new partnership, Brooks added, “We’re looking forward to really unlocking the full potential of the Roxy brand in the women’s and girls footwear categories and plan on continuing to draw from the brand’s iconic DNA while combining fresh new concepts.” This isn’t the first time the Aldo Group has partnered with the powerhouse on footwear licensing deals. In May, the company inked two long-term licensing deals with Authentic to design, produce and distribute Ted Baker and Brooks Brothers footwear. The company also currently holds the license for Element footwear, which is now part of Authentic’s arsenal of brands. In March, Authentic inked a deal to acquire Boardriders, the parent of Quiksilver, Billabong, Roxy, RVCA, DC Shoes, Element, VonZipper, Honolua and Boardriders, for a reported $1.25 billion. At the time, Authentic had sales of $27.6 billion. The deal officially closed in September. Authentic now owns more than 40 brands in a variety of categories ranging from Reebok and Brooks Brothers to Nautica and Sports Illustrated. In addition to Boardriders, Authentic recently purchased Rockport and Hunter. Best of Footwear News Birkenstock’s Blockbuster IPO: The Brand’s 250-Year History, From Barbie to Billions A History of Forever 21: From Humble Beginnings to Bankruptcy and the Shaquille O'Neal Bounceback Footwear Company CEOs You Should Know Sign up for FN's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.