Our website is temporarily unavailable in your location. We are working hard to get it back online. Fergus Ewing was warned to mind his language in parliament by his own sister during extraordinary scenes at Holyrood. An SNP MSP has branded the Scottish Green party a bunch of "wine bar revolutionaries" in a row over the future of North Sea energy. Fergus Ewing was subsequently reminded to watch his language in parliament by his own sister, the Deputy Presiding Officer Annabelle Ewing. The veteran Nationalist had called on Humza Yousaf to support the continued extraction of gas from the North Sea instead of relying on more expensive imports from overseas. The future of oil and gas in Scotland is a huge political issue as the government tries to balance its Net Zero commitments with the thousands of jobs provided by the energy sector. The Scottish Greens, who signed a power-sharing agreement with the SNP in 2021, are firmly opposed to any new extraction licenses being granted for North Sea exploration. Ewing told MSPs today: "Here in Scotland, and the UK, we will need and continue to need on gas for decades to come. "The gas is imported in many cases from the US - but their gas is produced with four times the carbon emissions of Rosebank. "Therefore, does the First Minister agree with me that sacrificing development of our own gas resource would not only decimate thousands of highly skilled jobs, in a form of economic masochism advocated by the wine bar revolutionaries in the Green party, but also make climate change worse?" Ewing's comments were loudly cheered by Conservative MSPs. His sister, deputising for Presiding Officer Alison Johnstone at FMQs today, then reminded all members of the need for "courtesy and respect" when speaking in the Chamber. Yousaf responded: "I’ve got a feeling, deputy presiding officer, that’s not the first time you’ve had to tell off your brother, one suspects." The First Minister added that “nobody” in the Scottish Government or Green party was saying fossil fuel extraction had to stop “tomorrow”. "They understand that a just transition means that we have to take the workers of the North East with us,” the SNP leader went on. "What I would say is that independent research based on industry projections found that production in the North Sea will be about a third of 2019 levels by 2035." Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - sign up to our daily newsletter here. Tributes pour in for murdered Scots dad hailed as 'lovely wee guy' and 'true friend' Cure for MND 'could be possible' says expert after Doddie Weir charity launches research strategy Transgender Scots killer to request sex-change surgery on NHS while in jail for murder