 Subscribe today to get the latest headlines straight to your inbox with our free email updates We have more newsletters Subscribe today to get the latest headlines straight to your inbox with our free email updates We have more newsletters Revolution in Leicester is to close two days a week due to rocketing energy costs. The bar chain will close venues across the country on Mondays and Tuesdays this month and in early February. It comes as shares in the company tumbled on Tuesday by as much as a quarter after a challenging Christmas. The firm attributed the drop in festive trading to the rising cost of living and rail strikes affecting customers visiting its venues.  The move means the city's branch in New Walk will not open at the beginning of each week until an unspecified date next month. New opening times on the bar's website indicated the move came into force this week, as it was listed as being closed on Monday, January 16 and Tuesday, January 17. READ MORE: Community pays tribute to beloved owner of legendary Nervous Records in Hinckley Rob Pitcher, chief executive officer of the group, said: "The board have reviewed their expectations for the full year, taken a number of actions to mitigate the external factors where possible and will continue to track these closely.  "The decision to close some bars on a Monday and Tuesday in the early weeks of the year allows us to minimise energy usage in our quietest period whilst also allowing our teams to recover after the busy Christmas period." The earnings of Revolution Bars Group, which also owns the Revolucion de Cuba and Peach Pub brands, before interest, tax and other repayments is due to be at the bottom end of market expectations, which had ranged between £6.7 million and £10.5 million. It also said earnings for the year were “likely to be lower than previously guided”. The group saw like-for-like sales rise by 17.3 per cent over the five weeks to December 31, compared with the same period in 2021, as it benefited from the demand around the office Christmas party demand. But the firm's Christmas trading period saw sales 9 per cent down against pre-pandemic levels from 2019. Mr Pitcher added: "The first Christmas since 2019 without the shadow of Covid saw a new company record for pre-booked party revenue allowing us to be optimistic of a strong Christmas period. However, the continued train strikes had a material impact on whether guests attended their office Christmas parties, how long they stayed and whether they met up with friends on a separate occasion. "Given the current economic environment, the coming months are going to be challenging and uncertain, not only for us but for many businesses." LeicestershireLive has free daily email newsletters to help keep readers up to date with breaking news and events across the city and county. They are free and simple to sign up for by clicking here. READ NEXT:  Tennis courts and 'redundant' derelict pool go up for sale in town Fosse Park food hygiene ratings for every single restaurant, cafe and coffee shop New 'booze and ball games' venue Roxy Ball Room could be coming to former Leicester city centre sports shop Leicester pub The Bricklayers Arms re-opening after it was closed three years ago Harry Gurney shares video from inside The Tap and Run pub set to re-open after devastating fire 