We include products we think are useful to our readers,
                including products we may have received for free. If you buy through links on this page,
                we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Healthline only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. Our editor, registered dietitian, and protein bar aficionado tried more than 25 of the most popular brands on the market. Read her picks of the 9 best protein bars.  Protein bars are a popular snack and can be a simple and tasty way to squeeze more protein into your daily diet. However, not all protein bars are created equal. Many varieties of protein bars are loaded with added sugar, artificial sweeteners, and other additives, which may negate many of the potential health benefits that they have to offer. Healthline Nutrition editor and registered dietitian, Kelli McGrane put 28 protein bar brands to the test to see which ones are worth your money. General price ranges are indicated below with dollar signs ($–$$$). One dollar sign means the product is rather affordable, whereas three dollar signs indicate a higher cost. Generally, prices range from $1.80 to $3.20 per count, though this may vary depending on where you shop and whether you get a discount for bulk orders. Pricing guide RXBAR Chocolate Sea Salt is is my pick as the best overall because it checks every box: high in fiber, more than 10 g of protein, free of added sugar, and made with whole food ingredients. It’s also free of palm oil, an ingredient that some people may prefer to avoid due to its high saturated fat content and the environmental concerns associated with its production. Featuring gooey chocolate chips, a rich dark chocolate base, and a sprinkle of sea salt on top, this chewy bar is a true chocolate lover’s dream. While I find some RXBARs to be too chewy and borderline dry, this flavor is a bit softer and, in my opinion, more enjoyable. RXBAR offers 11 other regular flavors plus a few seasonal varieties, so there’s sure to be a bar to suit your taste buds. Perfect Snacks recently launched a new line of Layers bars that offer the creamy texture of the brand’s flagship Perfect Bar but with the addition of crispy quinoa for a satisfying crunch. As with all Perfect Snacks bars, Layers bars are made from recognizable ingredients such as peanut butter, honey, toasted oats, and date paste. The bars also contain a Whole Foods Powder blend, which includes nutrient powerhouses such as kale, spinach, and flaxseed. I’ve long been a fan of Perfect Bars because of their ingredients. However, I can typically stomach only half a bar because of how thick and rich they are. While Layers bars are still just as rich and sweet, I found that their thinner size and bits of crunch made them more enjoyable to eat — in fact, they’ve become a staple in my fridge over the past few months. Perfect Bar Layers bars are free from preservatives and artificial additives, so they stay fresh at room temperature for only up to 7 days. For longer storage, you’ll need to keep them in your fridge. If you’re looking for a way to boost your protein intake while following a plant-based diet, Aloha protein bars are worth considering. Available in multiple flavors, the bars are all certified vegan and made with organic ingredients. What’s more, Aloha bars are free of artificial additives, gluten, stevia, dairy, palm oil, and soy. And it doesn’t hurt that they’re pretty tasty. The Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough was my favorite during testing, though the Lemon Cashew came in a close second. In particular, I loved the chewy texture and spot-on cookie dough flavor. Keep in mind that many of the other flavors feature a chocolate coating and have a slightly different texture. It’s also worth noting that I’ve purchased these bars in bulk online and several times have received bars that were a bit hard, as if they had been stored for awhile. While it is more expensive, I prefer to purchase individual Aloha bars directly from the grocery store. If you dislike traditional protein bars, which often have a dense, powdery texture, then you’ll want to check out TRUBAR — though you’ll also need to like your bars dessert-level sweet. A product of TRUWOMEN (a woman-founded and -owned business), TRUBARS are made with just a handful of 100% plant-based ingredients and come in six dessert-inspired flavors. The Smother Fudger Peanut Butter bar features a rich chocolate coating and a sweet peanut butter middle that melts in your mouth. The texture is definitely on the softer side, which I liked, but it may not be ideal if you prefer a bar with more chew. It’s also worth noting that these bars are very sweet. While that might be a plus for some, I find that because of the sweetness, I don’t like eating them multiple days in a row. Compared with those of other bars we tested, the price of these varied quite a bit. Purchasing directly from the company’s website was the most cost-effective option. However, Costco members can buy them in bulk for optimal cost savings.  While protein bars are notoriously dense and a little chalky, the KIND Dark Chocolate Nut Protein Bar is the exact opposite. Featuring crunchy whole nuts and a drizzle of chocolate, this bar will definitely put your jaw to work. This is the only bar on the list that I wasn’t able to try. However, this bar and flavor, in particular, was highly recommended by Healthline writer Rachael Ajmera, MS, RD. It features nutrient-dense ingredients, and she noted that it’s her go-to afternoon pick-me-up thanks to its rich chocolaty flavor. Like most other KIND snack bars, the Dark Chocolate Nut bar is made from mostly whole food ingredients. It’s also low in added sugar, high in fiber, and rich in healthy fats. If you follow a low FODMAP diet, then you know how difficult it can be to find suitable packaged snacks. Enter GoMacro. GoMacro offers several low FODMAP-friendly products, including the Sunflower Butter + Chocolate bar. This flavor is also nut-free, non-GMO verified, and certified vegan, organic, and gluten-free. I liked the bar’s pleasantly chewy texture and not-too-sweet flavor. It was also one of the most filling bars I tried — in fact, I had a hard time finishing a whole bar. The GoMacro Sunflower Butter + Chocolate bar is a bit higher in calories and carbs than many of the other products on our list, so it’s a good option for throwing in your hiking bag or bringing on your next ride.  If you’re trying to shed a few pounds, choosing a protein bar that’s relatively low in calories but high in fiber and protein may help you reach your goal. Providing 17 g of fiber, 21 g of protein, 0 g of added sugar, and fewer than 200 calories, the No Cow Chunky Peanut Butter bar is a good option if you’re watching your weight. To keep the bars free of added sugar, No Cow uses several sugar alternatives, including stevia, monk fruit, and sugar alcohols, all of which impart a noticeable aftertaste. However, during testing, I found the aftertaste to be less pronounced in the Chunky Peanut Butter flavor. Similarly, while the bars are a bit chalky, the peanut pieces in this flavor add a nice boost of texture. Whether you’re trying to build muscle or frequently spending your days out on the trail, PROBAR protein bars are a great option. In addition to being high in protein, they provide a good amount of carbs, which are key for supporting muscle gains. While all PROBAR protein bars are pretty dense, the Chocolate Brownie was my favorite, as it has a smooth consistency that isn’t too dry. It also has a rich chocolate flavor that’s likely to satisfy any chocolate craving. PROBAR Chocolate Brownie is certified gluten-free, non-GMO verified, and vegan-friendly. If you’re following a low carb diet, there’s no shortage of options (especially keto-friendly protein bars) to choose from. And while each bar I tried had its pros and cons, this one, by far, had the best flavor. Of the keto-friendly bars I tried, the think! Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie Keto Protein Bar was the only one that didn’t have an unpleasant, lingering aftertaste. Instead, the bar reminded me of a Reese’s Fast Break candy bar, with a rich peanut butter center, a milk chocolate coating, and a soft, slightly chalky, melt-in-your-mouth texture. Need help deciding? Here is a quick look at how our top picks compare:  *Note: The think! Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie Keto Protein Bar contains 4 g of net carbs. All brands and products below were also thoroughly vetted to ensure that they align with Healthline’s brand integrity standards and approach to well-being. You can read more about our vetting process. People often use protein bars to increase their intake of protein, an important nutrient involved in processes such as immune function, growth, and tissue repair.  Protein is also essential for building muscle, especially for athletes and people who are physically active. Protein bars are a great way to help round out your diet, particularly if you have increased protein needs or might have trouble getting enough protein in your diet, which might be the case if you’re vegan or vegetarian. They’re also a convenient and portable snack option that you can bring almost anywhere, whether you’re traveling, hiking, or simply short on time when you leave the house in the morning. No Cow Chunky Peanut Butter is our pick as the best protein bar for weight loss, as it’s low in calories but high in protein and fiber. TRUBAR Smother Fudger Peanut Butter and think! Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie Keto Protein Bar are two other good options for weight loss, both of which contain less than 200 calories per serving. No Cow Chunky Peanut Butter is our pick as the best protein bar for weight loss, as it’s low in calories but high in protein and fiber. TRUBAR Smother Fudger Peanut Butter and think! Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie Keto Protein Bar are two other good options for weight loss, both of which contain less than 200 calories per serving. It is OK to enjoy protein bars in moderation as part of a balanced diet. Swapping a protein bar in for other snacks in your daily diet is fine and can be a great way to bump up your protein intake. However, it’s best not to use protein bars to regularly replace more nutrient-dense whole foods like fruits and vegetables. For best results, opt for a protein bar that is low in added sugar and free of artificial ingredients and preservatives. It is OK to enjoy protein bars in moderation as part of a balanced diet. Swapping a protein bar in for other snacks in your daily diet is fine and can be a great way to bump up your protein intake. However, it’s best not to use protein bars to regularly replace more nutrient-dense whole foods like fruits and vegetables. For best results, opt for a protein bar that is low in added sugar and free of artificial ingredients and preservatives. Aloha Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough is a great choice for women, as it contains a good amount of protein and fiber in each serving, along with 35% of the Daily Value (DV) for iron, a nutrient that women typically require in higher amounts. Aloha Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough is a great choice for women, as it contains a good amount of protein and fiber in each serving, along with 35% of the Daily Value (DV) for iron, a nutrient that women typically require in higher amounts.  Protein bars can be an easy and convenient way to bump up your protein uptake, which is important for increasing muscle mass. In fact, it’s often recommended to consume a high protein snack or meal, such as a protein bar, within 1–2 hours of exercise to support muscle growth.   Protein bars also contain carbohydrates, which can increase strength and improve body composition when paired with protein as a pre- or post-exercise snack.  Protein bars can be an easy and convenient way to bump up your protein uptake, which is important for increasing muscle mass. In fact, it’s often recommended to consume a high protein snack or meal, such as a protein bar, within 1–2 hours of exercise to support muscle growth.   Protein bars also contain carbohydrates, which can increase strength and improve body composition when paired with protein as a pre- or post-exercise snack. Because taste is subjective, it’s hard to definitively say which protein bar tastes the best. However, after our extensive testing, we found Perfect Bar Layers to be one of the tastiest, especially for peanut butter fans. Aloha Protein Bars and TRUBAR are also worth considering for their dessert-inspired flavors. Because taste is subjective, it’s hard to definitively say which protein bar tastes the best. However, after our extensive testing, we found Perfect Bar Layers to be one of the tastiest, especially for peanut butter fans. Aloha Protein Bars and TRUBAR are also worth considering for their dessert-inspired flavors. Protein bars can be a great addition to a healthy, well-rounded diet and an easy way to increase your protein intake and support your wellness goals.  However, not all protein bars are created equal, and many varieties may be high in calories, added sugar, and artificial ingredients. Check the nutrition label and consider your budget, dietary needs, and personal preferences to find a protein bar that’s right for you.  Share this article Though protein bars can be incredibly convenient, you may wonder whether they're good for you. This article reviews whether protein bars are healthy. Finding a vegan-friendly protein bar that's not packed with unhealthy ingredients can be challenging. Here are 15 healthy, vegan protein bar options… Protein bars make a great snack, but finding keto-friendly ones can be a challenge. Here are 9 of the best keto protein bars for 2024. Protein bars are a convenient way to fuel workouts, stay full between meals, and add more protein to your diet. Here's how to make homemade protein… Protein is an essential part of a balanced diet, but sometimes it’s accompanied by more fat and calories than you want. Here are 13 lean protein foods… Protein shakes are a common way for people to add more protein to their diet but not everyone may want to use protein powder. This article discusses… Protein powders are supplements that support muscle growth and weight loss. This article compares whey vs plant protein so you know what to choose. A recent study presents evidence of a connection between the artificial sweetener erythritol and an increased risk of blood clots. After consuming… A new study compared the effects of a keto diet and a diet low in added sugars and found the keto diet was associated with raised "bad" cholesterol… A new study found a link between processed red meat and dementia risk. The saturated fat and preservatives in processed meats might contribute to this… OUR BRANDS