The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 Whether you’re looking to maintain lean body mass, improve muscle recovery or simply satiate hunger, a protein bar could be a great choice, with many providing over 15 grams of protein per serving. But not all protein bars are made equal, and many come with added (and questionable) ingredients. If you’re on the hunt for the perfect protein-packed snack, the Forbes Health team has you covered. We consulted a panel of six accredited experts who provided their top protein bar picks, along with reasons why they stand out. Star ratings were determined solely by the Forbes Health editorial team based on cost and number of panelist recommendations, as well as protein, calories, carbohydrates and sugar per serving. Read on for the best protein bars of 2024. Note: Prices are accurate as of publication and are subject to change. The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about nutrition that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines  and our methodology  for the rankings below. Jose Antonio, Ph.D., chief executive officer and co-founder of the International Society of Sports Nutrition and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member, recommends this protein bar, claiming the chewy, chocolate coating is “pretty darn good.” He also loves that “the bar has good consistency with 20 grams of protein as well as 20 grams of carbs, so it makes for a convenient post-workout snack.” Toby Amidor, registered dietitian and Forbes Health Advisory Board member, agrees, noting that Pure Protein bars can also serve as a solid pre-workout snack, as well as when at the office and on the go. “While the nutritional content varies by the flavor, RXBARs lean heavily toward a whole food-based option, which I love,” says Kara Collier, registered dietitian, co-founder of Nutrisense and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “I like the visibility of ingredients and that most flavors have no added sugar,” adds Jennifer Fiske, a registered dietitian and Forbes Health Advisory Board member, who appreciates how handy these bars are for an on-the-go snack. “It is also great for long hikes or golf games that take a long time [where] food generally needs to be convenient, healthy and portable,” adds Kara Burnstine, a registered dietitian and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “Epic Bars are the epitome of a protein bar,” says Fiske. “Animal proteins are the primary ingredient in Epic Bars with a variety of bold flavors. Epic Bars are low carb and many are unsweetened or sweetened with honey,” says Fiske. They also have snack strips that are more similar to jerky, as well as bite-sized snacks, like beef liver and salmon bites, notes Collier, who adds that while the nutritional content of the bars can vary, “most contain 7 to 12 grams of protein and up to 3 grams of fiber and no added sugar.” Leslie Bonci, a registered dietitian, a board-certified specialist in sports dietetics and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member, recommends these bars as well “for those who are watching carbs, [and] who want a protein boost that is not dairy,” continuing that she appreciates a savory option for those who find the sweet taste of most bars unappealing. With around 20 grams of protein, “the ONE bar has nutrients needed to promote post-workout recovery,” says Dr. Antonio, who recommends this product. Indeed, this protein bar has one of the highest servings of protein on our list. “Th[is] super tasty line of protein bars provides around 200 calories and 20 grams of protein each,” says Amidor. “They are made with a milk protein blend of whey protein concentrate and whey protein isolate. You’ll also find soy protein isolate too. They are sweetened with a touch of sucralose.”  “If you like a super soft bar, this one is a great choice,” says Dr. Antonio, who recommends this bar. “Their creamy peanut butter bar has a similar ratio of protein and carbs (20:21 grams) as the Pure Protein bar.” “The light texture of this bar makes for a wonderful snack that doesn’t fill you up,” says Dr. Antonio. What’s more, whey protein—such as the one featured in the Power Crunch protein bars—has been shown to be one of the best proteins backed by science, as it’s been found to possibly help improve recovery after strenuous exercise. This product has a “very good consistency and taste for a plant-based bar with 14 grams of protein,” notes Bonci, who appreciates the variety of ingredients present, such as brown rice protein, nuts and pumpkin seed protein. Burnstine adds, “the Aloha Bar is a yummy treat or a great on-the-go, pre- or post-workout meal/snack. It has a plant-based protein mix great for vegetarians. The ingredients contain no artificial sweeteners. I love all of the flavors, but cookie dough is my favorite. They are less sinful than they taste.”  “These protein bars provide 12 grams of protein and between 240-[to-]250 calories per bar,” says Amidor. “They are free of trans fat and gluten, low in sodium, kosher, and a good source of protein and fiber.” She recommends KIND bars for adults and teens alike, as well as those snacking in the office, pre- or post-workout and on the go. “Rise bars are made with simple, whole food ingredients without any artificial additives or preservatives,” says Collier. “They also contain a significant source of protein, with over 15 grams of protein per bar. They provide vegan options as well.” She recommends this product for anyone, but especially those who follow a vegan or gluten-free diet.  Our best protein bars ranking is determined by a Forbes Health panel of experts. They provided their product recommendations, along with reasons they stand out.  Nutrition / Weight Loss / Diabetes / Cardiovascular Health / Gut Health Exercise and Sports Science / Sports Nutrition Nutrition / Metabolism / Glucose Food / Nutrition / Food Safety Sports nutrition Nutrition To determine our best protein bars ranking, the Forbes Health editorial team consulted a panel of six accredited nutrition experts on their top picks. Star ratings were determined solely by the editorial team, based on price per bar and a number of expert panelist recommendations, as well as the amount of protein, calories, carbohydrates and sugar provided in each bar. Protein bars are foods designed to provide a hefty amount of protein per serving, and can be consumed as a snack or meal substitute, depending on the calorie content. Protein bars can feature protein derived from whey  or casein, or plant-based proteins  sourced from ingredients like soy and beans. Protein bars can vary widely in terms of nutritional content, and some are more akin to a sweet treat than a healthy, protein-packed supplement option. Other nutritional information to look for when shopping for a protein bar include its sugar and fiber  content, as well as any trans or saturated fats. Protein bars provide an extra punch of protein, and the bars in our ranking range from providing 7 to 22 grams of protein per bar (it’s worth noting that the body can typically only digest about 20 to 40 grams of protein at a time). Some protein bars feature additional nutrients such as fiber, omega-3s, magnesium and zinc. Research suggests that consuming protein bars pre- or post-exercise may aid in faster muscle recovery, which can help to improve athletic performance and reduce muscle damage. Protein is a nitrogen-containing substance formed by amino acids that plays a vital role in the human body. It serves as the major structural component of muscle and other tissues, provides energy, helps red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the body and produces hormones, enzymes and vitamins. What’s more, protein-rich foods  often include other important nutrients, such as B vitamins, magnesium  and zinc. Increased protein consumption can also benefit athletic performance, as it helps speed up muscle recovery, reduce muscle loss and build lean muscle mass. It can even help you maintain a healthy weight. Protein bars are generally safe for most healthy individuals. However, consuming too much protein may increase an individual’s risk of kidney stones and is typically not recommended for individuals with chronic kidney disease. Additionally, upping your protein intake without increasing physical activity may lead to weight gain due to an increase in daily calorie consumption. While the majority of U.S. adults get enough protein through diet alone, supplementing with protein bars can be beneficial for people who exercise strenously, lift heavy weights or those who are looking to support muscle growth, and they can be a healthier snack alternative to a sugar-laden granola bar. Others who may benefit from additional protein in their diet include older adults, as muscle loss can occur with age, and upping your protein intake can support strength and lean body mass. Women under the age of 19 are also at risk for low protein intake. Although protein bars should not replace whole food meals and snacks, they are often a healthier alternative to foods from vending machines or fast food drive-thrus. Children can consume adequate amounts of proteins from foods like lean meats, eggs, dairy products, nuts and seeds. The amount of protein you need daily depends on factors like your age, weight, sex and activity level. However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) provides the following general recommendations for daily protein intake for adults: For reference, 1 ounce of protein is equivalent to one slice of deli meat, one egg, 1 tablespoon of peanut butter, one falafel patty or a quarter-cup of cooked beans. Experts largely recommend prioritizing protein derived from whole foods, such as almonds and lean meats. Whether eating a protein bar daily is considered “healthy” is largely dependent on how much protein you’re already receiving from diet alone. For example, if you’re already receiving the recommended daily allowance (RDA) of protein for your age group, excessive protein intake through sources like protein bars won’t provide much benefit. However, if you’re struggling to meet the RDA of protein through diet alone, it could be a healthy alternative. Just keep an eye on the nutritional content of protein bars, as they can include excessive amounts of sugar, trans or saturated fats, all of which are not good for your overall health. Those with kidney disease should also check with their health care provider before adding a protein supplement—such a protein bar—to their daily diet. Whether a protein bar is an appropriate meal replacement  is dependent on the calorie content of the bar. If you’re having a protein bar as a snack, you’ll want to aim for a bar with less calories, while if eating as a meal replacement, aim for a bar on the higher end. Dietary protein can support weight loss  in a number of ways: it can lead to increased satiety (feeling fuller longer), it helps preserve lean body mass during caloric restriction, it increases the thermogenic effect of food (the amount of energy it takes to digest that food) and it’s harder to store in the body as excess fat, according to the National Association of Sports Medicine. If you’re consuming protein for weight loss, aim for a two to one or one to one ratio of protein to carbs in a protein bar. Different protein bars contain different types of protein, as reflected in our ranking. Many protein bars feature whey protein (a type of protein sourced from milk) or a protein blend of whey protein isolate and milk protein isolate. Meanwhile, plant-based protein  is exactly what it sounds like, featuring protein derived from plants. It can include protein from peas, brown rice, hemp seeds, chia seeds, soy and various nuts. There are a number of high-quality, plant-based protein bars out there. In fact, one protein bar on our ranking, Aloha, is vegan-friendly and Rise also offers vegan options. These bars feature plant-based protein sources as opposed to whey, including brown rice, pea, hemp seeds and sunflower seeds. The biggest difference between animal-based protein and plant-based protein is that animal-based proteins are considered a “complete” protein, because they have all nine essential amino acids. Not all plant-based proteins contain all nine essential amino acids, so if you opt for plant-based protein, aim to get a variety of it. When perusing for a protein bar to add to your pantry, consider the following: And remember that just because something is marketed as a protein bar, that doesn’t mean it’s necessarily healthy—be sure to read the nutrition label and ingredients list closely. When it comes to protein bars, it’s important to closely read nutrition labels to ensure that you’re not consuming any unwanted ingredients. Consider the following protein bar ingredients that some individuals may want to avoid: 
                Get A Clean And Tasty Source Of Energy
             Protein+ bars from Transparent Labs contains 15g of grass-fed protein, 23g of whole food carbs, and 16g of healthy fats and other key macronutrients required to fuel and recover. On Transparent Labs' Website The healthiest protein bars provide adequate amounts of protein (at least 5 grams) without added sugars, trans or saturated fats. Healthy protein bars also provide additional nutrients, like fiber (at least 6 grams), and high-quality ingredients. The protein bar with the highest protein content on our ranking are Pure Protein bars, which provides up to 21 grams of protein for its chocolate deluxe flavor. Protein bars may be beneficial for individuals who have a hard time meeting the RDA of protein. Look for protein bars without added sugars, trans or saturated fats. Protein bars that are rich in carbohydrates are a good post-workout snack option, and can provide a boost of energy. Check the package of your protein bar to learn more about that specific product’s expiration date. Research suggests that when combined with resistance training, protein supplementation may lead to increased muscle strength and circumference. Whether a protein shake, powder or bar is healthier depends on the ingredients included like added sugars, fillers and preservatives, as well as additional nutrients like fiber. Make sure to carefully read a product’s nutrition label to determine the best protein supplement for you. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and Bankrate. When she isn’t writing or editing, you can find Sarah with her nose in a book or enjoying the outdoors with her French bulldog, Honey.
			 
				Jessica is a writer and editor with over a decade of experience in both lifestyle and clinical health topics. Before Forbes Health, Jessica was an editor for Healthline Media, WW and PopSugar, as well as numerous health-related startups. When she isn't writing or editing, Jessica can be found at the gym, listening to a health or true crime podcast, or spending time outside. She also really enjoys bread (even though she's not supposed to eat it).
			