The Tribune transitioned this week to mail delivery for the print version of the newspaper. In some ways, it is a return to an earlier time when the weekly paper was delivered by the U.S. Mail to rural customers. When the Tribune was founded in August 1869, it was hand printed in Walter Murray’s adobe across the street from Mission San Luis Obispo de Tolosa in downtown San Luis Obispo. The paper did not have a bar code or a single copy price on the front page. The only pricing plan available was a $5 annual subscription. Those subscriptions were vital for budgeting and determining circulation for national advertising rates. The city of San Luis Obispo had two newspapers at the time — the Tribune and The Democratic-Standard — despite the fact that San Luis Obispo County had a population of only 4,772 people, according to the 1870 U.S. Census. The Tribune had regional agents who could sell advertising and copies of the paper. If a subscriber lived farther than walking distance from the newspaper office, they would pay for home delivery via the U.S. Post Office. One of the founding missions of the Post Office is to support democracy by distributing information. In the past, newspapers exchanged editions via mail at no cost to each other. Often, early newspapers would refer to news from “the exchanges.” It was a way for papers to share stories from out of the area, and functioned as the predecessor to wire services. Well-written newsy papers were often quoted by other papers. One of the early local newspaper editors lamented that his office wasn’t a public library, and more than one editor would make regular pitches for readers to subscribe. Delivering news has always involved finding a balance between technology and economics. When The Tribune was founded, roads were little more than cow paths. Two decades later, as 1889 ended, editor Benjamin Brooks commissioned a gift for subscribers. He hired Mr. Holmes to make a series of photographs of carriers delivering the Morning Tribune. The History Center of San Luis Obispo County and Cal Poly Special Collections have at least five images between them showing a carriers on foot and on horseback on muddy streets, in a creek and in front of the massive Ramona Hotel on the east side of town with the credit line “Holmes, artist” in the corner. “We had planned to present to our patrons on New Year’s day, as a souvenir of the TRIBUNE and a compliment from our carriers,” Brooks wrote on Jan. 3, 1890, “a cabinet photograph illustrative of the trials and difficulties incident to the delivery of the paper.” Holmes didn’t let a series of rain storms deter him from braving muddy streets to record storytelling images. The photographs are a remarkable reminder of all the efforts generations of carriers have made over the years to deliver the paper. Thanks to all of you who delivered in all kinds of weather and to the postal carriers who continue to help our community stay informed. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.