 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Love Thy Beast is our favorite in-cabin carrier for a cozy and comfortable flying experience Lindsay Tigar is an experienced travel and lifestyle journalist, content strategist, and editor. Her work has appeared in Travel + Leisure, Vogue, USA Today, Fast Company, and other publications. In This Article People / Anna Mejorada  If you're taking your furry friend along for your next adventure (and need to board a flight to reach your destination), you’ll need an airline-approved pet carrier to keep them safe and sound. 
  While we’d love to say it’s a stress-free endeavor to take a four-legged pal on an airplane, most pet owners will admit it can be difficult and requires some preparation. To ensure you have the best experience possible, check your airline’s specific pet restrictions and requirements — including maximum pet weight, carrier dimensions, and paperwork — to avoid mishaps.
 At the time of publishing, to travel with a pet on Delta, United, or American Airlines, your soft-sided pet carrier must be 18 by 11 by 11 inches or smaller. To travel with a pet on JetBlue, your in-flight carrier can't exceed 17 by 12.5 by 8.5 inches, and cargo hold dimensions vary. Some airlines may have smaller requirements for regional flights, so check your specific airline for dimension limitations.  We tested more than a dozen popular pet carriers by taking our pets aboard recent flights, and these are the best airline-approved (and pet-approved) carriers PEOPLE tested.
 Compact and lightweight Shoulder straps make it easy to carry Easy to clean Only fits pets up to 25 pounds  Lightweight and durable, this pet carrier has everything you need for a solid travel day with your furry pal. We tested this bag on JetBlue and Delta flights, and it fit underneath the seat easily. Not only is it compact enough for easy storage and travel, but the roomy interior allows pets to sit, stand, lie down, and turn around while they’re inside. One key feature we loved was the mesh paneling that provides shy or anxious pets privacy from fellow travelers but still allows your four-legged buddy to see (and smell) you for reassurance.
  This pet carrier features supportive shoulder straps for extra security at the airport. Or, if you have a roller carry-on bag, you can use the two smaller pockets with zippers that function as a loop for suitcase handles. (Psst: Use these to secure seatbelts in your Uber ride, too!) There's also a large zippered pocket for your phone, wallet, boarding pass, headphones, and your pet’s treats, so you don't necessarily need an additional bag or purse.
  If your dog or cat has an accident during your journey, you’ll appreciate the platform on the bottom of the bag that can easily be removed and cleaned. The only fault we could find with this bag is that it has a 25-pound weight limit, so it won't work for all pets.
  Dimensions: 17 x 8 x 12 inches | Weight Limit: Up to 25 pounds
 Sturdy yet lightweight 4 storage pockets Pets can peek out JetBlue-approved No trolley sleeve Basic design  One thing is for sure about this airline bag: You know it’ll fit underneath the seat for JetBlue flights since it’s the airline's official pet carrier. There is plenty to love about this budget-friendly buy: It's sturdy, lightweight, easy to carry, and super functional. We love the four pockets: one for treats, one for your passport, wallet, and phone, one for a tablet or book, and one for snacks. We also appreciated the nylon material that’s super simple to clean in case our furry friend has an accident. 
  The only downfall is that it’s a bit on the shorter side, and it doesn’t have a sleeve to slip onto a roller suitcase. It’s also not exactly chic, so you won’t be turning any heads when you stroll down the terminal. However, if you’re looking for a budget-minded carrier that you know is approved by JetBlue Airlines, you can’t go wrong with this one.
  Dimensions: 16 x 8.5 x 10 inches | Weight Limit: Up to 20 pounds
 People / Morgan Ashley Parker People / Morgan Ashley Parker Sturdy, high-quality materials Breathable Sleek design Easy to clean Awkward handle length On the pricey side Doesn’t comply with some airlines' requirements  If you already love your Away luggage, consider giving your best friend a matching carrier. We loved the overall design of the Away carrier — it is sturdy, sleek, modern, and has some bells and whistles worth noting. The bag is made with high-quality materials, and we feel confident that it will hold up over time and keep our dog safe and protected.
  We appreciate the fuzzy interior for a cozy touch and the mesh panels to provide fresh air for your pet. In addition, the built-in shades on the sides can be pulled down to give your dog darkness and security while flying. It’s also versatile. You can use the handles to carry it as a tote bag or put the carrier straps over your shoulder. However, we did find the handles slightly awkward in length.
  You can think of this Away carrier as the Goldilocks of sizing: not too big, not too small, and it can easily fit a small to medium-sized dog. However, one drawback is that it doesn’t always fit underneath every seat. For budget airlines like Southwest, Spirit, Frontier, or Allegiant, this bag may not comply with pet carrier size requirements. Like our other top picks, the Away carrier has plenty of spacious pockets to store your (and your dog’s) essentials. It’s also easy to spot-clean the outside and toss the removable fleece lining in the washing machine. While it’s on the pricey end, it’s a worthwhile investment for frequent fliers.
  Dimensions: 18.7 x 10.8 x 10.75 inches | Weight Limit: Up to 18 pounds
 People / Alessandra Amodio People / Anna Popp People / Anna Popp Sturdy Pet can move around Comfortable Expandable mesh sides Soft-sided, so it won’t last as long as a plastic kennel When expanded, it's too wide for under the seat  This expandable carrier won us over but with a few caveats. First, the good stuff: This bag is very well-made, sturdy, and portable. When waiting to board, you can expand the mesh panels to the left and right, so your pet can stretch out, move around, and get comfortable.
  However, when the bag is zipped shut, your pet may not be able to stand up fully (though they can likely move around and reposition themselves). Unfortunately, to fit underneath the seat, you can’t leave the sides expanded. And while the materials feel secure, it’s made of a soft lining and is soft-sided, so we worry it may not last as long as other airline-approved pet carriers, but that all depends on how often you fly — and, ahem, how destructive your dog or cat is when under stress. We weren't big fans of the handles since they hurt our hands over time, and we would have preferred some extra padding.
  Dimensions: 16 x 10 x 9 inches | Weight Limit: Up to 13 pounds
 People / JT Wilde People / JT Wilde Well-made and lightweight Strap for suitcase handle is very secure Chic design Convenient features Folds flat when not in use Too big to fit under seats on some airlines  Stylish pet owners don’t want to be seen strolling through the airport with just any old carrier. If that's you, you’ll love the Wild One Travel Carrier. It’s the chicest bag we tested, and its features are convenient and functional. The pockets are placed in easy-to-access areas for pet parents, so you can quickly grab your boarding pass, phone, or a well-deserved treat for your floof. 
  The mesh panels with pull-down covers provide ventilation and some privacy for your animal. We also liked the supportive straps because they were comfortable to wear throughout the airport. It has a compartment to slip onto the handle of your rolling carry-on suitcase, and we felt our pet was securely fastened. Once you’ve touched down at your destination, you can fold the entire bag so it lays flat.
  Now for the biggest downfall: To zip the carrier shut, your medium-sized dog must lie down. And while your dog could lift their head, even super-short dogs might be unable to stand up. Generally speaking, this carrier is spacious lengthwise but shorter than other carriers. Unfortunately, Delta told us that the carrier is too big to fit under the seat in the main cabin or Delta Plus. And if it's too big for Delta's under-the-seat storage, it's likely too big for budget airlines such as Southwest, Spirit, Frontier, or Allegiant.
  Dimensions: 17.5 x 10 x 11 inches | Weight Limit: Up to 16 pounds
 People / Anna Mejorada People / Anna Mejorada People / Anna Mejorada Sturdy Can fit kennel pad inside Easy to wipe down and disassemble Gate can open from right or left No storage or pockets No handles or wheels  All airlines limit the size of dogs who can board a plane, and unless they are certified service dogs, larger breeds must travel underneath the plane in the cargo area. If you bring your big buddy along for your next adventure and you’re looking for a cargo pet carrier that gets the job done but isn’t fancy, this is your best bet. This crate has enough space for a cozy kennel pad, a few dog toys, a blanket, and a travel water and food bowl.
  This super-sturdy crate is mainly made of plastic, making it easy to clean and break down to store after your trip. We liked how easy it is to open and close the gate with one hand, and the gate could be put on either side, allowing it to open to the left or the right. We also had zero problems getting the kennel through TSA; we just had to go through the scanner to ensure everything inside was safe for travel.
  Dimensions: 36 x 24.5 x 27 inches | Weight Limit: For pets 25 to 30 pounds
 People / Tamara Staples People / Jessica Juliao People / Jessica Juliao People / Jessica Juliao People / Jessica Juliao Elegant design Comfortable and lightweight Can place over luggage handle Not tall enough for pet to turn around when closed Pricey  If you live in a teeny-tiny place with very little storage for yourself (much less your pet’s accessories), you’ll appreciate this elegant-looking carrier's versatility and foldability. It’s made of high-quality materials that are easy to spot-clean when needed. We were especially fans of the comfortable handles when carrying this bag through the airport, and the hidden pocket slips over your roller carry-on luggage if you'd rather wheel Fido along with you. 
  Inside the carrier is a soft pad, so your pup feels cozy. However, this is a compact carrier. We found that a dog has to be lying down to close the top, and they can’t turn around in the carrier when it’s closed. This limits a dog's movement, and some airlines require your animal to be able to turn around in their carrier. Because this lightweight carrier is on the smaller side, there is no extra room for a blanket to keep a dog warm during the flight. However, if you have a small-breed pup and value a chic, foldable design, it could be worth the investment.
  Dimensions: 17.5 x 11 x 10 inches | Weight Limit: Up to 25 pounds
 People / Kate Rousu People / Kate Rousu Spacious and sturdy Strong, escape-proof zippers Scratch-resistant mesh Versatile carrying options Might not fit under some airplane seats Backpack straps aren't padded  This airline-approved carrier is the perfect option for proud cat parents who don’t want to leave their feline at home during long trips. With a sturdy yet lightweight design, it’s spacious and long, and it gives your cat plenty of room to move around comfortably. We were fans of the scratch-resistant mesh and escape-proof zippers since felines can be more curious and mischievous than dogs. Inside the carrier is a super-soft felt lining that’s cozy for your cat and removable for easy cleaning. You can pull down a total blackout side panel during the stressful parts of traveling, so your cat can feel secure and calm. 
  There are plenty of ways to tote this cat carrier: on your shoulder with a padded strap, as a backpack, or as a crossbody bag. However, we found the crossbody style awkward and uncomfortable, and with the backpack option, you lose the much-needed padding for your shoulders. On the plus side, there are well-organized storage pockets, so you don’t have to carry an additional bag for your phone and boarding pass. And you can open the bag from all sides, including the top. The fourth wall can be completely pulled down, and you can attach your cat to a tethered leash.
  The only real downfall is the length of this pet carrier, which may not comply with all airline size requirements.
  Dimensions: 19 x 10.5 x 11 inches | Weight Limit: Up to 30 pounds
 People / Morgan Ashley Parker People / Morgan Ashley Parker Comfortable and roomy Very durable Has wheels for travel Easy to clean 27 pounds when empty Expensive option  If you plan to travel frequently with your bigger dog, this cargo kennel is worth the investment. It’s been tested by the Center for Pet Safety and received a five-star rating — the highest accolade possible. It also comes with a lifetime warranty, so you know your purchase is a safe bet. We flew with two larger canines in this kennel, and it was not only roomy and comfortable for both of them, but we felt that each was safe and secure. 
  Like other cargo kennels, there is enough room to add a dog bed or pad, your pup’s beloved toys, a blanket, and a water or food bowl. We found it relatively easy to assemble, but it’s important to note that it’s heavier due to the high-quality, durable materials — a whopping 27 pounds when it’s empty. While it does have back wheels that make it easy to move, loading and unloading it into your vehicle may require two people.
  Dimensions: 33.25 x 21 x 29 x 23 inches | Weight Limit: Up to 75 pounds
 People / Lisa Pezzuto People / Lisa Pezzuto  When choosing a pet carrier for a plane ride, the first step is to check your airline's specific size requirements. Every airline has slightly different rules, so double-check that your favorite carrier complies with your favorite airline's required dimensions.
  Consider if your pet will be coming on board with you or if they will be traveling in a cargo hold. Most soft-sided, in-cabin pet carriers are suitable for pets up to 20 pounds, and most airlines only allow pets up to this size in the cabin, says Dr. Whitney Miller, DVM, MBA, DACVPM, chief veterinarian at Petco.
  “Regardless of where your pet will be during the flight, their carrier should provide enough room to stand up, sit, lay down, and turn around without issues, as well as ventilation from at least three of its sides,” says Miller. 
  Most airlines consider this and require your pet to be able to turn around in their carrier. In addition to a comfortable size, perhaps add your pet's favorite toy or small blanket in case they get anxious or chilly.
  If you only take your pet on a trip every few years, you may not need an expensive pet carrier that's versatile and packed with features; the budget-friendly JetPaws carrier may do the trick. If you frequently travel with your furry friend, investing in a high-quality pet carrier that's comfortable for both you and your pet is worth the extra cash.
 People / Anna Popp  We tested 13 top-rated airline-approved pet carriers to determine which were the best.
 The only true way to know if a pet carrier is airline-approved is by buying one straight from the airline itself, like our budget pick from JetBlue. However, airlines generally have size requirements for pet travel carriers, so you can choose to purchase your own. Amanda Farah, national training and behavior coordinator at Best Friends Animal Society, says to begin your search by checking the allowable overall size, dimensions, materials, and so forth for your specific airline. Pet carry-ons are generally limited to around 17.5 by 13 by 8 inches, and they must fit underneath the seat in front of you, according to Kate Karam, pet expert for Chewy. Some budget airlines, like Frontier, Allegiant, or Spirit, may have slightly smaller dimension requirements, so you must check when you book your pet’s ticket. Medium-sized dogs can fly in the cabin, but they usually need to be 20 pounds or less (and that includes the weight of the pet carrier). This number varies depending on the airline, so it’s best to do your homework before takeoff.  Lindsay Tigar is an experienced travel and lifestyle journalist. Her work has also appeared in Travel + Leisure, Vogue, USA Today, Fast Company, and other publications. To bring you this review, she consulted our testers for their impressions of pet carriers, considering effectiveness, durability, and ease of use, as well as airline restrictions. While researching pet carriers, we spoke with Dr. Whitney Miller, chief veterinarian at Petco; Amanda Farah, national training and behavior coordinator at Best Friends Animal Society; and Kate Karam, pet expert and editor-in-chief at Chewy.
  We created the PEOPLE Tested seal of approval to help you find the very best products for your life. We use our unique methodology to test products in three labs across the country and with our network of home testers to determine their effectiveness, durability, ease of use, and so much more. Based on the results, we rate and recommend products so you can find the right one for your needs.
  But we don’t stop there: We also regularly re-review the categories in which we’ve awarded the PEOPLE Tested seal of approval — because the best product of today might not be the best of tomorrow. And by the way, companies can never buy our recommendation: Their products must earn it, fair and square.
  In short, PEOPLE Tested provides recommendations you can trust — every day, every purchase.
