The sale is valid on travel between Jan. 9, 2024 to Feb. 15, 2024. As the winter season approaches, JetBlue's is helping travelers make an escape to warmer weather with their latest flight sale. The airline's "Winter Wander" sale has one-way airfares starting as low as $49. The promotion is available for travel from New York, Orlando, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Chicago, and Houston and is valid on travel between Jan. 9, 2024 to Feb. 15, 2024. Travelers seeking to take advantage of the deal will have to book soon, as the promotion ends at 11:59 pm ET on October 26, 2023.  Travel + Leisure spotted that some of the top flight discounts include: New York, NY (JFK) to Savannah, GA for $49 one-way Newark, NJ (EWR) to Orlando, FL for $79 one-way Kansas City, MO to New York, NY (JFK) for $79 one-way Miami, FL to Los Angeles, CA (LAX) for $74 one-way The also extends to a promotion with JetBlue vacations where travelers can save up to $300 when bundling a hotel and flight booking. The deal also includes free airport transfers. The timing of when travelers can use the fares correlates with the “shoulder travel season” — a time when travel begins to slow down until spring break — for many destinations around the world. The time of year tends to yield fewer crowds and lower prices. T+L recently published a guide to navigating the shoulder travel season to find the best deals.  For more Travel & Leisure news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on Travel & Leisure. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.