Book a quick getaway this summer with these JetBlue and Southwest deals. JetBlue is offering 20% off award flights within the carrier's U.S. network. Also, to celebrate the Fourth of July, Southwest Airlines has a 25% off sale on base fares. For the JetBlue deal, you'll need to make sure you have enough points in your TrueBlue account in order to get the discounted flights. With Southwest, you can pay as little as $180 for a round-trip flight. The JetBlue offer ends May 16, and the Southwest deal ends May 17, so make book your flights as soon as possible. Airlines: JetBlue and Southwest.Routes: Any routes within JetBlue's and Southwest's respective networks within the continental U.S. Transatlantic and Mint-class flights are excluded from the JetBlue deal.How to book: Directly on JetBlue's or Southwest's websites. For Southwest, type in the promo code "J4SAVE" to receive discounted flights.Travel dates: For JetBlue, the deal applies to travel from May 15 through June 21. Southwest travel dates take place from July 3 through July 7.Book by:  May 16 for JetBlue; May 17 for Southwest. To snag a good deal on these flights, you must play around with the fare calendars and the destinations. For example, JetBlue has ample award availability if you fly from the New York City area rather than Nashville. Here are a few flights within these deals that stood out to us. For the JetBlue flights, we found that the website would occasionally crash whenever we tried to book any flights under the carrier's award deal, so you may need to be patient if you opt to book with JetBlue. One of the best award availabilities we found was a round-trip flight from LGA to BOS for as low as 7,200 miles. You could even upgrade to Blue Extra for just 10,000 miles. If you decide to book the Southwest deal, get your flight tickets as soon as possible. We found that many of the Wanna Get Away and Wanna Get Away Plus fares were already sold out. One of the routes we found with decent availability was from DAL to FLL, where you could book flights for as low as $155. If you opt for the cheapest possible fares, you'll pay at most $299 for round-trip flights between Dallas and Fort Lauderdale. Make sure to use cards that earn bonus points on airfare purchases like The Platinum Card® from American Express (5 points per dollar on airfare booked directly with the airline or through American Express Travel), on up to $500,000 on these purchases per calendar year, then 1 point per dollar, Citi Prestige® Card (5 points per dollar on airfare), Chase Sapphire Reserve (3 points per dollar on airfare), American Express® Gold Card (3 points per dollar on airfare when booked directly with the airline or through Amex Travel) or the Chase Sapphire Preferred Card (2 points per dollar on travel). Check out this post for more on maximizing airfare purchases. The information for the Citi Prestige Card has been collected independently by The Points Guy. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer. Summer can be one of the most hectic times to travel, especially as fares are usually quite expensive. However, these JetBlue and Southwest deals are great opportunities to plan for a quick summer trip without spending tons on airfare. These deals won't last long, so be sure to book them today. The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality. When you choose to apply (and are approved) for a new credit card through our site, we may receive compensation from our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.