JetBlue Airways is expanding its Caribbean reach, introducing two new nonstop routes to Belize and the islands of St. Kitts. The esteemed Philip S.W. Goldson International Airport in Belize City and Robert Llewellyn Bradshaw International Airport in St. Kitts will now directly connect to John F. Kennedy International Airport in the US. Starting November 2, both routes will operate three times per week, enabling travelers a seamless flight path between these Caribbean destinations and New York’s high-traffic JFK airport. The move by JetBlue is set to enhance connectivity and convenience for passengers seeking direct flights to Belize and St. Kitts, facilitating increased tourism and economic activity between the United States and these idyllic island nations. JetBlue is also launching a new service between Los Angeles International Airport and Nassau’s Lynden Pindling International Airport. This route will operate exclusively on Saturdays, beginning on November 4. The new route provides a convenient travel option for passengers seeking a direct connection between the West Coast and the beautiful shores of the Bahamas. Furthermore, JetBlue will introduce Saturday service between Boston Logan International Airport and Maurice Bishop International Airport in Grenada, starting November 4. Travelers from the northeast will be able to easily access Grenada for a relaxing getaway to explore its vibrant culture. Lastly, JetBlue is also catering to short-trip travelers. A new, daily nonstop service between Raleigh-Durham International Airport and Orlando International Airport is coming to the airline’s service in November. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.