Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     The timeliness of your flight is dependent on the on-time performance of your plane throughout the day leading up to your departure. Most short and medium-haul airliners fly many sectors per day. Unless your flight is very early in the morning, your plane has likely already carried many passengers that day. It takes a concerted effort by lots of people to accomplish on-time turnarounds.
      Pilots often communicate with personnel on the ground before landing. Some airlines require that pilots send "in-range" reports to the airport they are landing at via their onboard computer. This informational report is generally automated and contains information such as the type of aircraft, the number of passengers, and any special accommodations that are required (such as wheelchair assistance at the gate).
                         There are some airports, usually smaller regional stations, that require a voice call from the pilots on a predetermined operations frequency. This call is used to pass along the same information. Pilots receive their gate number for parking, if it is not already known, and brief each other about how they will taxi from the runway to their parking location. 
      Ground handlers begin their work on the aircraft when it is safe to do so. Baggage handlers begin offloading arriving bags and cargo, catering trucks pull up the aircraft, lavatory service technicians hook up their hoses, and fuelers arrive under the wing to begin setting up their operation. A trained gate agent maneuvers the jetbridge towards the door(s) used for egress, and the flight attendants verify that all the cabin doors are disarmed (meaning that emergency escape slides will not deploy when the door is opened). All of this happens without the pilots' input.
                         The first officer is usually responsible for conducting post-flight walk-around after the shutdown items have been completed. If the flight is a quick turn, this walk-around is also the pre-flight inspection. As a first officer, I always try to greet a member of the local staff on the jetbridge to see if there are any special considerations for our turnaround, such as inoperative equipment at the airport, passenger requirements, etc.
                         I also ensure the jetbridge door code that I have been provided with is, in fact, the proper combination. The last thing a first officer wants is to complete their walk-around and be stuck on a jetbridge when it's raining or snowing (ask me how I know).
                         Want answers to more key questions in aviation? Check out the rest of our guides here.
                         If the captain has remained on the aircraft, they might be talking to the operations manager on the radio, obtaining clearance from ATC for the next flight, or briefing the flight attendants for the next segment. If there has been a maintenance discrepancy with the aircraft on the inbound flight, the captain will speak with a licensed technician about the issue and will review the aircraft maintenance logbook with them before they set about resolving the problem.
                         Down on the ramp, the first officer might be asked to confirm the amount of fuel needed for the outbound flight by the fueling agent. They might also speak with the crew chief about any special procedures that are required, such as an engine air start or a voiceless pushback using hand signals if certain components on the plane are inoperative.
                         Minutes later, both pilots will be back on the flight deck and have reviewed their route and briefed the departure. If a maintenance technician has been working on the aircraft, they will report back to the captain and indicate that the issue has been resolved in the maintenance logbook. A flight attendant will come to the flight deck after boarding has completed to report the passenger count and, of equal importance, where the passengers are seated.
                         This information is used to validate weight and balance calculations. When the pilots have agreed that this information matches their numbers, the captain will ask for the flight deck door to be closed. Pilots put their headsets on, communicate with the pushback crew and ATC ground controllers, and the next flight is on its way.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Looking at what passengers can expect in the coming years. International doesn't always mean intercontinental.  Simple Flying visited Boeing to learn more about the 777X, a next-generation aircraft set to enter service by 2025. As airports grow over the years, some of the newly built runways may be far away from the terminal. While Air Koryo is no ordinary airline, it does operate a limited number of international and domestic flights.  Twin-engine jets can fly for at least 60 minutes and up to 6 hours on one engine. 