Fernweh Group LLC and its portfolio company, Dabico Corporation, have completed the previously announced acquisition of FMT Sweden AB and FMT International Trade AB in an all-cash transaction. Fernweh and Dabico’s investment in FMT is part of its overall strategy to build a leading aviation and transportation/logistics infrastructure platform with global market coverage focused on the European Union and North America. FMT, based in Trelleborg in Sweden, is a leading provider of passenger boarding bridges, docking solutions, and aftermarket parts and services for airports and seaports. FMT´s expertise lies in creating tailor-made solutions to improve safe, flexible and fast turnarounds for airports and seaports with high passenger flows. FMT, through a strong focus on innovation, has built an extensive patent portfolio, a best-in-class product and services offering, and a broad customer base comprised of 85+ airports and seaports across the EU and NA. Nick Santhanam, CEO of Fernweh Group, noted, "We are delighted to continue the build out of our aviation and transportation/logistics infrastructure platform through the acquisition of FMT. This acquisition strengthens Dabico’s position as a premier provider of ground support systems to the transportation/logistics infrastructure market and further builds on our commitment to the EU and NA markets. I would like to thank the respective teams at Dabico and FMT for their collective effort in successfully completing the transaction. I look forward to working with them going forward on executing on the significant opportunities for future growth for the combined company.” “Our team is pleased to officially welcome FMT to the Dabico family as a critical component of our growing platform. The combination of Dabico and FMT will serve to enhance the mission of both companies as we start this new year. Through this partnership, we look forward to continuing to deliver best-in-class products and services to our customers across the EU and globally,” says Juergen Strommer, Dabico CEO.