This content has been funded by an advertiser and written by the Nine commercial editorial team. Copy link Copied Copy link Copied Subscribe to gift this article Gift 5 articles to anyone you choose each month when you subscribe. Already a subscriber? Login The technology sector continues to grow in size and prominence in the Australian economy. In fact, it is very hard to imagine any aspect of life being untouched by tech. Spending on IT services in Australia is anticipated to nudge $40 billion in 2022, according to research firm Gartner – 6.1 per cent more than previously. Olympus Tech A report prepared by Deloitte and the Australian Computer Society, Unlocking the tech sector: beyond one million, revealed that in 2020-21, the information and communication technology (ICT) sector contributed nearly $56 billion in gross value added (GVA) to the Australian economy. The report also noted that ICT exports exceeded $5 billion in 2020–21. Little wonder that the tech workforce is expanding likewise. In 2021, there were 64,743 more technology workers than in 2020, accounting for more than 870,000 jobs, and the Deloitte/Australian Computer Society survey estimates the figure will exceed 1 million by 2024, rising to 1.2 million 2027. Indeed, Australia’s economy is underpinned by that technology workforce, with the technology sector helping drive improved productivity. Industries such as mining, banking and manufacturing have increasingly adopted the latest technology to optimise business operations. “With the onset of digital transformation, every business in Australia, large or small, has a requirement for technology and services providers like us.” — Paulo Mpliokas, Olympus Technology Services director Still, it is easy to become overwhelmed by technology and the array of possibilities if you are not familiar with software and hardware terms and brands. “Technology often seems to be inherently complex, but it needn’t be,” says Paulo Mpliokas, Olympus Technology Services director. “So, we try to demystify things and make the technology the enabler for whatever is core to our clients’ business.” Paulo Mpliokas, Olympus Technology Services director. Olympus Tech Olympus Technology Services is an Australian IT services company providing consulting advice, professional and managed services, along with an array of technology solutions for medium and large commercial clients, as well as for local and state government agencies and large global enterprises. The group specialises in helping organisations of all sizes understand how to simplify complex processes and realise tangible benefits when using technology. “We are fiercely customer focused and have built our business around understanding their needs,” Mpliokas says. “Our team of project and technical delivery resources spend time to get to know our clients and we focus on the outcomes they need to keep their businesses successful. “We help modernise and migrate many customer’s technology platforms to give their team’s back some time or to reduce risks to their business.” Reflecting the economy’s growing reliance on tech and technical support, spending on IT services in Australia is anticipated to nudge $40 billion in 2022, according to research firm Gartner – 6.1 per cent more than previously – with business and technology consulting growing by 8.3 per cent to nearly $8.5 billion. Overall, IT spending in Australia is expected to hit $111 billion, representing growth of 6.3 per cent. “With the onset of digital transformation, every business in Australia, large or small, has a requirement for technology and services providers like us,” Mpliokas says. “We help modernise and migrate many customer’s technology platforms to give their team’s back some time or to reduce risks to their business.” The recent high-profile data breaches embroiling Medibank and Optus – and with cyber threats intensifying – is prompting companies to reassess their security systems. The Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) received more than 76,000 cybercrime reports in 2020-21, an increase of nearly 13 per cent from the previous year. This equated to one report every seven minutes. The centre also reported a rise in the average cost per cybercrime report to more than $39,000 for small businesses and $88,000 for medium-sized businesses. “Cybersecurity is the main issue on everyone’s mind,” Mpliokas says. “Where is your data? How is it being secured? Can you get your data back if you are faced with a cyber incident? “We can answer all of those questions and set up our customers so that they have peace of mind.” Formed in 2016, Olympus Technology Services has grown to employ 32 staff. The group has experience in designing, deploying and replacing ageing data centre infrastructure, campus and wireless networks. “Our as-a-service infrastructure and on-demand resources help maintain modern workloads and scale when and where you need them,” Mpliokas says. To learn more, visit https://www.olympustech.com.au/. This content has been funded by an advertiser and written by the Nine commercial editorial team. Copy link Copied Copy link Copied Subscribe to gift this article Gift 5 articles to anyone you choose each month when you subscribe. Already a subscriber? Login Follow the topics, people and companies that matter to you. Fetching latest articles The Daily Habit of Successful People