Losing Giannis Antetokounmpo to a lower back contusion early in Game 1 against the Miami Heat Sunday at Fiserv Forum was disastrous for the Bucks. The good news is that his X-ray was clear. The question is, can the Bucks win playoff games if their star isn’t available to play in Game 2 or beyond; or if he does play – but not at 100% strength. With the NBA top-seeded Bucks looking flatfooted to open the postseason against Miami, trailing 24-12 early, Antetokounmpo looked like he was just attempting to get something going with one of his patented drives to the basket. But Miami Heat defender Kevin Love was there to clog up the path at the 4-minute, 13-second mark of the first quarter. Miami was just beginning to show a trend that would play out all game – placing heavy emphasis on defending the post. In this case, Antetokounmpo maybe didn’t get the footing he wanted, or just elevated slightly awkwardly into Love. While driving for the basket, he was spun awkwardly in mid air, and torqued just late enough that he could not brace his fall. Antetokounmpo appeared to land directly on to his tailbone. Laying on the court for a minute, he writhed in pain, but got up and tried to play through it. It didn’t work. After making 1 of 2 free throws Antetokounmpo kept playing, making a tough layup, but misfiring on a midrange shot that fell short. He looked stiff while shooting and just a little unsure when he wasn’t directly making a play on offense or defense. With the Bucks trailing 29-18, Antetokounmpo attempted another drive to the basket, this time committing an offensive foul, with the charge successfully drawn by Love. Antetokounmpo clearly expected to be going to the free throw line; instead he left the court and the Bucks played without him to finish the first quarter. Antetokounmpo returned, though, at the 9:46 mark in the second. He just didn’t look his old self, whether he was jogging gingerly or stretching a little during dead-ball times to loosen up the back. Coach Mike Budenholzer had seen enough and sent Jae Crowder in off the bench with about 8:30 left. "He wasn't moving, didn't look comfortable, confident,” said Budenholzer. “It felt like the right thing.” For a split second, it looked like Antetokounmpo didn’t want to budge as Crowder approached him, and then he relented, and exited the court to head to the locker room. The exchange was awkward enough that the Bucks were whistled for a ‘delay of game’ violation. Antetokounmpo has come back from injury sooner than expected before, whether it was the sprained wrist he suffered right before the all-star break, or the knee injury he suffered in the Eastern Conference Finals in 2021. In both cases he came back faster than expected and played better than expected. Budenholzer wants to see how Antetokounmpo feels in the following days. “We have to wait and see what the doctor says, most importantly, what Giannis says,” said Budenholzer. “Certainly we've been blessed with him being incredibly resilient and quick to heal, but you just got to take it day by day and see how he's doing and see how he feels.” More:Marc Lasry reflects on his time as Bucks co-owner: 'A phenomenal experience.' More:Bucks roster for 2023 NBA playoffs features championship experience. Here's a look at every player and their stats. The Bucks have also found a way to win this year whenever Antetokounmpo did sit out, whether it was to manage knee soreness or other ailments. Antetokounmpo missed 19 regular-season games and the Bucks’ record in those games was 11-8. The record is even better when factored in that Antetokounmpo was rested along with other starters the final two games of the season. The Bucks have an 11-6 record then without the MVP candidate in games with the traditional lineup. “You’re not going to replace Giannis,” said Bucks guard Wesley Matthews. “But the gift and the curse of the NBA season is it is 82 games; not everybody is going to play every game. We played a lot of games without Giannis in the lineup. We’re not using that as an excuse. “Even when he was in the game we were giving up 60% shooting.” It is important to note that Antetokounmpo has exited two regular-season games early. On Feb. 16 at Chicago he left with a sprained right wrist after falling into the stanchion. He also left Feb. 24 vs. Miami – the first game after the all-star break – with a bruised quad. If Antetokounmpo leaves a game, it can be an indication that the injury is fairly serious, he said in February, and he's in too much pain to push through at least for that game. “For me to leave the game – which I don’t usually, typically never do – I’m in pain,” said Antetokounmpo. “But, at the end of the day, whatever I have to give, I try to give.” The Bucks would not use the departure of Antetokounmpo as an excuse. "We don't want him to be hurt, but it's still next man up mentality,” said guard Jrue Holiday. “We have enough talent on this team to cover for him until he comes back or possibly comes back.” “It’s tough,” said guard Grayson Allen. “We play differently with him in the game. We’re a better team with him in the game. But in terms of game-plan wise, we’ve played without multiple guys all year. I don’t think it was a crazy adjustment. “But when the MVP goes out, it's tough.”