
September 20, 2023 at 12:43 p.m.
| Updated September 21, 2023 at 4:00 a.m.
 by
Ryan Pivoney
 The Jefferson City News Tribune will be moving. The building that houses the newspaper’s central office has been sold, WEHCO Media Inc., owner of the News Tribune, announced to staff members Wednesday. The News Tribune has been based out of the 210 Monroe St. office for more than 90 years. The newspaper’s original owners constructed the three-story brick building in 1931. “The building is not in good condition, and the operating expenses were significantly adding up,” said Mark Lane, president of WEHCO Newspapers. “… We are currently looking for a new office location, and we will inform our readers and advertisers when we’ve made this decision.” The company is not downsizing or reducing operations, officials said. Its commercial printing facility will not be affected. “We are selling the property only, not the News Tribune,” Lane said. WEHCO has been involved in discussions with Jefferson City about the future of the downtown office building since city officials expressed interest in expanding the Madison Street parking garage a couple years ago, Lane said. The property is expected to be sold to the city, demolished and replaced with a parking structure, according to the sale agreement signed Monday. Lane declined to say how much the 33,539-square-foot building will be sold for, but the sale agreement provided by the city indicates it will take ownership for $563,500 — less than the building’s appraised value of $820,100, according to information from the Assessor’s Office. WEHCO was not actively marketing or trying to sell the property, Lane said. Conversations with the city were the only sale talks the company had, he said. The company and city are expected to close on the sale by the end of November, according to the agreement. The News Tribune will have the option to remain in the building for up to five additional months as part of a leaseback period, during which the city will charge the newspaper company $500 in monthly rent. The News Tribune editorial, advertising, classified and distribution departments will continue to operate out of the Monroe Street office until spring 2024. The newspaper’s new location has not yet been determined. The Monroe Street building has several issues, including an inoperable elevator, a leaking roof and plumbing problems. Lane described it as a liability that requires near-constant repair. “We decided that it’s better to sell the property and relocate in a better, more professional, less expensive environment,” he said. The company is open to staying in downtown Jefferson City, but is actively exploring other options, Lane said. Cost, size and parking will be major considerations as the newspaper looks for a new home. Lane said a 3,500-square-foot to 5,500-square-foot office should be suitable for the roughly 35 employees who will be relocated. If the city constructs a parking facility, the sale agreement provides up to 30 reserved parking spaces for WEHCO employees. “We’ve not dismissed it, but we’re actively looking at other properties that are not located downtown,” Lane said. WEHCO began searching for the new office about a month or two ago in anticipation that the city would enter the sale agreement, Lane said. The company doesn’t have a deadline for selecting the News Tribune’s new location, he said, adding “we have time to make a wise, well-informed decision.”  EARLIER VERSION: The Jefferson City News Tribune will be moving. The building housing the newspaper’s central office has been sold, WEHCO Media Inc., owner of the News Tribune, announced to staff Wednesday. The News Tribune has been based out of the 210 Monroe St. office for more than 90 years. The newspaper’s original owners constructed the three-story brick building in 1931. “The building is not in good condition and the operating expenses were significantly adding up,” said Mark Lane, president of WEHCO Newspapers. “…We are currently looking for a new office location and we will inform our readers and advertisers when we’ve made this decision.” The News Tribune editorial, advertising, classifieds and distribution departments will continue to operate out of the Monroe Street office until spring 2024. The newspaper’s new location has not yet been determined. The company is not downsizing or reducing operations, officials said. Its commercial printing facility will not be affected. “We are selling the property only, not the News Tribune,” Lane said. WEHCO has been involved in discussions with Jefferson City officials about the future of the downtown office building, which is expected to be sold to the city, demolished and replaced with a parking structure. The sale could be finalized near the end of November, Lane said, but the company will have the option to remain in the building for up to five additional months. WEHCO was not actively marketing or trying to sell the property, he said. Copyright © 2024, News Tribune Publishing All rights reserved. This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of News Tribune Publishing Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2024, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.