A tube used to deliver liquid nutrition and more  A nasogastric (NG) tube is a thin, soft tube made of plastic or rubber that is passed through the nose, down through the throat, and into the stomach. It is used to deliver food or medicine to the stomach for people who have difficulty eating or swallowing. It can also be used to remove liquids or air from the stomach.
  The placement of an NG tube, called nasogastric intubation, can be uncomfortable but is usually not painful. When used to deliver liquid nutrition, the procedure is often referred to as "tube feeding."
  This article describes the various reasons why you might need an NG tube, how the tube is inserted, and the possible risks and complications of this common medical procedure.
 Leonello Calvetti / Science Photo Library / Getty Images  When a person is unable to tolerate solid foods by mouth, an NG tube might be used to give nutrients via liquid nutrition. It can also be used to give medications in some situations.
  The most common reasons for using an NG tube include:
  An NG tube can be used by adults or children. In children, NG tube feeding may be necessary because of swallowing difficulties, digestive issues, inflammation, or other medical conditions. This can prevent a child from getting proper nutrition from food, breast milk, or formula.
 This video has been medically reviewed by Anju Goel, MD, MPH.  An NG tube is sometimes automatically inserted after abdominal surgery of any kind. Before having surgery, your doctor should let you know if you may wake up with an NG tube.
  An NG tube is placed by a doctor or a nurse. Usually, the procedure is done in the hospital. While there are instances when the doctor may need to put you to sleep to place the tube, most people are awake during the procedure.
  First, your nasal area might be numbed with either lidocaine or an anesthetic spray. Often, the NG tube is coated with a lubricant gel to help it go down easier. The NG tube is then inserted up through the nostrils, down through the esophagus, and into the stomach.
  Your doctor will usually tell you to swallow while the NG tube is being placed. The procedure is uncomfortable, but it shouldn't be painful. If you do feel pain, it could be a sign that the tube isn't placed properly.
  Your doctor may check the tube by adding or removing some stomach contents. They may also order an X-ray to ensure that the tube is in the correct position.
  Finally, the outside of the tube will be taped down onto the skin so that it doesn't become dislodged accidentally.
  NG tube feeding can cause unpleasant side effects like reflux, nausea, and vomiting in some people. Other NG tube complications include:
  A common complication associated with NG feeding tubes is diarrhea. The risk of diarrhea depends on whether you have other underlying conditions.
  Using different medications while having a feeding tube also affects your risk, as does receiving tube feeds through the NG tube.
  With diarrhea, you may experience an imbalance of electrolytes (minerals that help muscles contract and keep you hydrated), malnutrition, and infection, so it is important to receive proper treatment if it occurs.
  During insertion, there is the risk of injury to the esophagus, throat, sinuses, or stomach.
  While an NG tube is most commonly inserted without a problem, there are instances when it can lead to life-threatening injuries.
  Those who have serious underlying medical conditions and are unable to properly swallow the tube are most at risk for severe compilations. Placing the tube into the stomach via the mouth (instead of through the nasal cavity) may help limit the risk in those cases.
  Even once it's properly placed, it's possible that an NG tube could get blocked or torn. It can also move out of place, which is known as dislodgement.
  Dislodgment occurs in 25% to 82% of patients who receive an NG feeding tube. The risk of this is greater in older adults with cognitive problems, who may disrupt the tube because they don't understand what the tube is or why they have it.
  In some situations, food or medicine being put through the tube can come back up. If these substances enter the lungs, it causes aspiration pneumonia.
  This is a serious, life-threatening problem. Aspiration pneumonia is the most common cause of death among elderly people with an NG feeding tube.
  An improperly positioned nasogastric tube can make it hard to talk. This can occur if it interferes with the functioning of the larynx (vocal cords) and cause a person to sound hoarse. Vocal hoarseness can also be due to irritation during tube placement, which resolves on its own in a day or two.
  However, vocal hoarseness accompanied by difficult or labored breathing could be a sign of nasogastric tube syndrome (NGS). NGS is a rare but potentially life-threatening condition where vocal cord paralysis causes upper airway obstruction.
  Contact your healthcare provider if you have a hoarse voice with an NG tube. In many cases, once the tube is repositioned, your voice should sound normal.
 Individuals with an NG tube should seek emergency medical treatment for the following:  Less serious signs that warrant a call to your healthcare provider include:    Most patients agree that an NG tube is a difficult thing to deal with and can be uncomfortable, especially when it's being placed. However, it can help prevent surgery in some cases and provide life-saving benefits.
  The bottom line is that it's uncomfortable, but it shouldn't be painful, and it may help you avoid more invasive procedures that would cause greater discomfort. An NG tube is temporary, so it will be in place only for as long as it's needed, which, in many cases, may be only a few days.
  An NG tube can be used as a temporary feeding tube. It may also provide medication to people unable to swallow. In some instances, an NG tube may also be used to remove substances from the stomach.
  The NG tube can be a life-saving tool. However, it comes with some significant drawbacks, such as discomfort, potential injury, and additional medical problems.
  There are times when an NG tube may be necessary, and other times it may be optional. Discuss your circumstance with your doctor.
 Williams T. Nasogastric tube feeding: A safe option for patients? Br J Community Nurs. 2016;Suppl Nutrition:S28-31. doi:10.12968/bjcn.2016.21.Sup7.S28 Pennsylvania Patient Safety Authority. Patient Safety Topics: Nasogastric (NG) Tubes. Edwards S, Davis AM, Bruce A, et al. Caring for tube-fed children: a review of management, tube weaning, and emotional considerations. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 2016;40(5):616-622. doi:10.1177/0148607115577449 Sanaie S, Mahmoodpoor A, Najafi M. Nasogastric tube insertion in anaesthetized patients: a comprehensive review. Anaesthesiol Intensive Ther. 2017;49(1):57-65. doi:10.5603/AIT.a2017.0001 Pahsini K, Marinschek S, Khan Z, Dunitz-Scheer M, Scheer PJ. Unintended adverse effects of enteral nutrition support: parental perspective. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2016;62(1):169-173. doi:10.1097/MPG.0000000000000919 Smith AL, Ana CAS, Fordtran JS, Guileyardo JM. Deaths associated with insertion of nasogastric tubes for enteral nutrition in the medical intensive care unit: Clinical and autopsy findings. Baylor University Medical Center Proceedings. 2018;31(3):310-316. Chauhan D, Varma S, Dani M, Fertleman MB, Koizia LJ. Nasogastric tube feeding in older patients: a review of current practice and challenges faced. Curr Gerontol Geriatr Res. 2021;2021:6650675. doi:10.1155/2021/6650675 Sano N, Yamamoto M, Nagai K, Yamada K, Ohkohchi N. Nasogastric tube syndrome induced by an indwelling long intestinal tube. World J Gastroenterol. 2016;22(15):4057–61. doi:10.3748/wjg.v22.i15.4057 U.S. National Library of Medicine: MedlinePlus. Nasogastric feeding tube. Khan NA, Roy choudhury S, Yadav PS, Prakash R, Patel JN. Role of nasogastric tube in children undergoing elective distal bowel surgery. Pediatr Surg Int. 2017;33(2):229-234. doi:10.1007/s00383-016-4019-6 Mańkowska-wierzbicka D, Karczewski J, Swora-cwynar E, Dobrowolska A, Stelmach-mardas M. The Clinical Importance of 21-Day Combined Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition in Active Inflammatory Bowel Disease Patients. Nutrients. 2019;11(9). doi:10.3390/nu11092246 
By Amber J. Tresca

Tresca is a freelance writer and speaker who covers digestive conditions, including IBD. She was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis at age 16.
  Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.