By Chinenye Anuforo CIG Motors Company Limited, the sole authorized disrributor of GAC Motor vehicles in Nigeria, has announced a long-term partnership with Cars45, an online trading company, as well as Jiji, an online marketplace, to market its set of automobiles. Speaking during the signing ceremony, the general manager, commercial/national head of sales and marketing, CIG Motors Company Limited, Jubril Arogundade, said the company is happy with its business which has led to success with partnerships while adding that the CIG will create a disruptive sales and marketing opportunity for the automobile industry in Nigeria. Arogundade stated that, in the quest of wanting more Nigerians to have an opportunity to experience the beautiful technology and sleek design GAC motors has, the company decide to partner with the respective companies. “We are going to be buying back a lot of old cars from our customers and we need a platform to be able to market those cars. This is where Cars45 and the Jiji platform comes in as we saw a need to partner with them to make them our online platform where people can now assess those used cars that will be swapped back and be able to buy them. So, it is pretty much a handshake and a win-win for everybody. The first benefit is that you can now buy those cars from the Cars45 platform at instalments and aside the fact that you are already buying a used car that is very affordable and has quality, you are also buying a car that you can pay gradually. This partnership is an amazing one and the Cars45 and Jiji platform is a very big one with over 15 million users monthly that visits the platform and we believe that that kind of platform should be having GAC on it as one of the most reputable automobile brands in Nigeria at the moment. We believe that this partnership will bring back the opportunity for people to buy GAC easier than them being able to go to our show-rooms”, he said. According to Arogundade, “this partnership is set to do numbers and before the end of year, this partnership will yield thousands and this partnership will include our new cars and you know that the cars45 is a domain for used cars while the Jiji platform can take the new car and so what we are doing is that on the cars45 platform you will see all of the used cars and then on the Jiji platform, you will see brand new cars”. Also speaking at the event, the Chief Operating Officer, Cars45 and Investor relations Head at Jiji, Maxim Makarchuk, said that the decision to partner with GAC was a logical decision since Cars45 and GAC have a competitive advantage in the market. Makarchuk said, “They (GAC) have the product, we have the marketing and every good product needs good marketing. Hence, by combining great product and great marketing behind this product nurtured by exceptional customer service, we believe that this marriage between our companies will last for years and bring a lot of value to our customers”. You must be logged in to post a comment. Nigerians want to proptest because they are hungry. They are... Much as I am in sympathy with the Nigerian youth nation- wid... May his gentle soul rest in peace and may the good Lord comf... Well spoken 'The Rock'. You were supposed to be leading us i... You talk as if Nigeria goes up in flames today, you and memb...