In a report released today, Peter Galbo from Bank of America Securities reiterated a Buy rating on JM Smucker (SJM – Research Report), with a price target of $168.00. The company’s shares closed last Friday at $154.41. According to TipRanks, Galbo is a 3-star analyst with an average return of 6.0% and a 59.32% success rate. Galbo covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as JM Smucker, Conagra Brands, and Lamb Weston Holdings. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Hold analyst consensus rating for JM Smucker with a $159.25 average price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> SJM market cap is currently $16.47B and has a P/E ratio of 23.26.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 55 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of SJM in relation to earlier this year. Most recently, in March 2023, Jeannette Knudsen, the CLO of SJM sold 10,000.00 shares for a total of $1,539,600.00. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. The J. M. Smucker Co. engages in the manufacture and marketing of food and beverage products. It operates through the following segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Consumer Foods, U.S. Retail Pet Foods, and International and Away From Home. The U. S. Retail Coffee segment includes domestic sales of Folgers, Dunkin’ Donuts, and Café Bustelo branded coffee. The U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment sells Smucker’s, Jif, and Crisco branded products. The U.S. Retail Pet Foods comprises Rachael Ray Nutrish, Meow Mix, Milk-Bone, Natural Balance, Kibbles ‘n Bits, 9Lives, Nature’s Recipe, and Pup-Peroni branded products. The International and Foodservice segment covers products distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels and foodservice distributors and operators. The company was founded by Jerome Monroe Smucker in 1897 and is headquartered in Orrville, OH.  Read More on SJM: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks