Water. Earth. Fire. Air. Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony. Then everything changed when a new Avatar: The Last Airbender movie was announced. Yes, we’re getting a cinematic outing that will continue the story of all our favorite characters from the original series. The Gaang, a.k.a Aang, Katara, Sokka, Zuko, Toph, and company, will grace our screens again in a brand new movie. Initially, the new Avatar: The Last Airbender animated movie, tentatively titled, Aang: The Last Airbender, was slated to release in 2025. But it has now been delayed. The movie will instead release on January 20, 2026. Here’s everything we know about the new Avatar: The Last Airbender movie. The upcoming movie doesn’t have a title yet. So, for now, we’re simply referring to it as the Avatar: The Last Airbender movie. Deadline reports that a working title for the film is Aang: The Last Airbender. Not much has been revealed about the plot of the Avatar: The Last Airbender movie. However, a glimpse at artwork from the film revealed at CinemaCon 2023 showed us all our favorite characters looking a little older than we left them. Possibly the group is somewhere in their late 20s. That will certainly be an interesting age to explore the dynamics between them all. We assume the movie will reveal to us Aang, Zuko, and pals’ continued quest to bring peace to the four nations after the intense upheaval Fire Lord Ozai wreaked upon the world. A lot still needs fixed, after all. We hope this movie can continue the series’ legacy of delivering exactly the right story to its fans. Additionally, we know that this movie is one of three animated Avatar movies that Nickelodeon’s Avatar Studios will create. Avatar Studios is “a newly formed division designed to create original content spanning animated series and movies based on the beloved world of Avatar: The Last Airbender and The Legend of Korra.” We don’t know, however, if the movies will serve as sequels to one another or each will be a stand-alone. We know that Dave Bautista and Eric Nam will headline the voice cast of the new Avatar: The Last Airbender animated movie. Bautista will play a villain in the film, while Nam will voice Aang. Joining this pair in the voice cast are Dionne Quan, Jessica Matten, and Roman Zaragoza. We don’t yet know who they will play. We don’t have any word yet on whether we’ll see some of our original favorites reprise their roles or in any other capacity. But we do feel like Dante Basco is Zuko. Recently, Toph’s original voice actress Michaela Jae Murphy, also knowns as Jessie Flower, noted she didn’t believe the original cast would return. However, there’s not yet an official confirmation of this statement. Hopefully, our original actors will have a role to play yet. Lauren Montgomery will direct the Avatar: The Last Airbender movie. Additionally, series co-creators Bryan Konietzko and Michael DiMartino will produce the film alongside Eric Coleman. One thing we do know is when we can expect the new Avatar: The Last Airbender animated movie. The movie will release on January 20, 2026. Originally published on May 2, 2023. Netflix's Geeked Week event will return in September with an in-person fan component for the first time. A teaser suggests there will be updates on Wednesday, Squid Game, Stranger Things and much more. Freeman injured the middle finger on his right hand while fielding a ground ball on Saturday. Christian Polanco and Christine Cupo recap a busy and entertaining weekend in the Premier League. They also recap action in Serie A and the German Super Cup. They also break down the new USL Super League and preview the last half of the NWSL season. Aidan Gomez, CEO of competing AI provider Cohere, says that selling access to models is quickly becoming a "zero margin business" in a podcast appearance on Monday.  "If you’re only selling models, for the next little while, it’s gonna be a really tricky game," said Gomez in an interview with 20VC's Harry Stebbings. Team USA will include 141 returning Paralympians, including swimmer Jessica Long, sprinter Hunter Woodhall and multi-sport Paralympian Oksana Masters. Both Kamala Harris and Donald Trump are pitching ideas that sound appealing but would make Americans worse off if ever enacted. Find the streaming service that offers more of what you want to watch -- and fits your budget to boot. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. The 2025 Nissan Altima loses its top SR VC-Turbo trim but gains a few perks and options for the remaining grades. Prices are up either $630 or $260. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts.