When Robin leads the Teen Titans and a bunch of classic animation characters from The Looney Tunes to Cartoon Network to more DC animated faves on a tour around the Warner Bros. Studios lot, it’s just as unhinged as you’d imagine it to be. Teen Titans Go! will be airing a special mega cross-over episode this Saturday, September 23, on Cartoon Network as part of the Warner Bros. 100 year anniversary. Toons from all over the studio’s 100-year animation legacy are set to appear as you can see in the clip below, which features Robin and the Teen Titans on a WB lot tour with the likes of Porky Pig, Superman, Gizmo, Courage, the Scooby Gang, the Flintstones, and more. It’s good to see even deep cuts like Jabberjaw make an appearance. Teen Titans Go! is a fantastically meta and self-referential show, so we can’t wait to see how the tour ends up going and what other characters may make an appearance. We’d like to see Wile E. Coyote, HIM from Powerpuff Girls, and the Ice King show up for sure—and perhaps even some big bads in suits who think they’re able to run things without talented creatives. Find out by watching Teen Titans Go! September 23 on Cartoon Network. This feature, which includes characters from major studio projects, was written during the 2023 WGA and SAG-AFTRA strikes. Without the labor of writers and actors currently on strike, the films and TV covered here wouldn’t exist. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who. 
          Stars Katee Sackhoff and Titus Welliver, and director Brandon Vietti, discuss their brand-new takes on Silk Spectre, Rorschach, and Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons' iconic Watchmen.
         
          The film, which has been available digitally for almost a month, originally launched with temporary V.O. in a crucial scene.
         
          Having already crested $1 billion at the box office, Deadpool & Wolverine is on track to usurp The Joker as the highest-grossing R-rated movie of all time. 
         
          WB is bringing one of its best superhero films in years back to the big screen, and a look at The Penguin along for the ride.
         
          As part of a new wave of cost-cutting maneuvers, the studio wiped the official Cartoon Network site, redirecting audiences to a Max sign-up page.
         
          M. Night Shyamalan's latest thriller starring Josh Hartnett and Saleka Shyamalan is now in theaters. 
         We may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites.
©2024 GIZMODO USA LLC. All rights reserved. Mode 
                Follow us
               Mode 
                Follow us
              