Michigan's hockey team fell to Ohio State 7-2 Friday at Yost Ice Arena. (Photo used with permission from Jonathan Knight) ANN ARBOR – Michigan’s hockey team took the ice at Yost Ice Arena on Friday night in front of a sold-crowd against one of its biggest rivals against Ohio State. With it being the Wolverines’ first game since Dec. 10 and with notable alumni and current NHLers Andrew Copp, Nick Blankenburg and Kent Johnson in attendance, there was an amplified atmosphere inside the arena. The crowd got engaged early as Michigan sophomore Dylan Duke gave Michigan a 1-0 lead at the 11:42 mark of the first period, scoring a power-play goal against the nation’s No. 1 penalty kill team. Michigan interim head coach Brandon Naurato and players didn’t have an explanation for what transpired over the next 48 minutes. The eighth-ranked Buckeyes took over and never relented in an offensive onslaught. They fired a whopping 52 shots on Michigan goalie Erik Portillo, including 45 in the first two periods, and skated to a 7-2 victory. “We weren’t bought in and they wanted it more than us tonight,” Michigan assistant captain Jacob Truscutt said. “It’s unacceptable. It’s embarrassing, honestly. We’re gonna have to look ourselves in the mirror and make sure that doesn’t happen again.” No. 6 Michigan (12-8-1, 4-7 Big Ten) had no answer for OSU’s transition game and were outplayed five-on-five and on special teams. The Buckeyes (15-7-1, 8-5) netted four power-play goals and also scored their NCAA-leading ninth shorthanded goal of the season, which came seven seconds after Tyler Duke, the younger brother of Dylan, took a 5-minute major penalty for kneeing late in the second period. The goal extended the lead to 6-2 with 45 seconds left in the period. “They stuck to their game plan and they were physical and they won more races and battles than us,” Naurato said. The Wolverines played an exhibition last week against the U.S. National Team Development Program but hadn’t played a regular season game since Dec. 10. OSU, meanwhile, had returned from winter break last week against Michigan State, earning a two-game sweep. Naurato said the team’s long layoff isn’t a viable excuse. “I felt we had a really good week of practice and guys had a lot of energy and (were) ultra-positive for a big second half,” Naurato said. “I would have never predicted this. We’ll watch the tape, but I don’t know why we came out and competed the way that we did tonight. I’ve got to figure that out so that I can try and provide some solutions.” Mistakes happen throughout every game, but Friday’s featured numerous breakdowns from the Wolverines, whether it was leaving guys open in front of their own net, turnovers leading to odd-man rushes the other way or taking unnecessary penalties. “Games like this are emotional,” Naurato said. “They just had us on our heels right away, and we didn’t push back. I think that was a big thing. Teams are gonna have a good period or whatever, and you got to find a way to push back. It just didn’t ever come.” Both teams will have a quick turnaround before completing the two-game series at 4:30 p.m. Saturday at Yost. The Wolverines will look to quickly shake off Friday’s ghastly performance. “I just think our compete wasn’t there,” captain Nolan Moyle said. “I think we got out-competed. Execution wasn’t there and I just think we got to be better all around.” If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices