After playing at MSU, former Saginaw High great Bob Chapman worked in the state capitol building. (Bernie Eng | MLive.com File) Former Saginaw High star Bob Chapman, who mentored Magic Johnson in his first season at Michigan State, died Saturday in Midland, Texas. He was 67. Chapman captained the 1977-78 Michigan State team, which featured Johnson during his freshman season. Chapman helped lead the Spartans to a 25-5 season and the No. 4 ranking in the country, setting the stage for MSU’s 1979 national championship. But Chapman’s legend began at Saginaw High, where he was a 6-foot-2, 200-pound three-sport athlete that helped the Trojans reach the Class A state basketball finals in 1973 and win a state championship in track in 1973. “He was underrated only because of the other people on the team,” former Saginaw High coach Marshall Thomas said. “On the basketball team, he was the second guy because of Tony Smith. Track-wise, he was the second guy because of Reggie Jones. “But in terms of the respect that people had for him, all of those guys were probably secondary to Bob. Other teams didn’t necessarily fear Tony Smith or Reggie Jones. People feared Bob Chapman. He was a true athlete.” Chapman committed to Michigan State and head coach Gus Ganakas, even though the Spartans were recruiting Smith, who eventually went to Nevada-Las Vegas. “We were recruiting Tony Smith heavily,” former Northwood University head coach and MSU assistant Pat Miller said. “If you’re recruiting Tony Smith, you’re going to see Bob Chapman. “We went to see them play Detroit Southwestern at Crisler in front of a sold-out crowd. Things got agitated. Chapman stepped up like he was going to get involved, and (former Saginaw High coach) Charlie Coles runs out on the court to snatch him back. If you didn’t know Bob, you would have thought he was a big bully. But it turned out to be just the opposite … just a very warm, good guy.” Chapman came off the bench as a freshman at Michigan State, averaging 4.5 points behind stars Terry Furlow and Lindsay Hairston. As a sophomore, he again played in the shadow of Furlow, averaging 14.6 points. Jud Heathcote took over during Chapman’s junior season, and Chapman responded with his best statistical year, averaging 19.6 points. He was picked in the fifth round of the NBA Draft by the Kansas City Kings but chose to return for his senior season to help mentor a pair of star recruits in Johnson and Jay Vincent. Chapman joined junior Greg Kelser, Johnson, Vincent, sophomore Ron Charles, sophomore Terry Donnelly and freshman Mike Brkovich on an MSU team that went 25-5 and reached the regional championship game before losing to No. 1-ranked Kentucky, 52-49. The Spartans, who opened the tournament with wins over Providence and Western Kentucky, held a 27-22 halftime lead against the Wildcats, but Chapman fouled out and Kentucky’s Kyle Macy scored 18 points to lift Kentucky to the win. Kentucky went on to beat Arkansas and Duke to win the national title. Johnson expressed his sadness on Twitter after he learned that Chapman had died. “I’m devastated over the loss of my MSU teammate Bob Chapman. Cookie and I are praying for the entire Chapman family.” Donnelly also responded on Twitter. “Saddened to hear about the passing of my teammate Bobby Chapman today. Pray for him and his family.” Chapman, who averaged 12.3 points as a senior, signed as a free agent with the Detroit Pistons but did not make the team. He finished his MSU career with 1,382 career points. “We used to call him School Boy,” Miller said. “From the story I heard, the name goes back to a road trip to the San Francisco area when the plane got in late, and we didn’t have anywhere to practice.” As the sun was setting, the MSU bus drove past a high school parking lot with the street lights on. “Chapman told Ganakas to stop at the courts by the school. He said the guys on the bus all practiced on that type of court anyway,” Miller said. “After that, they called him School Boy.” Chapman’s funeral is at 2 p.m. Saturday, March 4, at the Nalley-Pickle and Welch Funeral Home in Midland, Texas. Visitation is from 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. Friday, March 3. “He was always underrated … a great athlete, a quiet leader,” Miller said. “Maybe he wasn’t one of the greats, but if he wasn’t a great, he was just a notch below. He had a great career. He did all the little things. He could score, could drive to the basket, could shoot from the 3-point line even though we didn’t have it then. “He was a naturally strong guy. He played with a scowl that made you think you better stay away from him, but he was just the opposite. He was a good soul.” MORE Magic Johnson calls Larry Bird, Julius Erving, Tony Smith and Bob Chapman inspirations If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices