If not listed, please contact your TV provider. The NFL regular season is here, so the final 2023 Fantasy football drafts are wrapping up. There is more 2023 Fantasy football ADP data available now than at any other point, which can be helpful to identify 2023 Fantasy football sleepers. Browns tight end David Njoku is a former first-round pick who has been among the Fantasy football busts at times during his career, but he climbed his way up the Fantasy football TE rankings last year. He has a chance to post career-high numbers across the board this year due to his quarterback's upside. Njoku caught three touchdowns in his final six games last season, creating chemistry with quarterback Deshaun Watson. Where should he be in your 2023 Fantasy football rankings?  Before crafting your 2023 Fantasy football draft strategy, be sure to check out the 2023 Fantasy football rankings and cheat sheets from the proven computer model at SportsLine. Last year, the model accurately predicted that Cowboys running back Tony Pollard would dramatically outperform his eighth-round Fantasy football ADP in PPR leagues. The result: Pollard supplanted Ezekiel Elliott as the most productive option in the Dallas backfield and finished the season with 1,378 scrimmage yards and 12 touchdowns. He finished as the No. 8 running back in PPR formats and finished ahead of Aaron Jones and Dalvin Cook, who both had top-10 overall ADPs. The same model has a proven track record providing Fantasy football tips, also identifying A.J. Brown as another sleeper in 2020 and players like Julio Jones and JuJu Smith-Schuster as Fantasy football busts last season. Additionally, it's called past Fantasy football sleepers like Derrick Henry in 2019, Christian McCaffrey and Alvin Kamara in 2018, and Davante Adams in 2017. Anybody who banked on players like those made a run at their league title. The model is powered by the same people who generated projections for all three major Fantasy sites, and it beat human experts last season when there was a big difference in ranking. The 2023 Fantasy football PPR rankings and 2023 Fantasy football standard rankings update multiple times daily, so you're always getting the best Fantasy football advice. Now, SportsLine has simulated the entire NFL season 10,000 times and released its latest Fantasy football rankings 2023, along with plenty of sleepers, breakouts and busts. Head to SportsLine now to see them.  One of the 2023 Fantasy football sleepers the model is predicting: Buccaneers wide receiver Chris Godwin. He suffered a late-season injury in 2021, but bounced back with a productive 2022 campaign. Godwin finished as a top-15 Fantasy wide receiver despite playing just 15 games. The 27-year-old has been a consistent target in Fantasy football drafts during his career. He is dealing with uncertainty at quarterback following Tom Brady's retirement, but Baker Mayfield has thrown for 3,000-plus yards in a season before. Godwin is undervalued due to the quarterback change, sitting ahead of wide receivers like Deebo Samuel, Christian Kirk and Mike Evans in the model's Fantasy football WR rankings 2023. Another sleeper that SportsLine's Fantasy football rankings 2023 have identified: Commanders running back Antonio Gibson. He will slot in behind Brian Robinson Jr. in the Commanders depth chart this season after missing the end of the 2022 campaign due to a foot injury. However, Gibson should be more involved in passing downs, commanding a 14% target share last season. Gibson's Pro Football Focus receiving grade (80.5) ranked third among all running backs last season, and his ceiling is high due to his playmaking ability. SportsLine's model has identified him as one of the 2023 Fantasy football deep sleepers, preferring Gibson over running backs like Rashaad Penny, Jamaal Williams and Zach Charbonnet. See which other Fantasy football sleepers 2023 to pick here. SportsLine is also extremely high on a surprising running back you aren't even thinking about being taken in the middle rounds of 2023 Fantasy football drafts. This running back is listed as a shocking top-10 option ahead of superstars like Jonathan Taylor and Joe Mixon. You can only see who it is, and the 2023 Fantasy football rankings for every player, at SportsLine. So which 2023 Fantasy Football sleepers should you target? And which RB shocks the NFL with a top-10 performance? Visit SportsLine now to get 2023 Fantasy Football cheat sheets for every single position, all from the model that called Tony Pollard's huge season, and find out. © 2004-2024 CBS Interactive. All Rights Reserved. CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc. Commissioner.com is a registered trademark of CBS Interactive Inc. The content on this site is for entertainment purposes only and CBS Sports makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of the information given or the outcome of any game or event. There is no gambling offered on this site. This site contains commercial content and CBS Sports may be compensated for the links provided on this site. Images by Getty Images and US Presswire