The last time the Oregon Ducks had a 5-star wide receiver come into the program was back in 2004. The last time that they had a WR drafted in the first or second round was 25 years ago. In the past eight years, there has been only one 1,000-yard WR on the team. Give Oregon fans a bit of a break if they may be overly excited about the prospect of watching Jurrion Dickey in the coming months and years. Dickey, a 6-foot-3, 210-pound beast out in space, comes to the Ducks as the highest-rated WR since Cameron Colvin. He was rated by 247Sports as the No. 18 overall player in the 2023 class, and the No. 2 WR in the nation. The months leading up to his eventual arrival in Eugene have been anticipated, to say the least, and now that he’s got his webbed feet on the ground, the excitement is starting to bubble to the surface. After practice on Thursday, I asked offensive coordinator Will Stein about his instant impressions of Dickey through two days of fall camp. He’d seen the film, and heard all of the buzz, but what was it like actually watching the 5-star at work? “He’s a football player, you know? He’s got really, really good ball skills. He wants to be really good,” Stein said. “And he shows up early, he takes notes. He’s doing his best to be a pro. There’s still a lot of growth for him. He’s nowhere near ready to go out and produce at the level that he wants to, but day by day, he’s getting better.” Whether fans get a chance to see Dickey this fall is yet to be seen. At the moment, the Ducks have an incredibly stacked WR room, with the likes of Troy Franklin, Kris Hutson, Tez Johnson, Traeshon Holden, and Gary Bryant at the top. Below that group, you also have Kyler Kasper and Justius Lowe looking to make the jump as second-year players. There is a lot of competition ahead of him, but early on Dickey has shown the desire to be great, and will work towards the future that he wants. “I see a kid that wants it,” Stein said. “And you know, he’s a football player. He’s gonna block, he’s gonna catch the ball in traffic. He’s an exciting player. I’m excited about him.” Join the group, Coach Stein. Story originally appeared on Ducks Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL.