
                
                    
                        Let MedTech Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Ken Washington, who has also served as chief technology officer at Ford and Lockheed Martin, will be charged with driving growth through innovation at the world’s largest medical device maker. Name: Ken Washington New title: Chief technology and innovation officer, Medtronic Previous title: Vice president and general manager of consumer robotics, Amazon Medtronic has named Ken Washington, former vice president and general manager of consumer robotics at Amazon, to the newly created position of chief technology and innovation officer for the device maker. Washington will become a member of Medtronic’s executive committee.  He brings extensive experience leading technology development and execution across industries including robotics, consumer products, automotive and space, and will be tasked with accelerating innovation-driven growth, Medtronic said. "His hiring seems to fit into the larger pattern that [Medtronic CEO] Geoff Martha has established – looking widely outside of medtech for individuals with deep, functional expertise and bringing them over. For instance, Greg Smith joined to lead MDT’s supply chain and he came from Walmart. Que Dallara brought significant software experience from Honeywell’s aeronautics business over to MDT’s diabetes segment," Morningstar analyst Debbie Wang said in an email. Robotics, sensors and AI are expected to play a key role in the future of medtech. Medtronic is working to improve its revenue growth by focusing on markets such as robotics. "Dr. Washington will help Medtronic expand use of our technology platforms across our portfolio – including robotics, sensors, implantables and AI – improving our returns on investments in innovation and expanding our technological competitive advantage to drive durable growth," Martha said in a statement. Washington, who holds a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering from Texas A&M University, previously was chief technology officer at Ford Motor Co. before joining Amazon. At Ford, he led development of the carmaker’s technology strategy, including next-generation vehicle architectures, controls and automated systems.  Washington also spent seven years at Lockheed Martin in leadership roles including chief technology officer, chief privacy officer, and vice president of the Advanced Technology Center at Lockheed Martin Space Systems. This story has been updated with an analyst’s comment. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The devices from Recor and Medtronic are intended to treat high blood pressure. An advisory panel backed the former, but recommended against approval of the latter. With support from J&J’s venture capital arm and chip maker Nvidia, Moon is targeting a soft tissue surgery market dominated by Intuitive Surgical. Subscribe to MedTech Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The devices from Recor and Medtronic are intended to treat high blood pressure. An advisory panel backed the former, but recommended against approval of the latter. With support from J&J’s venture capital arm and chip maker Nvidia, Moon is targeting a soft tissue surgery market dominated by Intuitive Surgical. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines