By Alex Raskin Sports News Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:05 EDT, 28 August 2023   |  Updated:  00:17 EDT, 29 August 2023      19 View  comments  The dreams of countless baseball managers came to fruition on Sunday night in the Hudson Valley, where an independent league umpire was actually ejected from a game after making contact with a player during an on-field confrontation. This man-bites-dog scenario unfolded in Pomona, New York, where the Tri-City ValleyCats were visiting the New York Boulders in a Frontier League game. As detailed by the Albany Times Union, first base umpire Warren Nicholson was tossed in the first inning after arguing with Bounders second baseman Tucker Nathans, and ultimately being restrained by other officials. The ValleyCats – a team managed by former Philadelphia Phillies slugger Pete Incaviglia – had accused the Boulders of illegally using outfield cameras to steal signs, leading Nicholson to remove league-sanctioned computer equipment from the home team's dugout. That moved sparked an argument between Nicholson and Nathans, the latter of whom was promptly ejected. You’ve likely never seen anything like this in a baseball game.Umpire Warren Nicholson was ejected in Sunday’s Frontier League game after a heated exchange with a player.🎥 @JomboyMedia pic.twitter.com/USZLbdhfLu First base umpire Warren Nicholson is restrained by the home plate ump on Sunday in Pomona Nicholson made contact with Bounders second baseman Tucker Nathans (far right)  Nicholson and Nathans each had to be restrained as their first-inning confrontation escalated  But Nicholson, too, would get tossed after making contact with Nathans, as seen in broadcast footage obtained by Jomboy Media. Following the confrontation, Nicholson was seen exiting the ballpark through an opening in the outfield wall in left. The game then experienced an hour-long delay as a camera was removed from center field. 'Your manager in Tri-City has been accusing us of stealing signs for three days, which is offensive and embarrassing at the same time,' Boulders team president Shawn Reilly said in a statement.  'The umpire went over based on Pete [Incaviglia] and he threw [Nathans] out and things got out of control.  'It's unfortunate. It was not a good moment for the league. It was an embarrassing moment and it should never have happened.' Nicholson is seen walking out through the left field wall after being ejected on Sunday Reilly insists that the camera has a 30-second delay, making it impossible to steal signs. Frontier League Deputy Commissioner Steve Tahsler responded to the incident in a statement provided to DailyMail.com.  'The Frontier League is embarrassed and upset about the delay in last night's game at Clover Stadium,' Tahsler said.  'We apologize to the fans who had to observe these actions. Unfortunately, our league staff was at other games last night. We have had multiple conversations with all parties involved. An internal investigation is underway.' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group