Yankees manager Aaron Boone is joining digital sports media company Jomboy Media where he will “appear once a week for his 15-20 minute segment” with “Talkin’ Yanks” founders Jimmy O’Brien and Jake Storiale, according to Andrew Marchand of the N.Y. POST. Boone already has a "once-a-week ... six-figure paid spot” on either the radio flagship of the team, WFAN, or with its rival station, ESPN N.Y. Boone said, “It’s a little outside the box, not your typical having your radio shot every week that’s kind of gone on certainly here for a long time.” He added, “I thought it was a really interesting opportunity, and a cool idea. These guys have been innovators in this business and they’ve built a massive, young following.” Boone’s first appearance on “Talkin’ Yanks” is “scheduled for Sunday, March 26.” The plan is for Boone, who will “appear over Zoom, to mostly be on Tuesdays throughout the season.” O’Brien “wouldn’t reveal the exact financials” for Boone’s appearances, but it is “likely similar to what radio pays, which is six-figures.” Last year, Boone was on “The Michael Kay Show” on ESPN N.Y. (N.Y. POST, 3/16). Venu Sports on hold; NASCAR shifts gear on the Clash and the USL Super League launches to solid crowds and reception Shareable URL copied to clipboard! https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Daily/Issues/2023/03/16/Media/aaron-boone-jomboy-media-weekly-segment.aspx Sorry, something went wrong with the copy but here is the link for you. https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Daily/Issues/2023/03/16/Media/aaron-boone-jomboy-media-weekly-segment.aspx Register for a free SBJ account to unlock one extra article per month.  © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ weekly content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ daily content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: