The latest quarterly figures (Q4 covering January to March 2024) released by Network Rail Property have revealed a like-for-like (LFL) retail sales* increase of +12.6% across its retail portfolio of 19 managed stations throughout Great Britain. Network Rail is urging people to stay off the tracks and not put themselves and others at risk new safety figures reveal that there were more than 19,300 trespass incidents on the rail network in the 2023/24 financial year – that’s one every half an hour.    
                    All the latest news from around the network
                   
                    We have a growing collection of great photographs to support your story
                   
                    Information on our projects
                   
                    We're here to help you write your story
                   Have you got a fantastic idea to boost your community but need some cash to make it happen? Well, the TRU Community Fund might be the answer that you’re looking for. Thousands of excited revellers will pass through Reading and London Paddington stations this week ahead of Reading Festival, which takes place from Friday 23 August – Sunday 25 August, and Notting Hill Carnival, held in west London on Sunday 25 August and Monday 26 August. New photo-realistic pictures have been released to show what the inside of Darlington station will look like for passengers once its multi-million-pound revamp is complete. One of Glasgow’s busiest roads will be closed overnight this Sunday into Monday (18 – 19 August). Network Rail is reminding people to take extra care at level crossings after an incident in North Wales where a train had to slow down when a toddler and adult were on the crossing. A team from Wales and Borders’ ‘Railway Family’ has completed a mammoth 303-mile trek from North to South Wales, raising thousands of pounds for Samaritans Cymru in the process. Passenger and freight journeys on the East Coast Main Line are being protected from unstable ground conditions in one of the largest projects of its kind. Journeys between Wigan and Bolton will be disrupted later this month while work continues to electrify and improve the railway in the north west of England. Follow us on: Copyright © 2024 Network Rail