Get alerted any time new stories match your search criteria. Create an alert to follow a developing story, keep current on a competitor, or monitor industry news. 
Overwrite Existing Alert:

 
Sign In
 Thank You! Don’t forget you can visit MyAlerts to manage your alerts at any time. Commonwealth Picks Up $1B Team From Edward Jones Industry Spotlight > Advisors 

By Janet Levaux
 


News



January 19, 2023 at 10:24 AM



Share & Print
 Commonwealth Financial Network says it has recruited Cedarwood Financial Partners of Temple, Texas, from Edward Jones. The firm has about $1 billion of client assets, as well as three offices in Texas and two in New York. Moving to Commonwealth are managing partners and advisors Dylan Ripley and Todd Vincent. They are joined by Angel Santiago, senior partner and director of technology, and financial planners Jeremy Self, vice president of marketing; Alex Murphy, COO; Frank Shultz, vice president of investment solutions; Tim Hall, director of investment models; Troy Vincent; and David Boothby, vice president of business development. “We knew we wanted to own our own business. Once we saw that we could have the freedom and the exceptional back-office support in one, we couldn’t unsee it,” according to Ripley. “From access to more investment options and integrated technology to control over how we serve our clients and charge for those services, Commonwealth was the obvious choice.” Commonwealth’s culture also held strong appeal, said Vincent: “From our first visit to Commonwealth’s home office, we experienced a family-like feel and witnessed servant leadership firsthand.” Up Next Listen to free podcasts to get the info you need to solve business challenges! The 4-Step Guide to Creating Holistic Risk Profiles Are You Earning Your Keep? Why Investors Continue To Work With Their Financial Advisors How to Build Trust Between Advisors and Clients The broker-dealer and RIA partners with more than 2,000 independent financial advisors who oversaw about $273 billion in assets as of 2021. “Cedarwood has a clear vision for deliberate, purposeful growth that we share and a conscious commitment to fostering culture and connectedness that we’re very much in sync with, too,” explained Becca Hajjar, managing principal and chief business development officer at Commonwealth, in a statement. “We’re delighted to support their evolution and look forward to helping them shine in the independent space.” (Image: Blue Planet Studio/Shutterstock.com) NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
Request academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to
 [email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing.
 Up Next