As an Edward Jones financial advisor, I believe it’s important to invest my time to understand what you’re working toward before you invest your money. It’s also important to understand the level of risk you’re comfortable accepting when investing so we can balance it with the steps necessary to reach your long-term goals.Whether you’re planning for retirement, saving for college for children or grandchildren, or just trying to protect the financial future of the ones you care for the most, we can work together to develop specific strategies to help you achieve your goals. We can also monitor your progress to help make sure you stay on track or determine if any adjustments need to be made. Throughout it all, we’re dedicated to providing you top-notch client service.But we’re not alone. Thousands of people and advanced technology support our office so we can help ensure you receive the most current and comprehensive guidance. In addition, we welcome the opportunity to work with your attorney, accountant and other trusted professionals to deliver a comprehensive strategy that leverages everyone’s expertise. Working together, we can help you develop a complete, tailored strategy to help you achieve your financial goals. At Edward Jones, we offer the investments, services and tools our clients need to work toward their financial future. In addition, the firm has thousands of professionals and advanced technology supporting our branch offices to help clients reach their long-term financial goals. Making strong connections while serving others has been a hallmark and great joy in my career journey. Many years of my professional career were spent as an elementary teacher, elementary assistant principal and elementary principal in Carmel, Indiana. As a former educator and leader, I understand the importance of personal connection and the impact understanding can have in working collaborative partnerships. At Edward Jones, we take the time to understand what’s important to you, using an established process to build personalized strategies to help meet your goals and partner with you to make adjustments and help you stay on track. Throughout it all, we’re dedicated to providing you top-notch client service. In this ever-changing world, it’s important to have a financial team dedicated to serving you and leveraging advanced digital tools to better personalize your path! As a former leader in the Ed-Tech sphere, I have a passion for leveraging digital tools for advanced analysis and strong communication. In my free time, I love spending time with my family (wife and two boys), serving in my church, serving my community, reading, traveling, sports, football (I played in college) and all things BBQ! Give me a call today. I would love to find out what’s important to you and use our disciplined process to help you achieve your goals! 505 West Loveland AveLoveland, OH 45140 Jeffrey or Christopher at (513) 697-6111 Fax Jeffrey or Christopher at (888) 472-0834 This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Enter your email address:   

								Type your email…							
  







 
								Subscribe							
 Δ 
													You must be logged in to post a comment.												