Founded in 2009, the Kirkland & Ellis Corporate Lab (the “Lab”) provides students with “real-world” experience and context to prepare them to become well-rounded attorneys with sound knowledge and judgment. Lab students undertake a wide variety of assignments from the legal and business teams of significant public corporations, many of which are household names. Through this work and through classroom instruction, students in the Kirkland & Ellis Corporate Lab acquire the necessary legal and interpersonal skills and knowledge to excel in their future legal practice. During the 2022-2023 academic year, Lab students successfully completed in excess of 130 projects for some 25 largely publicly traded companies across a wide range of legal disciplines, e.g., contract drafting and commercial transactions, labor and employment, intellectual property and copyright, artificial intelligence, and litigation risk assessment. Specific examples include the following: Included in the Lab’s client roster are the following: Joining the roster this past academic year were Jones Lang LaSalle (“JLL”) and The Motley Fool (“TMF”). The Lab also worked with more than 25 entrepreneurs on an individual basis and through an ongoing collaboration with the Booth School’s New Venture Challenge and Social New Venture Challenge. Specific assignments included the following: Beyond the essential clinical training, the Lab hosts an ongoing speaker series throughout the academic year that brings to campus experienced practitioners, business leaders, and other esteemed guests to discuss topical business and legal issues, substantive areas of law, and other topics of interest to the speakers and students. Recent speakers have included senior executives from Amazon, Coinbase, Google, IBM, Microsoft, and the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control, and partners from Kirkland & Ellis, Cleary Gottlieb, Dechert, Morgan Lewis, and Sidley. Other enrichment activities include twice-yearly cross-border negotiation training exercises with the law schools of Tel Aviv University and Reichman University. The Lab is hoping to host a conference in the next academic year that will bring together Law faculty and industry leaders to discuss the intersection of artificial intelligence and law. This follows prior Lab conferences, viz.: University of Chicago Law School
      1111 East 60th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637
      773.702.9494 Contact Directions and Building Access Privacy Policy Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accessibility © 2024 University of Chicago