 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Edward Jones’ brokered CDs offer significantly higher APYs SDI Productions / Getty Images  Edward Jones’ certificates of deposit (CDs) are brokered accounts, meaning it offers CDs from multiple banks. As a result, Edward Jones CD rates can be significantly higher than the national average. Compare its highest CD rate of 5.30% for a 3-month term to other CDs with high interest rates.
  As a broker, Edward Jones is able to offer higher APYs than most banks and financial institutions. And while some banks advertise higher rates for select terms, Edward Jones’ CDs have higher than average rates on all term lengths. 
  Some banks also have no minimum deposit requirements, but Edward Jones requires you to deposit at least $1,000.
  The minimum amount to open an Edward Jones CD is $1,000, and terms range from 3 to 120 months. 
  Rates for CDs at Edward Jones can be much higher than you’ll find elsewhere. However, there are some key details you should know before opening an account.
 Significantly high CD yields Flexible terms CDs are not automatically renewed Interest does not compound No early withdrawals The only way to withdraw money from an Edward Jones CD before its maturity date is to sell it on the secondary market. There is no guarantee that the CD will sell, or it may sell for less than the original principal.  With many banks, you can open a new CD and fund it online in a matter of minutes. However, Edward Jones works differently. To access Edwards Jones’ CDs, you must first choose a financial advisor. To find one, you can:
  Once you’ve found an advisor you want to work with:
  Edward Jones has a range of investment and deposit products in addition to its certificates of deposit. It's other fixed-income investments include municipal bonds, corporate bonds, U.S. Treasuries, and agency bonds.
  Its savings accounts include:
  Edward Jones has been in operation since 1922, and it's headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. It operates over 15,000 branch office locations throughout the U.S. and Canada. Customers can open retirement accounts, save for college, and work with a financial advisor to develop wealth management strategies. 
  Investors can choose from mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and stocks, but Edward Jones also offers lower-risk options. Edward Jones is not a direct CD provider; instead, it's a broker that connects investors with CDs from many banks and financial institutions to get the best rates.
  Edward Jones, Fidelity, and Charles Schwab are three of the largest full-service financial services companies in the country, and they all offer brokered CDs. How does Edward Jones measure up? We compared the three firms' CD investment minimums, terms, and rates.
  Edward Jones and Schwab have the same investment minimum of $1,000, but Edward Jones has more CD term options to choose from. Schwab's maximum CD term is just 24 months, while Edward Jones has terms as long as 60 months.
  Fidelity offers CD terms ranging from 3 to 60 months. Like Edward Jones, Fidelity's minimum investment is $1,000 for a whole CD, but it also offers fractional CDs for as little as $100.
 Unlike most banks and financial institutions, which allow you to open a new CD online, Edward Jones requires extra steps.  To open a CD, you must contact a local Edward Jones financial advisor. You will likely need to meet with your Edward Jones advisor in person and complete paperwork in their office before you can open a CD.  To get started, use Edward Jones’ financial advisor search tool to find an advisor near you. After you meet with an Edward Jones financial advisor and decide to purchase a CD, the advisor will open the CD for you. They will send you an email with a link and details on how to create an online account. Once you create an account, you can log in at any time at EdwardJones.com/login. To open a new CD through Edward Jones, you must have at least $1,000 available for a minimum deposit. Yes, CDs opened through Edward Jones are backed by FDIC deposit insurance. Your account is covered up to a maximum of $250,000. Edward Jones does charge fees, selling concessions, and commissions for CDs. What you pay depends on Edward Jones’ role in the transaction: If you buy or sell secondary CDs, meaning CDs that were previously issued, you may pay a commission as high as 2% of the dollar amount you buy. In all CD transactions, your Edward Jones’ financial advisor will receive a percentage of any commissions, selling concessions, or fees.  Typical rates for CDs opened through Edward Jones are generally significantly higher than the national average rate.  Although Edward Jones offers higher-than-average CD rates, the broker does have some limitations and requirements. Before opening an account with Edward Jones, check out the best CD rates to ensure you’re picking the right CD for your needs.  FDIC. "National Rates and Rate Caps." Edward Jones. "Certificates of Deposit." Edward Jones. "Current Rates." Edward Jones. "Certificate of Deposit Disclosure Statement." Edward Jones. "Find a Financial Advisor." Edward Jones. "Investment account options." Edward Jones. "Savings accounts." Edward Jones. “Our History.” Edward Jones. “Our Locations.” Charles Schwab. “Certificate of Deposit.” Fidelity. “Certificates of Deposit (CDs).” Charles Schwab. "Fixed Income FAQs." Fidelity. “Fixed Income.” Edward Jones. "Understanding How We Are Compensated for Financial Services."