Submitted by Edward Jones Financial Advisor Kirk Doyle When you retire, you hope that you’ll be able to anticipate the events that could cause you financial challenges down the road. For one thing, most retirees are probably aware that, even if they remain healthy, their health care costs may rise, even if they’re covered by Medicare or Medicare Advantage. But there’s another potential risk that can sneak up on retirees: inflation. However, once they reach retirement, retirees are all too aware of the effects of rising prices. In fact, 63% of retirees think the biggest financial shock in retirement is inflation and the rising cost of living, according to a recent survey by Age Wave and Edward Jones. As you know, we have experienced mild inflation for some time, up until the past couple of years. But even when inflation subsides again, it can still be a threat to your retirement security. A 3% annual inflation rate can double your cost of living in about 25 years. What can you do to help alleviate the shock of inflation? Actually, you can take considerable action to help meet this threat. Here are a few steps to consider: The past few years have been a wakeup call for many people, especially retirees, on the threat that inflation poses to their financial security. But being proactive can help prevent inflation from deflating your retirement hopes and dreams. This article was written by Edward Jones for use by your local Edward Jones Financial Advisor.
Edward Jones, Member SIPC  Kirk E. Doyle, AAMS® www.edwardjones.com/kirk-doyle The Daily Bulldog is a completely free, fully online publication dedicated to covering the wide variety of happenings in Franklin County. We aim for timeliness, for our news to go far, and to be a reliable point of information for local residents. For immediate questions and concerns, please call (207) 778-8146 or email thedailybulldog@gmail.com  More About Us Daily Bulldog depends on businesses like yours to support our independently owned community paper and news reporting. For information on how to advertise please visit our advertising page or contact us at (207) 778-8146 or thedailybulldog@gmail.com © 2021 The Daily Bulldog — all rights reserved.
Website: wilderbydesign