Browse properties for sale or lease that fit your location and unique needs.  Find commercial properties for lease. Find investment properties for sale to expand your global portfolio. Explore investment sales, advisory, and financing for all commercial property types. Combine market expertise and world-class research for optimal sale execution. Connect with lending sources around the world to secure the best pricing & deal. Access equity and funds placement, M&A, and corporate advisory services. Leverage big data, financial knowledge, and AI to uncover new opportunities. Develop a property management strategy with a roadmap to meet your strategic goals Manage market and climate risk and optimize asset values. Invest in or lease property, and create environments that attract tenants, employees, or buyers. Find a real estate agent in your area. Improve value through positioning, marketing and leasing of vacant space in owned assets. Strategically manage critical lease events and terms. Find  spaces and negotiate lease terms to help your business thrive.  Access solutions for retaining talent, enhancing employee experience, and reducing costs that improve productivity and optimize spaces for occupiers.  Explore better ways to find, grow and run commercial properties with our innovative portfolio of real estate technology. See how JLL pairs technology with unmatched real estate services and expertise.  Visit jllt.com to discover the best-in-class tech products that are defining the future of real estate. Accelerate your journey to become a more sustainable, more resilient, more responsible enterprise with sustainability solutions from JLL.  Get financial, environmental, and social returns with sustainability solutions. Download our ESG Performance Report and learn about our sustainability program. Address your industry’s unique needs and support your organization’s strategy with data-driven real estate solutions. Find out how we offer brighter ways of thinking across the globe for our colleagues, clients and communities. Find valuable services to support your business at every stage of your journey.  Stay up to date with the market trends shaping the future of real estate.  
                        Get trends, research, insights, and news about smart cities.
                     
                        Read news about commercial investment markets around the world.
                     
                        Browse through workplace trends, research, insights, and opinions.
                     
                        Make smarter investments with JLL's commercial real estate market research.
                     Find out how we create brighter ways of working with our partners around the globe. Over 98% waste recycling on Defence demolition Recycled waste is to be used as road base materials and metal products as we set a new standard for sustainability on a construction site. Buyer found for historic Melbourne riverside office Sold: Our high-net-worth investor client benefited from a JLL sales campaign that inspired buyers to see a brighter way Find media contacts, and get access to commercial real estate news and announcements. Chatswood Disaster Recovery Centre sells for $23 million Former disaster recovery centre sold to Kennards Self Storage Building hits the market in the centre of Melbourne’s CBD 301 Flinders Lane is in a central location with redevelopment options Create a brighter future with a career in real estate.  
                        We empower you to shape a brighter way forward. Learn more about working at JLL. 
                     
                        Enhance your job search, speed up the application process or simply learn more about life at JLL.
                     
                        Our respect for one another creates an environment where everyone’s voice is heard.
                     Find experts ready to help solve your commercial real estate challenges.  
                        Find an expert by name or by state, province, or city. 
                     
                        Find an expert unique to your industry or business objectives.
                     Find out how we use technology & expertise to create a brighter future for all.  
                        Find out how we shape the future of real estate for a better world.
                     
                        Explore our annual report and latest corporate information.
                     
                        Get to know JLL's global leadership team.
                     
                        Find real estate services, solutions and partners at JLL locations near you.
                     We combine technology with global expertise to solve any real estate challenge. Let us know what you're interested in and we'll get back to you shortly.  With over 10,000 experts across the globe, we're ready to help you buy, build, occupy, and invest in commercial real estate assets. We have over 300 offices in every major city around the world. Find out more about our expertise in your region, state, or city.  
    IWBI honors JLL for the second consecutive year with five 2022 IWBI Award wins
 CHICAGO, April 20, 2023 – JLL (NYSE: JLL) has been recognized for the second consecutive year by the International WELL Building Institute (IWBI) for its outstanding commitment, leadership and impact in prioritizing health and well-being in the built environment. JLL was awarded the WELL Enterprise Provider of the Year Award for the firm’s excellence in helping its clients realize the value of prioritizing WELL at scale. Additionally, JLL is the recipient of the 2022 Global WELL Leadership Award and Regional WELL Leadership Award (Americas) for receiving the highest WELL score across its corporate office portfolio. In addition to the organizational awards, JLL is proud to announce that two of its APAC-based employees were also selected as recipients of individual 2022 IWBI Awards for their extraordinary strides as advocates and leaders within the WELL community. Praveenbabu Rajkumar, Assistant Manager, Energy & Sustainability Services, received the Emerging Market Award and Felicity Lee, Sustainability Consultant received the Adoption of WELL Award. Both are WELL Accredited Professionals (WELL AP’s).
 “We’re delighted to be recognized as the organization with the highest WELL score globally, the WELL Enterprise Provider of the Year, and to have strong leaders such as Praveenbabu and Felicity leading the WELL movement. As part of our sustainability program and ESG commitments, JLL is dedicated to living into our promise to provide healthy spaces for all our employees,” says Erin Meezan, Chief Sustainability Officer. “WELL at scale allows us to showcase our company’s robust programs and policies around staff wellbeing, as well as our high-performing office spaces that support our people and global footprint.”
 Over the past several years, JLL’s commitment to creating office spaces that meet the highest standards of sustainability, health and well-being has deeply strengthened through the WELL at scale application. The firm is honored to continue its standing among a cohort of individuals and organizations around the globe that are leading the charge to revolutionize the impact buildings, organizations and communities have on health, equity and quality of life.
 JLL now has 11 offices globally that are individually WELL certified – ten of which are certified WELL Platinum, the highest possible achievement for the rating system. Currently there are 21 JLL offices across the globe undergoing individual certification. Through pursuing WELL certification both at scale and at individual offices, the firm continues to demonstrate the commitment to building healthy workplaces for JLL employees and clients. Today, JLL’s Global WELL Portfolio covers more than 4.5 million square feet across 307 offices, impacting over 100,000 employees.
 “The WELL movement has seen tremendous growth over the past year, as organizations and individuals alike have championed strategies that contribute to health, well-being and people-first places everywhere,” said IWBI Chief Product Officer Jessica Cooper. “These awards recognize the standout contributions – the advocacy, engagement and leadership – that the recipients have taken forward to influence this growth.” 
 JLL (NYSE: JLL) is a leading professional services firm that specializes in real estate and investment management. JLL shapes the future of real estate for a better world by using the most advanced technology to create rewarding opportunities, amazing spaces and sustainable real estate solutions for our clients, our people and our communities. JLL is a Fortune 500 company with annual revenue of $20.9 billion, operations in over 80 countries and a global workforce of more than 103,000 as of December 31, 2022. JLL is the brand name, and a registered trademark, of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated. For further information, visit jll.com. Copyright 2024 Jones Lang LaSalle IP, Inc.
