businessReal Estate By  Steve BrownReal Estate Editor By  Steve BrownReal Estate Editor 5:00 AM on Sep 26, 2023 CDT Ohio-based Phillips Edison & Co. has purchased Lake Pointe Market, a 40,600-square-foot shopping center at Dalrock Road and Lakeview Parkway in Rowlett. The retail center is almost 97% occupied by tenants including H&R Block, Bank of America, Supercuts and OneMain Financial. The acquisition marks Phillips Edison’s 12th shopping center purchase in North Texas. Jones Lang LaSalle’s Adam Howells and Chris Gerard brokered the sale. ShainRealty Capital purchased Landmark at Courtyard Villas, a 256-unit apartment property near U.S. Highway 80 in Mesquite. Wes Racht, Nick Fluellen and Bard Hoover of Marcus & Millichap brokered the sale. California-based investor Calvera Partnership acquired Saddlehorn Vista Apartments, a 192-unit apartment community west of downtown Fort Worth. The purchase is Calvera’s first acquisition in the Dallas-Fort Worth market. The new owners plan to upgrade and rebrand the Fort Worth apartments. Get the latest real estate news you need to know. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Ballpark Parking Partners LLC has purchased a 68,485 square-foot, two-building office showroom project located at 801-803 Stadium Drive in Arlington. Thurston Witt and Johnny Dunn with CBRE Group brokered the sale. An investor has purchased El Sol Del Lago, a 318-unit multifamily property located near Northwest Highway in Northwest Dallas in the Bachman Lake neighborhood. The new owner plans to upgrade the property. Graysteel’s Doug Banerjee, Andrew Mueller, John Tallis and Sterling Warren brokered the sale. Fort Worth-based Overwatch Fund has purchased Lavera at Lake Highlands, a 280-unit apartment property located in Northeast Dallas property on Audelia Road. The new owner, which has 8,400 multi-family units under ownership, plans to renovate the property. Investor Ashland Greene has purchased Village on the Green, an apartment community at 5301 Alpha Road in Far North Dallas. The more than 200-unit rental community is part of a mixed-use development near the Galleria Dallas shopping mall. Investor Rise48 Equity has purchased the Creekside at North Lake, a 228-unit multifamily property located on Small Block Road in Northlake. The new owner plans to spend more than $5 million on upgrades to the apartments, which will be renamed Rise Creekside. Metro Companies has purchased a 36-acre industrial building site on State Highway 114 in Rhome north of Fort Worth. Alex Wilson, Nathan Denton and Jeremy Mojica of Lee & Associates Dallas Fort Worth handled the sale. Pegasus Industries leased a 171,398-square-foot industrial space located at McKinney Trade Center at 424 Wilmeth Road in McKinney. Brett Lewis Ken Wesson and Adam Graham of Lee & Associates Dallas/Fort Worth handled the transaction. The building is owned by ML Realty Partners LLC. The City of Richardson has signed an 80,000-square-foot lease at 2360 Campbell Creek Blvd. in Richardson for a temporary space for the city hall and library. Citadel Partners’ Scott Jessen and Mac Morse negotiated the lease. MHC Truck Leasing LLC has leased a 20,020-square-foot industrial building located at 2626 W Pioneer Pkwy in Grand Prairie. Jarrett Huge and Alex Wilson of the Dallas Fort-Worth Lee & Associates office negotiated the lease. Brunswick Group has leased 15,099 square feet of office space at 3811 Turtle Creek Boulevard in Dallas. Jihane A. Boury at Savills negotiated the lease with building owner KBS. Yeliz Motors LLC has leased a 14,498-square-foot two-building office and industrial project at 1510 Stevens St. in Dallas. Jim Ferris of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease. English Color & Supply LLC has leased a 12,271-square-foot industrial space located at Grove Business Park at 777-797 N Grove Rd in Richardson. Jessica Reinhardt and George Tanghongs of Lee & Associates Dallas Fort Worth negotiated the lease with Byron McCoy of Younger Partners. Noodoe Inc. has leased 8,381 square feet of office and industrial space in Technology Center at 2600 Technology Dr. In Plano. Brian Pafford, Jared Laake and Joe Santaularia of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services handled the lease. KRM Trade Corp leased 6,758 square feet of office space located at Tech Concepts Building 2 at 903 N Bowser Rd. in Richardson. Jessica Reinhardt, George Tanghongs and Ally Tanghongs of Lee & Associates Dallas Fort Worth represented the Landlord, Dallas North Industrial, LLC negotiated the lease with Necip Koksal of Citiwide Properties Corp. Integration Electronics has leased a 6,216-square-foot industrial space at 903 N. Bowser Rd. in Richardson. Jessica Reinhardt and Ally Tanghongs of Lee & Associates Dallas Fort Worth negotiated the lease with Mark Macy of the Macy Newman Co. Marshall Grain Co. has leased 4,500 square feet of industrial space in Raider Business Park at 3417 Raider Dr. In Hurst. Jason Finch and Michael W. Spain of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease. American Orthodontic Society Inc. has leased 4,296 square feet of office space in Silverlake Crossings, at 1785 Highway 26 in Grapevine. Jared Laake and Leigh Richter of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease with Chris Taylor and John Francher of Cushman & Wakefield. Consignment Crush has leased 3,958 square feet of retail space at 3000 Custer Rd in Plano. Resolut Real Estate negotiated the lease. True Mental Health Services Inc. leased 3,148 square feet of office space in the Veritex Bank Building in North Richland Hills. Tracy Gray, Vic Meyer and Reilly Clark with Holt Lunsford Commercial negotiated the lease. Onital Energy has leased 3,000 square feet of office and industrial space in Division Street Industrial at 2800 W. Division St. in Arlington. Jason Finch, Chris Kennedy and Michael W. Spain of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease. Cosmic Dental leased 2,632 square feet at of retail space in the Westmoreland & Wilton Shopping Center at 1502 S, Westmoreland Rd. in Dallas. Dylan Macon of Practice Real Estate Group negotiated the lease with Rob Exline of Structure Commercial. Haraz Coffee House has leased 2,010 square feet of retail space located at 10009 N. MacArthur Blvd. in Irving. Partners Real Estate’s Ranjin Mathew and Derek Anthony handled the lease negotiations. Bazooka Charlie’s Barber has leased 1,750 square feet of retail space in Lantana Town Center, located at FM 407 and Jeter Road in Denton County. Josh Friedlander and Nina Irwin of NewQuest Properties negotiated the lease. Delgado Promotions has leased 1,586 square feet of retail space in Northridge Court Shopping Center at 2741 E. Belt Line Rd. In Carrollton. April Fisher of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease with Manuel Ramon of Pride Retail Properties LLC. Revolution Barbershop leased 1,500 square feet of retail space at the northwest corner of U.S. Highway 380 and Hardin Blvd in McKinney. Dylan Macon of Practice Real Estate Group negotiated the lease with Andrew Sudderth of the Retail Connection. OCD Cleaners has leased 1,200 square feet of retail space in the Shops at Painted Tree on South Hardin Boulevard at Taylor Burk Drive in McKinney. Chris Flesner and Brian Sladek of Resolut Real Estate negotiated the lease. IOOGO Inc. has leased 1,152 square feet of office space in Meadow Park Tower at 10440 N. Central Expressway in Dallas. Richmond Collinsworth and Jared Laake of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease. Royce Chocolates has leased 1,042 square feet of retail space in Carrollton Town Center at 2450 Old Denton Rd. In Carrollton. Heather Nguyen and Cobo Fajardo of NewQuest Properties negotiated the lease. Real estate editor Steve Brown compiled this list. Steve Brown, Real Estate Editor. Steve covers commercial and residential real estate in Dallas-Fort Worth.