e-Edition Evening Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition Evening Edition 
			Top Picks:		 Norfolk City Council will vote Wednesday to spend $18 million to purchase MacArthur Center mall, a move that would pave the way for redevelopment after years of store closures and decline.The city announced a special meeting Tuesday that has two agenda items involving the mall.The first is an ordinance to appropriate funds to buy the mall property at 300 Monticello Ave. The city will agree to maintaining and managing the property. To buy the mall, the city will vote on appropriating $12 million from the general fund, $3 million from the capital improvement fund and $3 million that was already appropriated in the land acquisition fund.The second agenda item is an ordinance ratifying an operating agreement between the city and the companies that would manage the property.Council will meet at 5 p.m. Wednesday to vote on the proposal.According to the purchase agreement, the actual price tag for the mall is $11.05 million. It was unclear what the remainder of the appropriated money would cover.In a memo to City Council, City Attorney Bernard Pishko said the purchase is subject to the leases of existing tenants, most of which have short-term leases.“The short-term nature of the leases and the owners’ right to relocate will allow the City, if deemed desirable, to reconfigure and redevelop this area,” Pishko wrote. “Immediately, the City will operate the mall and this ordinance appropriates the funds to acquire and operate.”

Owning the mall will pave the way for the city to enact some ideas to revamp the structure, the 4,000-space parking garage and the 23 acres of centrally located land it sits on. Some ideas previously floated by the city’s economic development department include opening it up to create an outdoor promenade, tearing it down and using the footprint for a business district and connecting streets between Chrysler Hall and the waterfront.In the meantime, though, MacArthur Center will remain as it has been.“It will continue to operate as a mall,” Mayor Kenny Alexander said Tuesday. “The transaction should be seamless.”MacArthur Center has declined dramatically during the past five years, bleeding tens of millions of dollars in value as it lost anchor tenant Nordstrom and dozens of other retailers, according to a 2022 valuation report commissioned by mall owners.In July 2018, about six months before Nordstrom officials announced the store would be leaving, the report valued the mall at $148.8 million. One year later, the mall valuation dropped to $89.3 million. And in July 2022, after dozens more store closures, the report says the mall value plummeted to $22.8 million — a decline of $126 million or by almost 85% from four years earlier.Starwood Capital Group purchased the mall in October 2014 as part of a seven-mall portfolio for about $1.4 billion. Since then, the group defaulted on a loan that used the mall as collateral in 2019. In 2022, Wells Fargo tapped Spinoso Real Estate Group to manage the mall.The mall has a complex ownership structure. The city owns the land the mall is built on, the parking structure and the former three-story Nordstrom space. The city leases the rest of the space to the mall’s owner.The property was listed for sale in January and was available for anyone to make a bid.As part of the mall sale process, commercial real estate firm Jones Lang LaSalle sent emails to more than 13,000 potential investors, according to documents filed in Norfolk Circuit Court. Almost 6,000 investors viewed the email, and 59 of them executed confidentiality agreements with the real estate company. Ultimately, the broker received just three offers.Norfolk’s offer was selected as the superior bid based on a variety of factors, including the relative lack of contingencies, brief due diligence period and the amount.Spinoso and the city entered a purchase agreement May 19. The sale closing is scheduled for either 10 days after the entry of the sale authorization form and expiration of any appeal period or 10 days following the expiration of the review period. Norfolk is allowed to extend the closing date.The court documents note that the sale is superior to the other alternatives, which include a public auction or foreclosure. The documents say those alternatives aren’t likely to yield a better sale price.  The city announced a special meeting Tuesday that has two agenda items involving the mall. The first is an ordinance to appropriate funds to buy the mall property at 300 Monticello Ave. The city will agree to maintaining and managing the property. To buy the mall, the city will vote on appropriating $12 million from the general fund, $3 million from the capital improvement fund and $3 million that was already appropriated in the land acquisition fund. The second agenda item is an ordinance ratifying an operating agreement between the city and the companies that would manage the property. Council will meet at 5 p.m. Wednesday to vote on the proposal. According to the purchase agreement, the actual price tag for the mall is $11.05 million. It was unclear what the remainder of the appropriated money would cover. In a memo to City Council, City Attorney Bernard Pishko said the purchase is subject to the leases of existing tenants, most of which have short-term leases. “The short-term nature of the leases and the owners’ right to relocate will allow the City, if deemed desirable, to reconfigure and redevelop this area,” Pishko wrote. “Immediately, the City will operate the mall and this ordinance appropriates the funds to acquire and operate.” Owning the mall will pave the way for the city to enact some ideas to revamp the structure, the 4,000-space parking garage and the 23 acres of centrally located land it sits on. Some ideas previously floated by the city’s economic development department include opening it up to create an outdoor promenade, tearing it down and using the footprint for a business district and connecting streets between Chrysler Hall and the waterfront. In the meantime, though, MacArthur Center will remain as it has been. “It will continue to operate as a mall,” Mayor Kenny Alexander said Tuesday. “The transaction should be seamless.” MacArthur Center has declined dramatically during the past five years, bleeding tens of millions of dollars in value as it lost anchor tenant Nordstrom and dozens of other retailers, according to a 2022 valuation report commissioned by mall owners. In July 2018, about six months before Nordstrom officials announced the store would be leaving, the report valued the mall at $148.8 million. One year later, the mall valuation dropped to $89.3 million. And in July 2022, after dozens more store closures, the report says the mall value plummeted to $22.8 million — a decline of $126 million or by almost 85% from four years earlier. Starwood Capital Group purchased the mall in October 2014 as part of a seven-mall portfolio for about $1.4 billion. Since then, the group defaulted on a loan that used the mall as collateral in 2019. In 2022, Wells Fargo tapped Spinoso Real Estate Group to manage the mall. The mall has a complex ownership structure. The city owns the land the mall is built on, the parking structure and the former three-story Nordstrom space. The city leases the rest of the space to the mall’s owner. The property was listed for sale in January and was available for anyone to make a bid. As part of the mall sale process, commercial real estate firm Jones Lang LaSalle sent emails to more than 13,000 potential investors, according to documents filed in Norfolk Circuit Court. Almost 6,000 investors viewed the email, and 59 of them executed confidentiality agreements with the real estate company. Ultimately, the broker received just three offers. Norfolk’s offer was selected as the superior bid based on a variety of factors, including the relative lack of contingencies, brief due diligence period and the amount. Spinoso and the city entered a purchase agreement May 19. The sale closing is scheduled for either 10 days after the entry of the sale authorization form and expiration of any appeal period or 10 days following the expiration of the review period. Norfolk is allowed to extend the closing date. The court documents note that the sale is superior to the other alternatives, which include a public auction or foreclosure. The documents say those alternatives aren’t likely to yield a better sale price.   Copyright © 2024 Daily Press