Browse properties for sale or lease that fit your location and unique needs.  Find commercial properties for lease. Find investment properties for sale to expand your global portfolio. Explore investment sales, advisory, and financing for all commercial property types. Combine market expertise and world-class research for optimal sale execution. Connect with lending sources around the world to secure the best pricing & deal. Access equity and funds placement, M&A, and corporate advisory services. Leverage big data, financial knowledge, and AI to uncover new opportunities. Develop a property management strategy with a roadmap to meet your strategic goals Manage market and climate risk and optimize asset values. Invest in or lease property, and create environments that attract tenants, employees, or buyers. Find a real estate agent in your area. Improve value through positioning, marketing and leasing of vacant space in owned assets. Strategically manage critical lease events and terms. Find  spaces and negotiate lease terms to help your business thrive.  Access solutions for retaining talent, enhancing employee experience, and reducing costs that improve productivity and optimize spaces for occupiers.  Explore better ways to find, grow and run commercial properties with our innovative portfolio of real estate technology. See how JLL pairs technology with unmatched real estate services and expertise.  Visit jllt.com to discover the best-in-class tech products that are defining the future of real estate. Accelerate your journey to become a more sustainable, more resilient, more responsible enterprise with sustainability solutions from JLL.  Get financial, environmental, and social returns with sustainability solutions. Download our ESG Performance Report and learn about our sustainability program. Address your industry’s unique needs and support your organization’s strategy with data-driven real estate solutions. Find out how we offer brighter ways of thinking across the globe for our colleagues, clients and communities. Find valuable services to support your business at every stage of your journey.  Stay up to date with the market trends shaping the future of real estate.  
                        Get trends, research, insights, and news about smart cities.
                     
                        Read news about commercial investment markets around the world.
                     
                        Browse through workplace trends, research, insights, and opinions.
                     
                        Make smarter investments with JLL's commercial real estate market research.
                     Find out how we create brighter ways of working with our partners around the globe. Over 98% waste recycling on Defence demolition Recycled waste is to be used as road base materials and metal products as we set a new standard for sustainability on a construction site. Buyer found for historic Melbourne riverside office Sold: Our high-net-worth investor client benefited from a JLL sales campaign that inspired buyers to see a brighter way Find media contacts, and get access to commercial real estate news and announcements. Chatswood Disaster Recovery Centre sells for $23 million Former disaster recovery centre sold to Kennards Self Storage Building hits the market in the centre of Melbourne’s CBD 301 Flinders Lane is in a central location with redevelopment options Create a brighter future with a career in real estate.  
                        We empower you to shape a brighter way forward. Learn more about working at JLL. 
                     
                        Enhance your job search, speed up the application process or simply learn more about life at JLL.
                     
                        Our respect for one another creates an environment where everyone’s voice is heard.
                     Find experts ready to help solve your commercial real estate challenges.  
                        Find an expert by name or by state, province, or city. 
                     
                        Find an expert unique to your industry or business objectives.
                     Find out how we use technology & expertise to create a brighter future for all.  
                        Find out how we shape the future of real estate for a better world.
                     
                        Explore our annual report and latest corporate information.
                     
                        Get to know JLL's global leadership team.
                     
                        Find real estate services, solutions and partners at JLL locations near you.
                     We combine technology with global expertise to solve any real estate challenge. Let us know what you're interested in and we'll get back to you shortly.  With over 10,000 experts across the globe, we're ready to help you buy, build, occupy, and invest in commercial real estate assets. We have over 300 offices in every major city around the world. Find out more about our expertise in your region, state, or city.  
    Resilient performance by annuity-based businesses outpaced by continued market-wide pullback in transactional revenues
 CHICAGO, May 4, 2023 – Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated (NYSE: JLL) today reported operating performance for first-quarter 2023 with diluted loss per share of $0.19 and adjusted diluted earnings per share(1) of $0.65. "Our first quarter financial results were in line with the expectations we had at the beginning of the year. Strong fee revenue growth in our resilient business lines was offset by the continuation of the industry-wide slowdown in investment sales and leasing volumes,” said Christian Ulbrich, JLL CEO. "JLL's diversified global platform and leadership position in both U.S. debt origination and equity placement put us in a unique situation to help our clients navigate the current operating environment. The investments we have made in our business over the past several years and the steps we have taken to reduce our operating costs position us to gain market share and drive long-term stakeholder value." For over 200 years, JLL (NYSE: JLL), a leading global commercial real estate and investment management company, has helped clients buy, build, occupy, manage and invest in a variety of commercial, industrial, hotel, residential and retail properties. A Fortune 500® company with annual revenue of $20.8 billion and operations in over 80 countries around the world, our more than 106,000 employees bring the power of a global platform combined with local expertise. Driven by our purpose to shape the future of real estate for a better world, we help our clients, people and communities SEE A BRIGHTER WAYSM. JLL is the brand name, and a registered trademark, of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated. For further information, visit jll.com. Copyright 2024 Jones Lang LaSalle IP, Inc.
