businessReal Estate By  Steve BrownReal Estate Editor By  Steve BrownReal Estate Editor 9:27 PM on Apr 12, 2023 CDT M Crowd Restaurant Group has purchased a 25,300-square-foot office and technology building, located at 2455 McIver Lane in Carrollton. The two-story building will house M Crowd’s corporate headquarters, employee training, test kitchen, warehouse and distribution. The company is moving from its current headquarters at 250 East Royal Lane in Irving in the fall. Pat Hanahan and Rick Currey of Fobare Commercial L.P. brokered the building sale with Jim Struble of Jim Struble Realty LLC. Apricus Realty Capital has purchased a nine-acre truck trailer storage and maintenance facility at 11801 CF Hawn Freeway in Dallas. The site is 14 miles from downtown and includes 200 truck and trailer spaces. Apricus is affiliated with Dallas commercial real estate firm Younger Partners. A local investor has purchased a 6,708-square-foot three-tenant retail center located in the 194-Acre Glade Parks Towne Center on State Highway 121 in Euless. The tenants in the center are Pei Wei, My Eyelab and Floyd’s 99 Barbershop Tim Axilrod and Tayler Rose of the Shop Cos. brokered the sale. Get the latest real estate news you need to know. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Extra Space Storage purchased a 741-unit, climate-controlled self-storage facility at 7557 Greenville Ave. next to Royal Oaks Country Club in Dallas. Jones Lang LaSalle’s Brian Somoza, Steve Mellon, Matthew Wheeler and Adam Roossien handled the sale. KeyCity Capital has purchased Villa Gardens, a 142-unit multifamily property on Fyke Road in Farmers Branch. Greysteel’s Doug Banerjee, Jack Stone, Andrew Mueller and Sterling Warren brokered the sale. Corson Cramer Development has purchased 43 acres at the northeast corner of Weston Road and Trinity Falls Parkway near McKinney from Hicks III Investments Inc. The property will be used for a 104-home residential community for Perry Homes. Freddy’s Frozen Custard & Steakburgers has purchased 1.1 acres at the southeast corner of U.S. Highway 380 and Cypress Bend Dr in Princeton. Brian Sladek of Resolut Real Estate brokered the sale. A local investor has purchased a 12,428-square-foot retail center in Aledo. The property on FM 1187 south of Interstate 20 is fully leased. Tim Axilrod and Tayler Rose of the Shop Cos. brokered the sale. Bridwell Capital has purchased Canopy at South Lakes, a 240-unit apartment property located off Interstate 35E in Denton. Institutional Property Advisors’ Drew Kile, Taylor Hill, Michael Ware and Will Bathrobe brokered the sale by SPI Advisory. Chicago-based Midloch Investment Partners and its joint-venture partner WindMass Capital have acquired Riverwalk Apartments, a 176-unit multifamily community at 12920 Audelia Rd in Dallas. Riverwalk was constructed in 1981. Kumho Tire U.S.A. Inc. has leased a 393,625-square-foot industrial space at 3700 Pinnacle Point Dr. in Dallas. The lease with Cohen Asset Management allows Kumho Tire to substantially expand its regional distribution center. Colliers International’s James Min, Brad Balke, Chris Teesdale and Tom Pearson handled the transaction. LiteOn, a Taiwanese-based provider of consumer electronics, has leased a 79,720 square-foot industrial space at 3605 E. Plano Parkway in Plano. George Tanghongs and Brett Lewis of Lee & Associates handled lease negotiations. Quality Honeycomb has leased 60,000 square feet of warehouse space at 624 107th St. in Arlington. Mark Graybill with Lee & Associates negotiated the lease with Cullen Dickey and Scott Voelkel of Dickey Property Co. PDE Receiving & Storage LLC has leased an 18,475-square-foot industrial space at 5151 Norwood Road in Dallas from Stonelake Capital Partners. Stephen Williamson and Matthew Johnson of Lee & Associates Dallas-Fort Worth negotiated the lease with Robert Blankinship of NAI Robert Lynn. Lone Star Event Rentals Inc. has leased a 12,000-square-foot building with a fenced storage yard at 10312 Bickham Rd. in Dallas. The events supplier will consolidate three locations in the area into the new space. Jason Finch and Michael W. Spain of Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease. Palm Beach Tan Inc. has leased 9,904 square feet of industrial space in Gateway South, 6025 Commerce Dr., Irving. Erik Blais and Jared Laake of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease with John Doubleday of Shop Cos. HOA Management has leased an 8,264-square-foot office space located at Two Mission Park,1202 Richardson Dr., Richardson. Jessica Reinhardt and George Tanghongs of Lee & Associates DFW negotiated the sale. CapturePoint Solutions LLC has leased 5,690 square feet of office space in the Office Campus at Allen, 1101 South Central Expressway in Allen. Jared Laake of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease with Kent Smith of NAI Robert Lynn. The Dent Spot has leased 5,360 square feet of flex industrial space at 2809 W. Euless Blvd. in Hurst. Jason Finch and Michael W. Spain of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease with Andre Shaw of Epique Realty. All Texas Lighting has leased 4,110 square feet of warehouse space at 2206 Joe Field Rd. in Dallas. Kyle Espie and Brian Pafford of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease with John Torres of Transworld Commercial Real Estate. Another Life LLC leased 3,500 square feet of commercial space at Colleyville Towne Square on Colleyville Boulevard in Colleyville. John Lucas with Century 21 Commercial negotiated the lease with Tracy Gray and Reilly Clark with Holt Lunsford Commercial. Tripaga Inc. has leased 2,373 square feet of office space at 8406 A Sterling St. in Commerce Office Park in Irving. Jason Finch and Michael W. Spain of Bradford Commercial Real Estate negotiated the lease with Marilyn Kittrell of KW Commercial. Cypress Bend Dental leased 2,250 square feet of commercial space at Princeton Office Park, 200 Cypress Bend Pkwy., Princeton. Dylan Macon of Practice Real Estate Group negotiated the lease with Darrell Rogers of The Rogers Team. Sulak General Contractors LLC has leased 1,850 square feet of office space in Tollway Towers East, 5441 Knoll Trail Dr., Dallas. Melanie Hughes of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease. Jim Scrivner has leased 1,800 square feet of industrial space at 10709 Tube Dr. in Hurst. Jason Finch and Michael W. Spain of Bradford Commercial Real Estate Services negotiated the lease with Edie West of Edie West Realty Group LLC. Bad Ass Coffee has leased 1,748 square feet of retail space at 11651 FM 423 in Little Elm. Chris Flesner of Resolut Real Estate negotiated the lease. Dr. Matt Sheehy leased 1,200 square feet of office space at Hays Office Park at Prosper Town Center Condominiums, 291 S. Preston Rd., Prosper. Max Burrows of Practice Real Estate Group negotiated the lease with Samantha Rollins with SHB Development. All Secure Inc leased 1,140 square feet of industrial space at Northeast Business Center in Richland Hills. William Wilson and George Jennings with Holt Lunsford Commercial negotiated the lease. Real estate editor Steve Brown compiles this list. Steve Brown, Real Estate Editor. Steve covers commercial and residential real estate in Dallas-Fort Worth.