search Cushman & Wakefield, Sack Properties, and Alta Housing bring in new executives SHARE THIS ARTICLE FONT SIZE JLL is turning to former Stanford quarterback Todd Husak to replicate the success he had on the field to his new position as senior managing director at the brokerage’s Silicon Valley office. The real estate veteran comes to JLL with a specialty in agency leasing and tenant representation. In a statement, Husak said he was excited to join JLL “with the Silicon Valley and Peninsula areas starting to see renewed activity.” Husak was the quarterback of Stanford’s football team from 1996 to 2000 and in the 1999 season led the Cardinal to the Pac 10 Conference title and the team’s first Rose Bowl since 1972. After college, Husak was drafted in the sixth round of the 2000 NFL draft and played professionally for five years. After his professional football career ended, he spent a year and a half as an assistant coach for the Cardinals before joining CBRE’s Palo Alto office, where he worked more than 16 years, rising to managing director.  Husak’s responsibilities at JLL will include working with the current agency team to grow market share, maximize the value of their client’s assets in the region, and continue to expand JLL’s reach in the Bay Area. ➤Cushman & Wakefield have created a new role for Ron Chislom, who will serve as the company’s first North American senior vice president of client services for life sciences. Chisholm will be based in San Francisco and oversee a C&W Services portfolio of life sciences properties across North America, with a focus on providing strategic insight. He will work closely with Cushman & Wakefield’s life science advisory council to collaborate on global growth opportunities. “Life sciences is clearly a very important growth area for the firm,” said the firm’s COO Swinburne, who called the reorganization “CWS’ first consolidated end-to-end vertical.”  Before joining Cushman & Wakefield, Chislom was at JLL for almost three years as an executive vice president where he served as a global life sciences account executive. Prior to his career in commercial real estate, he spent 14 years at Roche/Genentech. ➤Also joining Cushman & Wakefield is Mark Anderson as vice chairman at its San Francisco office. Anderson was previously at Cushman & Wakefield for nearly 20 years before a stint at Avison Young for two years.  Anderson will focus on landlord representation and multi market tenant representation. In his previous time at the brokerage he rose to vice chairman as well. ➤Sack Properties President Jeff Smith and Chief Investment Officer David Feinberg have been tapped to lead the company under a new banner called Sack Capital Partners.  “Smith and Feinberg each have over 25 years of multifamily experience and have invested more than $2.5 billion in multifamily transactions totaling more than 10,000 units,” Kirby Sack, owner of Sack since 2007, said. Smith joined the firm, then known as Sack Properties, in 2001. He became chief financial officer in 2007 and was named president in 2017. Feinberg joined the firm in 2017 and became chief investment officer in 2020.  ➤Alta Housing, a community-based affordable housing organization, has brought on Stephanie Shipe as vice president of property management. Shipe brings 25 years of affordable housing property management experience and most recently served as the director of portfolio management at the Housing Authority of the City of Alameda.    “She is committed to Alta’s resident retention policy of working with residents and resident services to make sure residents are able to stay in their home,” CEO Randy Tsuda said in a statement. In her new position, Shipe will manage more than 1,000 units and a team of 35 professionals.  All rights reserved © 2024 The Real Deal is a registered Trademark of Korangy Publishing Inc.