Penn State running back Journey Brown is awarded the offensive player of the game  after their 53-39 win over Memphis in the Cotton Bowl in AT&T Stadium on Dec. 28, 2019. Brown is now pushing ahead with a career in NASCAR. 
Joe Hermitt | jhermitt@pennlive.com It has been just more than two years since Penn State star running back Journey Brown was forced to medically retire from football due to a heart condition. And we really haven’t heard much from the Meadville native since. Turns out he is doing, pretty darned good, and he is still competing, too. He’s just doing it in another sport. Trackhouse Racing dropped a video on social media Friday detailing Journey’s journey since doctors discovered he had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Nittany Lions fans will enjoy it. “Journey’s story is awesome. It is a journey within itself,” Erik Nason, Manager of Sports Medicine for AdventHealth, starts the video saying. “Listening to his passion for football and his life, to go through something where he was diagnosed with HCM, and that kind of taken away is kind of hard to grasp.” Then Brown pops up to explain his diagnosis, comparing it to taking a four-lane highway in New York City and cutting it down to two-lanes … only inside of his heart. “For me to be exerting myself, and then to get hit by a 327-pound offensive lineman from Ohio State, the two wouldn’t mix together well,” he explained. And that is when Brown said he was forced to consider life after football. “What am I doing next?” he said. “I had literally no options. I was kind of scrambling trying to find what I was going to do, where I was going to live, and after that coach (Shaun) Peet called me.” And that opened the door for Brown to get into NASCAR racing as a tire changer. NASCAR teams have increasingly sought out former college and NFL players across the past couple years, and it makes sense. Fractions of a second can make a big difference during a pit stop, so having real athletes — guys who are already big, strong and fast — tossing around heavy tires and equipment can add an advantage. “Journey was an easy choice for us,” Peet, the pit crew coach at Trackhouse Racing said. “When a friend of mine started talking about him and his story, I was intrigued instantly. When I got on the phone with him, you expect a level of disappointment or a level of bitterness for the way life dealt its cards to him, and he’s not. “The guy is a light.” Brown said he was initially hesitant. “He was just like, “Hey man, how you doing, I’m Shaun Peet, I want you to get down here and check out NASCAR,’” Brown said. “And I was just like “Ah, honestly, I’m not a big NASCAR guy or whatever,’ and he said, ‘Neither was I.’ “He said, ‘No promises. We don’t want you to commit to nothing. We want you simply to just come check it out,’” Brown said. “And, I was like, ‘What is the harm in that?’” Peet said Trackhouse could tell right away that Brown would be a great addition. Penn State running back Journey Brown goes in for an 18-yard touchdown run as Rutgers linebacker Olakunle Fatukasi gives chase during the third quarter on Nov. 30, 2019.Joe Hermitt | jhermitt@pennlive.com “We get him on the campus the first day and we were sold,” he said. ‘He just brings energy the second he comes through the door.” And Brown said he was surprised by the diversity of people on staff. “This is NASCAR, and from that aspect it blew my mind,” he said. “And, I was like, ‘This is dope.’” Peet said they continue to be impressed by the former Penn State standout. “Journey brings perspective,” he said. “The way that he not only met adversity but continues to move through it, it’s a pretty strong example for our guys. When all is said and done here, I think his contribution to this race team is going to be far greater than his ability to change tires.” And for Brown it is bigger than just being a tire changer, too. He said his new career has filled a void. “I’m essentially a fast mechanic, and I love doing it,” he said. “That void that I lost playing ball is getting slowly but surely filled by doing this, especially just being around the group of guys that I am now. It’s like crazy. “The chemistry you have to have with your team is just like what I long for,” he added. “And I’m getting that fulfillment in this because I get to use my brain again for a sport.” Peet said that has been the case for a lot of guys who have shared a similar path to the pit crew. “When you leave what he left, it doesn’t matter about the money, right?” he said. “It matters about the purpose. We have former NFLers, guys who have won the Super Bowl, who are pitting race cars for us because they want purpose. As an athlete, you grow up with that camaraderie. You are part of a team. You get that adrenaline rush. You get to compete. And when that goes away, that’s a hard day. With Journey, we get to facilitate him writing his comeback story.” And, as far as Brown is concerned, it is one heckuva comeback story. And Nittany Lion football fans will probably love to hear just how he feels about that now. “I thought football was my single purpose, but now I have a lot of purposes,” he said. “I miss it, but would I trade it? My life for that now? Nah, I like my life now for sure. I do.” -- Follow Brian Linder on Twitter @SportsByBLinder If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices