 Now  80  Sun  92  Mon  93 by Dan Shugart TOPICS: PENSACOLA, Fla. -- Jeremy Reaves is the latest football player from Pensacola to reach the NFL Pro Bowl.   But his journey is one of the most unlikely, and inspiring. WEAR News met with Reaves Friday to talk about the incredible path he's taken, and where it's led him.  Reaves received another honor Friday -- voted by sportswriters to the AP All-Pro first-team.   He was already named All-Pro by his fellow players, and will also play in the NFL Pro Bowl. He's been rewarded for his amazing perseverance.  But that only tells part of the story of who he is. Reaves has overcome one setback after another to get here.  A back injury stunted his recruitment out of Pensacola Catholic High School. He went undrafted out of South Alabama. He was cut at the end of training camp following his first four seasons in the NFL. But he never doubted. "It's funny, I actually did an interview in 2019, after my second year, with WEAR any they asked me what was the goal after finishing my second season and it was -- Pro Bowl," Reaves said. "And, you know, here we are." He didn't hope for success, he expected it. "I set that standard for myself," Reaves said. "You know, I have goals written down every year. I want to do this, I want to do this, I want to go to the Pro Bowl, I want to take this many snaps on defense, I want to contribute to a playoff run. You know, I set those goals for myself because it's important. We might not register those things consciously but subconsciously we absorb it." This year, he made the Washington Commanders' active roster out of training camp.  And he became perhaps the best special teams player in the league -- a lesson for those who might follow him "Trials and tribulations are a part of life," Reaves said. "You have to go through things to get to something. You can't be old and wise if you were never young and dumb to experience things. That's the lesson of life and that goes sports as well. You have to go through the losses to appreciate the wins. I have. I've fell more times than I've won. But one thing I can say is that I got back up and kept fighting." He was never bitter.  His mantra, "opportunities delayed, not denied." And it's one reason his teammates and coaches so richly celebrated his selection. "They've all seen what I went through," Reaves said. "From the cuts to losing my mother.  The going back and forth.  That's tough on anybody.  But they know I continued to show up to work.  I never complained.  I never griped about my situation, I just played the hand I was dealt.  And so, me and Coach Rivera have a lot of shared experiences.  He lost his mother, this year.  I lost my mother, last year.  He knew what that was going to mean to me.  And it was an awesome moment." He lost his mother last year. She and his father are very much in his thoughts in this triumphant season. "My mother grew up very early, at a young age," Reaves said. "She had to end up raising her siblings when she was a child. So she dealt with adversity firsthand and she never waivers, she never quit. She just showed up and went to work every day and handled her business. And so, I've went about it the same way. Reaves will play in the NFL Pro Bowl game, Feb. 5, in Las Vegas.