Destiny Cox's name is appropriate, seeing as her future seemed predestined from birth. Since then, Cox's winding journey has brought her to Lubbock, where she is one of 11 new faces on the Texas Tech volleyball team. She didn't plan on being a Red Raider, but life finds a way. Born to a record-breaking trackster mother from the University of North Carolina — her grandmother, great grandmother and uncles all ran track as well. Raised 11 miles from the Chapel Hill campus. Years attending camps and games in the Tar Heel-crazed land. It felt obvious she would be a track star. Cox had other ideas. Something about volleyball called to her. Perhaps it was wanting something different than her mom, Crystal Cox, who won a 2004 Olympic gold medal. Everybody, including her step-dad, Harry Walker, assumed Destiny would take the same path. Crystal knew better. Destiny, then an eighth-grader, had a heart-to-heart with her parents. Mature for her years, Destiny used the typical Friday-night trip to Lone Star Steakhouse to have a hard talk. Volleyball was her future. "I think when I grew up and I started becoming my own person," Destiny said, "I tried track and I liked it, but I think my love and my heart was with volleyball." Two years removed from a devastating knee injury, now in her sixth year of college, Destiny is ready for one last go at a sport few expected her to dedicate herself to. "I'm almost getting this feeling," her mom, Crystal Cox Walker, said, "like those racehorses that are in the stables. They're just lining up and they're ready to go. That's what she is. Destiny feels like she has so much to prove." Destiny Cox was quite literally born into the Tar Heel family. Crystal was in the midst of her track career at UNC when she became pregnant. Destiny was born in March 2000 while Crystal's collegiate career spanned 1997-2001. Before Destiny's arrival, Crystal said she was selfish. She competed for herself, for her ego. That all changed. "When she was born," Crystal said, "my focus shifted. It was like I have to start doing things for her. Be the best person and (provide) the best path that I can for her. Being the best athlete for her." Destiny could be spotted at the track cheering her mother on. She showed athletic prowess from a young age, competing in everything from gymnastics to karate. "You could put her in any sport," Crystal said," just one of those athletes like Bo Jackson. Whatever sport he did, he was going to excel because he was just a natural thoroughbred. That's how Destiny was growing up." Volleyball came later. As Crystal recalls, she and Harry took Destiny to a UNC volleyball match at one point and noticed something. She was imitating the players on the court. As she became one of the top prospects in the country, Destiny said she grew tunnel vision. Could she possibly go anywhere other than her mom's alma mater? "I was like, that's for sure the school I want to go to," Destiny said of UNC. "Of course, things don't always work out how I wish they would have." Destiny spent three years at UNC before she needed a change of scenery. Having spent her entire life in Chapel Hill, she looked to make a move, settling on Texas A&M. That adventure lasted 11 games. Destiny remembers every detail — opponent, arena name, game score, location of the set ball — that led to her tearing her ACL and meniscus in her right knee. It was a troubling time for Destiny who confided in her mom that maybe this was it for her career. Crystal gained status with United Airlines for how many trips she made to College Station as Destiny dealt with the aftermath. "As a parent, especially as a mother," Crystal said, "I had to wear many hats." States away from her support system, Destiny needed guidance, reassurance as she tried to rehabilitate. During that process, missing all of the 2022 season, she decided she wasn't ready to hang it up just yet. One thing Destiny learned from her mom was to ignore outside chatter. Crystal dealt with plenty as her 2004 Olympic gold medal was stripped from the official record — she still has the medal and says she has since been exonerated, though not publicly. Destiny is taking that approach at Texas Tech. The Red Raiders were picked 11th in the preseason poll for the newly-expanded Big 12 Conference. To Destiny, it's just opinion. It means little. This season, though, does mean a lot to Destiny. It's her final chance to fulfill her own objectives. There is no next year for her. "I guess it's do or die," Destiny said, "and I think I've got to put everything out there on the table."