When I came to Congress two years ago and joined the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, I was cautiously optimistic that... "Unfortunately, we have learned from generations of veterans the creeping, silent danger of toxic exposures." While pursuing higher education is appealing to some service members, and remains a strong draw for recruiting through the GI... For at least a month, soldiers have been reporting issues accessing their benefits though Army IgnitED, an online portal that... The service, not typically known for embracing the bleeding edge of new technology, appears to be the first military branch... An AH-1Z Viper crew attached to Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron 262 fired the live missile in the Philippine Sea near... Each of “Zero Day’s” 10 episodes depicts an independent aspect of Taiwanese life affected by the fictionalized invasion, as... While the pier would help offload nearly 20 million pounds of aid, a stream of issues, breakdowns, injured service members... North Korea marked the delivery of 250 nuclear-capable missile launchers to frontline military units as leader Kim Jong Un... Get the latest on pay updates, benefit changes and award-winning military content. Right in your inbox. View more newsletters on our Subscriptions page. Verify your free subscription by following the instructions in the email sent to: Boonie hats are round, wide-brimmed sun hats worn by troops in particularly hot or tropical climates, such as the jungles of... Former President Donald Trump rankled many U.S. service members and veterans at a recent campaign event where he compared the... Command Sgt. Maj. Matthew Carlson allegedly sexually assaulted a subordinate noncommissioned officer, according to a document... The shooting is being investigated by San Antonio police. Service officials confirmed Friday that pants for the Navy Working Uniform, or NWU, the go-to uniform for most sailors, are... Command Sgt. Maj. Veronica Knapp was dismissed "due to a loss of trust and confidence in her leadership," a spokesperson for... The Israeli army released footage Thursday of what it said are airstrikes on Hezbollah targets in Lebanon. (Aug. 8)... The United States, Australia, Canada and the Philippines held air and naval maneuvers on Wednesday in a show of... Vice President Kamala Harris has decided on Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz as her running mate in her bid for... North Korea marked the delivery of 250 nuclear-capable missile launchers to frontline military units at a ceremony where leader... A Military.com investigation into military day care centers revealed that service branch rules generally prioritize... For years, it was an open secret among missileers that the Cold War-era missile alert facilities and launch control centers... Army IgnitED, which connects soldiers with federal funds to cover the cost of college courses and other credentialing... Groundwater samples from March at Fort Detrick's Area B showed high concentrations of a cancer-causing chemical along the... It's not particularly unusual to find abandoned boats along South Carolina's coast, but then there's the one on Bohicket... Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... Puello-Mota's flight to Russia occurred as a legal case for possession of child pornography that began in 2020 wound its way... Staff Sgt. Tristen Wright, 28, of Palm Bay, Florida, died Aug. 15 in a "noncombat-related incident at an undisclosed location... Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... The Air Force Academy is the youngest service academy in the country and prepares students for commissioning in the U.S. Air... Biden boarded the Sikorsky-made helicopter after arriving on Air Force One in Chicago where he is speak at the Democratic... Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... While the Coast Guard crew regularly goes out on challenging rescue missions, this one was particularly difficult, given how... It's not particularly unusual to find abandoned boats along South Carolina's coast, but then there's the one on Bohicket... Visit our Customer Support center for solutions or to contact us.