For her Spring/Summer 2024 showcase at Copenhagen Fashion Week, Stine Goya brought the world to her doorstep, taking the concept of "homecoming" to a whole new level. Inviting guests to her very own street in Copenhagen, the showcase aimed to celebrate "the joy of day-to-day life in the city" while also interrogating the very meaning of the word home and all its forms. Bringing together new and old faces from the House of Goya community, the showcase saw models partaking in a unique, shared experience around a community dinner table, set in the centre of the runway. Paying tribute to the street parties of the city, the table was set with place settings provided by the actual residents of the street of Eckersbergsgade. "My desire for this show is to encourage our audience to contemplate the significance of 'home' as an emotional anchor in our lives. It's a place where we find belonging, solace, and support. 'Home' is not confined to a specific location; it can manifest in the arms of a loved one, the laughter of family and friends, or the embrace of a community. 'Homecoming' is an invitation to cherish the meaning of home in all its facets -- a physical shelter and a heartfelt emotional connection," explains Goya.   View this post on Instagram   A post shared by STINE GOYA (@stinegoyastudio) From the unique location to the personal origin of the collection's prints, every inch of SS24 was deeply Stine Goya. Arriving in a varying color palette of barbiecore pink, soothing blue and subtle lilac, the collection fused shimmering metallics with power suits and merged sculptural silhouettes with floaty sheer fabrics. "I rarely take the time to reflect on our journey as a brand. For Spring-Summer 2024 I felt the overwhelming urge to do just that," the designer concluded. "Taking a moment to look back on our development and delve into some of my early styling references which really did feel like a homecoming. And while it started with reflection, this collection feels modern and fresh. I naturally always lean into my love for colour and print however, it has been amazing to really explore more intricate details and finishing touches, looking at print with a more subtle approach, whilst staying true to our DNA." Take a look at Stine Goya SS24 above and for more CPHFW coverage, check out Paolina Russo's debut runway show. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.