Please enable JavaScript to properly view our site.     A zoning hearing for a 1,006,880-square-foot warehouse that faces opposition from some Mount Joy Township residents will resume Feb. 15 at 6 p.m. in the Elizabethtown Area Middle School auditorium, 600 E. High St., Elizabethtown. The township zoning hearing board opened the hearing for Panattoni Development Co.’s proposed warehouse at 2843 Mount Pleasant Road at its Jan. 17 meeting. After 2½ hours of testimony from the developer, and questions from neighbors opposing the project, the board agreed to continue the hearing to a later date. About 70 residents attended the hearing. Panattoni is seeking a special exception to build a warehouse larger than 50,000 square feet, the maximum size allowed by right in the light industrial district where it is proposed. In November, Panattoni proposed to amend the township zoning ordinance to build four warehouses in the township, with a total of 2.7 million square feet. While that proposal is on hold, the developer is seeking zoning approval to build a warehouse for a company that it says is in immediate need of space. Panattoni has declined to name the tenant.  
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             When Donald Cafiero bought 22 acres of farmland in Mount Joy Township 45 years ago, he predi… When: Mount Joy Township Jan. 3, reorganizational meeting.  When: Mount Joy Township supervisors meeting, Dec. 19.  Route 30 has reopened after a vehicle fire closed eastbound lanes in West Hempfield Township.  Firefighters saved three cows trapped inside of a burning barn in Colerain Township on Friday afternoon.  A zoning hearing for a proposed 1,006,008 square-foot warehouse that has attracted opposition from residents of Mount Joy Township will contin… For eight years, the Mount Joy Township Zoning Hearing Board never had a case it couldn’t decide in two hearings or less.  Support local journalism. Click here to learn more about the role the Lancaster County Local Journalism Fund plays in Lancaster County and to make a tax-deductible donation. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: