Watching a rescue pet find their forever home is one of our favorite things, but there's something extra special about knowing that an underdog finally won. We can practically feel the joy in this TikTok video. from the APA of Missouri, who finally got to send off their longest resident. This Pit Bull's name is Fergie, and she was waiting 191 whole days for the perfect owner to find her. Now that she's headed home, though, we bet she's feeling Fergalicious. Her shelter family and her forever family both look like they're ready to party with her, and honestly--so are we! View the original article to see embedded media. You go, Fergie girl! We're over the moon to see you headed home with someone who looks just as excited as you do. You deserve nothing less--especially after waiting so long to be adopted. "Aww this made me tear up," wrote commenter @meechyx666. "Reminds me of when I adopted my dog. It’s been almost 3 years." That's so sweet! We completely get what you mean, too: experiencing the joy of adopting a pet will change the way you look at these videoes. There's so much love and joy in store for this sweet Pit Bull, and we couldn't be more excited for her. The APA Animal Adoption Center is a Brentwood, Missouri-based animal welfare organization that aims to bring people and pets together. In addition to their shelter, they also run spay and neuter clinics, senior programs, classroom programs, and on-site veterinary clinics. They're a one-stop shop for pet owners in the St. Louis area, especially if you're looking to adopt a rescue pet! Looking for more PetHelpful updates? Follow us on YouTube for more entertaining videos. Or, share your own adorable pet by submitting a video, and sign up for our newsletter for the latest pet updates and tips. READ THE COMMENTS New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.