Global site navigation PAY ATTENTION: Enjoy reading our stories? Join YEN.com.gh's Telegram channel for more! An alumnus of the University of Cape Coast (UCC), Dr Nathaniel Nii Codjoe who recently grabbed the headlines during the 55th Congregation of his university has worked his way to the top when it comes to academic success. The young doctor has got people singing his praise on social media after he won 16 awards out of 22 at the UCC School of Medical Sciences (SMS) on the day of graduation. As Ghanaians continue to applaud him, an old photo has surfaced online which proves that his academic exploits began during his high school days at St Peter's SHS where he represented his school at the National Science and Maths Quiz(NSMQ) as a contestant. Read also St Peter's: NSMQ star from school who swept 16 out of 22 awards at 2023 UCC graduation meets Bawumia In the photo, Nathaniel who looked very young was seated with his co-contestant from St Peter's, Michael Kwajo Abuni. PAY ATTENTION: Follow us on Instagram - get the most important news directly in your favourite app! The facial expression of the duo made it apparent that they were answering a question. The photo which was shared on Twitter highlights the humble beginnings of Nathaniel as an SHS student vis-à-vis the time he had his crowning moment at the UCC congregation where he officially graduated as a medical doctor. Netizens who reacted to the photo congratulated him whereas others expressed delight that he attended St Peter's SHS. @IK_Sedem said: @Kwesi_Kissi replied: Read also MzGee marks surprise birthday with Jackie Appiah, others on UTV, videos warm hearts @Oduro92 added: Earlier YEN.com.gh reported that a brilliant lady named Emmanuella Obike has been named the valedictorian of the University of Cape Coast's (UCC) College of Health and Allied Sciences.  The genius earned a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.879 to graduate as the Best Graduating Student from the college for 2023.  New feature: Сheck out news that is picked for YOU ➡️  click on “Recommended for you”  and enjoy! Source: YEN.com.gh 

                Philip Boateng Kessie                                    (Human-Interest editor)
                            
Philip Boateng Kessie is a Human Interest editor at YEN.com.gh. He has over six years of experience in journalism. He graduated from the University of Cape Coast in 2018 with a bachelor's degree in Communication Studies. Philip previously served as a reporter for Graphic Communications Group Limited (GCGL). He also worked as a content writer for Scooper News. Email: philip.kessie@yen.com.gh.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you