                    The Julia Street building that once housed the Louisiana Children's Museum is set to become a hotel and residential complex, part of a new brand that the New Orleans site's developers are also launching in three other cities. Nashville, Tennessee-based AJ Capital Partners, which counts Cooper Manning among its senior executives, originally planned to convert the historic Warehouse District premises into a SoHo House, an exclusive members-only club founded in London in the 1990s. But those plans were stalled by the pandemic and construction on the site was delayed. A rendering of a "Memoir Residential" complex going up on the site of the old Louisiana Children's Museum on Julia Street, with an attached new structure on Tchoupitoulas Street. Developer AJ Capital Partners is staying mum on the new concept, which it is rolling out in four cities this year. The new concept currently under construction is set to be called "Memoir Residential," according to two sources familiar with the matter and information from an AJ Capital Partners job posting and web site, which notes it is "a multifamily platform to be launched across four markets in 2023." An AJ Capital spokesperson declined to give more details, saying the firm isn't yet ready to go public. But architectural plans and a rendering approved by the Historic District Landmarks Commission last year give an indication of what the new project will offer. The old two-story structure that previously housed the Children's Museum will remain largely intact, though the rear portion of the building has been partially demolished to make way for a new concrete structure. The remaining area of the old building was braced and restored for stability and to preserve its historical significance, according to the work plans approved by the HDLC. The first floor that faces Julia Street is set to have 10,100 square feet of retail space, while the upper floor will consist of 20 hotel rooms. A skylight allows light in at the Louisiana Children's Museum in the Central Business District of New Orleans, Wednesday, June 19, 2019. The Julia street location's last day will be July 27 and the new location in City Park is expected to open August 31. The project includes new construction on what was once a surface parking lot facing 821 Tchoupitoulas Street. AJ Capital bought that property in 2019 and is turning it into a new five-story building that will connect to the museum. The lobby and first floor on the Tchoupitoulas side will have just over 17,000 square feet of retail space. The second floor will have 23 hotel rooms that will form part of the 43-room hotel, while floors 3-through-5 will have 70 residential apartment units. The architect's rendering also shows that there will be an outdoor swimming pool and deck area covering the roof of the new structure where it attaches to the back of the old museum. AJ Capital was founded by Ben Weprin in Chicago in 2008, and three years ago relocated his headquarters to Nashville. The firm has built its reputation by restoring historic old buildings and transforming them into boutique hotels, including several developed for SoHo House & Co. Weprin was responsible for the redevelopment of the 95-year-old Pontchartrain Hotel, which he bought in 2016. It was fully renovated and reopened with 106 rooms in partnership with John Besh’s Our House Hospitality. Besh protégés Brian Landry and Emery Whalen took over running the bars and restaurants in 2018, including the Jack Rose restaurant, which was named USA Today's "Best Hotel Restaurant" in the country the year after it opened. Weprin's firm also took over the Joy Theater on Canal Street two years ago, but hasn't announced plans for that historic venue. AJ Capital has two main hotel brands, which the firm calls "platforms." The Graduate group of lodgings are located in cities with a large university presence, such as Berkeley, California, and Fayetteville, Arkansas. The other is the "Marine and Lawn" group of hotels in Scotland and Ireland. The development at the Children's Museum site comes under AJ Capital's "Opportunity Zone" group of projects. That means that it is located in part of New Orleans designated as qualifying for the federal opportunity zone tax break, which allows investors who have capital gains tax liabilities to invest in new projects and avoid some or all of those taxes. Email Anthony McAuley tmcauley@theadvocate.com. A look at some of Kim Mulkey's 700+ game day texts, the NOPD says violent crime is down by 20%, the Linda Frickey trial is paused and more. He…   News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: