  'OtherWORLDS' premieres Sept. 24 Plenty of people stuck with a desk job dream of more exciting endeavors. In “OtherWORLDS,” the unhappy cubicle inhabitant is torn between making a living and dreaming of being an artist. But really, an artist who can fly. “He is missing connection and community,” says “OtherWORLDS” creator and performer LadyBEAST, a New Orleans artist who prefers to be known by her performing name. “He wants to have a group of people that are interested in movement and dance.” The show is not about ennui, as the worker, played by the local artist who goes by AYAA, soon takes flight. Though the cast of seven performers have skills in a variety of aerial and circus arts, the show is mostly about aerial acts and movement. It also has some rare acts, including a hair hanger. “OtherWORLDS” premieres with one show only at The Joy Theater on Sunday, Sept. 24. The Joy Theater is one of the few local theaters equipped to accommodate the type of rigging the show requires, as the performers use the full 24-foot vertical space for acts on ropes, chains and hoops. The narrative is expressed almost exclusively through movement, following a brief opening monologue. AYAA finds a way into a new world of artists who exist in a sort of sci-fi-esque hive mind, LadyBEAST says. The work is truly an ensemble piece, as the entire cast is at work during the entire show, working a pulley system to lift each other in the air. “Artists in the show are pulling other artists up,” LadyBEAST says. “People will be popping up and down. The rope act is at the top of the rope. So, I’ll be up really high.” The show includes solo and doubles acts on ropes and hoops. There’s also work on trapeze, chains and Spanish web, a circus apparatus that looks like hanging rope. One piece is a complicated aerial group number that includes the whole cast. There also is a hair hanging act. Locally based artist Sam Aquatic has learned the old circus skill in which she performs while literally hanging by her hair. “Hair hanging is an old circus art and is not common,” LadyBEAST says. “It’s about how you braid your hair, and how it’s done is a circus secret to keep it magical. But it’s a very physically technical act, because you are literally hanging by your hair. She has to treat her hair like it’s an apparatus.” Sam Aquatic has only done one hair hanging performance in New Orleans, LadyBEAST says. Sam Aquatic also is a contortionist, and the show includes dance and acrobatics on the ground as well. LadyBEAST has been working on the show for much of the year, and it gained some inadvertent early publicity. She set up a 20-foot rig in her backyard in St. Roch to practice. Her neighbor complained that people working on the apparatus well above the fence line violated his privacy. He eventually appealed to the city’s zoning board that it was a professional use of a residential space. In July, the zoning board ruled unanimously to allow the rigging to stay.  But it was a short-lived victory. “It was a million degrees outside,” LadyBEAST says. “You can’t train in 115 degrees. It’s not safe.” She was invited to do a residency inside the Marigny Opera House, where she presented the show “Vaude D’Gras: Baroquen Circus” during Carnival just before the pandemic started in 2020. She continued to develop the show there.  Some excerpts from the “OtherWORLDS” show will be performed at the Marigny Opera Ballet’s Kaleidoscope gala on Oct. 4 at the Marigny Opera House. 'If I can’t dance, I don’t want to be part of your revolution.' 'If I can’t dance, I don’t want to be part of your revolution.' While LadyBEAST does aerial work, she’s more focused on circus arts and escape acts. “My specialty is old-world circus acts in a new setting,” she says. “Bottle walking is a Dust Bowl era act.” Her bottle walking act features her walking on the tops of upright wine and Champagne bottles. For 13 months during the pandemic, she performed with Venardos Circus, a traveling circus that puts up and performs in its own tent. She closed the first act of the show with her bottle walking act and a balancing act in which she climbed three stacked chairs. She then closed the show with an escape act, freeing herself from a straitjacket while hanging upside down by her ankles, 30 feet in the air.  LadyBEAST has been working on escape acts for years, and in 2018, she performed a straitjacket escape while hanging from a hot air balloon at Burning Man. Following “OtherWORLDS,” LadyBEAST is back to mastering old circus tricks for new shows. For information about “OtherWORLDS,” visit ladybeastproductions.com. The Cuban-born pianist doesn’t like to stay in one musical place. The Cuban-born pianist doesn’t like to stay in one musical place. 
        For more than 40 years, Gambit has covered New Orleans, for New Orleans.
        We’ve stood up to city hall with you, cheered the Saints with you,
        danced in the streets with you and cried over our collective loss with
        you. And we’re plannin’ on being here for 40 more. To do that, we need
        your help. Become a Gambit member today and help us continue our mission
       Email Will Coviello at wcoviello@gambitweekly.com Oktoberfest kicked off at Munich's festival grounds, Theresienwiesse, on Saturday. (Locally, Miel Brewery & Taproom held its Oktoberfest e…   Gambit's Events Calendar
 For more upcoming events visit  
calendar.gambitweekly.com 
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: