
              Sep 27, 2023
             The Biden administration believes that the African Diaspora in US is a foundation to the 21st-century partnership with Africa. 
    No Comment
   _________________ A Ugandan has been appointed a member of the US President Joe Biden's inaugural President’s Advisory Council on African Diaspora Engagement. Among the 12 members is Ugandan Ham Serunjogi, who is the co-founder and chief executive officer for African fintech giant Chipper Cash. "I'm deeply moved and humbled to share that I have been appointed by Secretary of State Blinken. I look forward to advising President Biden on a range of issues, including how to strengthen relations between Africa and the United States, promoting trade and investment and building educational exchanges, among other issues," Serunjogi posted on X, formerly Twitter. According to Serunjogi, the appointment is a unique opportunity to serve in the Biden-Harris administration as a representative of the African diaspora to give back to a country (US) 'that has been so generous to me (a sentiment I know many others share) by working to strengthen the ties between the United States and African communities here in the US'. The establishment of this Council was born through a significant commitment announced by US Vice-President Harris Kamala on behalf of the Biden-Harris Administration during the 2022 US-Africa Leaders' Summit to enhance dialogue between US officials and the African Diaspora. The Biden administration believes that the African Diaspora in US is a foundation to the 21st-century partnership with Africa. The community, includes descendants of enslaved Black Americans, which has long advocated for the prosperity of the African continent and its people. In accordance with Executive Order 14089, the Advisory Council comprises up to 12 members appointed by the Secretary of State, and represents the diversity of the African Diaspora from African American communities around the United States and African immigrant communities across the continent and the Caribbean. The council’s members include individuals who have distinguished themselves in government, sports, creative industries, business, academia, social work, and faith-based activities. Rev. Dr. Silvester Scott Beaman will serve as chair of the council. Beaman’s extensive experience and deep roots in Africa will enable him to lead the Council to achieve its full potential. The appointed members for the 2023-2025 term of the PAC-ADE, according to the US State Department are: Who is Serunjogi? According to a September 27, 2023, statement by the US State Department, Ham Serunjogi is the Co-founder & CEO of African fintech giant, Chipper Cash.  As CEO, Ham heads the Executive Leadership Team and is responsible for leading the company’s overall direction and strategy.  Chipper Cash has raised hundreds of millions of dollars in venture capital funding, reaching a valuation of over $2 billion.  It is widely considered one of the most valuable startups in Africa. After Graduating from Grinnell College in 2016 with a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics, Ham began his career at Meta (formerly Facebook) where he worked in their Dublin, Ireland office managing relationships with some of Facebook’s top advertisers.  Today, Ham serves on the Board of Trustees of his alma mater Grinnell College, where he sits on the Investment Committee, which is charged with the responsibility of overseeing and allocating of the college’s approximately $2.5 billion endowment.  Ham was recently awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Social Studies during Grinnell College’s commencement. At a personal level, Ham swam competitively for many years and represented Uganda in the 2010 Youth Olympic Games in Singapore.  Prior to attaining his degree in Economics from Grinnell College, Ham attended the Aga Khan Academy in Mombasa, Kenya, serving as President of its Student Council.  He was recently names to the 2023 Forbes 30 Under 30 list, headlining the finance category. Ham is based out of Chipper’s global headquarters in San Francisco, California. 
    No Comment
  