Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Help us change more lives, join TUKO.co.ke’s Patreon programme. Kenyans have been invited to give their views on the recently booming online food delivery business. The Competition Authority (CAK) launched investigations into the conduct of food delivery apps. There are several food delivery apps in the country - Jumia Food, Uber Eats, Glovo, and Bolt Food, among others. PAY ATTENTION: Unlock exclusive features from TUKO.co.ke - join our membership! CAK acting Director-General Adan Wario said the probe will unravel the business model of the apps, enhancing competition and consumer protection. Read also Roam Kenya Unveils East Africa's Largest Electric Plant as Race to Clean Transport Gathers Speed Wario said the investigations will look at consumer protection concerns and redress mechanisms available for online shoppers. It will also look at the existing regulations concerning the platform's operations and develop a guide to policy making. Members of the public and industry players were required to submit their views either orally or written to the secretariat within 21 days. This followed Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) Competition Commission probe into Jumia Group's terms of service. The commission found the online platform had some policies that were against consumer rights in its member states. Read also Uasin Gishu County to Reward Top Machine Operators in Bid to Improve Infrastructure Quality It directed the company to overhaul its policy frameworks, taking the liability for products sold on its platforms. The commission further noted that Jumia Group complied and made the changes to the it's satisfaction.  PAY ATTENTION: Click “See First” under the “Following” tab to see TUKO News on your News Feed Source: TUKO.co.ke 

                Wycliffe Musalia                                    (Business Editor)
                            
Wycliffe Musalia is a Business Editor at TUKO.co.ke, with over five years of experience in digital media. He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Linguistics, Media and Communication from Moi University. Before joining TUKO.co.ke, Musalia worked as an editorial intern at Standard Media Group. Musalia has completed the full Google News Initiative (GNI) News Lab Advance digital reporting workshop. He has also undergone Procurement Fraud and Public Finance Management Training conducted by the Kenya Editors’ Guild. You can get in touch with Musalia via mail: wycliffe.musalia@tuko.co.ke.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you