The Ramona Coaster has come to a complete stop — and Kenya Moore doesn’t seem upset that the ride is over.  “It was time for her to go,” the “Real Housewives of Atlanta” star exclusively tells Page Six of Ramona Singer’s departure from the “Real Housewives of New York City” franchise. Moore, 51, starred alongside Singer, 66 — and fought particularly hard with her — throughout the inaugural season of Peacock’s “Real Housewives Ultimate Girls Trip” spin-off. Following 13 consecutive seasons as a full-time cast member on “RHONY,” Singer confirmed in an exclusive statement to Page Six that she will not be participating in the beloved reality series’ forthcoming “Legacy” reboot.  “I do not want to do the show any longer,” she said last month. “It’s not for me at this time.” Advertisement But sources told us that Bravo didn’t offer the longest-serving member of the cast an opportunity to return for their revamped lineup. Moore, an “RHOA” mainstay since 2012’s Season 5, certainly doubts that Singer dipped of her own volition.  “You think she ‘left’?” the fan-appointed “Shade Assassin” quips. “No ‘Housewife’ ever leaves.” Advertisement A portion of Bravo fans persistently called for the network to exile Singer from “New York City” since Season 13 finished airing in September 2021. Many cited Page Six’s exclusive report of an alleged racist comment made by Singer about co-star Eboni K. Williams that launched an internal investigation and subsequently halted reunion plans last year. (Singer, who has denied making any such remark, was later cleared in the investigation.) Earlier this year, Bravo honcho Andy Cohen announced plans to overhaul “RHONY” by starting over with a whole new cast — including onetime J. Crew president Jenna Lyons — and introducing a “Legacy” edition, featuring fan favorites from earlier “New York City” seasons.  Advertisement Page Six previously reported that execs were hoping to keep Luann de Lesseps and Sonja Morgan from last season of “RHONY” for the new show and add alums Kelly Bensimon, Jill Zarin and Dorinda Medley, plus a couple more veterans.  If Singer is looking for other reality TV work, Moore suggests she skip out on Fox’s new unscripted series “Special Forces: World’s Toughest Test” — on which the latter stars.  Advertisement “Ramona would get booted off within the first hour,” she says with a laugh.  The former Miss USA appears on the show with actress Jamie Lynn Spears, “Jon & Kate Plus 8” alum Kate Gosselin and Melanie “Mel B” Brown of the Spice Girls, among other famous faces.  The group undergoes military training exercises in the deserts of Jordan that challenge them physically, mentally and emotionally — like jumping out of a helicopter into open water. When asked to name one “Housewife” who could handle such grueling tasks, Moore mentions “Atlanta” castmate Sanya Richards-Ross, a Jamaican American track and field athlete who has won four gold medals in the Olympics.  “Only Sanya Richards-Ross could handle this because she was an Olympian,” Moore enthuses. “She would kill it.” She adds, “But anyone else from my cast? No, they’re punks.”  Meanwhile, Moore tells Page Six she feels renewed after her “Special Forces” experience — and is even looking forward to having another child with or without a man.  “I had been struggling about whether or not I wanted another child,” says the single mom of one, who shares daughter Brooklyn, 4, with estranged husband Marc Daly. “But as soon as I left the show, I felt strong. I was like, ‘I can do it,’” she elaborates. “I was so in my head and thinking all the things like, ‘I’m not married anymore, I’m getting older,’ all of that.  Advertisement “And then as soon as I left there, I just felt this renewed sense of peace and was like, ‘I’m going to have another kid’ — on my own or not.”  “Special Forces: World’s Toughest Test” premieres Wednesday, Jan. 4, at 8 p.m. ET on Fox.  

