May 9—ORWIGSBURG — Michael Kadziela is tall, lean and athletic. The Nativity junior stands 6 foot, 2 inches tall, is a standout for the Hilltoppers' boys' soccer team and dunks a basketball with ease, even though he doesn't play the sport. To say he's athletic would be an understatement. And now, as of Tuesday evening, he's a Schuylkill League track and field champion. With a leap of 6 feet, 6 inches at Blue Mountain's Eagles' Nest, Kadziela captured gold in the high jump at the opening day of the Schuylkill League Track and Field Championships. Kadziela bested a stout field that included 2022 PIAA state placewinner Tyrone Chambers of North Schuylkill, who finished second with a leap of 6-2. The most unique part of Kadziela's league championship? Before this year, he hadn't competed in track and field since seventh grade. Even more unique, it wasn't until mid-season this year that he decided he would be a high jumper. "I've probably been in it for about four weeks, probably practiced about twice," Kadziela said. "It's just keep driving underneath, throw the arms up and let loose. "I'm very into soccer, and this is mostly my legs. I'm good at headers in soccer, so my coach just said go out for high jump." Kadziela's first competition in the high jump came in a Schuylkill League Division II road meet with Shenandoah Valley. He won the event. "The first meet was at Shenandoah," Kadziela said. "It's all concrete, can't even wear spikes, and I jumped 5-10. "I was impressed with myself." Next up after that dual was the Tamaqua Invitational. For Kadziela, same result. It was becoming a trend. "Two days later was the Tamaqua Invite, and I jumped 6-4," Kadziela said. "I was right there with Tyrone Chambers from North Schuylkill and a Hazleton kid. "Tyrone is really good. He's been doing this for quite a bit. I like the competition. I'm 6-2 and I can jump." With the league title in hand, Kadziela can now look forward to next week's District 11 Track and Field Championships at Whitehall and, if things go well, the PIAA Track and Field Championships in two weeks at Shippensburg University. In addition to winning the high jump, Kadziela was third in the 200-meter dash preliminaries in 22.92 seconds and fifth in the 100-meter dash preliminaries in 11.40. "This is my first league meet ever in track," Kadziela said. "I have never done track before. "Well, I did seventh grade, I was going to do eighth grade but then COVID hit. I do the 200, I ran the 100 today, 400 relay and high jump. I won the league. I'm looking forward to districts, but I have to work on my form. "I'd like to get to states. It would be pretty cool, first year doing track and to get to states. I was looking and I think last year's state winner jumped like 6-3. I have a chance, hopefully." Contact the writer: croth@republicanherald.com; 570-628-6025; @repheraldsports on Twitter Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. On this inaugural episode of Football 301, Yahoo Sports NFL analysts Nate Tice, Matt Harmon & Charles McDonald look ahead to the 2024 season and try to predict which teams will finish in the top ten of DVOA rankings by the end of the year. Nate Tice & Charles Robinson predict the top ten defensive squads by DVOA for the 2024 season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season?