JumpCloud's latest research reveals that admins are hungry for an open directory platform approach to better secure their organisation and remove tech stack complexity LONDON, Sept. 12, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- JumpCloud Inc. today announced the findings from its Q2 2023 small to medium-sized enterprise (SME) IT Trends Report, "Flexibility and Ingenuity: What's Powering Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise IT Management in 2023." The report provides updated survey results and new findings to the company's twice-annual SME IT Trends Report first released in June 2021. The latest edition of the report shows that just after SMEs successfully established the new workplace normal following the pandemic, significant turbulence in the macroeconomic environment has threatened to upend the system again. Instead of lockdowns and supply chain shortages, businesses are now dealing with layoffs and recession fears on top of external threats growing in sophistication, regulatory and compliance pressures, and increasingly complex IT tool sprawl. JumpCloud commissioned this biannual survey of SME IT admins to gain unique insights into the day-to-day experiences of IT professionals who power and secure operations without enterprise-level budgets and staff. The most recent survey results, polled from 1,221 admins in the US, UK, and France, highlight that while IT teams are successfully managing the workplace, they need an IT environment built around an open directory platform. While 77% of SME IT admins across all regions want a single tool to do their job, organisational sprawl continues to force them to use many more. Consolidating tools shifts an enormous tech burden from overwhelmed IT admins, who seek to leverage technology to manage complicated, frustrating, and time-intensive processes. With both security and employee experience top of mind for admins, heeding IT's call for centralised operations can result in a better UX for users, increased convenience and effectiveness for admins, and enhanced security for all. There were some distinct variations and challenges in the UK findings (406 respondents surveyed), including: UK slow to embrace managed solutions Device Management is a key challenge Concerns over security posture Friction within the remote environment Job dissatisfaction runs high Commenting on the UK findings, Denis Dorval, VP International (EMEA & APAC), JumpCloud said: "UK admins are less satisfied than their global counterparts, even though they are working less overtime and are less likely to report feeling overwhelmed. This implies that it is the nature, not the volume, of work that is getting them down. Adoption of MSPs in the UK is also less mature than in other regions, meaning UK-based admins are bearing responsibility for a greater proportion of routine tasks, in-house. This may be contributing to job dissatisfaction; it isn't surprising that 30% of UK respondents are considering engaging an MSP." "However, with lower-than-average budget expectations for the second half of 2023, there is no guarantee that UK admins will be able to get satisfaction in the near term. This could lead to employee churn, as admins seek more fulfilling roles in other businesses - a key disruptive risk for organisations. In this scenario, it is worth exploring where technology investment could relieve the admin burden, reduce frustration, and retain talent." Survey Methodology JumpCloud surveyed 1,221 SME IT decision-makers in the UK, US, and France, including managers, directors, vice presidents, and executives. Each survey respondent represented an organisation with 2,500 or fewer employees across a variety of industries. The online survey was conducted by Propeller Insights, 12-14 May 2023. The findings from the JumpCloud Q2 2023 SME IT Trends Report can be found in "Flexibility and Ingenuity: What's Powering Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise IT Management in 2023," here. About JumpCloud JumpCloud® helps IT teams Make Work Happen® by centralizing management of user identities and devices, enabling small and medium-sized enterprises to adopt Zero Trust security models. JumpCloud has a global user base of more than 200,000 organizations, with more than 5,000 paying customers including GoFundMe, Grab, ClassPass, Beyond Finance, and Foursquare. JumpCloud has raised over $400M from world-class investors including Sapphire Ventures, General Atlantic, Sands Capital, Atlassian, and CrowdStrike. Learn more: https://www.jumpcloud.com/ Follow us: Blog | Community | Twitter | LinkedIn | YouTube | Resources Click here to try JumpCloud for free  View original content:https://www.prnewswire.co.uk/news-releases/tool-sprawl-external-threats-and-security-are-top-concerns-for-it-admins-301919739.html