NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT As rumours of a cheating scandal swirl, Chloe Madeley headed out to spend the day with her dad and daughter – still not wearing her wedding ring. The 36-year-old personal trainer is married to former Rugby Union player James Haskell and has been since 2018. Chloe ditched her wedding ring after James, 38, was seen chatting to a girl outside favourite celebrity spot The Chiltern Firehouse on Friday, October 13. She happened to be on a girls night out in London the same day and was spotted without her wedding band on, although James has denied anything happened. During the trip to Hampstead, Richard Madeley, 67, carried his granddaughter, who was dressed in a little polka dot blue raincoat, while he chatted to Chloe. The presenter opted for jeans, a white t-shirt, a grey blazer, and brown leather satchel while Chloe kept things casual in wellingtons, a cropped black jumper and a red plaid shirt. James and Chloe have been married since 2018 and she gave birth to little Bodhi in August 2022, sharing snippets of her milestones with fans. The daughter of TV personalities Richard and Judy Finnigan, 75, had just launched a reality TV series, Chloe Madeley: A Family Affair. In their reality show, the couple broke into a major row as Chloe became jealous as her DJ husband posted pictures of bikini-clad women to his Instagram page, having played a show in Ibiza. During the turbulence, the former Wasps RFC flanker told Unfiltered that he believed women being ‘competitive’ with each other was the reason they didn’t climb to the top. ‘Women would rule the world if they weren’t so competitive with each other,’ he said, before adding: ‘They are much more intelligent and much more emotionally in tune.’ Kate Garraway drops out of Good Morning Britain after dad rushed to hospital James Bond star, 84, frail and walking with frame after retiring from showbiz Sharon Osbourne makes bold statement at Taylor Swift's Wembley concert 80s pop star still on top form as he plays AC/DC classic on drums James is said to be out partying in Paris amid rumours of their split, sharing snaps of a launch event also without his ring. He did however post a promotion for their reality show the same day, in which they debated what to feed Bodhi – although the clip was marked as a ‘repost.’ Chloe on the other hand has been spending time with family, congratulating her older brother Jack on his newborn baby as she met her niece, Wren.  Metro has reached out to Chloe and James’ representatives for comment. Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. 

	MORE : Mick Jagger reveals evil alter-ego in star-studded SNL show with Lady Gaga

 

	MORE : Gordon Ramsay roasted over time he was ‘skint’ – but owned a Porsche

 

	MORE : Strictly star Eddie Kadi reveals heart-melting gesture from competitor Nigel Harman

 



  Get us in your feed