The USC Trojans had to know what was coming. The Washington State Cougars like to shoot 3-pointers. Coach Kyle Smith encourages that. Wazzu looks for openings in which to shoot 3-pointers. The analytics tell teams to shoot threes, and Washington State embraces the modern approach to basketball reflected by Steph Curry and the Golden State Warriors. When USC escaped Washington State last February in a tight game won on a Boogie Ellis jumper, Wazzu hit 15 of 31 3-pointers. The Cougars didn’t do much in the paint. They didn’t outmuscle or overpower USC. They shot the long ball. It’s what they do. As USC prepared for this game on Sunday in Pullman, it had to know what to expect. The Trojans weren’t ready. Washington State hit 10 threes in the first half and finished 14 of 29 in the game, scoring 81 points and beating the Trojans, 81-71, on Friel Court inside Beasley Coliseum. USC just doesn’t have the talent or elite playmaking to win a game when the opponent makes 14 triples and shoots nearly 50 percent from 3-point range. USC has to win with its effort, its defense, and its ability to muck the game up. Washington State’s offense flowed freely for most of the game. USC made a brief rally in the second half to get within seven, but the margin for error was zero. A sequence of three turnovers led to some WSU baskets. The deficit expanded back to 13, and that was all she wrote.   Story originally appeared on Trojans Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the 2024 season quickly approaching, here's a look at the Big Ten. Ohio State has a lot of pressure entering the season and a few teams could be right on its heels. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL.