Sunshine and a few afternoon clouds. High 82F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Clear skies. Low 58F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 4:30 am       Tom Ellenberger, co-owner of Maefield Farm, guides “Dulcy” and her colt out for their evening trot through the pasture. Mary and Tom Ellenberger are living their dream on Maefield Farm, a 55-acre show and sport horse breeding operation located on St. Louis Rock Road outside of Villa Ridge. “We have a few horses that are training under saddle, but our business model is to actually sell them before they’re old enough to begin that training,” said Tom. “We’re a small group of farmers producing three to five horses a year.” Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. A two-week-old colt gallops through the fields at Maefield Farm in Villa Ridge. Desiderata, left, “Bear,” center, and “Dulcy” and her colt, right, eating and grazing in a pasture at Maefield Farm on April 26. On April 27, early in the morning, “Ima” foaled a chestnut colt at Maefield Farm sired by a horse named Imothep Preferent. Mary Ellenberger, co-owner of Maefield Farm, puts a coat on the newborn to help dry him off and keep him warm. Ellenberger said colts have a hard time regulating their body temperature when they’re first born.     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Signup today! News updates sent out twice a week. Signup today! Breaking news alerts sent right to your inbox! Are you a subscriber who would you like to know when the latest e-edition of The Missourian is live online? Signup today!  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.