One of the NCAA Tournament's most historic Cinderella teams stands between Florida Atlantic men's basketball and the first Sweet Sixteen appearance in school history. FAU (32-3) will face Fairleigh Dickinson (21-15) on Sunday at 7:45 p.m. in the second round of the NCAA Tournament in Columbus, Ohio. The Owls stunned Memphis in the final seconds of Friday's first-round matchup as Nick Boyd hit a driving layup to give FAU a 66-65 victory. Head coach Dusty May has led the Owls to a single-season record for wins (32), eclipsing the previous mark of 21, and now can claim the school's first NCAA Tournament win in the program's debut. Prior to FAU's win over Memphis in Columbus, FDU became just the second No. 16 seed to defeat a No. 1 seed with a 63-58 win over Purdue. No. 16 seeds are now 2-150 all-time in the first round of the NCAA Tournament with many considering the Knight's victory over Purdue to be the biggest upset in tournament history. Next up, Sweet 16:6 things to know about Florida Atlantic's next NCAA Tournament opponent: Tennessee FAU or FDU?Who will win March Madness game between Florida Atlantic and Fairleigh Dickinson? Listen up:How Florida Atlantic basketball's game-winning shot vs. Memphis sounded on radio, TV The Owls are heading to the Sweet Sixteen for the first time in program history. FAU denied tournament underdog FDU a second-half rally, defeating the No. 16 seed Knights 78-70 on Sunday night in Columbus, Ohio. FAU advances to face No. 4 seed Tennessee in the Sweet Sixteen on Thursday in Madison Square Garden in New York City. FDU has begun to intentionally foul FAU after the Owls break their full-court press. Nick Boyd missed his free throw on the front end of a 1-and-1 to keep FDU's deficit at 74-67. FDU could not convert a 3-pointer at the other end and FAU will return to the line with 36.9 seconds. Fueled by Johnell Davis' remarkable play, FAU built a 74-64 lead with less than two minutes remaining. FDU hit a 3-pointer and called a timeout with 1:06 remaining. FAU leads FDU 74-67. Demetre Roberts has 18 points, including a layup at the 5-minute mark to help FDU keep things close entering the closing stages. Johnell Davis is taking over offensively with 10 of FAU's last 13 points. Davis has 21 points on 8-of-13 shooting. FAU leads FDU 67-62 at the under-4 media timeout. FAU built a 12-2 run and seven-point lead with five straight made field goals, a run boosted by multiple FDU turnovers. The Owls lead FDU 63-58 after Knights head coach Tobin Anderson called a timeout with 5:44 to play. FAU regained the lead on a Vlad Goldin dunk out of the timeout. The game has reached a frenetic tempo with FDU's defensive press and both teams' willingness to play in transition. Cameron Tweedy put the Knights back out in front with an offensive rebound and layup. He missed the free throw to convert the 3-point play. The Owls got back on top with a Nick Boyd 3-pointer and Johnell Davis transition layup after an FDU turnover. FAU leads FDU 58-54 at the under-8 timeout. The Owls are on a 7-0 run. FDU, the shortest team in NCAA Division I, has 12 offensive rebounds. FAU and FDU are flying out of the gate offensively as both teams traded 3-point field goals in the moments after the under-16 timeout. The Owls and Knights are tied at 49-49 at the under-12 timeout. FAU committed a turnover and offensive foul on the opening two possessions of the second half. FDU exploded out of halftime with an 8-0 run including a running layup and back-to-back 3-point field goals to take the lead at 33-32. FAU and FDU are tied 44-44 at the under-16 timeout of the second half, which occurred at the 12:45 mark. The Owls committed three turnovers in the first four minutes and allowed FDU to score 19 points in the first seven minutes of the half. FAU is shooting 35 percent from the field but only 17.6 percent from 3-point range. The Owls have committed just three turnovers and are outrebounding FDU 25-23. Giancarlo Rosado and Alijah Martin each have a team-best 7 points while Johnell Davis has 6 points, 5 assists and 7 rebounds. FDU is shooting 26 percent from the field and has committed six turnovers. Grant Singleton leads the Knights in scoring with 6 points on two made 3-point field goals. Despite FDU's significant shooting troubles -- the Knights are shooting just 25 percent from the field -- FAU has been unable to get into a rhythm to extend its lead. The Knights narrowed the deficit with a 9-2 run over a four and a half minute span late in the half. Rosado quelled the run with a layup and picked up a foul, making one of two free throws. FAU leads FDU 32-25 at halftime. FDU is jumping into its full-court press after made field goals, including most recently a 3-pointer from Grant Singleton. FAU leads FDU 27-21. The Owls called another timeout after struggling to inbound the ball. FDU's Demetre Roberts hit a jumper to snap a streak of six consecutive missed shots by the Knights. FAU leads FDU 27-18 after Owls head coach Dusty May called timeout. FAU's Johnell Davis hit a pair of free throws and Brandon Weatherspoon connected twice from 3-point range to help the Owls build a 27-16 lead out of the media timeout. FDU head coach Tobin Anderson called timeout to stop the Owls' run. The Knights forced a turnover and scored first out of the media timeout. Giancarlo Rosado continues to make a big impact for FAU, grabbing an offensive rebound on a missed 3-pointer and dishing to Nick Boyd for a wide-open layup. FDU's Ansley Almonor hit a 3-pointer over Vlad Goldin to pull the Knights within a point. FAU's Johnell Davis and FDU's Cameron Tweedy then traded layups before Rosado hit his second field goal of the game. FAU leads FDU 19-16 at the under-8 media timeout. The Owls are 1-for-11 from 3-point range. Both teams are utilizing bench depth early as eight total substitutions occurred at the under-16 timeout. FDU narrowed its deficit with a 7-2 run before Palm Beach Lakes grad Giancarlo Rosado hit a turnaround jumper to give FAU a 13-7 advantage at the under-12 media timeout. The Knights have missed five layups and are shooting just 15.4 percent from the field. FAU center Vlad Goldin won the opening tip and scored the first points of the game on the Owls' third offensive possession. Alijah Martin then hit three field goals, including a 3-pointer, to give the Owls an early advantage. FDU committed three turnovers and went 0-for-4 from the field in a scoreless opening four minutes. The Owls lead FDU 11-3 at the under-16 timeout. FDU head coach Tobin Anderson has found more motivation for the FDU Knights, alleging to his players in a pre-game speech that the Owls were talking trash to the 16 seed. Find a link to Anderson's pre-game speech and allegations regarding FAU's pre-game comments below. The FAU-FDU second round NCAA Tournament game will now begin at 8:06 p.m. ET in Columbus, Ohio. The Owls starting lineup is Johnell Davis, Alijah Martin, Nick Boyd, Bryan Greenlee and Vlad Goldin. The Knights will start Joe Munden Jr., Demetre Roberts, Grant Singleton, Sean Moore and Ansley Almonor. 7:45 p.m. Sunday, March 19 Nationwide Arena, Columbus, Ohio truTV (Channel 246 on DirecTV, Channel 242 on Dish) March Madness Live (TV provider required), Paramount+ (7-day free trial), YouTube TV (2-week free trial), Hulu + Live TV (7-day free trial), fuboTV (7-day free trial) Radio: Fox Sports 640 AM, SiriusXM Channel 201 Online radio: Varsity Network app, SiriusXM.com Channel 964