The staff member was left with a 'wound to his face' A shopkeeper in St Leonards, near Hastings, was left with a wound on his face that "required stitches" after being assaulted a few weeks ago (January 14) while working. Sussex Police are now appealing for witnesses after the incident at a shop on Kings Road. In their appeal, police want to speak to the suspect who the shopkeeper tried to stop from leaving the shop after suspected shoplifting. The same suspect assaulted the man before then going into a second shop on London Road, where he allegedly "racially abused" another shopkeeper who challenged the suspect for shoplifting. In their appeal for witnesses, police said the suspect was a "young man" thought to have been wearing "grey trousers, a grey top and a black hooded jumper". In a statement released today (February 13), a Sussex Police spokesperson said: "Police are appealing for witnesses after a shopkeeper was assaulted in St Leonards." READ MORE: Huge fireball seen in Sussex as asteroid explodes over English Channel They continued: "The staff member was preventing a suspected shoplifter from leaving the shop on Kings Road when he was assaulted, causing a wound to his face that required stitches. The suspect walked into a second shop on London Road, where he was also challenged for shoplifting and then reported to have racially abused the shopkeeper. "The suspect is described as a young man wearing grey trousers, a grey top and a black hooded jumper. Officers investigating all reported offences would like to speak to anyone who was in the area between 1pm and 2pm on 14 January and saw what happened, or who might have captured any relevant CCTV, mobile phone, or dash cam footage. "Anyone with information is asked to contact police online or by calling 101 quoting serial 669 of 14/01." Get the latest news from across Sussex delivered straight to your inbox - find out more here. READ NEXT: Life in the 'progressive' East Sussex village showcasing the 'new version of posh' The best Sussex country parks to visit with the whole family this spring Well-located pretty West Sussex village home hunters are flocking to Underrated high street by the sea filled with pubs, cafés and independent shops Sussex WW2 Battle of Britain graveyard where British and German pilots are buried 