Imagine a meeting of the United Nations. But with a two-day supply of beer and brandy. Sausages on the grill. And burly bikers providing security. Then, for entertainment, have young men hurl themselves off a giant slide and fly 400 feet through the air. This is the annual Continental Cup ski jumping meet in the Upper Michigan border town of Iron Mountain, where Norwegian, Finnish and Italian flags fly, and where it's not uncommon to see fans wearing red-and-white scarves with “POLSKA” knit into them. Here, family and class reunions intersect with corporate outings. Tailgating traditions pass from grandparents to parents to children. Winter-weary Yoopers enjoy a respite and local businesses welcome a boost. And it all happens as the din of horns and cowbells announce every harrowing 15-second jump. “You’ve got to come to Iron Mountain for the greatest sporting event you ever saw,” former NFL head coach Steve Mariucci said, when asked how he’d explain the event in his hometown to an NFL Network colleague. “You’ve got to come to Iron Mountain and see what a crazy sport it really is, because these guys that ski jump are just as crazy as football players. “It’s unbelievable, and it’s the biggest party in the Upper Peninsula each year, and it is something that will drop your jaw when you see this.” More:You know Steve Mariucci from the NFL. But did you know he used to ski jump? Equally unbelievable is that the event, scheduled this year for March 3-5, is put on by volunteers. Although the Pine Mountain ski resort is privately owned, the ski jump grounds are owned by Dickinson County and leased by the nonprofit Kiwanis Ski Club. Core members work year-round, and hundreds join on the weekend to do everything from sell admission badges to groom the landing hill and mark distances as jumpers land. The club works with the International Ski Federation, which governs the competition, USA Nordic and Central Division Ski Jumping. Continental Cup is the second level of international ski jumping each year, behind World Cup. “In my opinion this is the best organized Continental Cup every year,” Slovenian jumper Ziga Jelar said in an email interview. “It is a special place with amazing workers and fans.” Jelar is competing in World Cup this season, and his home country is hosting the Nordic World Ski Championships, which run through the weekend, so he won’t be at Pine this year. But he carries warm memories of finishing first, second and third in the three competitions last year, as well as a video he shared on Instagram of himself standing alongside the highway, imploring truckers to honk their horns. “It was amazing,” Jelar said of his experience in Iron Mountain. “It is so nice to see so many people cheering for us and having fun. It was a (fantastic) experience competing there. They are different in a good, crazy way.” Ski jumping originated in the early 1800s in Norway and caught on in the United States toward the end of the century in places like Red Wing, Minnesota, and Ishpeming, Michigan, in the U.P. The Pine Mountain jump was built through the Works Progress Administration and the first tournament there was held in 1939. Lyle Boucher attended for the first time in 1949, when he was 7, and competed there from 1959-63 after practicing on the area’s many smaller hills. “We had the little ski jumps all through the woods,” said Boucher, who grew up in neighboring Kingsford and now lives in Mukwonago. “We’d take old Christmas trees and throw snow on top and make a takeoff. There were a half a dozen of them around the Kingsford Heights (neighborhood). You might jump 10 feet or 20 feet tops. That was just what we did in the wintertime — get chased out of the house and go ski in the woods.” In addition to the big hill, the area featured a number of smaller jumps with names like Devil’s Slide, Valley Hill, Miron Ski Bowl and Little and Big Lightning, according to the 2018 book “A History of Ski Jumping in the Iron Mountain Kingsford Area,” researched and written by retired dentist John Dougoveto. The Kiwanis Ski Club also took part in a circuit of tournaments around the U.P. and northern Wisconsin. Although the United States struggles to compete internationally with the European powers of the sport, regional- and national-level competitions continue regularly in Westby and Iola, Wisconsin; Ishpeming; Fox River Grove, Illinois; and numerous similar venues in the Upper Midwest. “I’ve watched some of these kids come from jumping on these 20-meter hills all the way up to Olympic teams,” said Boucher, the secretary of Central Division Ski Jumping. “It makes me so proud.” To casual American sports fans of a certain age, the lasting impression of ski jumping may still be the “agony of defeat” wipeout sequence in the introduction to the “ABC Wide World of Sports” that ran from the 1960s into the ’90s. Olympics fans may pay some attention every four years. Longtime attendees of the Pine Mountain event are acquainted with the names of local jumpers Willie Erickson, Dick Rahoi and Butch Wedin, who were part of the 1960 U.S. Olympic team; Mark Konopacke, a national champion in the 1980s; Therese Altobelli, who in 1978 became the first woman to jump at Pine Mountain; and Nita Englund, from nearby Spread Eagle, Wisconsin, who competed in the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea. More:From tiny Florence, ski jumper Nita Englund sails into the Pyeongchang Olympics More than 60 years after Boucher graduated to the big hill, he recalls details vividly. “For one thing, a little bit older guy by the name of Butch Oien went up with me, and I remember him because his bindings always rattled when he came down the ski hill. He kept my nerves at a decent level,” Boucher said. “I went down. It was so effortless that after coming to a stop at the end of the outrun, I thought, wow, that wasn’t bad at all. It was just a little bit longer ride than I’d previously been accustomed to. Still, the heart rate was up there.” The winning jump of the first Pine Mountain tournament was 78 meters (256 feet). The hill record climbed to 96 meters (315 feet) during Boucher’s era and now stands at 144 meters (472 feet). At least one training day and two days of jumping comprise the Pine Mountain event. But there's the official event, and then there's all the rest. Attendees gather around campfires and in small shelters to tailgate among the thousands of cars and trucks that fill the parking lot. “They plan year after year after year, whether it’s family reunion, class reunion, corporate outing, whatever,” said Susie Fox, a champion skier in high school and a onetime professional golfer who is the Kiwanis Ski Club’s correspondence secretary. “This is their Super Bowl. “I often think sometimes there’s competitive tailgate parties. Who’s got the best food? Who dolls their place up the best? But everybody has a different reason for being there. Ski jumping is the excuse.” Many of those tailgaters, it seems, have a story about an encounter with Mariucci, who still attends every few years. “I just love eating pasties and hot dogs when I get there, and seeing everybody,” Mariucci said, laughing about his reputation as a man of the people. Jeff Minerley, a carpenter from West Allis, recalled walking through an unattended gate with a buddy to meet the former coach. As Mariucci looked for an official pass hanging around their necks, they showed him their beers instead. “He goes, ‘I love it,’” said Minerley, who was wearing a beaver-skin hat and Elvis sunglasses. “He was super nice and nobody got arrested.” Gina Langsford started going to the jumps as a teen. Now her kids have kids. She and her husband, Steve, along with friends Joe and Patti Bronzyk, host friends and strangers at a temporary, heated shelter on a berm a few yards off Pine Mountain Road. The Luv Shack, as they call it, lived up to its name a few years back when a couple chose it as a venue for their wedding. “People would just stop by our place and we would welcome them and instead of them having to just travel around with no place to warm up, they would stop by,” said Langsford, who offers them food and drink. “So this one year, this couple showed back up and they were like, hey, do you remember us?” No, in fact, no one did. “They were like, we want to get married at the Luv Shack today,” Langsford continued. “We’re like: Serious? “So they had somebody that had gotten their license. She had a veil and everything, and they had a little group of people so they had their wedding at the Luv Shack. And then they celebrated all day long with us.” Minerley makes the trek from the Milwaukee area each year to go to the jumps with a long-ago roommate who introduced him to the event. The friend, Ron Niemela, moved back to Upper Michigan and settled in Vulcan, a small town about 15 miles from Iron Mountain. Last year they were joined around their fire by Steve Lehmann, pastor at Mt. Olive Lutheran Church in Iron Mountain, where Niemela attends services, and Lehmann’s father, Richard, who lives in Janesville. This year, Minerley and Niemela will have a new shelter, complete with yellow plastic windows reclaimed from the playhouse of a McDonalds restaurant. Minerley also plans to take his new smoker to cook ribs. “It’s the people that pass things out that’s incredible. People that make pasties and give them to people,” Minerley said, referencing an area winter staple made from meat and vegetables cooked in a folded crust. “You’re invited to everything. ‘Come over here and drink. Come over here and listen to music.’ It’s just so open and friendly and awesome. “You meet all different kinds of people from everywhere. … Then sometimes you can get up close and you can talk to the skiers. They’re from different countries. That’s the whole thing that’s cool. Everybody’s from somewhere else, it seems like.” After a winter off during the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2022 jumps drew spectators from about 20 states, by Fox’s count. The tourism association markets mostly along the highway corridor that runs from Chicago, through Milwaukee and Green Bay, as well as some in Minneapolis and the Lower Peninsula, said Dave Kasten, director of the Tourism Association of Dickinson County Area. That said, most out-of-area visitors learn of the tournament – and tailgate parties – by word of mouth. During last year’s tournament, Kasten found himself seated in a restaurant near a group from California. “They just happened to be in the area and saw some sort of advertising for it, and said let’s try that out, and they had a blast,” Kasten said. “For people that have never been before, they’re just fascinated.” The Kiwanis Ski Club would like to return the event to the World Cup circuit but needs to add millions of dollars in infrastructure after already borrowing to rebuild the slide two years ago. While spectators likely wouldn’t notice a difference, a World Cup event would attract more European visitors and expats, and bring attention to Iron Mountain internationally. “It’s a tourism driver,” said Fox, a 27-year member of the club. “And tourism drives economic vitality.” The jumps already have an economic impact of more than $1.5 million on the community, said Lois Ellis, executive director of the Dickinson Area Economic Development Alliance. That’s an important infusion, especially in winter. “It’s pretty hard to find another event that has 10,000-plus spectators in our neck of the woods, so it’s kind of unique that way, too, that it’s such a spectator activity and not a participant activity,” Ellis said. “Although I love telling people they should come up for ski jumps when they have no clue what you’re talking about because they think they have to jump. They always look a little concerned.” Ski jumping is a niche sport even within skiing, and Upper Michigan – with its largest city, Marquette, having a population barely above 20,000 residents – sometimes seems like a remote outpost. For the most part, the Pine Mountain jumps typically don’t get much attention outside of the local newspaper, the Daily News, and a quick hit on a TV station from northern Wisconsin or Upper Michigan. “For years that has been the best-kept secret, that ski tournament event up there,” said Boucher, the old-time jumper. Some people were born into the tradition; others learned from friends or stumbled upon it. Mariucci was able, when he was quarterbacks coach with the Green Bay Packers in the early 1990s, to take fellow assistants Sherman Lewis, Nolan Cromwell, Gil Haskell and Andy Reid to the tournament once. “I always tell people when you walk around you’re going to hear a lot of different languages being spoken if you’re paying attention,” said Ellis, the economic alliance head. “There’s fans that follow their athletes and they’re international and coming to watch the tournament. So it is unique in that way. “It’s just something that I don’t know how you would replicate it. It’s such a tradition.” Editor's note, March 18, 2024: This story was republished to make it free for all readers.