Chandler Basha took Anthem Boulder Creek's best shot and prevailed 70-61 in overtime Tuesday night in a battle of two of The Arizona Republic's top five ranked high school boys basketball teams. The No. 2-ranked Bears (19-0) trailed much of the first half before taking over the game in the third quarter. But No. 5 Boulder Creek continued to persevere and erased an eight-point deficit, despite not having star point guard Rowan McKenzie, who was out with an injury. These two teams could very well see each other again deep in the playoffs, perhaps in the Arizona Interscholastic Association's first season of the Open Division. Here are three takeaways from the game that brought out a big crowd to Boulder Creek: Basha has had close calls twice in the past 10 days, beating Desert Mountain 82-81 on a buzzer-beating dunk by freshman Elijah Summers-Livingston in the semifinals of the McClintock Shootout. The young guys came through in the clutch again. After Dylan Spilde scored on a driving jumper with 30 seconds left to give Boulder Creek (12-4) a 59-57 lead with 30 seconds left, Izaih Johnson sank both ends of a one-and-one with 10 seconds left to tie it. Basha forced a turnover and freshman Mason Magee missed a jumper at the buzzer. In overtime, Magee, who had 18 points, hit a 3-pointer with 2:28 left, sparking an 11-2 run to close out the game. "We made some late-game adjustments," Magee said. "We knocked down our free throws. That was a big part of everything." Basha made six of eight free throws in OT. "That's what big-time guards step up and do," Basha coach Mike Grothaus said of Johnson and Magee. Boulder Creek, with one of the best young coaches in the state in Justin Collard, will use this as a teaching tool and only get better. It knows it can play with anybody. After top-ranked Perry's 65-63 loss Tuesday night to Pinnacle, a game in which Pinnacle guard Bryce Ford poured in 38 points, now this state is wide open. It's no longer Perry and everybody else. Boulder Creek, Basha, even Pinnacle, it's anybody for the Open gold ball. Sophomore Bhesania Andrew, who is 6-8 and handles the ball like a point guard, is emerging as one of the state's best players. He had 16 points before fouling out with 46 seconds left in OT. Credit Torin Bosch and Summers-Livingston for their defense on Andrew in the OT period. "They were on him and shut him down," Grothaus said. "Our wings are up to the task every night." Basha was winning early in the season by an average margin of 28 points. Now it is winning the close games. That shows the maturity and toughness of a group that starts two freshmen and two juniors. "Gritty team," Grothaus said. "We've been tested a couple of times in the past week. Boulder Creek does a great job. "Great gritty group that finds ways to win. High school basketball at this level is not easy to win against top-level team and top-level coaches." This article originally appeared on Arizona Republic: 3 takeaways from No. 2 Basha's gritty overtime win at Boulder Creek Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their kicker rankings for the 2024 NFL season. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105.