After a freshman season full of injuries, UTEP high jumper Jakub Belik is healthy again and approaching his best-ever form. The Czechian leaped 7-foot, 1/2-inch Saturday in Tucson in the final tuneup before next weekend's Conference USA Championships in Denton, his best jump as a Miner and also the best jump in C-USA this season. I felt really good in warmups already, it was warm, I wasn't scared of any injuries, so I just went for it. It felt pretty good. More: Faces off the field: UTEP track's Denae McFarlane It's going better. Last year I got injured in the first meet, so it wasn't good. It was all season, the same thing. I pulled my hamstring pretty badly, then I pulled my calf when I was coming back again. At first I thought it was nothing bad, then when I got home I got checked with x-rays and stuff and there was a big breach in the middle of my hamstring. It took two months to get it healed. I jumped 2.17 three years ago, then 2.16 outdoors at the European (Junior) Championships (two years ago). It feels good now to bet back to that. Training is going good, I'm getting back in shape. I wanted to get out of the country, explore something else, get new experiences. I chose UTEP because of the weather, it looked awesome. It's hot even in winter. In Czechia, it's cold in the winter and I wanted to go somewhere warm. The biggest adjustment was language and the people, and also that you have to drive everywhere. It was pretty hard at first, then when I got injured I got scared. It's good to be back now. More: High School Track & Field: Elite high jumper Elijah Gaines puts little Van Horn on the map Sometimes it's way too hot. But I like it. Mostly my approach. I used to do eight steps, now it's 10, so it's hard to keep up with the speed. Right now every jump is different, I need to get more consistent. I only competed once in the European (Junior) Championships and once in the World (Junior) Championships in Kenya. It's quite similar (to NCAA jumping) with the results. A lot of people are jumping high. That's something I need to work hard to get. I would like to make 2.18 (7-1 3/4), that's a good mark. I think if I do that at NCAAs I would make the final round. Also, that's qualifying for the European Championships this year. Bret Bloomquist can be reached at 915-546-6359; bbloomquist@elpasotimes.com; @Bretbloomquist on Twitter. This article originally appeared on El Paso Times: Faces off the field: UTEP track's Jakub Belik Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts.