Home » Quick Reads - Just For Fun » Some Things Disappeared After the Pandemic and People Are Sharing What They Miss Most Recently, a member of a popular online community inquired, “What disappeared after the pandemic?” Readers responded by conjuring up a top-voted list of things that are genuinely missed by many people. One Reader said, “A couple of locally owned restaurants I enjoyed in my town didn’t survive covid. RIP the one Indian food place within 100 miles.” That sentiment was shared by more than 17K online voters. Another user posted, “RIP to the family-owned Korean breakfast place that made the best omelets.” One user said, “Places open late!!! I’m so sick of things closing at 8 p.m. Some of us don’t work 9-5.” Another user replied, “I never realized I took all the 24/7 Walmarts and 7/11’s for granted til the pandemic. I genuinely had to redo my schedule because I used to do all my grocery shopping at 12 in the morning when I got off work. “ One person said, “About 75% of public transportation… So many services were cut on the grounds that nobody was using them (because we were in lockdowns) that have not resumed even after most people have been dragged back to their physical workplace.” One user said, “Just walked out of a restaurant today because after going through all the ordering for both people on one phone, registering an account, verifying, entering a credit card, verifying a credit card, etc. I finally clicked submit order, then when food hadn’t come for a while, checked my phone to see an error message that it needed a last name in addition to the first name to process.” Another user replied, “Dude, we need to bring them back. I love technology, but menus on our phones are not one of them.” One member of the online community said, “A free day off no one could mess with, and now it’s gone forever. Jobs, schools, everything can now be remote. A tragic whole generation of school kids is going to grow up never knowing the joy of no school on a snow day.” One user said, “Dating. I struggle to connect with strangers post-pandemic. Everyone just feels ‘off’.” Another user replied, “Thought it was just me! I’ve found people are more distant – they behave normal, but at a foundational level, there’s an emptiness.”  Do you think you’re smarter than most of the population? Check out these signs to see if you make the cut or if you should go back to school.  9 Signs You’re Smarter Than Average and Three Signs You’re Not Passive income is money you earn even when you’re not working. Do you want to get started? Here are 35 passive income ideas. 35 Ways to Make Passive Income Now There’s a hot market for antique and vintage items in good, working condition. Remember that Singer sewing machine Grandma held on to all those years, only to pass it on to you? It could sell for as much as $1000 today. 31 Vintage Items Worth Money: Do You Have Any of These? These are 10 most dangerous cities in the world, where stunning landscapes and rich cultural heritage collide with alarming crime rates. We’re not saying don’t travel to these locations, but it’s important to be aware in order to stay safe. Most Dangerous Cities in the World, Ranked: Know Before You Go Millions of people are looking for creative ways to make money that don’t involve punching a clock daily. But it can be hard to know where to start. That’s where we come in. Get Creative! 16 Ways to Make Money This article was produced by Our Woven Journey. Source. Karee Blunt is a nationally syndicated travel journalist, focused on discovering destinations and experiences that captivate and inspire others through her writing. She is also the founder of Our Woven Journey, a travel site focused on inspiring others to create memory-making adventures with their loved ones. Karee is passionate about encouraging others to step out of their comfort zone and live the life they dream of. She is the mother of six kids, including four through adoption, and lives with her family in the Pacific Northwest. You can learn more about Karee on her about me page. You must be logged in to post a comment. ©2024 Our Woven Journey, a brand of Diamond K NW, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Email: Karee@OurWovenJourney.com
Burlington, WA 98233