SAN ANTONIO, Feb. 22, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Rackspace Technology, Inc. (Nasdaq: RXT), a leading end-to-end multicloud technology solutions company, today announced results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2022. Amar Maletira, Chief Executive Officer, stated, "We delivered fourth quarter revenue and profit above our guidance and reported solid cash flow. Additionally, I am pleased to share that we have completed our operating model realignment and are now executing as two business units, Public Cloud and Private Cloud." Mr. Maletira added, "My focus is on changing the trajectory of the business and positioning Rackspace for sustained, long-term growth. I am confident in our strategy, and we now have the right operating model and leadership team to go execute." Fourth Quarter 2022 Results Revenue was $787 million in the fourth quarter of 2022, an increase of 1% as compared to revenue of $777 million in the fourth quarter of 2021. Revenue for the fourth quarter of 2022 was positively impacted by new customer acquisitions and growing customer spend in our Multicloud Services and Apps & Cross Platform segments. On a constant currency basis, revenue increased 3% in the fourth quarter of 2022 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2021. Revenue from our Core Segments ("Core Revenue"), comprised of Multicloud Services and Apps & Cross Platform, increased 2% on an actual basis and 4% on a constant currency basis, in the fourth quarter of 2022 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2021. In the fourth quarter of 2022 we recorded $217 million of non-cash impairment charges driven primarily by $129 million of goodwill and a $75 million asset impairment. The goodwill impairment was in our Apps & Cross Platform segment and was driven primarily by the decline in market capitalization following the ransomware attack on our Hosted Exchange email business. The asset impairment was for our San Antonio headquarters office as we prepare for our relocation to North San Antonio later in 2023. Loss from operations was $(227) million in the fourth quarter of 2022, compared to loss from operations of $(27) million in the fourth quarter of 2021. Net loss was $(214) million in the fourth quarter of 2022, compared to net loss of $(83) million in the fourth quarter of 2021. Net loss per diluted share was $(1.01) in the fourth quarter of 2022, compared to net loss per diluted share of $(0.39) in the fourth quarter of 2021. Non-GAAP Operating Profit was $74 million in the fourth quarter of 2022, a decrease of 40% compared to $122 million in the fourth quarter of 2021. Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was $0.06 in the fourth quarter of 2022, a decrease of 76% as compared to Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share of $0.25 in the fourth quarter of 2021. Capital expenditures were $43 million in the fourth quarter of 2022, compared to $27 million in the fourth quarter of 2021. Full Year 2022 Results Revenue was $3,122 million in 2022, an increase of 4% as compared to revenue of $3,010 million in 2021. Revenue for full year 2022 was positively impacted by new customer acquisitions and growing customer spend in our Multicloud Services and Apps & Cross Platform segments. On a constant currency basis, revenue increased 5% in 2022 compared to 2021. Core Revenue increased 5% on an actual basis and 7% on a constant currency basis, in 2022 as compared to 2021. Impairment of goodwill and impairment of assets were $535 million and $146 million, respectively, in 2022. These impairments reflect a sustained decrease in our market capitalization and lowered projected operating results primarily due to product mix shifts, impacts from the December ransomware incident, and market concerns related to inflation, supply chain disruption issues and other macroeconomic factors. We also recorded an impairment of $75 million for our San Antonio headquarters office as we prepare for our relocation to North San Antonio in 2023. Loss from operations was $(679) million in 2022, compared to loss from operations of $(3) million in 2021. Net loss was $(805) million in 2022, compared to net loss of $(218) million in 2021. Net loss per diluted share was $(3.81) in 2022, compared to net loss per diluted share of $(1.05) in 2021. Non-GAAP Operating Profit was $364 million in 2022, a decrease of 25% compared to $484 million in 2021. Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was $0.54 in 2022, a decrease of 44% as compared to Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share of $0.97 in 2021. Capital expenditures were $142 million in 2022, compared to $203 million in 2021. As of December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $241 million with no balance outstanding on our Revolving Credit Facility. Financial Outlook Rackspace Technology is providing guidance as follows: 1 Non-GAAP Other Income (Expense) is only expected to include interest expense. Definitions of non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to the most directly comparable measures in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") are provided in subsequent sections of this press release narrative and supplemental schedules. Rackspace Technology has not reconciled Non-GAAP Operating Profit, Non-GAAP Loss Per Share, Non-GAAP Other Income (Expense) or Non-GAAP Tax Expense Rate guidance to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because it does not provide guidance on GAAP net income (loss) or the reconciling items between these Non-GAAP measures and GAAP net income (loss) as a result of the uncertainty regarding, and the potential variability of, certain of these items, such as share-based compensation expense. Accordingly, a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure guidance to the corresponding GAAP measure is not available without unreasonable effort. With respect to Non-GAAP Operating Profit, Non-GAAP Loss Per Share, Non-GAAP Other Income (Expense) and Non-GAAP Tax Expense Rate guidance, adjustments in future periods are generally expected to be similar to the kinds of charges and costs excluded from these Non-GAAP measures in prior periods, but the impact of such adjustments could be significant. Conference Call and Webcast Rackspace Technology will hold a conference call today, February 22, 2023, at 4:00pm CT / 5:00pm ET to discuss its fourth quarter and full year 2022 results. Interested parties may access the conference call as follows: To listen to the live webcast or access the replay following the webcast, please visit our IR website at the following link: https://ir.rackspace.com/news-and-events/events-and-presentations. For listeners who would like to participate in the question and answer session, or need to obtain a dial-in number, please pre-register at the following link: https://register.vevent.com/register/BI775d26b4572a4772930b44a25ec09d47. All registrants will receive dial-in information and a PIN allowing them to access the live call. About Rackspace Technology Rackspace Technology is a leading end-to-end multicloud technology services company. We design, build and operate our customers' cloud environments across all major technology platforms, irrespective of technology stack or deployment model. We partner with our customers at every stage of their cloud journey, enabling them to modernize applications, build new products and adopt innovative technologies. Forward-looking Statements Rackspace Technology has made statements in this press release and other reports, filings, and other public written and verbal announcements that are forward-looking and therefore subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this document are, or could be, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are made in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided thereunder. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions, our ability to successfully respond to the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and other matters. Any forward-looking statement made in this presentation speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various words such as "expects," "intends," "will," "anticipates," "believes," "confident," "continue," "propose," "seeks," "could," "may," "should," "estimates," "forecasts," "might," "goals," "objectives," "targets," "planned," "projects," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management. Rackspace Technology cautions that these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, and could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this document, including among others, risk factors that are described in Rackspace Technology, Inc.'s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. Non-GAAP Financial Measures This press release includes several non-GAAP financial measures such as constant currency revenue, Non-GAAP Gross Profit, Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss), Non-GAAP Operating Profit, Adjusted EBITDA and Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share ("EPS"). These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain costs, losses and gains that are required to be included in our profit and loss measures under GAAP. Although we believe these measures are useful to investors and analysts for the same reasons they are useful to management, as described in the accompanying pages, these measures are not a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP financial measures or disclosures. Other companies may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP measures differently, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures. We have reconciled each of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable most comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying pages. IR ContactRobert WatsonRackspace Technology Investor Relationsir@rackspace.com PR ContactNatalie SilvaRackspace Technology Corporate Communicationspublicrelations@rackspace.com  NM = not meaningful.  NM = not meaningful.     (1)   Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this section for further explanation and reconciliation.  (1)   Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this section for further explanation and reconciliation.  (1)   Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this section for further explanation and reconciliation. (1)   Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this section for further explanation and reconciliation.  NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Constant Currency Revenue We use constant currency revenue as an additional metric for understanding and assessing our growth excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations on our international business operations. Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period and is calculated by translating the non-U.S. dollar income statement balances for the most current period to U.S. dollars using the average exchange rate from the comparative period rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective period. We also believe this is an important metric to help investors evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods. (a)   The effect of foreign currency is calculated by translating current period results using the average exchange rate from the prior comparative period.  (a)   The effect of foreign currency is calculated by translating current period results using the average exchange rate from the prior comparative period.  Non-GAAP Gross Profit  We present Non-GAAP Gross Profit, which represents the total of our individual segment gross profit measures, because we believe the measure is useful in analyzing trends in our underlying, recurring gross margins. We define Non-GAAP Gross Profit as our consolidated gross profit, adjusted to exclude the impact of share-based compensation expense and other non-recurring or unusual compensation items, purchase accounting-related effects, certain business transformation-related costs, and costs related to the Hosted Exchange incident.   Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss), Non-GAAP Operating Profit and Adjusted EBITDA We present Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss), Non-GAAP Operating Profit and Adjusted EBITDA because they are a basis upon which management assesses our performance and we believe they are useful to evaluating our financial performance. We believe that excluding items from net income that may not be indicative of, or are unrelated to, our core operating results, and that may vary in frequency or magnitude, enhances the comparability of our results and provides a better baseline for analyzing trends in our business. We define Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) as net income (loss) adjusted to exclude the impact of non-cash charges for share-based compensation, special bonuses and other compensation expense, transaction-related costs and adjustments, restructuring and transformation charges, costs related to the Hosted Exchange incident, the amortization of acquired intangible assets and certain other non-operating, non-recurring or non-core gains and losses, as well as the tax effects of these non-GAAP adjustments. We define Non-GAAP Operating Profit as income (loss) from operations adjusted to exclude the impact of non-cash charges for share-based compensation, special bonuses and other compensation expense, transaction-related costs and adjustments, restructuring and transformation charges, costs related to the Hosted Exchange incident, the amortization of acquired intangible assets and certain other non-operating, non-recurring or non-core gains and losses. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) adjusted to exclude the impact of non-cash charges for share-based compensation, special bonuses and other compensation expense, transaction-related costs and adjustments, restructuring and transformation charges, costs related to the Hosted Exchange incident, certain other non-operating, non-recurring or non-core gains and losses, interest expense, income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Non-GAAP Operating Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are management's principal metrics for measuring our underlying financial performance. Non-GAAP Operating Profit and Adjusted EBITDA, along with other quantitative and qualitative information, are also the principal financial measures used by management and our board of directors in determining performance-based compensation for our management and key employees. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to imply that we would have generated higher income or avoided net losses if the November 2016 merger and the subsequent transactions and initiatives had not occurred. In the future we may incur expenses or charges such as those added back to calculate Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss), Non-GAAP Operating Profit or Adjusted EBITDA. Our presentation of Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss), Non-GAAP Operating Profit and Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these items. Other companies, including our peer companies, may calculate similarly-titled measures in a different manner from us, and therefore, our non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly-tiled measures of other companies. Investors are cautioned against using these measures to the exclusion of our results in accordance with GAAP. Net loss reconciliation to Non-GAAP Net Income Loss from operations reconciliation to Non-GAAP Operating Profit Net loss reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA   Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share (EPS) We define Non-GAAP EPS as Non-GAAP Net Income divided by our GAAP weighted average number of shares outstanding for the period on a diluted basis and further adjusted for the weighted average number of shares associated with securities which are anti-dilutive to GAAP EPS but dilutive to Non-GAAP EPS. Management uses Non-GAAP EPS to evaluate the performance of our business on a comparable basis from period to period, including by adjusting for the impact of the issuance of shares that would be dilutive to Non-GAAP EPS. 