Some of the world’s largest suppliers of networking technology have joined together with the Center for Cybersecurity Policy and Law, a Washington DC-based non-profit, to form an industry alliance focused on aligning technology providers, cyber security experts and non-profits to help solve some of the most pressing cyber security problems affecting data and networks today. The launch of the Network Resilience Coalition comes amid a wave of cyber attacks – both financially and politically motivated – that are global in their scope. As such, its founding members have agreed on a pressing need to collaborate on both addressing some of the urgent cyber security challenges that leave organisations exposed to such attacks, as well as producing better-informed public policy on these matters. The group said technology suppliers are already spending huge amounts of time and effort in ensuring their products and services were as resilient and secure as possible. However, they said, this work was in danger of coming to nothing as so many end-user organisations lack robust patching and vulnerability management programmes, or fail to keep up with critical updates. “Network resilience is vital to the health of our economy and our interconnected world, and there is a need to focus on how to improve the security of the larger ecosystem by all sides working together,” said Ari Schwartz, coordinator of the Center for Cybersecurity Policy and Law. “Too often, we see organisations fall victim to a cyber attack because an existing critical update or patch wasn’t made,” he said. The coalition hopes to address this core problem and encourage security teams to work towards improving visibility into exactly what’s going on on their networks to better mitigate risk. Some of the founding members of the alliance include AT&T, Broadcom, BT, Cisco, Fortinet, Juniper Networks, Lumen Technologies, Palo Alto Networks, Verizon and VMware. Early on, the coalition’s agenda will be the compilation of a report to investigate issues around patch and vulnerability management, and network security, that the group hopes will offer “clear, actionable recommendations” for improvements that could potentially be made in this regard. Such recommendations would be applicable to technology providers, technology users, and entities or individuals involved in the creation or regulation of cyber security policy. The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... In light of the recent CrowdStrike outage, security teams should ask their vendors 10 key questions to ensure they're prepared ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
