But it still wasn't the most popular show of the week. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Ted Lasso season three is well and truly underway and the hype for the Apple TV Plus hit is in overdrive. We already knew that the show's final season would be popular, but it turns out that it's even more popular than another hit show that's coming to a close. That show is, of course, HBO's Succession which started its fourth and final season on March 26, 2023. But even the show's final premiere wasn't enough to see it take top spot in the streaming popularity stakes for the week. Not even close, in fact. Not only was Succession all the way down in sixth spot, but it was also beaten out by Apple TV Plus's wholesome soccer coach. Ted Lasso took the number four position. That's according to data shared with iMore by the streaming experts at JustWatch, with Paramount Plus's Yellowjackets taking the top spot after its season premiere. Succession wasn't the only show that couldn't compete with Apple TV Plus's mustachioed star, either. The Mandalorian, The Last of Us, and even the streamer's own Shrinking found themselves further down the pecking order than Ted Lasso. The final seasons of both shows have been highly anticipated but their respective fans and it's probably fair to say that you couldn't find two more different shows to watch. But they're both set to go down in history as some of the best content on TV. The same can't be said for many other shows on the JustWatch chart.  You can of course watch both Ted Lasso and Succession on your Apple TV 4K if you like, while they are also available to stream on a plethora of devices. The list of Apple TV alternatives seems to be constantly growing which is great news for those looking to spend a little less on their streaming gear. iMore offers spot-on advice and guidance from our team of experts, with decades of Apple device experience to lean on. Learn more with iMore! Oliver Haslam has written about Apple and the wider technology business for more than a decade with bylines on How-To Geek, PC Mag, iDownloadBlog, and many more. He has also been published in print for Macworld, including cover stories. At iMore, Oliver is involved in daily news coverage and, not being short of opinions, has been known to 'explain' those thoughts in more detail, too.

Having grown up using PCs and spending far too much money on graphics card and flashy RAM, Oliver switched to the Mac with a G5 iMac and hasn't looked back. Since then he's seen the growth of the smartphone world, backed by iPhone, and new product categories come and go. Current expertise includes iOS, macOS, streaming services, and pretty much anything that has a battery or plugs into a wall. Oliver also covers mobile gaming for iMore, with Apple Arcade a particular focus. He's been gaming since the Atari 2600 days and still struggles to comprehend the fact he can play console quality titles on his pocket computer. English Premier League to adopt iPhone offside technology — rage at Apple instead of incompetent referees this season Apple gives us a first look at Slow Horses Season 4 with an official trailer for the spy thriller's return Way more people are choosing the Apple Watch Series 9 over the Ultra or the SE iMore is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 