At first glance, Sounds Good appears to be just another of Taipei’s many well-decorated coffee shops, offering warm lighting and industrial undertones. However, start taking a good look around and it quickly becomes evident that music, rather than coffee, embodies the shop’s soul. Stacked against one of the shop’s walls is a gramophone. Photo: CNA However, it is not the typical vintage decoration that has long outlived its utility, as it is in perfect working condition. It comes complete with a special needle to play near-extinct 78 revolutions-per-minute shellac records, which in the 1950s and 1960s gave way to traditional vinyl records. An impressive “cassette wall” extends down to a cozy basement listening area, or the “veg-out area,” as shop owner Lin Pei-ju (林珮如) calls it, which gives way to a central wall highlighting vinyl records. A nearby turntable is constantly spinning, making indisputably clear the shop’s preferred medium for music. Lin’s eyes sparkled with passion as she sat down to talk about her journey into the vinyl world. She held up one of her most treasured titles, a first pressing of Dan Dan You Qing (淡淡幽情), a 1983 album by the late iconic Taiwanese singer Teresa Teng (鄧麗君), and pulled a booklet from the album cover’s sleeve. “See how pretty these are? Even to this day, these [styles] are not out of fashion,” she said. In fact, there has been a vinyl resurgence in the past 15 years, after the records were marginalized for years by CDs and, later, digital tracks, that has provided the impetus for Lin’s shop. Lin credits the revival in part to vinyl’s inherent intangibles. “What’s really fascinating about vinyl albums is that they’re captivating just by how they look ... and the process you have to go through — turning on different pieces of equipment, putting the record on the turntable,” she said. “The brain has to process more than just sound. It’s an experience that engages all your senses... It makes you cherish the sound that you hear,” she said. That said, the intoxicating sound that all vinyl lovers trumpet remains the records’ main attribute. To Lin, a well-mastered record has more dimensionality, a wider soundstage and greater dynamics compared with digital files played on a computer or mobile phone. “While digital sources such as Spotify Premium or YouTube Premium sound good, the sound to me is somewhat pasteurized and in the air. Vinyl sounds very down to earth, as if someone is throwing musical notes at you, one note at a time,” she said. The difference reflects the different operating principles of playback systems, she said. “One is a simulation done by a stream of zeros and ones, one is produced by a stylus touching grooves,” she said. As with many audiophiles, Lin is obsessed with the pursuit of a “live” sound, which in her mind can only be realized in records cut at the scene of the action. Examples she gave include Flamenco Fever, released on the M & K Realtime Records label, and the original soundtrack of The Legend of 1900. “Direct-cut vinyl is all about realism. You can hear the atmosphere and environment, even footsteps sending vibrations through the floorboards,” she said. It was this desire for “real” sounds that drove Lin into hardcore vinyl collector territory. In a room next to Sounds Good’s basement listening area, a Japan-made vinyl-cutting lathe exuding an industrial feel sits on a table with a mixing console and a microphone. It is there to custom-cut 7-inch vinyl records for customers to preserve the sounds of their lives. All that is needed is an audio recording that can be fed into the mixing console or live audio signals that can be picked up by the microphone. The cutting lathe picks up the sound waves and cuts personalized vinyl records on the spot. Sounds Good occasionally turns into an intimate live music venue, said Ho Ma-dan (何瑪丹), the shop’s music director. Last year, the Hong Foundation teamed up with Sounds Good on several occasions to promote the vinyl reissue of Chen Da and His Songs (陳達和他的歌) by Chen Da (陳達), whose song Remembering (思想起) is textbook material for folk songs with lyrics in Hoklo (commonly known as Taiwanese) originating in Pingtung County’s Hengchun Township (恆春). Other events included a music-themed book club hosted by Ho that featured musical selections from Japanese author Haruki Murakami’s popular 1987 novel Norwegian Wood. The activities are well-aligned with Lin’s vision for her shop as a repository and promoter of music from the early 20th century to the present day, and the vastness of its collection has attracted many customers to revisit their youth. As Lin and her staff are always on the lookout for new, interesting sounds, she recently added a release from K-pop girl group Blackpink to the shop’s collection on a young customer’s recommendation. Lin sees the shop also as a refuge from the responsibilities of daily life — a mission that emerged at the height of Taiwan’s first COVID-19 wave. “Some customers had family members that passed on. They told me that if they hadn’t found an outlet in this place, they probably would have had a breakdown,” she said. “That’s why many customers like to veg out in the basement listening area and don’t want to leave,” she said. “It always brings a smile to my face seeing them fall asleep while listening to music.” 

                                                                                The Kaohsiung Museum of Fine Arts yesterday apologized for forbidding children from copying paintings by freehand drawing, saying it welcomes visitors to make sketches of paintings on drawing tablets or sketchpads.
The museum issued the remark after a museumgoer nicknamed “Mickeyelk Gesner” on Thursday posted on Facebook that her son had been sketching a painting by Pablo Picasso on a tablet computer at the exhibition “Capturing the Moment” on Wednesday when a museum worker told him to stop drawing.
“The staff told us, ‘Only taking photos is allowed. No copying. This is a rule,’” she quoted the worker as saying.
Physician Lee Chia-yan                                     

                                                                                A magnitude 5.7 earthquake struck off the coast of Yilan County at 5:06pm yesterday, the Central Weather Administration (CWA) said.
The earthquake occurred offshore, 38.3km south-southeast of Yilan County Hall, at a depth of 9km, CWA data showed.
The quake’s intensity, which gauges the actual effect of a seismic event, was highest in parts of Yilan County, where it measured a “weak 5” on Taiwan’s 7-tier intensity scale.
The temblor recorded an intensity of 4 in parts of Hualien, Taoyuan and New Taipei, and 3 in parts of Taichung, Nantou, Taipei, Hsinchu and Miaoli, CWA data showed.
There were no immediate reports of damage                                     

                                                                                China’s travel booking platform ctrip.com has removed the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Shanghai from its listings after the chain’s Paris venue banned the Chinese national flag during the 2024 Summer Olympics, sparking an Internet furor.
The story — which had garnered 110 million views on Sina Weibo — had since been removed from the platform’s list of most popular posts.
On Monday, a Chinese influencer known as Instructor Zhang (張教官) accused the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Paris of refusing his request for the Chinese flag to be displayed at the venue in a video uploaded to TikTok.
A person purported to be a                                     
HUGE UPGRADE: 
                                        Once Terminal 3 is completed, the airport’s passenger service capacity would expand to 82 million travelers per year from 37 million, an official said                                        The north concourse of Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport’s Terminal 3 is scheduled to begin operations in the middle of next year, Taoyuan International Airport Corp (TIAC) said yesterday.
The Terminal 3 project was launched as the number of air travelers accessing the nation’s largest international airport each year has already exceeded the combined capacity of terminals 1 and 2.
The two existing terminals were designed to be accessed by 37 million air travelers per year. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, about 48.36 million accessed the airport in 2019.
The airport operator yesterday organized a field trip for reporters to see Terminal 3 construction                                    