Super Bowl 57 was a thrilling finale to a roller coaster season. The Kansas City Chiefs won their second Super Bowl in four years in a heated 38-35 battle against the Philadelphia Eagles, and they also dominated the fashion off the field. One of the shining fashion stars of the night was Rihanna, who wowed with her Super Bowl halftime show, where she also announced her second pregnancy. Her stylist, Jahleel Weaver, outfitted the superstar in an all-custom scarlet outfit with a layered flight suit by Loewe and a gorgeous flowing overcoat by Alaïa. Designer jewelry brand Messika made sure the "Diamonds" singer was dripping in them. PHOTOS:Best of Rihanna's Super Bowl 57 halftime show The players also brought their A-game in designer brands and statement accessories. NFL STATS CENTRAL: The latest NFL scores, schedules, odds, stats and more. Here is the Super Bowl drip check, the final countdown of the season: Jerick McKinnon showed he knows all about the latest trends as he showed up to Super Bowl 57 in a Gucci x adidas suit. We are a big fan of this collection as the signature three stripes creates a sporty twist on the business look. If the luxury collab wasn't enough on its own, the vibrant green color really makes a statement. Zach Pascal also went for a business look, opting for a teal suit from Gentleman's Playbook. The outfit, which features a double-breasted jacket, is expertly tailored and the texture of the silk offers an extra pop. A.J. Brown went for the casual luxe look in this all denim game day outfit. He paired a denim Gucci jacket with patterned jeans that were a lighter blue. The Jordan 1 Fearless, an homage to Michael Jordan's career with both the North Carolina Tar Heels and the Chicago Bulls, is a fresh accessory to top it off. ON-FIELD SWAG:Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Jalen Hurts starts Super Bowl 57 in Jordan XI cleats, switches to Jordan 1s Travis Kelce was the definition of drip in this flowing Louis Vuitton overcoat and matching duffle bag. It's a look straight off the runway from the fashion house's Fall/Winter 2023 menswear collection designed by KidSuper's Colm Dillane. The monochrome coat features an interesting graphic design and a face staring right at you. Kelce chose to walk with the coat undone as he exuded boss energy. JuJu Smith-Schuster had all eyes on him when he showed up to Super Bowl 57 in a Thom Browne skirt. Some people loved it, some people hated it, some were just confused. But it's a bold statement that has to top the list. Stylist Vick Michel of UpNxt paired the gray pleated skirt with a white graphic button-up, a black beret from Kenzo and Fendi boots to say that the wide receiver was ready for battle.