Barcelona want to sign Lionel Messi after verbal agreements to sign Inigo Martinez and Ilkay Gundogan but boss Xavi will have to warn the club against player exits  Barcelona are ramping up their transfer plans for this summer and having agreed deals with two signings are now working on re-signing Lionel Messi.  The Argentine superstar’s future at Paris Saint-Germain looks more uncertain than ever. Contract talks have been put on hold by the Ligue 1 giants with less than three months remaining of the 35-year-old’s deal.   The player was booed during the Ligue 1 defeat against Lyon earlier this month, highlighting the uneasy relationship between the player and the club’s fanbase. No definitive decision has been taken on his future, but the grounds for a possible exit are set.  Barcelona transfer chiefs confirmed contact had been made with Messi regarding a potential return to the Camp Nou. There is also an offer on the table for the Argentine superstar from Saudi Arabia, however, Al-Hilal are currently observing a transfer ban and Messi’s desire, for now, is to remain in Europe.   The main issue for the Blaugrana is their financial situation, needing huge economic savings ahead of registering any new additions this year. The Catalan giants already are said to have verbal agreements in place to sign two free agents this summer.   A recent report in ESPN claimed the Catalan giants have an agreement in place to sign Athletic Club defender and Spain international Inigo Martinez as a free agent, while a deal for Manchester City midfielder Ilkay Gundogan – also out of contract this summer – is in place.    Have Your Say!  Should Messi return to Barcelona this summer?  Tell us what you think here.   Those three additions are likely to go straight into Xavi’s starting line-up, but the exits from the Camp Nou are likely to be just as intriguing as any signings. While the club are adapting a bullish public stance on outgoings, privately it is believed that every player has their price. Manchester United had an initial transfer fee of £56.2million agreed with Barca to sign Frenkie de Jong last summer, but the player refused an exit. The club’s highest earner still wants to stay at the Camp Nou, but Barcelona’s board have already indicated they would cash-in on the midfielder if the price was right.   Barca have had a number of impressive performers this season as they are on course to land the title in La Liga. But the reality is they will need to sell players who have a market this summer and are wanted by clubs in the Premier League. The profile of the signings, alongside an expected contract extension for Sergio Busquets, leads to questions over the futures of players such as Andreas Christensen, Eric Garcia, Franck Kessie, Jordi Alba, Marcos Alonso, Raphinha, Ferran Torres and Ansu Fati – none of whom are indispensable, but have markets. Yet the future of star midfielders De Jong alongside youngsters Pedri and Gavi – whose professional contract has not been ratified and, as things stand, could depart the club this summer as a free agent. Goalkeeper Marc-Andre Ter Stegen and defender Ronald Araujo, both of whom are vital players, may even be available for offers should the price be right. However, Xavi wants to bring Messi in alongside the signings of Martinez and Gundogan, and if he manages to retain his key players then the Catalan club are likely to be a force to be reckoned with. Xavi’s ideal Barcelona XI for 2023/24 : Ter Stegen; Kounde, Araujo, Martinez, Balde; Gundogan, De Jong, Pedri; Gavi, Messi, Lewandowski 