To enjoy additional benefits CONNECT WITH US Updated  - February 25, 2023 02:16 pm IST  Published - February 25, 2023 05:42 am IST - Kyiv, Ukraine 
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky | File Photo
| Photo Credit: AFP
 President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Friday he was planning to meet China's Xi Jinping after Beijing called for urgent peace talks to end the war in Ukraine. The Ukrainian president also said he was doing his best to prevent Chinese arms supplies to Russia to avoid any risk of "World War III." "I am planning to meet with Xi Jinping," he told reporters as Ukraine marked the one-year anniversary of Russia's invasion.  "This will be important for world security," he said. Mr. Zelensky did not say when or where he was planning to meet Mr. Xi but expressed hope that China would support a "just peace" and Ukraine. "I really want to believe that China will not supply weapons to Russia. It is very important for me," Mr. Zelensky said.  Earlier Friday, China called for urgent peace talks as it released a plan to end the war in Ukraine. Several Western powers rebuffed the proposals and also warned against Beijing's close ties to Moscow. Mr. Zelensky also said on Friday he was convinced that only a country whose territory is under attack can initiate "any peace initiatives." Beijing has sought to position itself as a neutral party in the conflict, while maintaining close ties with strategic ally Russia.  
Russia-Ukraine Crisis

/

Ukraine

/

Russia

/

China
 
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
 BACK TO TOP Terms & conditions  |  Institutional Subscriber Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines  for posting your comments.  We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.