
					By Peter White  Executive Editor, Television 
Amazon is checking in to the Hazbin Hotel. 
	The series, which has been long in the works with A24 and Fox’s Bento Box Entertainment, has been ordered at Amazon’s Prime Video. It has received a two season order. 
	The eight-part series, which comes from Vivienne Medrano, will launch on the streamer in January. It comes more than four months after a pilot from Medrano launched on her YouTube channel with more 80M views. 
Hazbin Hotel follows Charlie, the princess of Hell, as she pursues her seemingly impossible goal of rehabilitating demons to peacefully reduce overpopulation in her kingdom. After a yearly extermination imposed by angels, she opens a hotel in the hopes that patrons will be “checking out” into Heaven. While most of Hell mocks her goal, her devoted partner Vaggie, and their first test subject, adult film-star Angel Dust, stick by her side. When a powerful entity known as the “Radio Demon” reaches out to assist Charlie in her endeavors, her crazy dream is given a chance to become a reality.

	








 
	Medrano serves as executive producer and directed all episodes. Joel Kuwahara and Dana Tafoya-Cameron serve as exec producers, while former Bento Box Entertainment CEO Scott Greenberg exec produces the first season.

 
	Medrano is repped by Redefine Entertainment, CAA, and Lee Rosenbaum at RLG LLP. Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	