 Sixty-six production staffers across Warner Bros. Animation and Cartoon Network have filed a petition for a union election under the auspices of the Animation Guild and requested voluntary recognition from management. The National Labor Relations Board will host an election, and the majority of votes will determine whether or not the union will form. Production staffers are behind-the-scenes workers, not typically writers or artists, who nevertheless have very specialized skillsets applicable to creating and managing television production. The Hollywood Reporter states that the filing group includes workers with titles such as “production manager, digital production assistant, IT technician, production coordinator, production assistant, design production coordinator, assistant production manager and senior assistant production manager.” Congrats to the WB and Cartoon Network production workers for filing an NLRB petition to unionize and demand voluntary recognition! Show your support  to help them get the representation they deserve! #unionstrong #WeAre839 #ProductionStrong pic.twitter.com/PSXZmlr35n — The Animation Guild // #WeAre839 (@animationguild) July 19, 2023  These workers have developed or are in production with shows like “Batman: The Caped Crusader, Harley Quinn and Teen Titans Go! and Cartoon Network’s Adventure Time: Fionna and Cake, We Baby Bears and Craig of the Creek,” according to THR. The effort was spurred on by the growing number of animation workplaces that have unionized production workers, an initiative that has been encouraged by The Animation Guild. Workers studios like Titmouse NY and LA and ShadowMachine have successfully organized. More will likely follow. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who. 
cartoon networkCraigHarley QuinnWarner Bros.  
          Stars Katee Sackhoff and Titus Welliver, and director Brandon Vietti, discuss their brand-new takes on Silk Spectre, Rorschach, and Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons' iconic Watchmen.
         
          The film, which has been available digitally for almost a month, originally launched with temporary V.O. in a crucial scene.
         
          Having already crested $1 billion at the box office, Deadpool & Wolverine is on track to usurp The Joker as the highest-grossing R-rated movie of all time. 
         
          WB is bringing one of its best superhero films in years back to the big screen, and a look at The Penguin along for the ride.
         
          As part of a new wave of cost-cutting maneuvers, the studio wiped the official Cartoon Network site, redirecting audiences to a Max sign-up page.
         
          M. Night Shyamalan's latest thriller starring Josh Hartnett and Saleka Shyamalan is now in theaters. 
         We may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites.
©2024 GIZMODO USA LLC. All rights reserved. Mode 
                Follow us
               Mode 
                Follow us
              