Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Anne de Galard and Eric Garnet’s animation company, whose credits include 'Simon Super Rabbit,' 'Zip Zip' and 'Tootuff,' was named producer of the year at the 2023 Cartoon Forum. 
							By 

	Scott Roxborough
 Europe Bureau Chief 
	Fast-growing French production group Federation Studios has acquired French animation company GO-N Productions, Federation unveiled on Monday. 
	The animation studio, set up by Anne de Galard and Eric Garnet in 2004, is known for such kids series as Simon Super Rabbit, Lou!, Zip Zip and Tootuff. That week, it was named producer of the year at the 2023 Cartoon Forum in Toulouse.

 
	Financial terms of the deal weren’t disclosed. 
	The GO-N library of 11 series totaling some 250 half hours of premium animation will be added to Federation’s Kids & Family division, which now boasts more than 730 half-hours of kids animation and live-action programming.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	












	
	TV
			



	
		
					'Shogun' Creators on the Challenges They Faced in the Six Years of Making the Drama: "It Was Chaos For a Long Time"		
			














	
	TV
			



	
		
					Michaela Coel Sets 'I May Destroy You' Follow-Up at HBO, BBC		
			






 
	“GO-N has been creating premium animation for almost 20 years now, and this next stage in our company’s evolution will take things to a whole new level,” Garnet and de Galard said in a statement. “Our main focus has been on content and talent, extending out programs to young audiences worldwide, whilst also highlighting French expertise. In joining the Federation group of companies, we are aligning ourselves with other producers who share the same values and aspirations. This move will bolster our international development, and allow us to produce increasingly ambitious and original content, both in terms of target demographics, formats and animation techniques. We move into this next phase with our entire team, including Emmanuel de Franceschi, executive producer, and Amélie Oliveau, digital and marketing manager. We very much look forward to working closely with Federation.”

 
	With the GO-N acquisition, Pascal Breton’s Paris-based Federation now operates 35 production companies in France and globally, including Cottonwood Media (Find Me In Paris, Theodosia), Britain’s Vertigo Films (Bulletproof, Britannia) and Rome-based Fabula Pictures (Netflix’s Baby). Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Send us a tip using our anonymous form.