
					By Zac Ntim  International Reporter 
EXCLUSIVE: Filmax has acquired international rights to Spanish-Argentinian animated feature Robotia and will present the pic to buyers at the Cannes market. 
	The pic is a coproduction between Argentina’s Malabar Producciones (Minimalitos) and Spain’s Dibulitoon Studio (Yoko) in association with Costa Rica’s Tropics Creative and will be directed by Diego Cagide and Diego Lucero. 
	This project received financial support from the INCAA, Ibermedia, Mecenazgo, Animar, and the Basque Government. The pic previously participated in the Quirino Awards’ Coproduction Forum and won the award for Best Project in Development from ibermedia.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					2024 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming		
			















	News
	



	
		
					Filipina-Led Reality Show 'Manila Matriarchs' Confirms Cast, Includes Singer-Actress Karylle Tatlonghari-Yuzon		
			





 
	Written by Mariano Alejandro Rojo and Beatriz Iso, the film is billed as a “tale about friendship and the dreams that give our lives meaning and champions the idea that to win or lose in life.” 
	Full synopsis reads: In a world inhabited by androids, a girl dreams of playing football, despite her family’s ban. Her friends will come to her aid to help her fulfill her wish and to show everyone what they are capable of doing, on and off the football field.

 
	We understand the film is being positioned for a 2024 release. 
	“We always like to have animated films in our catalog. Elcano & Magellan: The First Voyage Around the World is a film that worked well for us in terms of sales and so we are delighted to be back working with Jone Landaluze, from Dibulitoon Studio, and excited to also have Malabar Producciones on board with this project,” said Ivan Diaz, Head of International at Filmax.  
	“This Argentinean animation, which brings us a brilliant mix of robots and football, is extremely commercial, highly entertaining, and great fun for all the family.” Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	