by Alex Billington May 5, 2023Source: Vimeo Up to the top of the diving board! Encore! Encore! Practice, practice, practice makes perfect, as they say... But what about some rest and recovery? Maybe a bit of that, too, can help make perfect. La Plongeuse is a mesmerizing animated short film made by a Ukrainian filmmaker based in France named Iulia Voitova. La Plongeuse translates directly to The Diver, as the short is about a diver. This was her graduation project in 2018 from the animation school La Poudrière in Bourg lès Valence, France - now online for everyone to watch. A professional diver undergoes an intense training regime punctuated by relentless blasts on her trainer's whistle. Utterly exhausted, she refuses to dive again and decides to visit a masseur. I'm a fan of this minimalistic animation style, using paint and paper to craft the characters and bring the sports story to life.   Thanks to Vimeo Staff Picks for the tip on this. Brief synopsis from Vimeo: "A professional diver undergoes an intense training regime punctuated by relentless blasts on her trainer's whistle. Utterly exhausted, she refuses to dive again and decides to visit a masseur." La Plongeuse is directed by the Ukrainian animation filmmaker Iulia Voitova - see more of her work on her Vimeo or follow her on IG @iuvo_animation. With music by Lawrence Williams. "Born in Ukraine, Iulia Voitova studied Graphics and Animation at the Ural Architecture & Arts Academy in Ekaterinburg. In 2018 she finished her studies at la Poudrière, where she directed Le nuage, Vrai pirate (shown on French TV network Canal J), and La plongeuse, her graduation film (2018)." For more info, visit the film's Vimeo page. To discover more shorts, click here. Your thoughts? Find more posts: Animation, Short Film, To Watch FEATURED POSTS FOLLOW FS HERE Follow Alex's new account on Bluesky: Get the latest posts sent via Telegram  Add our posts to your Feedly: click here Your Privacy Manager LATEST TO WATCH 					 ▶ Featurettes About Bear McCreary's New Score for 'The Rings of Power' (Aug 19)					 ▶ Another UK Trailer for Investigative Thriller 'Damaged' Set in Scotland (Aug 19)					 ▶ Teaser #3 for 'Tomb Raider: The Legend of Lara Croft' Animated Series (Aug 19)					 ▶ Gripping Trailer for 'Apollo 13: Survival' Doc Retelling the NASA Story (Aug 19)					 ▶ Watch: Funny 'Puberty Park' Deleted Scene from Pixar's 'Inside Out 2' (Aug 19) Want emails instead?Subscribe to our dailynewsletter updates: © 2006-2024 First Showing® LLC. All rights reserved.   Privacy Policy   |   Letterboxd ➚   |   Bookshop ➚   |   Support FS ➚   