E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			Trending:		  The Millar family pose for a photo with HGTV stars. (Special to The Times)  A photo of the interior renovation of the Millar's home. (Special to The Times)  A photo of the home renovation completed by HGTV Home Town Takeover. (Special to The Times)  A photo of the Millar family. (Special to The Times)  A photo of the Millar's home. (Special to The Times) The Millar family pose for a photo with HGTV stars. (Special to The Times) Cody and McKenzie Millar, along with their three-year-old triplets Elliot, Emerson, and Everly were excited when they learned that they had been considered as a potential home makeover for the Home Town Takeover.“When we learned that we had been selected, we discovered how much fun it was trying to pack up our house in 48 hours,” said McKenzie.  “Especially with three-year-old triplets.  We lived in my parent’s basement for three months.”The family considers the experience a gift. “I enjoyed the fact that they made our story about agriculture,” said Cody.  “We need to keep reminding people across the United States how important agriculture really is.  Agriculture gets a bad rap sometimes.  It is so important to me and my family to educate people and teach them what agriculture is all about and how the whole process works.”“Dave and Jenny [Marrs from HGTV]  have that background,” continued Cody.  “They get it.  They understand how important it is to be able to raise your kids in the middle of it.  From work ethic to how each and every piece of it is important.”“A lot of people are uneducated about agriculture,” added McKenzie.  “We are trying to teach anyone that we can.  The ag community in Morgan County helps with that.  The FFA, Dairy Association, Cattlemans, CHS, and more do a lot for our community.  They are all working for the betterment of agriculture.  Our community thrives on it and we want everyone to know where their food comes from.”“We have great farmers and ranchers in our County who provide good beef, pork and lamb, and other products,” said McKenzie.  “Buying products locally is how we support our community.  Not only are you supporting a local business, but you are supporting agriculture.”The Morgan County Cattleman’s Association, which Cody is involved in, takes third-graders to the stock show.  They use the opportunity to teach children about animals and agriculture.  Questions such as: did you know that chickens have ears and do you know how to tell what color a chicken’s eggs are going to be are just some of the questions that children learn to answer. Many children don’t realize that chocolate milk is made from cow milk. According to the Millars, these are the children who will be the future of agriculture.When the day came for the big reveal, the couple said that the TV crew was very accommodating.  They worked around the Millars’ schedule at the reveal and were very patient with their children.

“The people that were involved in the project, from Dave and Jenny to the guy who puts on your microphone, the camera guy and producer, they were seriously the nicest people to our three-year-old triplets,” said Cody.  “We still stay in contact with a few of them.  Truly the nicest people.”“The outside paint color has grown on us,” said Cody.  “We love it.  We would not have chosen yellow for our kitchen cabinets.  Now it is a great way to start our day. The whole experience for us was great.  The changes that they made were helpful for us.  It made things so much better for our family.”“We remodeled about 10 years ago,” said McKenzie.  “We couldn’t do everything we wanted.  We love the countertop and all of the other changes that they made.  The ceiling couldn’t be vaulted, but what they did make a big difference.  The paint is darker than we thought, but we love it.  We are so grateful to have this opportunity and know that nothing like this will ever happen to us again.”The Millars are excited about what the overall Home Town Takeover has done for the town.  From the lines out the door at the ice cream shop to a packed Zazzy’s and all of the businesses in town.  They drive by the Rainbow Bridge and there are out-of-state license plates with people taking pictures by the sign and people honking as they go by the grain bin welcoming them to Fort Morgan. “When we learned that we had been selected, we discovered how much fun it was trying to pack up our house in 48 hours,” said McKenzie.  “Especially with three-year-old triplets.  We lived in my parent’s basement for three months.” The family considers the experience a gift. “I enjoyed the fact that they made our story about agriculture,” said Cody.  “We need to keep reminding people across the United States how important agriculture really is.  Agriculture gets a bad rap sometimes.  It is so important to me and my family to educate people and teach them what agriculture is all about and how the whole process works.” “Dave and Jenny [Marrs from HGTV]  have that background,” continued Cody.  “They get it.  They understand how important it is to be able to raise your kids in the middle of it.  From work ethic to how each and every piece of it is important.” “A lot of people are uneducated about agriculture,” added McKenzie.  “We are trying to teach anyone that we can.  The ag community in Morgan County helps with that.  The FFA, Dairy Association, Cattlemans, CHS, and more do a lot for our community.  They are all working for the betterment of agriculture.  Our community thrives on it and we want everyone to know where their food comes from.” “We have great farmers and ranchers in our County who provide good beef, pork and lamb, and other products,” said McKenzie.  “Buying products locally is how we support our community.  Not only are you supporting a local business, but you are supporting agriculture.” The Morgan County Cattleman’s Association, which Cody is involved in, takes third-graders to the stock show.  They use the opportunity to teach children about animals and agriculture.  Questions such as: did you know that chickens have ears and do you know how to tell what color a chicken’s eggs are going to be are just some of the questions that children learn to answer. Many children don’t realize that chocolate milk is made from cow milk. According to the Millars, these are the children who will be the future of agriculture. When the day came for the big reveal, the couple said that the TV crew was very accommodating.  They worked around the Millars’ schedule at the reveal and were very patient with their children. “The people that were involved in the project, from Dave and Jenny to the guy who puts on your microphone, the camera guy and producer, they were seriously the nicest people to our three-year-old triplets,” said Cody.  “We still stay in contact with a few of them.  Truly the nicest people.” “The outside paint color has grown on us,” said Cody.  “We love it.  We would not have chosen yellow for our kitchen cabinets.  Now it is a great way to start our day. The whole experience for us was great.  The changes that they made were helpful for us.  It made things so much better for our family.” “We remodeled about 10 years ago,” said McKenzie.  “We couldn’t do everything we wanted.  We love the countertop and all of the other changes that they made.  The ceiling couldn’t be vaulted, but what they did make a big difference.  The paint is darker than we thought, but we love it.  We are so grateful to have this opportunity and know that nothing like this will ever happen to us again.” The Millars are excited about what the overall Home Town Takeover has done for the town.  From the lines out the door at the ice cream shop to a packed Zazzy’s and all of the businesses in town.  They drive by the Rainbow Bridge and there are out-of-state license plates with people taking pictures by the sign and people honking as they go by the grain bin welcoming them to Fort Morgan. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group