Magic Light Pictures has released a first look at its new animated adaptation of children’s story The Smeds And The Smoos, which is due to hit screens this Christmas. The new trailer shows the two young protagonists Janet and Bill, playing together in the Wurpular Wood, much to the annoyance of their families. The Smeds and the Smoos tells the story of the pair who fall in love and run away together, forcing their red and blue families to put aside their differences to search for them. Julia Donaldson and Axel Scheffler’s story of a love which overcomes divisions will air on BBC One and iPlayer in December 2022. The all-star cast includes double Oscar nominee Sally Hawkins as the narrator, Bridgerton’s Adjoa Andoh as Grandmother Smoo and comedian Bill Bailey as Grandfather Smed. Meera Syal will play Aunt Smed and Rob Brydon will be returning for his tenth Magic Light film as Uncle Smoo. Ashna Rabheru and Daniel Ezra will play the young couple, Janet and Bill, respectively. The Smeds and the Smoos was directed by Samantha Cutler and Daniel Snaddon. Donaldson was the 2011–2013 Children’s Laureate and is best known for her popular rhyming stories for children, especially those illustrated by Scheffler, which include The Gruffalo, Room on the Broom and Stick Man. Speaking about the partnership, Andoh said: “What Julia Donaldson and Axel Scheffler have completely nailed with this story is its intergenerational appeal. “We can sit together as a family to watch and get the same things from the story but also richly different things as well depending on our ages and stages. “And there is of course the timeless message around the sort of ignorant prejudice that we may harbour about one another until we really get to know each other. “And once we do, the love and kinship we find are what help us to survive and thrive,they are the ties that bind us all together.” Bailey added: “I think that the collaboration between Julia Donaldson and Axel Scheffler is one of the great partnerships of children’s literature, or any literature for that matter. “The combination of her stories and his animation is magical for kids and parents alike. “I know from my own experience as I used to read her books to my son when he was little.” But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look "We still have hope and will never give up" Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region The celebrations of Team GB's incredible medal haul was aired on BBC One last night (Saturday, August 18), but viewers all thought the same thing when they saw Emma Willis and Vernon Kay Louise Redknapp looked incredible on Instagram wearing a black blazer dress which the former wife of Jamie Redknapp teamed with a pair of over the knee boots. Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "As a Minnesotan, I saw how hard Walz worked to help students with things like free meals." "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate."