Work News Features Nicer Tuesdays Ones to Watch Review of the Year Forward Thinking The Next Generation In Conversation It’s Nice That Podcast POV About Contact Brand Partnerships Insights Newsletters Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Matt Alagiah Jenny Brewer Lucy Bourton Elizabeth Goodspeed Liz Gorny Olivia Hingley Ellis Tree About Extra Nice Login to your account Become a supporter Extra Search Account Creating music videos, short films and personal animations, the Budapest-based artist distorts the body like no other. Share Sara Priorelli’s love for animation comes from her obsession with the human body. “I just love the way 2D animation and the frame-by-frame technique allows me to play with proportions without limits,” she tells us. When you look at her work, something else is apparent – she is also obsessed with the human mind, as she magnifies our quirks, relationships and behaviours. Working with mainly digital animation, she can sometimes be found taking a break from her laptop and experimenting with a light box, finding myriad of ways to distort and amplify bodies and gestures. “Sometimes I’m even making short comics that allow me to experiment with words,” she adds. Hailing from Italy and now living in Budapest, Sara is currently studying a masters in Animation at Moholy-Nagy University of Art and Design, where she forged a style based on a non-traditional approach to animation. “I learned how to animate before I learned how to draw,” she tells us. She also credits growing up in a large family and taking inspiration from Estonian animation which dates back to the 1930s. This becomes evident in her illustrations depicting the tragic and comedic elements of everyday life. “They have influenced my way of perceiving and expressing movement. For me, it’s all about exploring bizarre people in social contexts, and Estonian animations work with such a combination of irony and creepy, along with some really absurd stories.” Sara Priorelli: You can't inflate without deflating (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2023) Sara Priorelli: Crowded rooms (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2023) Sara Priorelli: Man eating a burger (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2023) Sara Priorelli: Mommy (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2022) Kids get spoiled easily (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2023) Sara Priorelli: Data (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2022) Sara Priorelli: That's all you need (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2022) Sara Priorelli: That's all you need (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2022) Sara Priorelli: A kid, his horse (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2023) Sara Priorelli: Burp (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2023) Sara Priorelli: All you can hide (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2021) Sara Priorelli: All you can hide (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2021) Sara Priorelli: We are the best of both worlds (Copyright © Sara Priorelli, 2023) Sara Priorelli and Maria Zilli: Sweet Dreams (Copyright © Maria Zilli, Sara Priorelli, 2023) instagram.com/prosarapi Yaya Azariah Clarke — Yaya (they/them) was previously a staff writer at It’s Nice That. With a particular interest in Black visual culture, they have previously written for publications such as WePresent, alongside work as a researcher and facilitator for Barbican and Dulwich Picture Gallery. Fancy a bit of It's Nice That in your inbox? Sign up to our newsletters and we'll keep you in the loop with everything good going on in the creative world. Ground Floor, Princes House, 37-39 Kingsway, London WC2B 6TP — +44 (0)20 7739 5222 Work News Features Instagram TikTok LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Pinterest About Contact Privacy Policy Partnership Opportunities Insights  Residence Creative Lives in Progress Anyways Creative If You Could Jobs © It’s Nice That 2023 · Nice Face Logo © It’s Nice That Designed & Developed by Bureau for Visual Affairs