The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. They're the faces of our tourism industry, the hard-working men and women who keep the hotels, theme parks and restaurants running. Some of them are from other countries and speak little or no English.   About 26% of Orange County residents speak Spanish and almost 40% speak a language other than English. Now, the county is investing in them and their future.    Orange County, the University of Central Florida and Rosen Hotels are working together to change lives one word at a time.    "I don't care who you are. If you come to a class, you want to be a part of it," Jennifer Haddad said.  Haddad is the program director for UCF Global.   "Anything international flows through our office. Back in 2020, when the pandemic hit, we were doing some work on online creating online English programs. And we started to see a huge demand," Haddad said.   Harris Rosen has been offering free English language classes to his employees for 20 years and calls the people in the room the backbone of our tourism industry.   "Without our Hispanic associates, without our Haitian associates, we would not be able to function, and others have to understand that," Rosen said.  The hope is other companies will when they see the pilot program.  UCF is providing the curriculum, three cycles of eight-week courses, and studying results we saw for ourselves.    "Speaking English is like a speedway in my life," Enide Norelia said.  Norelia came from Haiti five years ago with her daughter.  She works in housekeeping and says the classes have helped her at work and at home.     "Now that my daughter sees I have my books, she comes and reads with me and now also I can help her with her reading," Norelia said.  Neftali Fuentes Rodriguez echoed the impact on family. He came from Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria with his wife and young girls.    For all of the students, access to the classes during work hours is a game changer.   "One of the barriers is that we find all the time is childcare or work hours, right?" Haddad said. "So what we've done is we brought the English instruction to them during work hours so that that eliminates a ton of barriers." Orange County has pumped more than $100,000 into the program during what it calls a critical time in workforce development.     "Unemployment is at historic lows. We have tourism coming back to the area, and our employers are really looking for ways in which to build, attract and retain employees. So this type of partnership allows Orange County to invest in making the community more resilient," said Renuka Sastri, a program lead of the I-Drive community redevelopment area.  All involved say it's an investment where the value cannot be misunderstood.    "Just because someone can't speak the language very well, because they never learned English, it doesn't mean that they're going to be disadvantaged for the entire life. It means that with a little help, a helping hand, my God, the sky is the limit," Rosen said.  Right now, there are nearly 65 employees signed up in the program and 100 more have expressed interest. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.