US Golf great admits he doesn’t have ‘much left’ in his right leg, but still wants to compete  Tiger Woods, still hindered by the leg injuries he suffered in a 2021 car wreck, said Tuesday he is hoping to play the major championships in 2023 despite setbacks this year. "My goal is to play the major championships and one or two more," Woods told a press conference before the Hero World Challenge at the Albany in the Bahamas. "Physically that's all I can do. I don't have much left in this leg." Woods, who hosts the unofficial event that benefits his TGR Foundation, withdrew from the tournament on Monday because of painful plantar fasciitis in his right foot, which he said was related to the injuries from the crash outside Los Angeles in February of 2021. The 15-time major champion revealed he had undergone two additional surgeries in 2022, although he declined to discuss specifics. Woods appeared in just three professional tournaments in 2022 – making his return to elite competition with a 47th-place finish at the Masters in April. He withdrew after 54 holes at the PGA Championship, struggling with stamina after making the cut, then missed the cut at the Open Championship at St Andrews. Woods said last year that in the aftermath of the crash it was "50-50" as to whether part of his right leg would have to be amputated. On Tuesday he said it's still a challenge to practice enough to be competitive while preserving his health. "How hard do you push it to make progress while not pushing it too hard to go off the edge and you set yourself back two, three days," he said. The plantar fasciitis – inflammation in the foot that causes heel pain – began when he began increasing his playing time in preparation for this week's tournament. "It was a tough decision, just because I want to play," Woods said of pulling out. "I like playing, I like competing, but unfortunately, I can hit the golf ball and hit whatever shot you want, I just can't walk. "And so I've had a few setbacks during the year that I still was able to somehow play through, but this one I just can't. "Only time can heal this one, and stay off my feet and get a lot of treatment done." Woods still plans to play in a 12-hole exhibition match on December 10, teaming with Rory McIlroy against Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas. He'll be able to use a cart for that event and in the PNC Championship December 17-18, where he'll play with son, Charlie. "The (PNC Championship) will be a very easy week," he said. "Charlie will just hit all the shots and I'll just get the putts out of the hole, so pretty easy there." Woods reiterated that he would never seek permission to use a cart in a tour-level event, firmly believing that walking is part of the game. Given his limitations, he said, he'll "gear up for the biggest ones and hopefully, you know, lightning catches in a bottle and I'm up there in contention with a chance to win. "Hopefully, I remember how to do that." COMMENTS  Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.  For more information, please see our Comments FAQ British billionaire Mike Lynch is missing after his luxury superyacht sank off the coast of Sicily amid severe storm. Michael Keaton expresses indifference over Batgirl cancellation, appreciates the paycheck, and praises directors
 Candace Owens draws criticism from right-wing figures after suggesting links between Israel and JFK’s assassination. Marlon Wayans and DJ Vlad engaged in a heated public exchange after a dispute over a $40,000 interview fee
 

Bangladesh coach confident ahead of Rawalpindi Test

 

Pakistan announces XI for Rawalpindi Test against Bangladesh

 

Boxer Imane Khelif shows off new ‘feminine’ look after Paris 2024 Olympics gender controversy

 

Setback for Pakistan as key all-rounder misses Bangladesh Test series

 

Waqar Younis, selection committee face backlash over Abrar and Kamran’s omission

 

Pakistani fighters dominate as MMA Championship returns to Lahore

 Woods withdraws from Hero World Challenge Woods huddling with PGA players over LIV split Woods rejected $700-800m LIV offer: Norman Woods joins billionaires club: Forbes ‘Spiritual bond’: Startling new details expose Imran-Faiz-Bushra nexus Startling new evidence emerges of PTI leader Raoof Hasan’s alleged ties with India ‘Spiritual bond’: Startling new details expose Imran-Faiz-Bushra nexus PMD alerts of potential heavy rainfall in Islamabad and Punjab amid thunderstorm forecast Bianca Censori and sisters called 'The New Kardashians' as experts foresee a reality TV show Trained ANF dog shot dead by CAA bird shooters at Karachi airport Triumph of mediocrity in the US Pygmalion Effect vs Golem Effect Dhaka Fall 2.0 Problems posed by rapid demographic change The national security paradox Kursk attack: first on Russia after WWII This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.