
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  SAN DIEGO, Aug. 15, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- kandji , the Apple device management and security platform, today announced it was named to the 2023 Forbes' Next Billion-Dollar Startups list , published by Forbes in partnership with TrueBridge Capital Partners. Kandji was one of only 25 startups selected from hundreds for its continued business success and innovation, helping companies manage and secure Apple devices in the enterprise and at scale. “Being recognized as one of the 2023 Forbes' Next Billion-Dollar Startups is a testament to the team's dedication to keeping every Apple user secure and productive through thoughtful automation, unparalleled customer support, and a superior experience for admins and end users alike,” said Adam Pettit, founder and CEO of Kandji.“Kandji has remained steadfast in our commitment to deliver value for our customers by bringing much-needed harmony to the way IT, InfoSec, and Apple device users work today and tomorrow. We are honored to be included on this year's list among a strong cohort of tech innovators.” Now in its ninth year, Forbes' Next Billion-Dollar Startups recognizes next-generation technology or tech-enabled companies most likely to achieve unicorn status based on current financial and growth metrics. In partnership with TrueBridge Capital Partners, companies are selected based on valuation, revenue, user/customer count, and employee headcount, among other factors. Kandji was founded in 2018 and has since been on a growth trajectory that includes over $188M in total funding led by First Round Capital, Greycroft, Felicis, Tiger Global, The Spruce House Partnership, B Capital Group, Definition, Frontline Venture, and Okta Ventures. This inclusion comes on the heels of Kandji releasing its latest innovation - endpoint detection & response , a purpose-built solution that detects and stops threats to the Mac ecosystem - as well as a new okta device trust integration with okta , which ensures Apple devices are compliant with access policies before allowing access to Okta-secured SaaS applications, allowing organizations to protect corporate resources.   Helpful Links     read the“employee devices and the hybrid workforce” report   read the kandji blog   follow kandji on twitter   follow kandji on linkedin   follow kandji on facebook     About Kandji  Kandji is the Apple Device Management and Security Platform. Kandji empowers companies to manage and secure Apple devices in the enterprise and at scale. By centrally securing and managing your Mac, iPhone, iPad, and Apple TV devices, IT and InfoSec teams can save countless hours of manual, repetitive work with features like one-click compliance templates and more than 150 pre-built automations, apps, and workflows. Learn more at  .   Media Contact  Erica AndersonOffleash for Kandji  Tags apple forbes kandj mdm MENAFN15082023004107003653ID1106862029  Kandji was one of only 25 startups selected from hundreds for its continued business success and innovation, helping companies manage and secure Apple devices in the enterprise and at scale. “Being recognized as one of the 2023 Forbes' Next Billion-Dollar Startups is a testament to the team's dedication to keeping every Apple user secure and productive through thoughtful automation, unparalleled customer support, and a superior experience for admins and end users alike,” said Adam Pettit, founder and CEO of Kandji.“Kandji has remained steadfast in our commitment to deliver value for our customers by bringing much-needed harmony to the way IT, InfoSec, and Apple device users work today and tomorrow. We are honored to be included on this year's list among a strong cohort of tech innovators.” Now in its ninth year, Forbes' Next Billion-Dollar Startups recognizes next-generation technology or tech-enabled companies most likely to achieve unicorn status based on current financial and growth metrics. In partnership with TrueBridge Capital Partners, companies are selected based on valuation, revenue, user/customer count, and employee headcount, among other factors. Kandji was founded in 2018 and has since been on a growth trajectory that includes over $188M in total funding led by First Round Capital, Greycroft, Felicis, Tiger Global, The Spruce House Partnership, B Capital Group, Definition, Frontline Venture, and Okta Ventures. This inclusion comes on the heels of Kandji releasing its latest innovation - endpoint detection & response , a purpose-built solution that detects and stops threats to the Mac ecosystem - as well as a new okta device trust integration with okta , which ensures Apple devices are compliant with access policies before allowing access to Okta-secured SaaS applications, allowing organizations to protect corporate resources.   Helpful Links     About Kandji  Kandji is the Apple Device Management and Security Platform. Kandji empowers companies to manage and secure Apple devices in the enterprise and at scale. By centrally securing and managing your Mac, iPhone, iPad, and Apple TV devices, IT and InfoSec teams can save countless hours of manual, repetitive work with features like one-click compliance templates and more than 150 pre-built automations, apps, and workflows. Learn more at  .   Media Contact  Erica AndersonOffleash for Kandji MENAFN15082023004107003653ID1106862029 MENAFN15082023004107003653ID1106862029 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN