Love a bit of cheeky celeb goss? Share your email to get showbiz news, gossip and rumours from the MEN We have more newsletters Love a bit of cheeky celeb goss? Share your email to get showbiz news, gossip and rumours from the MEN We have more newsletters  A new analytics tool has been created that shows how much time you have spent watching Netflix this year. Netflix Wrapped uses data from your account on the streaming platform to show what you have watched throughout 2022, and for how long.   The feature works just like Spotify Wrapped, which collates data to show which artists and songs you listen to the most based on your listening habits. Netflix Wrapped in an unofficial service, and has no connection to the streaming giant itself, and was created by online video editing company Kapwing.  The feature gives Netflix fans a whole host of different data, including the show you binge-watched the most, your favourite genre, and even on which day of the year you spent the most time watching Netflix. It also shows the best and worst movies and shows you watched based on their IMDb rating. READ MORE:The best Christmas films to watch on Netflix  Kapwing shared a video on TikTok giving step-by-step instructions on how to see your Netflix Wrapped:   Life through a new lens. We are Curiously. Follow us on TikTok, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.  You can now scroll through the website to see exactly how many minutes, hours and days you spent on Netflix this year. As Netflix Wrapped is an unofficial experience, some of the information may be mislabelled, with certain films and shows represented by the wrong names or icons. But for the most part, the feature gives an interesting – or somewhat concerning – insight into your viewing habits. Many fans have taken to social media to share their reactions to their Wrapped data. @hayleysoen said: “Not that I needed any more evidence that I'm addicted to TV, but my Netflix Wrapped said I've watched 29k minutes this year. DEADASS THREE WEEKS STRAIGHT.”  Netflix wrapped: you watched Crazy, Stupid, Love 34 times. pic.twitter.com/7GcctyKoVb  &mdash; Betsy Chilton (@MetziChilton) @MetziChilton said: “Netflix wrapped: you watched Crazy, Stupid, Love 34 times.” Matin Yekta said: “If anyone in my family finds out they gon see heart stopper like 5 times.” READ NEXT:  Parents slam "rip off" and "rushed" Paddington Santa Experience at Trafford Centre   Police officer tried to punch through ice as others waded into freezing lake to save tragic children   Mum paid £3,000 by council after son misses school for four months   Wintry scenes in Manchester city centre as people huddle for warmth   'I need an urgent MRI scan but was told I'm over the weight limit'  