Have any questions? Please give us a call at (928) 774-4545 Copyright ©  • Wick Communications Terms of Use | Privacy Policy          Reporter - Education, Health      Students in Northern Arizona University’s (NAU) doctor of physical therapy program and High Country Adaptive Sports recently hosted an adaptive kayaking workshop for northern Arizonans with disabilities. Participants gathered at Lake Mary on Sunday, Oct. 1, to learn how to use kayaks outfitted with adaptive equipment, and enjoy food and a variety of games by the water. Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. Truman Shoaff, right, programs director for High Country Adaptive Sports, prepares to launch Marisa Riggs-Ort into Lake Mary in a tandem kayak on Sunday, Oct. 1. Riggs-Ort, who has been kayaking since she was 4, joined an adaptive kayaking clinic for Northern Arizona University physical therapy students. Truman Shoaff, programs director for High Country Adaptive Sports, explains the different adaptations on a kayak available to assist differently abled kayakers get out on the water on Sunday during a clinic for Northern Arizona University physical therapy students at Lake Mary. A clinic hosted by Northern Arizona University physical therapy students on adaptive kayaking draws quite a crowd on Sunday at the Narrows at Upper Lake Mary. Northern Arizona University physical therapy student Kross Corbett, left, kayaks on Lake Mary with Marisa Riggs-Ort, right, on Sunday during a lesson exploring adaptive kayaking tools for differently abled kayakers. Reporter - Education, Health   Topics include artificial intelligence, local history, astronomy and art workshops.  Read moreRegistration open for CCC's September community education classes A new regent began his term on the Arizona Board of Regents this week. The board also recently announced its next executive director. Read moreArizona Board of Regents names new executive director, Stein begins term as regent Erick Yoakum, a Flagstaff native now attending the University of Arizona, was among the class of Helios Scholars at TGen that recently graduated. Read moreFlagstaff student among latest class of Helios Scholars at TGen According to its Aug. 2 announcement, the orthopedic practice provided low-cost physicals to 245 student athletes during the July event. Read moreFlagstaff Bone and Joint donates $2,450 to local schools after sports physical event Arizona Oncology is a statewide advanced cancer care provider with more than 20 office locations, including in Prescott, Tucson and Goodyear. Read moreArizona Oncology opens new Flagstaff office, hires medical oncologists On July 30, Arizona Sens. Kyrsten Sinema and Mark Kelly announced a total of $3,369,176 would go to five state organizations. Read moreNAU among Arizona organizations receiving funding for Public Health AmeriCorps Coconino Community College (CCC) announced on Aug. 1 that Craig Hunt has been promoted to its athletic director position.  Read moreCraig Hunt selected as new athletic director for Coconino Community College Students returned to classrooms at schools across Flagstaff this week for the start of the 2024-2025 school year.  Read moreFlagstaff students begin new school year Due to recent changes to the district's transportation offerings, most middle and high school students are eligible for a free Mountain Line pass paid for by FUSD. Read moreMountain Line announces student transportation options for 2024-2025 school year The start of this school year will continue the growth of CTE courses as the district expands its engineering and agriscience options at its high schools. Read moreFUSD growing engineering and agriscience career and technical education courses Reporter - Education, Health   “We have been more successful this year than we were last year,” said Dawn Anderson, director of human resources at Flagstaff Unified School District, which employs about 600 certified teachers and has only eight openings still to be filled. Read moreTeacher shortages persist in Arizona but may be easing FUSD Foundation will be hosting a community supply drive at Staples on Saturday, Aug. 3, ahead of the Teacher's Closet event. Read moreFUSD Foundation opening Teacher's Closet to provide educators with free classroom supplies The Museum of Northern Arizona (MNA) held this summer’s last week of Discovery Camp July 22-26, teaching kids about culture through developing their own societies.  Read moreMNA Discovery Camp focuses on culture and anthropology Reporter - Education, Health   The Coconino County Education Service Agency (CCESA) is making plans to continue its mental health offerings for educators and students across the county as the program’s initial funding will … Read moreCCESA looking to continue mental health efforts in county schools Reporter - Education, Health   A biologist from Northern Arizona University (NAU) is co-leading research on dynamic muscle function through a NSF-funded project led by UC Irvine. Read moreNAU researcher part of national study on dynamic muscle function Semester Zero is meant to give high-schoolers in College Track’s programs an introduction to what it's like to be in college. Read moreNorthern Arizona University hosts first-generation students from around country for new college prep program Reporter - Education, Health   The new Bridges in Mathematics curriculum will be brought to FUSD through a partnership with its publisher, the Math Learning Center. Read moreFlagstaff Unified School District preparing to bring new math curriculum to 6 elementary schools Reporter - Education, Health   The event will take place from 3:30 to 4 p.m. on the construction site across the street from Marshall’s current location “on the lower level by the field.”  Read moreFUSD groundbreaking for new Marshall Elementary announced Flagstaff Unified School District (FUSD) announced that it has launched a new school-to-home communication platform with ParentSquare.  Read moreFUSD launches new parent communication platform The organization surveyed Arizonans who had not completed education after high school, finding that, while many thought they would benefit from pursuing additional training, they often cited financial reasons as a barrier. Read moreEducation Forward Arizona poll finds financial barriers cited for not continuing education after high school Reporter - Education, Health   The Path2Purpose program will work with groups of students at Flagstaff and Coconino high schools to develop their interest in and understanding of higher education as they journey from their sophomore to senior year of high school. Read moreFUSD approves new pilot program with CCC to support high-schoolers' path to higher education Reporter - Education, Health   AZ529, Arizona’s Education Savings Plan, together with Arizona Treasurer Kimberly Yee and the Arizona State Treasurer’s Office invited K-12 students across Arizona to take or pose for a photo representing themselves in their dream job. Read moreFlagstaff High School student among statewide photo contest winners Friends of Camp Colton Executive Director Ari Wilder said the program’s activities and lessons are designed around “the history of place; where we live and what’s our place in it.” Read moreNew Colton Adventure Camp teaches students the history of place around Flagstaff Reporter - Education, Health   The FUSD Governing Board approved the adoption of a new sexual health curriculum at its meeting Tuesday, with all but one of its members voting in favor of the motion. Read moreFlagstaff Unified School District adopts changes to sexual health curriculum Reporter - Education, Health   People explored and learned about dozens of different vehicles during the Touch a Truck event at Coconino High School on Saturday.   Read moreGallery: Families revved up for learning about specialty vehicles at the Touch a Truck event Staff Photographer   Teachers at K-12 Title public or charter schools in APS territory can apply for a chance to win a $500 gift card to purchase school supplies. Read moreApplications open for APS Supply My Class contest The event on Wednesday at Bookmans in Flagstaff was put on by the Flagstaff Community Band and Arizona Music Pro, with the latter providing almost a dozen instruments so that young people of a… Read moreGallery: Making music at the instrument petting zoo Staff Photographer   The board heard the results of this year’s state assessments at its June 25 meeting in addition to an update on planned efforts to improve its results in future years. Read moreFUSD board updated on 2024 AASA scores, reading and math efforts for coming school year Reporter - Education, Health   The ACT is the district's standardized testing at the high school level. FUSD ninth-graders take the ACT Aspire, while students in 11th grade take the full ACT. Read moreFlagstaff Unified School District hears results of 2024 ACT testing Reporter - Education, Health   The college is offering several community workshops and classes throughout the summer, with some July events still open for registration. Topics covered in August include home repair, art and environmental science. Read moreRegistration open for CCC's August community education classes The program is an four-week interdisciplinary camp that introduces students to a variety of environmental and social sciences, showing connections between different areas of study. Read moreNorthern Arizona University students conduct environmental research in new summer program at Historic Hat Ranch Reporter - Education, Health   Firefighters with the FFD participated in Kids Squared on Tuesday. Around 100 children attended the free event at Heritage Square that is put on twice a week by the Flagstaff Downtown Business… Read moreGallery: Local firefighters bring the heat to Kids Squared in downtown Flagstaff Staff Photographer       The Arizona Daily Sun is owned by Wick Communications The Arizona Daily Sun is owned by Wick Communications Have any questions? Please give us a call at (928) 774-4545 Have any questions? Please give us a call at (928) 774-4545 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.