Apr 6, 2023 Participants, from left, Peter Dells and Bill Hager sit with Courage Incorporated’s Tom Hainstock by the campfire. Courage Incorporated holds summer adventures for participants to get out and enjoy the great outdoors. (Photo courtesy by Courage Incorporated) 






				Participants, from left, Peter Dells and Bill Hager sit with Courage Incorporated’s Tom Hainstock by the campfire. Courage Incorporated holds summer adventures for participants to get out and enjoy the great outdoors. (Photo courtesy by Courage Incorporated)
				




				Courage Incorporated participant Martin Hedlund enjoying a hike to a waterfall. Courage Incorporated hosts summer outdoor adventures for individuals and veterans with physical disabilities to help them enjoy the great outdoors. (Photo courtesy by Courage Incorporated)
				




				Participants Hedi Hold and service dog, Tessa (camo kayak), Jennifer Holland (purple kayak) enjoying a day out on the water with Courage Incorporated’s Abby Letts (pink kayak). (Photo courtesy of Courage Incorporated)
				

ISHPEMING — An Upper Peninsula-based volunteer nonprofit organization is working with individuals and veterans with physical disabilities to enjoy the woods and the water.  Courage Incorporated was founded in 2015 with the goal of helping those with physical disabilities enjoy the woods and water. The first outdoor adventure took place in 2016 when the organization took a disabled veteran on a weekend camping trip.  “There is a reason why the U.P. is called God’s Country,” Courage Incorporated founder and Executive Director Erik Conradson said in an email. “We live in one of the most beautiful places in the world surrounded by an abundance of natural resources. The woods and the water should be able to be enjoyed by everyone; however, that is not the case.”  Conradson said people with physical disabilities, different abilities and those living with chronic and debilitating and terminal illness make up an under-represented segment of the outdoor recreation community.  “Sometimes it is the inability to access certain locations without specialized gear that keeps people from participating in outdoor activities,” Conradson said. “Sometimes it is fear that keeps them away. What if I fall? What if I can’t get in or out of a boat? What if someone laughs at me?” Courage Incorporated participant Martin Hedlund enjoying a hike to a waterfall. Courage Incorporated hosts summer outdoor adventures for individuals and veterans with physical disabilities to help them enjoy the great outdoors. (Photo courtesy by Courage Incorporated) Conradson said for many, the cost of procuring the outdoor gear itself is enough to keep people away, like people who may already have medical debt or limited income due to their disability.  “Whatever the reason is, we want to change that. We are giving people the chance to have a memorable outdoor experience. We are helping people change their own perceptions of what is possible for them in the outdoors,” Conradson said. “Our work is important because we are enriching people’s lives in one of the purest forms, through nature.” While the people who go on an adventure with Courage Incorporated are the main benefactors, Conradson said the communities as a whole are benefiting from the work that the organization does. “We have received positive feedback from the family, friends and community at large about the services we provide,” Conradson said.  Conradson said spouses have reached out to let the organization know that their partners “haven’t been this happy in years” and children of clients saying that their parent is now willing to take them camping after developing a sense of self-confidence from an experience with Courage Incorporated.  Participants Hedi Hold and service dog, Tessa (camo kayak), Jennifer Holland (purple kayak) enjoying a day out on the water with Courage Incorporated’s Abby Letts (pink kayak). (Photo courtesy of Courage Incorporated) “There are so many people that benefit from these adventures by proxy that it is hard to quantify,” Conradson said. “We aren’t just helping the participants themselves, we are giving them a piece of their life back so they can continue to have a positive influence in our communities.” Conradson said one of the rewards that he has seen come from Courage Incorporated is watching participants make new connections.  “When two people come to us, both explaining how they have shut themselves off to the outside world, and they establish a friendship with each other, that is something very cool to see,” Conradson said. “What is even better is when they reach out to us long after their experience with us to share photos of, and tell us about, their recent fishing trip together. There aren’t any words to qualify just how good that feels.” One of the biggest challenges Conradson said the organization faces is finding a steady source of funding. Courage Incorporated relies on donations from individual contributors and on grants from organizations.  “While the woods and the water are free, the equipment needed to enjoy them properly and safely is not free,” Conradson said. “We are continuously upgrading our gear to ensure that we have safe and reliable equipment.”  Conradson said that an average summer adventure costs around $2,000 to host. Courage Incorporated not only provides the gear but the food, fuel and any necessary licenses for participants. “The cost of goods continues to rise. We all see that in our daily lives and it makes it difficult for us to provide the type of experiences that we want to provide for people,” Conradson said. “We recognize that the same cost increases that we see in our organization are also impacting our supporters in their daily lives. It is a difficult balance to ask people to dip into their pockets when our bank accounts are facing similar challenges.”  Courage Incorporated hosts two different types of trips — the summer adventures that accommodate three to five participants and the winter ice fishing adventure that can accommodate up to eight participants.  Last year, Courage Incorporated submitted a grant request to the Community Foundation of Marquette County to purchase equipment, including several new more durable tents and a camp oven. According to the foundation press release, these upgrades were supported by grants from the Greater Ishpeming Community Fund and the Negaunee Area Community Fund.  Conradson said these grants have allowed Courage Incorporated to go from hosting its first adventure with a ripped tarp, half-empty cooler, a pack of hot dogs and second-hand broken down equipment to now providing all-inclusive experiences for people using boats, an ATV and high-end camping equipment, including a full camp kitchen. “Community grants allow us to continually upgrade our equipment and, in turn, upgrade the experiences that we’re able to provide for people,” Conradson said. “Because of this, we’re able to host more adventures for more people and that’s a win.”  The organization is hosting its first community fundraiser to support the organization on April 29 at Pasquali’s in Negaunee. The public is welcome to join from 5-8 p.m. for an all-you-can-eat pizza buffet dinner for $10, with children 6 and under for free, as well as a ticket for the door prize drawing. There will also be more tickets available for gift basket raffles, a 50/50 drawing and other prizes. For more information on Courage Incorporated, visit its website online at courageincorporated.org. Dreyma Beronja can be reached at 906-228-2500 ext. 248. Their email address is dberonj@miningjournal.net. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox ISHPEMING — The Ishpeming city manager search is still underway, with a focus on making sure that the internal ... MARQUETTE — At the Marquette City Commission meeting on Monday, commissioners approved recommendations from staff ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © The Mining Journal | https://www.miningjournal.net | 249 W. Washington, Marquette, MI 49855 | 906-228-2500 