
  A COLLEGE lecturer is preparing to kayak from Skipton to Leeds to raise funds for a cause close to his heart.
 
  Christopher Lang, who is the electrical installation course leader at Leeds City College, will take on the 30-mile journey along the Leeds and Liverpool Canal on Friday March 10.
 
  The 33 year old will be accompanied on different sections by students, colleagues, a Leeds city Councillor and even the college’s Principal, Bill Jones - who is going to run the final ten miles.
 
  The effort will raise money for the suicide prevention charity Andy’s Man Club (AMC), which has a branch in Settle.
 
  Christopher said: “I am a user of the club’s service myself and have been for three months. As soon as I started going I immediately recognised it as the sort of thing that can, and will, change society in terms of how we view mental health and prevent suicide.
 
  “I've waited for over a year to access services through an underfunded NHS, so for some people, services like AMC can be the difference between life and death.
 
  “Since my first session at the club’s Kirkstall meeting, I knew I wanted to do something to help, in any way I could. It was when a friend of mine grew his moustache to raise money for Movember that I was inspired to think of an idea for a fundraiser - and came up with the kayaking challenge.
 
  “I've lived near the Leeds and Liverpool Canal all my life and it has been such a wonderful resource as a place to walk in nature, nestled among such busy areas.”
 
  Keen to use the event to also promote sustainability, Christopher has used some of the engineering skills he teaches at college to ensure his kayak is a one-off.
 
  He said: “Robin Hood Watersports have helped me by giving a decent discount on some essential gear, but most of my stuff has been bought second hand and bodged to suit what I need. We have used our 3D printer to create a skeg (rudder) and old car seats to make a temporary kayak seat!”
 
  Christopher is grateful to the college’s Head of Engineering, Mitch Scott, for pointing him towards AMC after he had discussed some of his issues with her. That helpful attitude has been mirrored by just about everyone he has since told about his kayaking challenge - including one of the college’s governors, Councillor Abigail Marshall Katung.
 
  He said: “We have had some students and colleagues helping to organise it while others will be acting as ‘bank support’, cycling beside me on the day to offer first aid and social media help.
 
  “A small team of staff will also be cycling the entire route, at their own pace, and setting off with me at 7am. I am aiming to get to Leeds by 2pm, but it will depend on the weather.”
 
  AMC offers free to attend peer-to-peer support groups across the UK and online, and has ‘it’s okay to talk’ as its slogan. The charity takes its name from Andrew Roberts, a young man who took his life, without warning, in 2016.
 
  Christopher’s 30 Miles for Change kayaking challenge can be sponsored at www.justgiving.com.
 
   
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.