The Oregon State Beavers’ season ended with a whimper Monday afternoon in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The LSU Tigers battered and bruised Beavers pitching on the way to a resounding 13-7 victory, clinching the Baton Rouge Regional and advancing to the super regionals of the NCAA baseball tournament. (Read a full recap of the elimination game here) After a solid first three innings, during which right-hander Rhett Larson breezed through the loaded Tigers lineup, LSU finally erupted with a four-run fourth to take a 4-0 lead. It was only the start of an offensive eruption that saw the Tigers score 12 runs over the next four innings to build a commanding led. The Beavers kept things close, leaning on separate two-run home runs from Gavin Turley and Brady Kasper, until the seventh, when the Tigers blew the game open. LSU batted around in the inning, turning five hits into five runs, to take a 12-4 led. By the end of the night, LSU had pounded eight Oregon State pitchers for 19 hits, including four home runs. Every Tigers starter had a hit, including catcher Hayden Travinski, who finished 3 for 6 with a home run and two RBIs, and Dylan Crews, who went 3 for 4 with a homer and three runs scored. Josh Pearson added two hits, including a two-run triple. In the end, after enduring two days of weather delays and surviving a marathon Sunday doubleheader just to reach the regional final, the Beavers simply ran out of steam against the No. 5 national seed and tournament host. Turley continued his torrid postseason in defeat, going 2 for 5 with four RBIs and two homers, including an inside-the-park shot to left-center field in the bottom of the ninth. PREGAME DETAILS UPDATE: In the fifth inning, the game shifted to a live TV broadcast on ESPN2 ••• The Oregon State Beavers play the LSU Tigers Monday in an elimination game of the Baton Rouge Regional at Alex Box Stadium, with a live broadcast streaming on ESPN Plus. If the Beavers win, the teams would play again Monday night for the right to advance to the super regionals. If the Beavers lose, their season is over. Oregon State is coming off a marathon Sunday that featured two games, a three-hour weather delay and an elimination nightcap against Sam Houston that did not end until well after midnight Monday morning. After suffering a tough, 6-5 loss to LSU in the first game, the Beavers edged the Bearkats 3-1 to keep their season alive. And now, to move on to the super regionals, the second-seeded Beavers will have to win three games over 24 hours, including a doubleheader against the Tigers — the No. 5 national seed and regional host. Game 1 is scheduled for 11 a.m. If Oregon State wins that, the teams are scheduled to play again at 3 p.m. For more on the regional and the Beavers, read the following coverage: • Sunday recap: Beavers survive marathon doubleheader to set up do-or-die Monday vs. Tigers • Game 1 recap: Beavers ride Sellers, record-setting offense to win over Sam Houston • How a nameplate takedown, a fox hat and lineup changes saved the Beavers’ season • Travis Bazzana, the ‘most interesting man in college baseball,’ is chasing a trip to Omaha • With ‘scary’ talent, piano-playing outfielder Gavin Turley is new ‘face of Oregon State baseball’ • More than a mullet: Forrester overcomes tragedy with ‘huge heart,’ clutch hitting • Beavers are ‘ready to go’ at Baton Rouge Regional after taking 2 days off to ‘refresh and reflect’ • Baton Rouge Regional: A look at Oregon State, LSU, Sam Houston, Tulane Here are details about tonight’s game: Oregon State Beavers (41-19) vs. LSU Tigers (45-15) When: 11 a.m. PT, Monday, June 5 Where: Alex Box Stadium, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. TV channel: ESPN2 How to watch live stream online: You can watch a live stream of this game for less than $10 on ESPN+. The cost is $9.99/month or $99.99/full year subscription, and you can cancel anytime. (Here’s a look at how you can watch ESPN+ live on your TV.) You can also watch this game live on Watch ESPN with your cable or satellite provider login information if you already have a provider. Radio: All games air on the Beaver Sports Network. Pregame starts 30 minutes before the first pitch. Affiliates include KEJO 93.7-FM & 1240-AM (Corvallis), KKNX 1051.-FM & 840-AM (Eugene), KCFM 104.1-FM & 1250-AM & 104.1-FM (Florence), KLAD 104.3-FM & 960-AM (Klamath Falls), KCFM 103.1-FM (Mapleton), KTMT 96.1-FM & 580-AM (Medford), KCMX 880-AM (Medford), KCMX 99.5-FM (Phoenix), KEX 1190-AM (Portland), KSKR 1490-AM (Roseburg) and KBZY 1490-AM (Salem). Probable starters: OSU RHP Rhett Larson (3-2, 5.57 ERA) vs. LSU LHP Riley Cooper (3-3, 5.36) Oregon State lineup 1. Travis Bazzana, second base 2. Garret Forrester, first base 3. Micah McDowell, center field 4. Mason Guerra, designated hitter 5. Gavin Turley, left field 6. Mikey Kane, third base 7. Brady Kasper, right field 8. Tanner Smith, catcher 9. Kyle Dernedde, shortstop LIVE UPDATES PREGAME DETAILS UPDATE: In the fifth inning, the game shifted to a live TV broadcast on ESPN2 ••• The Oregon State Beavers play the LSU Tigers Monday in an elimination game of the Baton Rouge Regional at Alex Box Stadium, with a live broadcast streaming on ESPN Plus. If the Beavers win, the teams would play again Monday night for the right to advance to the super regionals. If the Beavers lose, their season is over. Oregon State is coming off a marathon Sunday that featured two games, a three-hour weather delay and an elimination nightcap against Sam Houston that did not end until well after midnight Monday morning. After suffering a tough, 6-5 loss to LSU in the first game, the Beavers edged the Bearkats 3-1 to keep their season alive. And now, to move on to the super regionals, the second-seeded Beavers will have to win three games over 24 hours, including a doubleheader against the Tigers — the No. 5 national seed and regional host. Game 1 is scheduled for 11 a.m. If Oregon State wins that, the teams are scheduled to play again at 3 p.m. For more on the regional and the Beavers, read the following coverage: • Sunday recap: Beavers survive marathon doubleheader to set up do-or-die Monday vs. Tigers • Game 1 recap: Beavers ride Sellers, record-setting offense to win over Sam Houston • How a nameplate takedown, a fox hat and lineup changes saved the Beavers’ season • Travis Bazzana, the ‘most interesting man in college baseball,’ is chasing a trip to Omaha • With ‘scary’ talent, piano-playing outfielder Gavin Turley is new ‘face of Oregon State baseball’ • More than a mullet: Forrester overcomes tragedy with ‘huge heart,’ clutch hitting • Beavers are ‘ready to go’ at Baton Rouge Regional after taking 2 days off to ‘refresh and reflect’ • Baton Rouge Regional: A look at Oregon State, LSU, Sam Houston, Tulane Here are details about tonight’s game: Oregon State Beavers (41-19) vs. LSU Tigers (45-15) When: 11 a.m. PT, Monday, June 5 Where: Alex Box Stadium, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. TV channel: ESPN2 How to watch live stream online: You can watch a live stream of this game for less than $10 on ESPN+. The cost is $9.99/month or $99.99/full year subscription, and you can cancel anytime. (Here’s a look at how you can watch ESPN+ live on your TV.) You can also watch this game live on Watch ESPN with your cable or satellite provider login information if you already have a provider. Radio: All games air on the Beaver Sports Network. Pregame starts 30 minutes before the first pitch. Affiliates include KEJO 93.7-FM & 1240-AM (Corvallis), KKNX 1051.-FM & 840-AM (Eugene), KCFM 104.1-FM & 1250-AM & 104.1-FM (Florence), KLAD 104.3-FM & 960-AM (Klamath Falls), KCFM 103.1-FM (Mapleton), KTMT 96.1-FM & 580-AM (Medford), KCMX 880-AM (Medford), KCMX 99.5-FM (Phoenix), KEX 1190-AM (Portland), KSKR 1490-AM (Roseburg) and KBZY 1490-AM (Salem). Probable starters: OSU RHP Rhett Larson (3-2, 5.57 ERA) vs. LSU LHP Riley Cooper (3-3, 5.36) Oregon State lineup 1. Travis Bazzana, second base 2. Garret Forrester, first base 3. Micah McDowell, center field 4. Mason Guerra, designated hitter 5. Gavin Turley, left field 6. Mikey Kane, third base 7. Brady Kasper, right field 8. Tanner Smith, catcher 9. Kyle Dernedde, shortstop LIVE UPDATES Joe Freeman reported from Baton Rouge, Louisiana. — Joe Freeman | jfreeman@oregonian.com | 503-294-5183 | @BlazerFreeman | Subscribe to The Oregonian/OregonLive newsletters and podcasts for the latest news and top stories. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.