4.8 Flexible security deposit requirements and a $0 annual fee make this an excellent option for people building or rebuilding credit.  Annual fee $0 Rewards rate N/A Bonus offer None Intro APR N/A Ongoing APR APR: 29.99% Variable APR Cash Advance APR: 29.99%, Variable Balance transfer fee Balance Transfer Fee applies to balances transferred at a promotional rate Foreign transaction fee None No annual fee Qualify with limited/bad credit No foreign transaction fees Report to three major credit bureaus Requires minimum deposit No rewards High APR Pulling together the money for a security deposit can be a major hurdle in getting a secured credit card, one of the best tools for building or rebuilding your credit. The Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card makes deposits a little less daunting, and that's a big reason why it's one of NerdWallet's favorite secured cards. With an annual fee of $0 and a handful of features of special interest to people working on improving their credit score, the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card is a solid option for building credit (see rates and fees). Card type: Secured. Annual fee: $0. Interest rate: The ongoing APR is 29.99% Variable APR. Deposit requirement: Get a $200 credit line with an initial deposit of $49, $99 or $200, for those who qualify. You can deposit more money before your account opens to increase your credit limit up to a maximum of $1,000. Rewards: None. Foreign transaction fees: None. Like all secured credit cards, the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card requires a refundable security deposit. With most secured cards, your credit limit will be equal to your deposit, but the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card allows for a lower deposit for those who qualify. Your deposit may be $49, $99 or $200 for a starter credit line of $200. You can increase your limit up to $1,000 by making more than the minimum deposit before activating your account. Best of all, if you can’t pay your security deposit upfront, Capital One will let you pay it in installments of at least $20, as long as you provide the full amount within 35 days of approval. This is a great benefit for those on a fixed income. Make your monthly payments on time, and you could get access to a higher credit limit in as little as six months without having to deposit more money. A higher credit limit gives you increased flexibility, but more important, it can help your credit by reducing your credit utilization, a key factor in your credit score. The lower your utilization, the better. If you have a $200 credit limit and a balance of $60, your credit utilization is 30%, which is about as high as you want it to go. If your credit line gets bumped up to, say, $500, your utilization drops to 12%. » MORE: How do secured credit cards work? Credit cards for people with bad credit or no credit are notorious for high fees. That's one of the reasons NerdWallet recommends secured credit cards for building credit: You have to put down a security deposit, but you get that money back when you close the account in good standing or upgrade to a regular unsecured card. The best secured cards charge reasonable fees. The Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card keeps things light with an annual fee of $0 (see rates and fees). Like all Capital One cards, it doesn't charge foreign transaction fees, so you can take it with you if you're traveling abroad. The card does charge a late fee if you don't pay your bill by the due date. But you can avoid that fee by paying your bill on time each month.  Capital One is one of the few major issuers offering credit cards for people in all credit score ranges. Its secured card is for people who are building credit. Its popular rewards cards, like the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card and the Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card, are for people with good or excellent credit. But it also has excellent products for people in the middle, with fair or "average" credit. These include the Capital One Platinum Credit Card and the Capital One QuicksilverOne Cash Rewards Credit Card. As you use your card to establish a good payment history and build your credit, you may be able to upgrade your account to a credit card without a security deposit. » MORE: Capital One credit cards mobile app review Like most secured cards, the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card charges a high interest rate. The ongoing APR is 29.99% Variable APR (see rates and fees). However, that doesn't have to affect you: Pay off your balance every month, on time and in full, and no interest will accrue. There's no introductory 0% APR period, but most credit cards for bad credit don’t offer one anyway, so you're not missing anything. Like most secured cards, the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card doesn't offer rewards. There are a few secured cards that do offer rewards, though, like the  Discover it® Secured Credit Card. This card pays 2% cash back on up to $1,000 spent per quarter on dining and gas, and 1% back on all other purchases. It has an annual fee of $0. There's even a bonus for new cardholders: INTRO OFFER: Unlimited Cashback Match – only from Discover. Discover will automatically match all the cash back you’ve earned at the end of your first year! There’s no minimum spending or maximum rewards. Just a dollar-for-dollar match. However, there's a minimum security deposit of $200 for the Discover it® Secured Credit Card, much higher than the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card's $49 or $99 options for those who qualify. Unlike the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card, the Discover it® Secured Credit Card provides a credit limit equal to your security deposit in all cases — and not a penny more. To see more potential card options for building or rebuilding your credit, take a look at our best credit cards. To qualify for the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card, you must have a checking or savings account and Capital One could check your credit and employment history. That can present a hardship for applicants without a bank account or a credit history. The OpenSky® Secured Visa® Credit Card doesn't perform a credit check when you apply, and you can pay your security deposit via a money order or Western Union if you don’t have a bank account. There is a $35 annual fee, however. » MORE: Explore the best credit cards that don't run a credit check If you’re working to build your credit, the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card is one of the better choices available. Its flexible security deposit requirements, low fees and upgrade potential make it a solid starter card. No matter which card you choose, using a secured credit card responsibly can help you build your credit score. Keep it up, and you should be able to graduate to a card with lower fees and interest, greater rewards — and no security deposit at all. This card removes two major barriers for people with bad credit. It doesn't require a credit check, and you don't need a bank account. There's a $35 annual fee, though.   NerdWallet reviews credit cards with an eye toward both the quantitative and qualitative features of a card. Quantitative features are those that boil down to dollars and cents, such as fees, interest rates, rewards (including earning rates and redemption values) and the cash value of benefits and perks. Qualitative factors are those that affect how easy or difficult it is for a typical cardholder to get good value from the card. They include such things as the ease of application, simplicity of the rewards structure, the likelihood of using certain features, and whether a card is well-suited to everyday use or is best reserved for specific purchases. Our star ratings serve as a general gauge of how each card compares with others in its class, but star ratings are intended to be just one consideration when a consumer is choosing a credit card. Learn how NerdWallet rates credit cards. With secured credit cards, your credit limit is typically equal to the amount of your deposit. However, with the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card, some applicants may be eligible for a $200 credit limit with a deposit of $49, $99 or $200. You can increase your credit limit to up to $1,000 by depositing more than the minimum before activating your card. Pay on time each month, and you can be automatically considered for a higher credit line in as little as six months with no additional deposit. Use your card to establish a good payment history and strengthen your credit, and you may be able to upgrade your account to an unsecured credit card. The amount of time this takes can vary. The Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card reports your account activity to the three major credit bureaus. Keeping balances low and making on-time payments can help build your credit, but late payments can hurt it You can qualify for the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card with very limited or bad credit, including scores below 630. However, approval is not guaranteed. Even with secured cards, issuers will look at your income, debts and other factors. To open your account, you must pay your security deposit within 35 days of being approved for the card. From there, you use your card to make purchases just like you would with any other credit card, and you pay your bill each month. Important: Your deposit is not "loaded" onto the card, and it is not used to pay for your purchases. The issuer holds the deposit in case you don't pay your bill. If you upgrade to an unsecured card or close your account in good standing, your deposit will be refunded. Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105