Advertisement Advertisement 
Real Estate
 
              By              Lisa Hannam               on May 3, 2024              
Estimated reading time: 6 minutes  
                  By                  Lisa Hannam                   on May 3, 2024                  
Estimated reading time: 6 minutes  When is capital gains tax payable on the sale of property? And at what rate are capital gains taxed? We answer these questions and more.
 Advertisement Capital gains. Even the mention of these two words together can immediately conjure myths about owing the government 50% of the money earned from selling a home. But, like most rumours, it’s only half true—for now. You may have also heard that Budget 2024, the Canadian federal government introduced an increase on certain capital gains. That’s 100% true. Advertisement Advertisement For individuals with a capital gain of more than $250,000, they will be taxed on 66.67% of the gain as income—up from the current 50% rate, according to Budget 2024. This inclusion rate change comes into effect on June 25, 2024. Every week, our inbox is full of letters from readers asking how to avoid the capital gains tax. They want to know how to work the system and keep more money in their pockets. Listen, it’s valid to want to hold on to the money earned off of the sale of a secondary residence (cottage, second home) and an investment property (rental or commercial property). According to RE/MAX Canada’s Cottage Trends in Canada in 2024 report, the average price of a cottage in Canada is expected to rise this year by 6.8% from 2023—which is not small change. So, the idea that you’re forking over half your money simply isn’t true. The need to dispel this rumour is what inspired this guide to capital gains on the sale of property, which will answer the most common questions with our most popular articles on the topic.  And while we cannot show you how to avoid taxes (it’s one of two things you can’t avoid in life—death is the other), I can share insights on how to use any Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) rules in your favour.   MoneySense is an award-winning magazine, helping Canadians navigate money matters since 1999. Our editorial team of trained journalists works closely with leading personal finance experts in Canada. To help you find the best financial products, we compare the offerings from over 12 major institutions, including banks, credit unions and card issuers. Learn more about our advertising and trusted partners.  According to the MoneySense Glossary, “a capital gain is the increase in value on any asset or security since the time it was purchased, and it is ‘realized’ when the asset or security is sold.” In the case of this article, the asset we are dealing with is property, which could be a cottage, second home, investment or rental property, as stated above. Our definition of capital gains begs the question: “Can you have a capital loss?” Yes, you can. A capital loss occurs when you sell a property for less money than you originally purchased it for. In some cases, you might be able to use a capital loss to reduce your income for your tax return, if you are reporting capital gains in the same year.  Speaking of tax, a capital gains tax is the money owed in taxes from the income earned. It’s not a specific tax, per se…. But more on that below. For more on the ins and outs of how capital gains works, read: Capital gains explained. Advertisement Advertisement Before we dive into the tax part, let’s go through how to calculate capital gains on the sale of a property. Essentially, this calculation figures out how much the property’s value grew from when you first bought it to the day you sold it. This above is a simple-math calculation of the capital gain. Capital gain = purchase price – selling price  We will dive even deeper to reduce the amount of capital gains you would claim on your tax return (more on that below). So, it’s not that capital gains are taxed at a rate of 50%, but it’s that 50% of the capital gains are taxable. At least until June 25, 2024, when that rate changes to 66.7% for gains more than $250,000. And the capital gains tax rate depends on the amount of your income. You add the capital gain to your income for the year, including money you receive from your job, side hustles, dividends in non-registered accounts, any selling of assets and so on.  Capital gains are taxed as part of your income on your personal tax return. Below are the federal tax brackets for 202, which can give you an idea of how much tax you may owe for the year. You will need to figure out the provincial tax bracket rate for your province or territory, too. Since Canada has a tiered tax system, you will have to do a bit of math to estimate your annual income tax, breaking down your total tax into the brackets, and the amount owed for each bracket.  The first column is the tax rate, meaning the percentage of the income that is considered taxable (this doesn’t include deductions, of course). The second column is the range of income for that tax rate. Say you earn $60,000 a year, $55,867 would be within the 15% tax rate and $4,133 is in the 20.5% rate ($60,000 – $55,867). That’s right your income is taxed through the tax brackets, and not on a flat tax rate. This is what’s called “a progressive tax system,” meaning that Canadians with lower incomes are taxed at a lower rate, and tax rates rise incrementally for higher-income earners. Read on for the provincial and territorial tax brackets. And, of course, to really get down to the nickel of how much you ultimately owe, you will need to do your tax return and receive a notice of assessment.  Advertisement Advertisement It’s worth noting that there can be other factors for calculating capital gains. Here are some articles that delve deeper into some of these specific situations. It’s not so much that you can avoid capital gains tax, but that there are CRA rules that you can take advantage of to reduce the amount you may owe. Here are a few:  First is the principal residence exemption. You don’t pay tax on the sale of your home, but you may have to for a secondary property or residence, and/or investment property. According to the CRA, a property is exempt from capital gains tax if your situation meets these four criteria: There is also accounting for outlays and expenses. From your capital gain, you can subtract the costs necessary for selling the property, such as renovations and maintenance expenses, finders’ fees, commissions, brokers’ fees, surveyors’ fees, legal fees, transfer taxes and advertising costs. You can also claim capital losses when you have capital gains. So if you have assets, not limited to property, that you earned income on, you can lower your gains by applying your capital losses to that amount (until it reaches $0). That can be losses from other property, investments in non-registered accounts, and other capital.  The Ask MoneySense column has answered the following questions on reducing the amount of income for capital gains:  The obvious answer is whomever is earning the capital gain, right? Not always. There can be less obvious scenarios involving multiple owners or even unfortunate situations that include the death of a property owner. If that’s the case for you, our readers can relate. Here are some of the tricky circumstances they have faced when selling a property.  We also have a category of questions about capital gains that can’t be categorized, but these articles are popular with readers. So we hope that they may be an asset to you, too—free of charge (see what I did there?). Advertisement Advertisement Share this article

Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Share on Linkedin

Share on Reddit

Share on Email
 Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *  

  Δ These Liberals have to GO before they completely ruin our country Justin Trudeau is destroying the Canadian dream. I wish more people understood how this works because we paid capital gains in 2018 and with these changes we would have paid LESS. The people saying the liberals need to go don’t understand basic math. That’s B.S. Mary Smitt.  The LIBERALS increased the capital gains from 50% to 66.65%. If you paid capital gains in 2018, you would be paying an incredible amount more.
And if you think the Liberals are good for Canada, then you are part of the problem we have today. Can you deduct the interest you paid on a mortgage as part of the capital gain? If one buys property for 200,000 and sells for 400,000 but there is still mortgage of 100,000 on it, what is the real capital gain? Is it 200000 or 100000 less other expenses? What happens if I sell a rental property and there is mortgage that I must pay back. It is not a gain and must be returned to financed.
Can you comment on this please. how do i sell 50% of my rental house to my daughter without paying capital gains on the entire amount?
    i assume im selling i have to sell 100 percent of my house ; 50% to my daughter and 50%back to me (i am selling entire house technically.Do i have to pay capital gains on entire sell )
i have 1,000,000 gain (i bought a house for 300,000   30 years ago and now it sells for 1,300,000) Just to let you know, the links under Ask MoneySense above don’t seem to be correct (e.g. selling foreign property). Thank you for letting us know. We have updated the links. There’s some confusion all over the internet on how this is applied. If I sell a rental property and my capital gain is $240,000.  I assume I’m still taxed on 50% of that. So $120,000 is added to my income for the year and then taxed at my marginal tax rate.
But, with the new Capital Gains adjustment , if I sell for a capital gain of $300,000 how much is eligible to be taxed;
a.  50% of the first $250,000 – ($125,000), plus 66.66% of the remaining $50,000 ($33,300), for a total of $158,300 at my marginal tax rate:
OR
b. 66.66% of $300,000.  Thus $199,800 added to taxable income, at my marginal tax rate. I built my home and reside there. Do I pay capital gains when I sell? I don’t know how many articles I’ve read on this, but not one of them shows the entire concept and breakdown of numbers.  A whole page of explanations and  not one example.  Unbelieveably annoying-  like most educational things in Canada. The capital gains you pay is just on any PROFIT you make off the sale (thus just like extra income for the year)
You buy a cottage for $50,000 +2,000 closing costs. You then do some renovations for $3,000.  A couple years later you sell for $60,000. So you take 60,000 – 52,000 (what you paid) = $8,000 profit. Then subtract renovations $8,000-3000 = $5,000. Then you can subtract any costs from the sale… so say it cost $1000 to list it. 5,000-1000 = 4,000. So your profit from the sale is $4000 and you then have to pay capital gains on that at 50%… so you owe $2,000 in Captial gains.  If you bought that cottage for $52,000 and only ended up selling at $50,000 there are no capital gains because you took a loss and made no profit.   If you bought the cottage for $50,000 and sold for $60,000 but still owed $5000 on the mortgage then your profit off the sale is only $5000 and you pay capital gains on 1/2 of that… so $2,500. What if 3 family members bought a piece of property together and spent a bunch of money developing the land lots of which was in sweat equity. Cutting trees, installing sewage lines building a permanent building, etc. Can the developing costs and sweat equity be removed from the profit to lower the amount of profit and this capital gains? Advertisement 
Mortgages
 Created By Ratehub 
Investing
 Falling U.S. inflation leads to rate cut certainty, Walmart’s strong quarter, Barrick beats Franco-Nevada for the gold metal, and... 
Investing
 These 25 books, chosen by MoneySense contributors, money experts and finfluencers, will help you invest better, retire earlier, find... 
FHSA
 Sponsored By Fidelity Investments Canada ULC 
Credit Cards
 Cards that waive or refund the fee for foreign currency charges are few and far between—but if you’re a... 
Credit Cards
 Created By Credit Canada 
Shopping
 From farm to table: How extreme weather affects prices along the food supply chain. 
GICs
 Presented By MCAN Wealth 
Investing
 Japan’s carry trades spook the markets, mixed U.S. earnings are in, Shopify surges, oil and potash remain profitable. 
Credit Cards
 These impressive travel cards can help turn your everyday spending into flights, hotels and more.  MoneySense, Canada’s personal finance resource for 25 years, is owned by Ratehub Inc., but remains editorially independent. The editorial team works to provide accurate and up-to-date information, but details can change and mistakes could happen. We encourage readers to do their own research, practice critical thinking and compare their options, especially before making any financial decisions. If you read something you feel is incorrect or misleading, please contact us. MoneySense is not responsible for content on external sites that we may link to in articles. We aim to be transparent when we receive compensation for advertisements and links on our site (read our full advertising disclosure for more details). Advertisers/partners are not responsible for and do not influence our editorial content. Our advertisers/partners are also not responsible for the accuracy of the information on our site. Be sure to review product information as well as provider terms and conditions on their sites. (Products and offers may vary for Quebec.) The content provided on our site is for information only; it is not meant to replace advice from a professional.  © 2002-2024 Ratehub Inc. All rights reserved