Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
                      Caitlin O'Kane
 
Updated on:  August 11, 2023 / 9:28 PM EDT
          / CBS News
         The deadly wildfires in Hawaii devastated the historic town of Lahaina, on the island of Maui. Lahaina was once the capital of Hawaii — home to historic buildings and an iconic banyan tree. Hawaii was settled between 300 to 700 A.D. when Polynesian travelers came to the Big Island and named it Havaiki, according to a website for Lahaina in Maui. Lahaina became the capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom in 1802 when King Kamehameha chose it and built a brick palace there. Lahaina remained the capital for 50 years, until it was replaced by Honolulu. As the capital, Lahaina was the government's hub — as well as being a center of whaling and fishing — and was home to many historic buildings from that era.  The town attracted Protestant missionaries, who began arriving in 1820. The oldest school west of the Rocky Mountains, Lahainaluna High School, was established in 1831.  Other historic buildings include a lighthouse, built in 1840, and the Baldwin Home, which was built as a missionary compound by a reverend in 1834 and is now a museum. The Lahaina Courthouse, which was built in 1858, was restored in 1998. The town is also known for its 60-foot banyan tree, a tourist attraction originally planted in 1873. It started out as an 8-foot tree planted by Sheriff William Owen Smith to mark the 50th anniversary of the first Protestant mission to the town. The tree has been present for many historic moments — it was the site of King Kamehameha III's birthday party in 1886, and when Hawaii became a U.S. territory in 1898, a ceremony was held at the tree. Dry conditions and high winds from Hurricane Dora helped fuel the blazes on Tuesday. Officials in Maui said Wednesday the wildfire destroyed or damaged hundreds of homes, businesses and other buildings. Some people tried to flee by going into the ocean and at least 17, including two children, had to be rescued from Lahaina's harbor, according to the Coast Guard.  The famous banyan tree near the waterfront in Lahaina, which grew for some 150 years, was burned in the fire. Photos and video show the tree still standing but its once lush green leaves now charred.  Satellite images taken show an overview of Lahaina in June, before the wildfires ravaged the town, and on Aug. 9, after the fires tore through. The historic courthouse, which was built in 1858 and restored about 140 years later, according to the town's website, was obscured by smoke, images taken Aug. 9 show.  The town's Front Street is a scenic seaside road with boats docked in front of it, lined with shops and restaurants. Images show the once bustling street barren as dark smoke converged over the town. Docks in the town completely looked destroyed by the fires. Caitlin O'Kane is a New York City journalist who works on the CBS News social media team as a senior manager of content and production. She writes about a variety of topics and produces "The Uplift," CBS News' streaming show that focuses on good news. 
© 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.