A WOMAN was left stunned when she asked her hairdresser for face-framing layers - and was instead left with chunks missing from the front of her head.  TikTokker @xui_fu shared that she was hoping the stylist could just freshen up her current look.  But now her followers are calling what happened to her a ‘freaking crime’.  During the 24-second video, the content creator shared what her hair looked like before heading to the salon.  Her auburn locks finished just below her shoulders and had she some subtle, face-framing layers in the front.  She wrote: “I just wanted to freshen up my cut.” The TikTokker then revealed the reference photo she showed her hairdresser during her appointment.  In this, the model had similar length hair, just with slightly more layers around the face.  However, her cut didn’t quite turn out as she hoped, as she reveals her new ‘do at the end of the video.  While from above it does look like her hairdresser has cut in similar layers to what she wanted, it’s when she brings the phone down to face her straight on that she reveals the problem.  A chunk of her hair, now two or three inches shorter, appears to be missing from the front where the layers have been cut in too short.  And, unlike the pictures, Xui’s layers start above her chin.  She added: “What is this plsss?!”  Below the video, she added: “This is gonna take a long time to recover…” Her haircut attracted plenty of attention online, gaining more than 77,500 likes and 1.6 million views.  In the comments, other TikTok users shared their reactions, with one writing: “Omg the exact same thing happened to me..it took me a whole year to grow my hair out.” Another said: “NO BC THE WAY MY MOUTH DROPPED YOU ARE SO SWEET BUT GIRL BFFR.” “It's a reason why I cut my own hair. Once the hairdresser cut my bangs so much, almost near roots,” a third added.  Someone else put: “I’m speechless! This feels like a freaking crime. How could they do this?” ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.