Steve Gickling is the CTO of Calendar, a place for unified calendars and all your scheduling needs.   Business owners across all industries are recognizing the threat of uncertain and unstable economic forces. With high rates of inflation, peculiar economic regulatory moves, mass tech layoffs and international tension, savvy business owners are doing everything they can to keep their businesses thriving during this era of volatility. One way to prepare your business for an unstable economy is to better optimize your IT operations—but what exactly does this mean, and why is it so valuable? Optimizing your IT operations is important for a few different reasons. With the right tech, your business can cut costs in almost any department, and you'll certainly need to consider changes to multiple areas of the company. However, IT requires especially close attention because of its: In some ways, every modern business is a tech company. No matter what your industry is, who your customers are or how you intend to grow, technology is still at the heart of your business. Your tech infrastructure is what keeps your business running, so you can't make sweeping cuts or changes without seriously considering the ramifications of each adjustment. The cost to run an entire IT department is highly variable, but it's usually quite expensive. If you can cut even a fraction of your technology (and related) spending, you can make your business more financially sustainable, even during tough times. Your IT department is also a significant vulnerability. Failing to comply with laws and regulations or suffering a data breach could be catastrophic for your business. Accordingly, you’ll need to calculate and analyze your risks closely, so you can preserve your most important security and defensive systems. Let’s take a look at IT infrastructure management best practices and other strategies that can help you keep your business not only operational but efficient during these trying economic times. It's hard to analyze all the variables necessary to make sound decisions in the IT world unless you have a lot of knowledge and experience. That's why it's usually a good idea to work with professionals, whether you hire a managed IT service provider or work with a consultant on a temporary basis. This is going to cost you some extra money upfront, but it can usually pave the way to save you more money in the long run. You can't make strategic cuts unless you thoroughly understand everything that makes up your IT department. You should have a thorough inventory of all the devices, systems and platforms currently being used within your business. With better documentation, you can get a bird’s-eye view of how everything is running, and you can make intelligent decisions on how to move forward. When analyzing each element of your IT infrastructure, make sure you understand the full context. Don't just consider the functionality of each component, but also the costs, the risks associated with it and how important the element is to your overall business objectives. Just because something is inexpensive doesn't mean it's worth keeping, and just because something seems effective doesn't mean it's helping you achieve your main objectives. When it's time to procure new equipment or software, scrutinize your choices. You'll need to do research to make sure you're getting the best product for the lowest price, and work closely with your vendors to ensure security. When shopping for devices, consider buying used ones; it's much less expensive, and you won't sacrifice much functionality in the process. Proactive maintenance can keep your equipment running smoothly for years, and it doesn't take much time or effort. Stay on top of your physical devices and keep everything up to date. When it's time to decommission old or obsolete devices, take security seriously and don't skimp on costs; a security misstep here could be egregiously expensive. Sometimes, entrepreneurs and IT decision-makers disproportionately focus on freezes and temporary strategies meant to stop the financial bleeding. In an emergency, these may be appropriate, but it's usually better to focus on more long-term, permanent improvements to the IT department. Virtual infrastructure is associated with both pros and cons for your business, but one of the greatest advantages is that relying on virtualization could save you money in the right context. It's especially valuable if you plan on scaling your business over time. Automation tools are taking the world by storm, eliminating manual processes in favor of much cheaper, automatic technological processes. Incorporate automation wherever it makes sense; it could help you save a fortune on labor costs while simultaneously improving consistency in implementation. It's hard to say exactly where the economy is headed from here, especially when some of our top economists are divided on the issue. But since nobody can predict the future, your most important challenge is finding a way to help your business thrive regardless of what's in store for the next few years. And if you can successfully optimize your IT operations, you'll be one step closer to doing it. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 