Missouri’s entrenched legislators are apparently galled by the fact that voters keep passing bills that they oppose. In an article published in the Springfield News-Leader on Feb. 12, Missouri state Sen. Sandy Crawford indignantly declared that ‘"We have Republican supermajorities ... and voters pass all these crazy left-wing initiative petition things … We need to get a better handle on that." As staff writer Galen Bacharier remarked, this is “a line of argument that Republican lawmakers have previously shied away from.” It certainly did seem more prudent to conceal their objective to obstruct the will of Missouri voters. But at least now they’re being honest about the real motivation behind their fevered push to change the citizen-driven initiative petition (IP) process. For more than a century, initiative petitions have been used by both progressive and conservative groups in Missouri to get proposals for new legislation to the ballot, some of which have been approved by voters and some not. To be clear, it’s impossible to pass policies or constitutional amendments in Missouri without support from both Democratic and Republican voters. In recent years, the IP process has been used to get Medicaid expansion, new rules for fairer redistricting maps and voter protections, a minimum wage increase and legalization of marijuana to the ballot. Each of these “crazy left-wing initiative petition things” were approved by a majority of Missouri’s voters and each were opposed by a majority of Missouri’s legislators. Remarkably, their fix is not to reconsider their policy priorities, but to cut direct voter participation out of the equation so they can legislate without challenge. Proposed bill SJR 31 would nearly double the signature requirement for initiative petitions, which would amount to tens of thousands of additional signatures. As someone who has worked on initiative petition campaigns along with hundreds of other unpaid volunteers, I know that managing to collect 10 signatures from eligible voters at a crowded event is a good day. Another bill, HJR 43, would increase the vote requirement for passage of any IP ballot measure from a simple majority to 60%. In the fall, 53% of Missouri voters passed Amendment 3, legalizing recreational marijuana, which combined with medical use sales generated an estimated $6 million in new tax revenue in February. Had it been in effect, the HJR 43 modification would have made passage impossible. Both of these bills have been framed as reasonable safeguards on passage of important policy decisions, but they would effectively make the IP process unusable. Legislators are now brazenly telling us that is precisely the point. Changes to a citizen initiative process that functions as designed are not only unnecessary, they’re flagrantly undemocratic. You can thank them for finally being honest, but it’s time to tell legislators to back off. David L. Derossett is an associate professor of sociology at Drury University. This article originally appeared on Springfield News-Leader: Legislation to render petition process ineffective is undemocratic New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.