John Muller: Well that one definitely lived up to its billing. One day after Pep Guardiola used his pre-game press conference to write a perfumed love letter to Roberto De Zerbi, calling him “one of the most influential managers of the last 20 years,” De Zerbi’s Brighton went out and showed the world what he was talking about, going toe to toe with Manchester City in a dead rubber that turned out to be one of the most brilliant matches of the season. Advertisement Maybe this Guardiola guy knows a thing or two about coaching talent. The last 20 years, though? For a guy who’s only been managing for seven? Whose top-flight trophy case contains the Ukrainian Super Cup and, uh, a bunch of nice press clippings? As good as Brighton are right now — and De Zerbi’s Sassuolo and Shakhtar were a joy to watch, too — how seriously should we take Pep’s praise? And what exactly does it mean for a coach to be “influential,” anyway? Carl Anka: First of all, everyone should know better than to take Pep Guardiola at his word. Social media is well aware of the dangers of the “Pep Compliment”. Many a football team has been described in glowing terms during the week, before City go out and crush them on the weekend. Guardiola’s been twirling a villainous moustache in press conferences for some time now. So much so that Luciano Spalletti rejected a Pep Compliment in March. “No, I’m not proud. It doesn’t make me proud. It’s a game to put pressure on the rest. We all know it already,” said the Napoli boss before doing a sarcastic compliment of his own. If Guardiola is complimenting De Zerbi, it’s not because he genuinely likes them. It’s because he likes the way said manager is below him in the imagined power rankings that exist in the minds of football fans. Muller: Pep’s flattery may be dangerous but he seems to really enjoy Brighton’s football. And who doesn’t? In the last five years they’ve gone from playing relegation-fodder hoofball to a handsome pressing-and-possessing game that’s clearly drawn some inspiration from the actual most influential manager of the last 20 years — the guy who was doling out the compliments.  Anka: The fun/annoying/interesting thing about Guardiola is how often he uses seeds of truth to grow a tree of misinformation. De Zerbi is an incredibly talented manager and he’s taken Brighton from an already good position to a place where they can bloody the noses of anyone in the Premier League. HOWEVER, the football they are playing cannot be called influential yet as… not many other teams are trying it.  Muller: Yeah, De Zerbi’s brand of build-up play is more innovative than influential so far, although that may change if Brighton keep climbing into the European elite. But it’s pretty clearly caught Guardiola’s attention, and lately you can see Man City starting to incorporate some of the timing-based press-baiting patterns that are Brighton’s bread and butter. He doesn’t quite put his foot on the ball, but here’s Ruben Dias waiting patiently for Martin Odegaard to close him down so he can rip Arsenal open with a rapid third-man combination through a narrow double pivot. That’s textbook De Zerbi.  But I’m not sure that’s the kind of thing most managers ought to imitate — it’s a risky style that needs supremely confident, technical players to pull it off. De Zerbi was quick to redirect Guardiola’s praise onto Brighton’s squad, who he said “have the right skills and the right characteristics to play my football, and to play brave as I want”. Advertisement If De Zerbi does turn out to be influential, it may be in a coaches’-coach sort of way that really only matters to a handful of clubs. Anka: If you really want to have a discussion on the most influential managers from the past 20 years, you’re best off looking at what the footballing middleweights have been doing, rather than the super-heavyweights that make up the one per cent. So, John, who do we have to thank for the majority of teams moving to a 4-2-3-1 formation since 2003? My brain wants to say Rafa Benitez? Muller: In Spain they say it was Juanma Lillo who popularized the 4-2-3-1, and Pep has always looked to him as a sort of managerial father figure. Whoever gets credit for that formation, which is modern football’s equivalent of jeans and a t-shirt, they’re miles more influential than any coach fiddling with more specific tactics. GO DEEPER How a door knock in 1996 led to Pep Guardiola and Juanma Lillo forging one of the great coaching partnerships Manchester United fans may not want to hear it, but another manager considered widely influential is Ralf Rangnick, who Guardiola called “the father of the gegenpress or these transitions” that spread from Germany and Austria to leagues around the world in the last decade. “I would say the idea from Ralf Rangnick is the tendency already in the Premier League,” Pep said last year. “So many teams want to play in this way.” Isn’t that what influence really means? Anka: The most influential people often reach a point where whatever they’ve brought to the table ends up being copied so much it looks milquetoast in retrospect. Rangnick failed at United for many reasons, one of them being his preferred style of play had been iterated and improved upon by other teams in the league. Ralph Hassenhuttl was very pleased after his Southampton side got a 1-1 draw with Rangnick’s United in February 2022. The Austrian saw it as evidence that his version of gegenpressing in a 4-2-2-2 had more to offer than Rangnick’s. Advertisement Or to use your jeans and t-shirt analogy: in 2022, Hasenhuttl had put a nice blazer over Ragnick’s jeans & t-shirt and looked smarter for doing so. There was a time when continental clubs using 4-2-3-1 or a 4-3-3 completely bamboozled English clubs using 4-4-2 in Champions League games. Arsene Wenger is regarded as one of the great Premier League innovators, in part, for his actions to remove the drinking culture at Arsenal. But when I tell my 15-year-old nephew that Wenger was a great manager because he got his players to eat more vegetables and enjoy some pasta after games, he looks at me like I’m an idiot. Now, I am an idiot, but innovation and influence always look simple in retrospect. Muller: That’s one explanation sometimes floated for why managers don’t matter as much as we think they do: any half-decent tactical tweak will be rapidly analysed, scrutinised, systematised and just plain plagiarised by a coach’s competition. Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal. The only way to stay on top is to keep rethinking the game like Guardiola, so it’ll be fun to see how De Zerbi builds on his strong first season at Brighton. But who are we missing here — any other names for the 21st-century gaffer pantheon? Anka: Do you mind if I throw in a sidewinder? Because – as observed by Grace Robertson in her excellent England Retrospective Series – Roy Hodgson is regarded as one of the most influential managers by many people across the continent. So long as you want to take what these people are saying at face value. “Roy Hodgson was one of my main role models as a young football coach,” said Sven-Goran Eriksson once. Hodgson carries so much weight in Sweden because he won the league title there on seven occasions. His influential works were a 4-4-2 and a zonal marking system. It was a system that took a lot from Arrigo Sacchi, but probably travelled better due to Hodgson making it simpler/more viable for teams with lesser resources. Advertisement His time in charge of Switzerland in 1992-95 coincided with the nation rising to third in the FIFA rankings. “Hodgson is seen as a legend in Switzerland among fans, not only due to his success on the pitch,” said Swiss former striker Adrian Knup. “He did have a hand in the changes in the youth system. He influenced the tactical work at a national youth level and did push for changes in the youth system and helped reform it.” “In every club in Italy they have a good memory of him, and he helped football be better,” said Carlo Ancelotti in May 2021 after it was announced Hodgson was stepping down as Crystal Palace manager. Jurgen Klopp also paid tribute to him during that time frame, “Roy Hodgson is one of the greats of our business.” Klopp would also say that he didn’t want to follow Hodgson into managing into his seventies. Muller: So there you go, the most influential coach of the last 20 years is currently at Crystal Palace. Or maybe managers just really like to say nice things about each other. I wonder who invented pre-game press conference flattery — seems like they’ve been pretty influential. (Top photo: Mike Hewitt/Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us.