In this Jan. 6, 2017 file photo, Cardinal Joseph Tobin gives the homily during a Mass installing him as the new Archbishop of Newark.  (AP Photo/Julio Cortez, File)AP American religious denominational leaders, including the U.S. Catholic Bishops, have taken strong stands for effective gun control and the banning of all assault rifles. But Newark’s Roman Catholic Archbishop, Cardinal Joseph Tobin, has taken an unusual three-part stand that concludes with what he calls “voluntary self-restraint.” Tobin set this forth in his weekly newsletter, “Rejoice in the Lord,” which can be found on the archdiocesan website, rcan.org. “Let’s voluntarily set aside our rights in order to witness the truth that only peace, and never violence, is the way to build a free society that is lived concretely in our homes, our neighborhoods, our communities, our nation and our world,” he writes. In other words, the Second Amendment of the Constitution allows for the right to bear arms -- it reads in part, “the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed” -- but Tobin urges us to forgo that right. He does not prescribe exactly what action this means. His intention, he told me in an email interview, is “to move the debate from simply a shouting match about ‘rights’ to a conversation about the common good.” He acknowledges that the U.S. Catholic bishops have taken strong stands on gun control and the abolition of AR-15 weapons, and he is in line with them. But that has not worked so far. In fact, there are now over 400 million guns in the U.S., more than people. “I would not characterize my proposal as sacrificing the Second Amendment,” Tobin told me. “Rather, it is a call to not exercise a Constitutional right in favor of the common good.” He elaborated: “I hope that people who want to exercise the right by promoting unrestricted access to guns of every type will also think honestly and broadly how such exercise contributes to the common good of all, especially the young, poor and vulnerable.” In his newsletter, he admitted: “This is perhaps the most challenging and controversial proposal, but I honestly believe it is the best thing we can do to change the culture of violence that threatens us today.” Indeed, mass shooting murders are happening at such breakneck speed that the media cannot keep up reporting about them. In response, calls for stricter gun regulations are often countered by those citing the Second Amendment. “It’s true that we have a Second Amendment right to bear arms, but rights always involve responsibilities — in this case, the responsibility to protect the innocent and to secure public safety and good order,” Tobin writes in the newsletter. “The mass shootings we are witnessing almost weekly now are a grave threat to the lives and well-being of all people.” The recent Richmond, Virginia, graduation shooting, when a graduate and his stepfather died, was the 279th mass shooting this year, more than days in this year so far. Gun violence is also creeping into ordinary human interactions that boggle the imagination. In April alone: · In Kansas City, a white 84-year-old homeowner shot and wounded Ralph Yarl, a Black teen, after the 16-year-old went to the wrong home to pick up his siblings. Yarl is recovering but is emotionally and physically scarred. · Kevin Monahan, 65, shot at a car that had mistakenly pulled into his rural New York driveway as they were backing out and killed 20-year-old Kaylin Gillis. · Cheerleader Payton Washington, 18, was shot and wounded outside a supermarket in Elgin, about 20 miles east of Austin, Texas, after another teen she was with opened the wrong car door. · Robert Singletary allegedly fired a gun at a neighbor before approaching a father and daughter, William James White and 6-year-old Kinsley White, who were both seriously wounded, when their basketball rolled into Singletary’s Charlotte, North Carolina, yard. Earlier this month, Ajike “AJ” Owens, 35, went to her Florida neighbor’s door holding the hand of her 9-year-old son, and Susan Louise Lorincz shot and killed her through the door. Owens was the mother of four young children. How to respond? First, Tobin encourages us to pray. But that is not enough. “In response to this grave moral crisis, we must combine our prayer with action to prevent the root causes of gun violence wherever it occurs,” he writes, later adding: “We should make our voices heard, demanding that actions be taken to protect the vulnerable and keep our communities safe.” Second, advocacy is necessary. “We should not assume that our elected representatives know where we stand,” Tobin wrote. He told me that “the alarming spike in mass shootings, the most heinous perpetrated with the same class of assault weapons, as well as the rising number of young people dying from gun violence” prompted him to release this statement. He went on: “I cannot remain distant from any incident of murder and still retain my humanity.” Tobin knows his suggestion has to take root in many people. “The voluntary self-restraint that I am calling for will not solve the problem of gun violence all by itself, but it can help us change our culture from one that is obsessively focused on individuals’ rights to a society dedicated to ensuring the common good,” he writes in the newsletter. Tobin ended on an upbeat note: “My hope is that the conversation in the public square will not be limited to the vindication of individual rights but rather lead to a compromise that truly reflects the common good.” The Rev. Alexander Santora is the pastor of Our Lady of Grace and St. Joseph, 400 Willow Ave., Hoboken, NJ 07030. Email: padrealex@yahoo.com; Twitter: @padrehoboken. Send letters to the editor and guest columns for The Jersey Journal to jjletters@jjournal.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices