The Pensacola City Council didn't come to any firm conclusion Wednesday night when it held a workshop on short-term rental regulations. Council members largely agreed that they wanted more data on short-term rentals, also known as vacation rentals, in the city, while three council members voiced support for requiring vacation rental owners to obtain business licenses from the city. Florida law prevents municipalities from banning vacation rentals or regulating the required length of stay, but cities can pass rules regulating the rentals as businesses. Several short-term rental owners turned out to the workshop and voiced opposition to any kind of regulation from the city. A smaller number of people spoke out about short-term rentals undermining the character of their neighborhoods. "We have to strike a balance," East Hill resident Bill Young said. "We have to protect people who bought a property in a family-oriented neighborhood and perhaps wanted to retire there and experience a family-oriented neighborhood, not something that's going to be bought out because of the mighty dollar to be replaced by businesses." Is it time to rein in vacation rentals?Pensacola council may look into rental regulations GuestviewShort-term rentals are destroying character of neighborhoods like East Hill Interest in developmentPensacola Mayor D.C. Reeves open to proposals for Community Maritime Park development Pensacoal City Councilman Charles Bare called for the workshop and said he knows there are problematic rentals in his district but that the owners that showed up Wednesday were not part of the problem. "We can't stop short-term rentals, and that's never been my goal," Bare said. "I want people to be able to make an income. But I also want some accountability from that." Bare said the city should know how many short-term rentals there are, if they are paying all of the required taxes that they are supposed to be paying like the bed tax, and that the city have a way to contact the owner if there are complaints about renters. City Attorney Charlie Peppler noted that an ordinance in Redington Shores survived a court challenge that required vacation rental owners to inform guests of local rules and ordinances. Peppler also said there is a bill pending before the Florida Legislature that requires vacation rental owners to provide the local government with contact information for someone capable of responding to complaints or immediate problems with rentals. Council members Jennifer Brahier and Casey Jones agreed with Bare that city needs more data on short-term rentals and a business license requirement may be a way to begin collecting that information. Council members Jared Moore and Alison Patterson were more hesitant about regulation and said the city should define the problems and policies to solve those problems first. Councilman Delarian Wiggins said that the city should hear from someone in the county who collects Tourism Development Tax to talk about the how bed tax works with short-term rentals. Councilwoman Teniadé Broughton said her experience with vacation rentals in her district are those owned by people who may have had to move away from Pensacola but want to maintain the ability to move back to their home in the future. Bare said he wasn't sure which direction the council would move on the issue. "I will continue to consider input from neighborhood associations and owners. And I don't think the problem is in this room," Bare said, referring to the short-term rental owners in attendance. "I think that you all are doing the right thing and that you are responsive. But there are some out there that or not, and unfortunately, when that happens, it damages all of your reputations because all it takes is a few to cause problems. And I'm not looking to put in extreme regulation. I'm just looking for some accountability." This article originally appeared on Pensacola News Journal: Pensacola City Council short-term rental regulations under discussion New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.