Advertisement We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more› By Gabriella DePinho Gabriella DePinho is a writer on the discovery team. She has found cheap(ish) things for medicine cabinets, movie nights, and a good night’s sleep. For many people, a car is like a second home. And that means it should be outfitted with a few daily essentials and just-in-case emergency items, to help keep life running a bit more smoothly. From everyday necessities to emergency supplies that will get you out of a jam, here are seven cheap(ish) items we recommend storing in your ride, so you’ll never be caught without the things you need when you’re out and about. Advertisement  A car garbage can (aka “carbage can”) can help you manage trash, especially if you frequently eat in your car. We like the Hotor Car Trash Can 138, a 2-gallon, leakproof receptacle that has rubber flaps over the opening, to keep debris and any accompanying odors contained. It has adjustable straps, so you can install the container in numerous convenient places, including behind your car’s center console or in the footwell of the passenger seat. If you use this container for perishable food waste, however, you’ll need to remember to empty it often.  Few situations evoke the same anxiety as a car that suddenly won’t start. With a portable jump starter in hand, you can get your car going again without having to call roadside assistance. We’ve recommended the Weego Jump Starter 44s since 2017 because it’s compact, it has safety features we like, and it works with a wide range of cars, small or large. Tip: Wirecutter battery expert and senior staff writer Sarah Witman advises not leaving this jump starter’s battery in your car on extremely hot or cold days, to best preserve it. Advertisement  Since many stores no longer hand out plastic bags at checkout, it’s a good idea to keep a few reusable bags in your trunk for impromptu errands. You can, of course, use whatever reusable shopping bags you have on hand. But if you want a stash of strong, compact, and easy-to-clean bags, the Standard Baggu can carry up to 50 pounds (we tested this claim with a 44-pound kettlebell) and can easily fold into a pocket or purse. It’s machine-washable, and it comes in a wide range of fun colors and patterns. These were the most comfortable and sturdy of the affordable round sunglasses we tested. Plus, they come with a lifetime warranty and money-back guarantee. When it feels like the sun is scorching your retinas, you’ll be glad to have a pair of reliable sunglasses in your car. We like Sungait’s Vintage Round Sunglasses because they’re comfortable, affordable, and durable, and they look good on a variety of face shapes. The lenses provide UV protection and are polarized to reduce glare. The sunglasses also come with a lifetime warranty that covers you even if you break them. You may like them so much that you end up buying multiple pairs for ready access. Advertisement This First Aid Only kit has all of the necessary gear for treating minor scrapes, cuts, and burns, including an abundance of adhesive bandages, and it comes with a decent first aid booklet. No one gets through life without a few scrapes and bruises, so a small first aid kit in your car will inevitably be useful for you or your passengers. The First Aid Only 298 Piece All-Purpose First Aid Kit (FAO-442) provides bandages, gauze, wipes, ointments, and painkillers for minor injuries, as well as some items (a trauma pad, gauze, and some dressing pads) for handling more-serious injuries. The case opens easily, like a book, and items are stowed in 10 clear plastic compartments, so you can easily find what you need. We also recommend adding a few more items to your first aid kit. But even if you just keep the basic kit stocked and stashed in your car, that is an excellent first step. This blanket is durable, comes in scores of prints, and is the best bargain of those we recommend. A backseat throw blanket is perfect for road-trip naps (for adults and kids alike), unexpectedly cold days outdoors, or a spontaneous trip to a drive-in movie. We think the Kohl’s The Big One Oversized Supersoft Plush Throw is a good budget option, and in our guide to throw blankets we crowned it our pick for kids and teens. It’s thin, really soft, durable, and easy to wash. Advertisement  May be out of stock If you have long hair, having a few extra elastics in your car could save you on a hot or troublesome drive, when you just need all that hair out of your face. Deputy editor Annemarie Conte likes Goody Ouchless Braided Hair Elastics because they come in cheap, large packs ranging from 32 to 50 elastics. So you can leave a few within arm’s reach of your driver’s seat, some more in your bag, and the rest at home. This article was edited by Rose Maura Lorre and Alexander Aciman. Gabriella DePinho Gabriella DePinho is an updates writer at Wirecutter. Previously, she worked at NBC News writing about deals and product launches. She loves working in product recommendation but personally hates shopping—and she knows that doesn’t make sense. by Kit Dillon and Wirecutter Staff After hundreds of hours of research and 1,500 miles behind the wheel, we’ve singled out the gear that’s absolutely essential for your next journey on the open road. by Thom Dunn and Rik Paul We spent 100 hours researching and testing to find the best methods and supplies for washing and detailing your car to maintain its looks and resale value. by Sarah Witman A wireless charging mount lets you safely use a phone while driving and keep it juiced up along the way. iOttie’s Easy One Touch Wireless 2 remains the best. by Nick Guy and Sarah Witman We’ve tested the best car chargers, and we have recommendations for affordable, reliable options that can fast-charge any device while you’re on the road. Advertisement Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). 