More superfoods to stock up on! Eating healthy can feel extra efficient when you’re packing in superfoods, that is, foods that have multiple nutritional benefits, such as high levels of vitamins, minerals, fiber, or antioxidants. And while superfoods aren’t clinically defined by an official body of superfood deciders, that can be a good thing—these are ingredients nutrition experts select thanks to their super powers of nutrition and health. They’re foods that fit easily in our diets and recipes, and can be consumed regularly. Foods like kale, blueberries, and fermented ingredients are already widely accepted as superfoods (there’s a reason you see Greek yogurt and miso in essentially every healthy recipe), but there are plenty more to incorporate in your diet. Here are some ingredients registered dietitians believe are poised to become 2023’s superfoods. Oatmeal Stories/Getty Images “This plant protein is gaining popularity and appearing in a plethora of foods, from chips to pasta,” says Amy Gorin, MS, RDN, owner of Plant Based with Amy in Stamford, CT. “Lentils provide cholesterol-helping fiber and fueling protein, in addition to folate, magnesium, and iron.”  Lentils are easy to cook as soups and hearty bases for meals, and can also be purchased canned or pre-cooked and packaged for even easier consumption. Various types of lentils, such as red, green, and French, offer different flavor and texture, so you can include lentils in your diet frequently without getting too bored. Related:The 30 Healthiest Foods to Eat Every Day “Beef liver is truly the ultimate superfood and nature's true multivitamin—containing essential vitamins and minerals in a bio-available form easily absorbed and recognized by the body,” says nutritionist Michaela Clauss. “Beef liver can be consumed in its whole form, or as desiccated beef liver capsules. It contains many important nutrients such as vitamins A, D, E, K, B12, and folate, and minerals such as copper and iron, which provide the body with the tools it needs to naturally detox, support hormone balance, and support proper thyroid function. Vitamin A is essential for the production of the youth and anti-stress hormones we all want and need, and yet most people are deficient in Vitamin A.” Beef not your thing? Try chicken liver, which can be enjoyed as a pate or like traditional Ashkenazi chopped liver, or if you’re up for it, indulge once in a while in foie gras—goose liver. “Medjool dates are a fresh fruit with a caramel-like taste, making them perfect to satisfy any sweet tooth. As a dietitian, I love how they’re filled with potassium, iron, and satiating fiber without any added sugar,” says Mackenzie Burgess, RDN. “You can enjoy them alone, stuff with peanut butter, or blend into a creamy milkshake.” Related:Why Snacking on Dates Is the Smarter, Healthier Way to Satisfy Your Sweet Tooth "As an eco-dietitian, my belief is that food is truly super when it supports not only the health of our bodies, but also the health of the planet,” says Mary Purdy, MS, RDN, a nutrition and sustainability advisor at Big Bold Health. “With the many current environmental issues and concerns around our fragile food system, we need crops that are both nutritious and resilient. I put foods like the hardy and genetically diverse Himalayan tartary buckwheat into this category. Not only is this "fruit seed" rich in fiber, minerals, and powerfully protective polyphenols that support a healthy immune system, it is a drought-resistant crop that can be grown in poor quality soil, and at low temperatures and high altitude.” “This lesser-known grain has a nutty taste, and is made from wheat groats that have been parboiled, dried, and ground,” Gorin says. “Bulgur has a nutty taste. Per cup, cooked, you get an excellent amount of protein and fiber: 6 grams protein and 8 grams fiber. You also get many minerals, including plant-based iron.” Use bulgur instead of rice, quinoa, or farro in various recipes. You can also sprinkle it on a salad or make a bulgur porridge. Related:We Know Whole Grains Are Good for You, but These 11 Are the Healthiest “This plant protein is a complete protein, which means that it contains nine essential amino acids,” Gorin says. “Three tablespoons provide nine grams of protein! Hemp seeds are a great addition to everything, from homemade energy bars to a smoothie bowl topping.” A package of hemp seeds can go far throughout the day, sprinkled on yogurt, salads, proteins, pastas, and more. You can even sneak them into a peanut butter and jelly sandwich or an ice cream sundae to add health benefits to a treat. For more Real Simple news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on Real Simple. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.