MAKING small changes to our diets can be just as beneficial as Botox, according to a top dermatologist.  Dr Thivi Maruthappu reckons munching on a variety of "superfoods" reduces wrinkles, boosts moisture and gives you a youthful glow.  Better still, most of her favourites are budget-friendly and available  to pick up in your local supermarket.  She told The Times: "Skincare is an inside job. "People don’t realise that so many products don't actually get to those deeper layers." Dr Maruthappu, whose motto is "berries before Botox", said what we eat has a profound impact on every layer on our skin. So if we're not properly nourished - it shows. Here, the dermatologist and nutritionist, 42, outlines her top skin-boosting snacks - and hacks - for a smooth, glowing complexion to rival line-busting injections.   If we don't get the right nutrients, the epidermis, or top layer of our skin will look dry, flaky, spotty or irritated, while the dermis, or middle layer, will age more quickly as it loses elasticity and moisture, Dr Maruthappu, said. The expert, who studied medicine at the University of Oxford, explained that collagen and hyaluronic acid play a vital role - but the body needs carbs, proteins, vitamins C, D, E, zinc, iron, selenium and copper to produce them.  Most importantly though, it needs fats.  She said it's essential to squeeze monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats into your meals if you want to keep ageing at bay as the subcutaneous tissue that lies under the skin contains fat, which is a "natural filler".  Avocado, nuts and extra virgin olive oil are all brilliant sources of monounsaturated fats, while the omega-3s in seeds and oily fish like salmon tick the polyunsaturated box.  If you're veggie, try an algae omega-3 supplement instead.  This will improve skin significantly, Dr Maruthappu said.  Another great addition to your diet is collagen - a protein responsible for healthy joints and skin elasticity.  Many spend hundreds of pounds a year on creams containing the "magic" ingredient, but you don't need to splash out. Dr Maruthappu reckons you can get a pretty good dose from cheaper oral supplements that include type 1 collagen and dipeptides. Take them for three months alongside a diet rich in vitamin C and iron, and you're apparently on to a winner.  Both are essential for collagen production, Dr Maruthappu said, and can easily be found in citrus fruits, tomatoes, red meat and beans.  But vitamin A, found in liver, mackerel, salmon, butter, cheddar, eggs, carrots, red peppers, sweet potatoes and apricots, is also important because it boosts cell turnover, she added.  If you're suffering from acne, Dr Maruthappu recommends upping your intake of nuts, seeds, poultry, shellfish and anti-inflammatory spices such as turmeric instead of rushing to your nearest clinic.  It's also worth reverting back to full fat milk if you're switched to skimmed or semi-skimmed as they are more likely to be a trigger, she said.  You can try non-dairy alternatives like almond or oat milk - but avoid the organic varieties as they aren't fortified and you'll miss out on calcium, B12 and iodine, she added.  For healthy skin as you age, Dr Maruthappu, who works in the NHS, has a practice at the Cleveland Clinic and conducts research on nutrition and skin at King’s College London, suggests green tea, walnuts, salmon and blackberries.  And for an extra glow, throw in some leafy green vegetables, lean proteins, oils and whole grains.  The author of SkinFood: Your 4-Step Solution to Healthy, Happy Skin, also notes that more than eight alcohol drinks a week accelerates ageing in the face. Red wine and beer are most likely to cause problems - like lines, puffiness under the eyes and visible blood vessels - due to high histamine levels, so opt for clear spirits like vodka, gin and tequila instead.    The full list of Dr Maruthappu's favoured foods for great skin includes:  ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/