It seems like every week, we hear about a new ‘superfood’ – something that is especially good for us. Some have not only stood the test of time but also kept coming up in new literature, such as The Blue Zones: Lessons for Living Longer From the People Who’ve Lived the Longest. I recently found a yummy superfood recipe that combines three of these nutrient-packed foods: chickpeas, kale, and tomatoes. Here are some of the healthy benefits of these superfoods: Also known as garbanzo beans, chickpeas have many positive attributes: Kale is also high in fiber and many vitamins and minerals such as vitamin K, iron, vitamin C, calcium, and antioxidants which protect against various cancers. It also improves eyesight, is anti-inflammatory, and removes toxins from the body like chickpeas. Tomatoes have long been known for their high levels of lycopene, which reduces free radicals that cause cancer. They are also high in many vitamins, such as C, K, folate, and the mineral potassium. Tomatoes improve eyesight, reduce blood pressure, relieve diabetes, improve digestion, stimulate blood circulation, and reduce inflammation, constipation, cholesterol, skin problems, and urinary tract issues. If this litany of health benefits doesn’t make you want to try this superfood recipe, what will? And it’s delicious too. Serve it cold as a salad or warm as a main dish or side dish. My book club lapped it up. Enjoy!!! Takes: 45 minutes Serves: 4 Read Next:  Savory Tart Recipe: Tomato Parmigiano Elevate Your Smoothie With These Superfood Ingredients Chocolate Cream Cheese Brownies Recipe  We are giving away a $50 Amazon Gift Card every month to one of our subscribers! To enter, simply add your email address below. If you already subscribe, you will automatically be entered. Winners will be chosen randomly. 
*By entering, you are signing up to receive our weekly newsletters.
		

 

 Related Posts: About Prime Women Privacy Policy Advertise on Prime Women Authors The Online Magazine for women in their PRiME: Life, Fashion, Shopping, Health, Career & so much more! For and by women 50+ Prime Women is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. © Copyright 2023 primewomen.com | Designed and Developed by Miller Ad Agency.