Florida has a native grape, and it's a superfood. There's problem, though. Many people have a hard time getting past the thick skin and bitter seeds of the muscadine. Not totally unexpected for a fruit that takes its name from the smell of a male musk deer. But more on that later. Researchers with the University of Florida’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences are hoping to change consumers' minds about the muscadine and they think they may have found just the way to do it: freeze-drying. Florida’s native grape, the muscadine, has a reputation for being an acquired taste. It's juicy and sweet but has a leathery, thick skin and bitter seeds. In the past, the grapes have been used for making wine, jam and juice. The grapes are packed with antioxidants and anti-inflammatory compounds, according to the University of Florida’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences. Not only do the skins contain antioxidants, they also have: dietary fiber, flavonoids, anthocyanins, ellagic acid and high levels of resveratrol, which has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. Flavonoids, anthocyanins and ellagic acid also have antioxidant properties which may reduce the risk of heart attacks or strokes. Antioxidants, found in fruits like grapes and some berries, are known for their ability to fight free radicals, which have been linked to cancer, heart disease, cataracts, memory loss and other conditions. In one word: the peel. To throw out another word: the seeds. The fruit's "thick peels and seeds .... have prevented wider public consumption, according to UF/IFAS. Regardless of its nutritional benefits, the peel can be difficult to chew and swallow — a fact people often cited as the reason why they do not consume the peel, discarding it instead. The peel’s thickness also makes it difficult to extract the juice. The seeds within the fruit are tough, difficult to chew, and very bitter, further discouraging people from eating the grapes. The problem is that most of superfood properties are found in the "fruit-leather-like skin." They've typically been eaten by removing the skin, sucking out the flesh and spitting out the seeds. “Muscadines are much more nutritious than the common grape,” said Ali Sarkhosh, associate professor of horticultural sciences with UF/IFAS. “It’s unfortunate that more people don’t give the peel a chance because the peel is actually the most nutritious part.” Researchers say yes, if the grapes are freeze-dried. A big benefit to freeze drying muscadines is that the process preserves the "high levels of beneficial phytochemicals and antioxidants found in the fruit," said UF/IFAS researchers. After freeze-drying, the flesh of the muscadine grapes becomes soft and light, almost like a foam peanut. The seeds are removed before freeze-drying. "They have a delightful crunch and melt in your mouth like cotton candy. The taste is light and crisp, with a sweet-and-sour tartness. When freeze-dried, the skin becomes thin and indistinguishable from the flesh when chewed, so consumers get the full superfood benefits," according to a news release from UF/IFAS. Another added benefit: the grapes become shelf-stable, which allows for longer-term storage. Yes, but remember most people don't care for the thick skin or bitter seeds. If you're OK with peeling and spitting, the flesh is considered sweet. As with all plants, be very sure you correctly identify what you're gathering to eat. Many plants are deadly, while others can make you very sick. Table grapes ripen all at once in a hanging bunch. Muscadines ripen singly in loose clusters. Muscadines are much more prolific, potentially yielding eight times more than other types of grapes, according to Muscadine Naturals. Typically, muscadine grapes in the wild bear dark fruit with usually 4 to 10 fruit per cluster. There also are bronze-colored muscadines. "The texture is softer than conventional grapes — they sort of melt in your mouth — and (are) much sweeter, said Tanya Ballard Brown for npr.org. Muscadine grapes are native to America, according to UF/IFAS. The natural range of muscadine grapes extends from Delaware to central Florida and occurs in all states along the Gulf Coast to east Texas. They also can be found along the Mississippi River as far north as Missouri. They have been grown and used to make wine throughout the southeastern U.S. for centuries. Farmers in the southeastern U.S. grow approximately 5,000 acres of almost 100 improved muscadine-grape varieties for commercial use. Muscadine grapes will perform well throughout Florida, although performance is poor in calcareous soils or in soils with very poor drainage, according to UF/IFAS. They also do well despite the heat and humidity the Sunshine State is known for. They are tolerant of insects and disease, and homeowners can successfully grow muscadine grapes without spraying any pesticides.  The commercial acreage of muscadines in Florida is estimated to be 1,500 acres, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 2017. Muscadine grapes are commonly consumed fresh or processed into juice, wine, or jam. “All scuppernongs are muscadines, but not all muscadines are scuppernongs,” according to the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Bronze-fruited muscadine grapes found in the wild and are often referred to as scuppernongs.  "Scuppernong is one of the bronze cultivars and were the first muscadine grapes discovered and cultivated in America." The grape was named after the Scuppernong River in North Carolina, where it was first discovered. Here's the history of the muscadine as provided by the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services: When the early settlers arrived in America, they were familiar with the muscat grape, a French grape used to make muscatel wine. And the word muscat derives from the Latin muscus, which describes the smell of a male musk deer. Early settlers called the sweet, musk-scented wild grapes that they found here by the same name as the sweet grapes they had known in Europe, and that eventually became muscadine Sarkhosh said his team is working with industry leaders to bring this superfood snack to the masses. “This is an innovative idea for industry to take to the next level,” he said. "Overall, the potential benefits of (freeze) drying muscadine fruit make it an area of interest for researchers and industry professionals alike. "Considering that it is unknown whether freeze-dried muscadine fruit can be economically produced, future studies should consider consumer testing to determine if people would like to eat this product and whether they are more likely to eat freeze-dried muscadines or the fresh fruit," according to a report released by UF/IFAS. You can make this with Florida muscadines, too, but since the scuppernong is North Carolina's state fruit and they suggested the recipe, we'll relay this as suggested. Combine all ingredients in a saucepan. Bring to a boil; reduce heat, and simmer 5 minutes. Serve warm. Looking for more muscadine recipes?