By Charlotte Griffiths, Editor At Large For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  20:01 EDT, 4 March 2023   |  Updated:  08:25 EDT, 6 March 2023      113 View  comments  We've had the avocado and the almond – now pistachios are set to become the latest superfood fad. But the nut won't just be for meals, as makers of face-masks, lip balms, fragrances and even clothing are increasingly embracing the fashionable kernel. As a foodstuff, pistachios are rich in protein, fibre and antioxidants and have several health benefits. They are also eco-friendly, as they can be imported from the Mediterranean and Middle East with a relatively low carbon footprint, and do not have the environmental problems over illegal forestation linked to avocado farms.  Foodie website Eater has declared that the pistachio is having a 'moment' as it offers a 'welcome indulgence'.  Pistachios are set to become the latest superfood fad, but the nut won't just be for meals as makers of face-masks, lip balms, fragrances and even clothing are increasingly embracing the fashionable kernel As an added bonus, pistachios do not have the environmental problems over illegal forestation linked to avocado farms Journalist Amy McCarthy wrote: 'A pistachio has more pizzazz than a boring peanut, more visual appeal than a pale cashew, and a rich flavour that feels inherently luxurious.' That last point may explain why they are becoming increasingly popular with beauty experts and fashion­istas, with muted shades of pistachio green becoming an on-trend hue.  Even makers of kitchen goods are adding pistachio shades to their selection. Online fashion retailer Net-a-Porter has an extensive new range of designer pistachio clothing, including a Bottega Veneta maxi dress in a 'vibrant' shade of pistachio for £2,290 and a wool Jil Sander cardigan in a more 'muted' tone for £295. Online fashion retailer Net-a-Porter has an extensive new range of designer pistachio clothing, including a Bottega Veneta maxi dress in a ‘vibrant’ shade of pistachio for £2,290 and a wool Jil Sander cardigan in a more ‘muted’ tone for £295. Next week, upmarket London store Liberty will unveil its first pistachio fragrance, a £160 bottle by DS & Durga described as having an ‘edible’, ‘gourmand’ scent. Pistachio face-masks and lip balms are top sellers at Rocco Forte hotels, which plans to launch a face and body oil made from the nut.  Wellness director Irene Forte told The Mail on Sunday: ‘Pistachio products do extremely well.  'The idea of ­pistachio is quite delicious I think in some ways, without being sickly. ‘With high levels of vitamin E, ­pistachio creams are proven to plump the skin so they are perfect for an overnight mask, or before an event like a wedding or a flight.’ Candle manufacturers have also begun dripping pistachio oil into their wax.  Asda sells a pistachio-scented candle for £6, while luxury brand Overose sell an upmarket version for £46. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group