Partnership with Louisiana farmers yielding early, positive results  BATTLE CREEK, Mich., Jan. 23, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Kellogg 's InGrainedtm, a five-year partnership with Lower Mississippi River Basin rice farmers to help reduce their climate impact, is reporting early positive results. During the pilot year of the program, InGrained helped farmers implement climate-smart irrigation practices that achieved a reduction of more than 1,600 metric tons of greenhouse gases1 - the equivalent of taking more than 345 gasoline-powered cars off the road for one year.2 Experience the full interactive Multichannel News Release here: https://www.multivu.com/players/English/9123851-kellogg-ingrained-helping-rice-farmers-reduce-greenhouse-gas-emissions/ Kellogg piloted the program in Northeast Louisiana in collaboration with leading agricultural greenhouse gas measurement firm Regrow Ag, rice producers, Kellogg supplier Kennedy Rice Mill LLC and agribusiness firm Syngenta.  Rice production emits several greenhouse gases, most significantly, methane. Methane contributes approximately 1.5 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions3 and is 25 times more potent than carbon dioxide.4 "Not only are we helping farmers implement new practices on their farms, but farmers are telling us that just as importantly, the quality of their rice was not affected by the adjusted irrigation practices," said Stacey Shaw, Syngenta's Senior Sustainability Lead.  Much of the rice sourced from the Louisiana River Basin is used in iconic foods like Kellogg's® Rice Krispies® cereal and Kellogg's® Rice Krispies Treats®.  "Kellogg'stm Better Days environmental, social and governance (ESG) strategy is committed to supporting 1 million farmers and reducing Scope 3 GHG emissions across our value chain by 15 percent by the end of 2030," said Janelle Meyers, Kellogg Company's Chief Sustainability Officer. "Programs like Kellogg's InGrainedtm contribute to this ambitious goal, create positive impacts on the planet and support the livelihoods of farmers who grow the rice for some of our most iconic foods." Kellogg and its InGrained partners are making adjustments as they transition into the second year of the program, while ensuring both financial and technical support continue to help farmers with these new practices. Kellogg is also exploring expanding the program to include various regions with different weather patterns and soil types to determine if similar positive impacts are found.   [1] Measured in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) through increased carbon sequestration and abatement of GHGs including methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) [2] Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator | US EPA  [3] https://www.wri.org/insights/more-rice-less-methane   [4] Overview of Greenhouse Gases | US EPA   About Kellogg CompanyAt Kellogg Company (NYSE: K), our vision is a good and just world where people are not just fed but fulfilled. We are creating better days and a place at the table for everyone through our trusted food brands. Our beloved brands include Pringles®, Cheez-It®, Special K®, Kellogg's Frosted Flakes®, Pop-Tarts®, Kellogg's Corn Flakes®, Rice Krispies®, Eggo®, Mini-Wheats®, Kashi®, RXBAR®, MorningStar Farms® and more. Net sales in 2021 were nearly $14.2 billion, comprised principally of snacks as well as convenience foods like cereal, frozen foods, and noodles. As part of our Kellogg's(TM) Better Days Promise ESG strategy, we're addressing the interconnected issues of wellbeing, climate and food security, creating Better Days for 3 billion people by the end of 2030. Visit www.KelloggCompany.com.  About Regrow AgRegrow Ag is a software company that empowers transformation to sustainable practices across the agrifood supply chain. Regrow delivers scalable, science-based solutions for the adoption, measurement, reporting and verification of sustainable practices with ecosystem outcomes, such as soil carbon sequestration. Today, Regrow monitors 400M acres of land across 45 countries. To date, Regrow has aided in the sequestration of more than 50,000 metric tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions from the atmosphere. Learn more at www.Regrow.ag.  About SyngentaSyngenta Crop Protection and Syngenta Seeds are part of Syngenta Group, one of the world's leading agriculture companies. Our ambition is to help safely feed the world while taking care of the planet. We aim to improve the sustainability, quality and safety of agriculture with world class science and innovative crop solutions. Our technologies enable millions of farmers around the world to make better use of limited agricultural resources.  To learn more visit www.syngenta.com.? Follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/Syngenta, www.twitter.com/SyngentaUS and on LinkedIn at www.linkedin.com/company/syngenta   About Kennedy RiceKennedy Rice is a Women Owned company delivering premium rice varieties that yield consistent product quality year after year. With nearly 60 years of rice industry experience, Kennedy Rice is a vertically integrated operation; sourcing, growing, harvesting, drying, milling, packaging, and transporting rice. The Women Owned company has their own retail brand, 4Sisters Rice, that can be found in over 6,000 grocery stores nationwide. 4Sisters product lineup includes an array of organic, natural, specialty, and kid friendly rice varieties. Learn more at 4sistersrice.com      SOURCE  Kellogg Company