CHLOE Kelly is a professional footballer who plays as a forward. Here we take a look at the attacking star’s stellar career. Chloe Maggie Kelly is a 25-year-old professional footballer from Hanwell, West London. She plays in the FA Women’s Super League (WSL) for Manchester City and the English national team. Spain vs England LIVE - Latest updates from Women's World Cup final Kelly has represented England at under-17, under-19 and under-20 levels. Her first appearance for the youth national football team came in the 2014 UEFA Women's Under-17 Championship in England, where the team finished in fourth. Chloe made her debut for the senior national side as a substitute in a 3-0 friendly win over Austria in August 2018. She was selected for the England squad for the UEFA Women’s Euro 2022, which was held in England in June 2022. Kelly came off the bench and scored the winning goal against Germany in the 110th minute of the final of the competition, moments later receiving a yellow card for taking her shirt off and swinging it around her head. On May 31 2023 the striker was named as part of the squad for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. Chloe signed a two-year deal with Manchester City, which was announced on July 3 2020. In September 2020, she was selected for the PFA WSL Team of the Year. She scored a brace for City against Tottenham Hotspur on October 4 2020, helping the team to a 4-1 win. Kelly made her full debut for the Arsenal first team in the Continental Cup against Watford on July 23 2015, aged just 17. Chloe signed her first senior contract for Arsenal in February 2016, making one appearance in the team’s 5-1 win over Sunderland, before being sent on a three-month loan to FA WSL 2 side Everton in June of the same year. She returned to Arsenal in October 2016, making three appearances as the team finished the season in third place and won the FA Women’s Cup. In February 2017, the forward signed a new contract with Arsenal, making seven appearances and scoring two goals. Kelly returned to newly-promoted Everton for a second loan spell in July 2017, scoring her first senior hat-trick in the WSL Cup on November 16. Chloe made a permanent transfer to Everton in January 2018, playing for the club until summer 2020. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/