eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly turns himself in at 1st District police headquarters in Chicago on Feb. 22, 2019. Scott Strazzante / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly performs at Arie Crown Theatre in Chicago on Oct. 25, 2012. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly appears at the Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago on June 6, 2019, where he pleaded not guilty to new charges. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Assistant State's Attorney Jennifer Gonzalez, center, responds to R. Kelly attorney Steve Greenberg, right, at Kelly's hearing at the Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago on May 7, 2019. Abel Uribe / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly arrives for his child support hearing at the Daley Center on March 6, 2019, in Chicago. Chuck Berman/Chicago Tribune R. Kelly supporters Millord Edmond, 13, left, and his uncle, Harlan Chambers, look into through the window of the Leighton Criminal Court Building, where singer R. Kelly pleaded not guilty to charges of child pornography in 2002. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly appears before Judge Lawrence Flood at a hearing at Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago on May 7, 2019. Abel Uribe / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly, center, arrives for his child support hearing at the Daley Center on March 6, 2019, in Chicago. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly, right, appears at a hearing before Judge Lawrence Flood at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on March 22, 2019. Jose M. Osorio/Chicago Tribune R. Kelly arrives to the Daley Center in Chicago for a child support hearing on March 13, 2019. Scott Strazzante/Chicago Tribune Derrick Mosley, founder and president of the Bringing About Reform organization, destroys R. Kelly compact discs in front of WGCI radio headquarters on South Michigan Avenue on Jan. 28, 2002. Mosley called others to come together for a day of repudiation to protest the embattled singer and the radio station for blatant disrespect toward the community. Abel Uribe / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly follows his lawyer out of his studio Feb. 22, 2019. Chuck Berman/Chicago Tribune Singer Robert Kelly enters court at 26th and California with a phalanx of sheriff's deputies in 2002. A fan tried to shake Kelly's hand, but deputies pushed him away. Michael Tercha/Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly leaves the Cook County Criminal Court Building after a hearing Aug. 21, 2007. Stephanie Keith/The New York Times Jennifer Bonjean, defense attorney for the singer R. Kelly, speaks outside the federal courthouse in Brooklyn on June 29, 2022, after R&B singer Kelly was sentenced to 30 years. Heather Stone / Chicago Tribune In this Dec. 21, 2007 file photo, R. Kelly arrives at the Cook County Criminal Courts building in Chicago to find out if the judge wants to revoke his bond or to deny permission to tour after missing a scheduled hearing. Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune Musician R. Kelly, blue jacket, leaves the Cook County Jail on Feb. 25, 2019, after posting a $1 million bond. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Cook County State's Attorney Kim Foxx describes what happened to alleged victims of R. Kelly after his bond hearing at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on Feb. 23, 2019, in Chicago. Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly leaves Cook County Jail after posting bond at Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago on Feb. 25, 2019. Abel Uribe / Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly addresses the media after walking out of Cook County Jail on March 9, 2019, after paying more than $160,000 in child support. Joe Burbank/Orlando Sentinel R. Kelly listens to Judge Karla Wright during his first appearance hearing on felony child pornography charges June 6, 2002, at the Polk County Courthouse in Bartow, Fla. The judge approved Kelly's release from custody on $750,000 bail. Nuccio DiNuzzo/Chicago Tribune R. Kelly, performing at the Pitchfork Festival, in Chicago, on July 21, 2013. Terrance Antonio James / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly turns himself in to Chicago police Feb. 22, 2019, on charges he sexually abused four victims, three of them underage, over a span of a dozen years. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly stands behind his attorney, Steven Greenberg, as Greenberg speaks to Judge Lawrence Flood at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on May 7, 2019. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune R Kelly is taken into custody by Chicago police at the 1st District police headquarters Feb. 22, 2019. Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly's attorney, Steven Greenberg, speaks the news media after Kelly pleaded not guilty at the Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago on Feb. 25, 2019. David Banks/for the Chicago Tribune R. Kelly performs at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont on June, 16, 2011. Terrence Antonio James / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly's former business manager Derrel McDavid, from left, and attorneys Beau Brindley and Vadim Glozman stand before the media at the Dirksen U.S. Courthouse in Chicago after verdicts were reached in Kelly's trial on Sept. 14, 2022. Miami-Dade Corrections The booking photo of R&B singer R. Kelly from the Miami-Dade County jail, released on Jan. 22, 2003. Kelly was arrested on child pornography charges after investigators said they found photographs of a nude girl at his Polk County, Fla., home. Kelly is already facing child pornography charges in Illinois. Chicago Police Department The booking photograph for Robert Kelly, known by his stage name R. Kelly, released by Chicago police early in the morning of Feb. 23, 2019. Lazarus Jean-Baptiste / CBS "CBS This Morning" co-host Gayle King remains calm during her interview with the emotional R. Kelly in Chicago on March 5, 2019. Scott Strazzante / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly performs at Arie Crown Theatre in Chicago on Oct. 25, 2012. Carl Wagner/Chicago Tribune R. Kelly is led from the Leighton Criminal Court Building by Chicago police officers to a waiting police car to be taken to the 10th District station on June 7, 2002. Barry Brecheisen/for the Chicago Tribune R&B singer R. Kelly departs after his court appearance on May 18, 2007, for child pornography charges at the Leighton Criminal Court Building. E. Jason Wambsgans/Chicago Tribune Steve Greenberg, attorney for R. Kelly, files a motion before Judge Lawrence Flood requesting law enforcement officials preserve all communications between prosecutors and attorney Michael Avenatti at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on April 1, 2019. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly stands behind his attorney, Steven Greenberg, as Greenberg speaks to Judge Lawrence Flood at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on May 7, 2019. Jose M. Osorio/Chicago Tribune City inspectors from the Department of Buildings arrive at the studio space for musician R. Kelly on Jan. 16, 2019. Mark Lennihan/AP R. Kelly performs "I Believe I Can Fly" with a choir behind him Feb. 25, 1998, during the 40th annual Grammy Awards at New York's Radio City Music Hall. Moments later, Kelly won Best Male R&B Vocal Performance for the same song. Ovie Carter/Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly appears in court on Sept. 20, 2002,  for a status hearing on child pornography charges. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly and his attorney, Steve Greenberg, left, appear at a hearing at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on March 22, 2019. Scott Strazzante/Chicago Tribune R. Kelly performs at the Allstate Arena in 2003. Erin Hooley/Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly walks into court at the Daley Center for a hearing on his child support case on March 13, 2019, in Chicago. Stephanie Keith/The New York Times Jennifer Bonjean, defense attorney for the singer R. Kelly, arrives for his sentencing hearing at the federal courthouse in Brooklyn on June 29, 2022. Antonio Perez/Chicago Tribune Latoya Williams, left, of Chicago, and other fans, come out to support R&B star R. Kelly as he arrives at the Cook County Criminal Courts Building for closing arguments in his child pornography trial on June 12, 2008 John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly's attorney, Steve Greenberg, waves to news media as he records them before a bond hearing for R. Kelly at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on Feb. 23, 2019, in Chicago. Antonio Perez / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly's attorney Steve Greenberg speaks to media following a hearing for his client R. Kelly at the Leighton Criminal Court building, Sept. 17, 2019. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Joycelyn Savage, center, and Azriel Clary, right, attend a bond hearing for R. Kelly at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on Feb. 23, 2019, in Chicago. Elizabeth Williams / AP In this courtroom sketch, Assistant District Attorney Nadia Shihata presents her rebuttal statement to the jury during R. Kelly's sex trafficking trial on Sept. 24, 2021, in federal court in New York. R. Kelly is seen in the upper left corner inset and is seated lower right. Antonio Perez / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly appears during a hearing at the Leighton Criminal Courthouse on Sept. 17, 2019. John Bartley/for the Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly performs at United Center on May 14, 1999. Antonio Perez / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly appears for a hearing at the Leighton Criminal Court building on Sept. 17, 2019 Nuccio DiNuzzo / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly performs at Pitchfork Festival in Chicago on July 21, 2013. Cheryl Cook / AP In this courtroom sketch, the front of the courtroom is blocked off as a sexually graphic video clip is played for the jury during R. Kelly's trial in federal court Aug. 19, 2022, in Chicago. Chuck Berman/Chicago Tribune Singer Robert Kelly, known as R Kelly, leaves court with a phalanx of sheriff's deputies on June 26, 2002. He pleaded not guilty to charges of child pornography. Abel Uribe / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly follows his lawyer out of his studio Feb. 22, 2019. Elizabeth Williams / AP In this courtroom sketch, Kitti Jones, right, speaks during R. Kelly's sentencing in federal court in New York on June 29, 2022. Kelly and his attorney Ashley Cohen are seated, background left. The former R&B superstar was convicted of racketeering and other crimes. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Demonstrators rally in response to the R. Kelly allegations, Jan. 9, 2019, outside his recording studio in the West Loop. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly, center, appears at a hearing before Judge Lawrence Flood at Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago on June 26, 2019. Cheryl A. Cook/for the Chicago Tribune A courtroom sketch of R&B star R. Kelly during his child pornography trial with attorneys Ed Genson (right,) and Sam Adam, Jr. (rear,) at the Cook County Criminal Courts Building, May 20, 2008. Tom Gianni sketch/AP In this courtroom sketch, R&B singer R. Kelly appears before Cook County Associate Judge Lawrence Flood with his attorney Steve Greenberg, Feb. 25, 2019, at the Leighton Criminal Courthouse in Chicago. Kelly's attorney entered not guilty pleas on the singer's behalf. Stephanie Keith/The New York Times Camera crews are set up outside the federal courthouse in Brooklyn on June 29, 2022, for singer R. Kelly's sentencing hearing. Jose M. Osorio/Chicago Tribune City inspectors from the Department of Buildings and Chicago Fire Department enter the from back door alley entrance to the studio space for musician R. Kelly on Jan. 16, 2019. Terrence Antonio James / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly's defense attorney Jennifer Bonjean speaks to the media at the Dirksen U.S. Courthouse in Chicago after verdicts were reached in Kelly's trial on Sept. 14, 2022. Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune Attorney Michael Avenatti is flanked by Jerhonda Pace and Angelo Clary after R&B superstar R. Kelly pleaded not guilty at Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago on Feb. 25, 2019. Pace was featured in the documentary "Surviving R. Kelly" and said she began a sexual relationship with R. Kelly when she was 16 years old. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune A man motions for photographers to get out of the way as Joycelyn Savage and Azriel Clary exit after a bond hearing for Savage's boyfriend, R. Kelly, at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on Feb. 23, 2019, in Chicago. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Cook County State's Attorney Kimberly Foxx announces charges against R&B superstar R. Kelly as Chicago police Superintendent Eddie Johnson looks on at her office in Chicago on Feb. 22, 2019. Kelly was indicted on 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse. Antonio Perez / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly turns to exit during a hearing at the Leighton Criminal Court building, Sept. 17, 2019. Brian Kersey/for the Chicago Tribune R. Kelly performs at the Chicago Theatre on April 26, 2006. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune The building that houses the R. Kelly recording studio on Jan. 10, 2019. Charles Bennett/AP R&B singer R. Kelly, center, is surrounded by deputies as he leaves court Nov. 1, 2002, in Chicago. A judge ruled that Kelly, who had been free on bond since he was indicted in June on child pornography charges, can leave the state to appear at a concert in New York later in the month. Spencer Platt/Getty Jacquelyn Kasulis, the acting U.S. attorney in Brooklyn in the case against R&B star R. Kelly, speaks with the media on Sept. 27, 2021, after a federal jury announced that it found Kelly guilty of racketeering and sex trafficking charges. Antonio Perez/Chicago Tribune Najee Ali with anti-R. Kelly signs, laughs at the jeers and put downs by two women shouting in defense of Kelly outside the Cook County Criminal Courts Building, May 9, 2008, in Chicago. Erin Hooley/Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly walks into court at the Daley Center for a hearing on his child support case on March 13, 2019, in Chicago. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Cook County State's Attorney Kim Foxx on called  any accusers with allegations of wrongdoing against singer R. Kelly to come forward, Jan. 8, 2019. Antonio Perez / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly, center, appears at the Daley Center in Chicago on May 8, 2019, for a hearing in his child support case. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune Demonstrators rally in response to the R. Kelly allegations, Jan. 9, 2019, outside his recording studio in the West Loop. Abel Uribe/Chicago Tribune R. Kelly, center, who was charged with child pornography, leaves the Leighton Criminal Court Building after appearing in front af a judge Feb. 7, 2003. Abel Uribe / Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly walks out of Cook County Jail, accompanied by his attorney, Steven Greenberg, right, on March 9, 2019, after paying more than $160,000 in child support. Antonio Perez / Chicago Tribune R. Kelly's former girlfriends Azriel Clary, left, and Joycelyn Savage, right, leave following Kelly's hearing at the Leighton Criminal Court building, Sept. 17, 2019. Michael Tercha/Chicago Tribune R&B star R. Kelly, 41, arrives at the Cook County Criminal Courts Building for his child pornography trial on May 20, 2008, in Chicago. The charges against Kelly stem from a 15-minute videotape that law-enforcement officials say he made with the alleged victim between Jan. 1, 1998, and Nov. 1, 2000. Cheryl Cook / Chicago Tribune A courtroom sketch shows defense attorneys Ashley Cohen, from left, and Jennifer Bonjean with singer R. Kelly at the Dirksen U.S. Courthouse in Chicago on Sept. 14, 2022. Cheryl Cook R. Kelly is seen in a courtroom sketch during his federal trial on Aug. 19, 2022, at the Dirksen U.S. Courthouse. Jose M. Osorio/Chicago Tribune Singer R. Kelly walks into court at the Daley Center for a hearing on his child support case on March 13, 2019, in Chicago. Kelly had been jailed earlier this month for failure to make about $160,000 in outstanding child support payments. Michael Wilson/The Ledger A Polk County sheriff's deputy escorts R&B singer R. Kelly into the East Central Command Center in Winter Haven, Fla., on June 5, 2002. Kelly was indicted earlier on 21 counts of child pornography. Chuck Berman / Chicago Tribune R&B star R. Kelly arrives at the Cook County Criminal Courts Building, Thursday, Dec. 20, 2007, in Chicago. Kelly was threatened with arrest after failing to appear in court Wednesday. (Chuck Berman/Chicago Tribune) John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Attorney Michael Avenatti addresses reporters after a bond hearing for R. Kelly at the Leighton Criminal Court Building on Feb. 23, 2019, in Chicago. Scott Strazzante/Chicago Tribune R&B star R. Kelly, 41, leaves the Cook County Criminal Court Building after his child pornography trial recessed for the day on May 28, 2008, in Chicago. The charges against Kelly stem from a 15-minute videotape that law enforcement officials say he made with the alleged victim between Jan. 1, 1998, and Nov. 1, 2000. Charles Cherney/Chicago Tribune R. Kelly, nominated for five Grammy Awards in 1997, records at Chicago Trax Studio on Jan. 22, 1998. John Minchillo / AP Attorney Gloria Allred, right, walks out of federal court alongside Lizzette Martinez, left, on June 29, 2022, in the Brooklyn borough of New York. R&B star R. Kelly was sentenced to 30 years in prison in a federal sex trafficking case in New York. Angela Weiss/Getty-AFP Attorney Gloria Allred, who represented several of Chicago-born R&B singer R. Kelly's victims, speaks before the sentencing hearing in New York on June 29, 2022. R. Kelly turns himself in at 1st District police headquarters in Chicago on Feb. 22, 2019. R. Kelly’s Cook County cases continue to move at a snail’s pace, despite a judge’s past urging to make progress now that the singer’s two federal trials have concluded.Kelly’s defense this week filed additional motions saying they could not proceed until prosecutors reveal more specific information about their allegations against Kelly. And prosecutors just turned over “significant” potential evidence to the defense last week, one motion alleges.The disgraced R&B superstar was supposed to attend county court Wednesday for an afternoon hearing, at which attorneys were slated to argue on the defense’s request to dismiss some of his charges.Instead, the hearing was quietly rescheduled for Wednesday morning, no arguments were made, and Kelly stayed in federal lockup. It has been almost a year since Kelly’s attorneys first filed the request that was supposed to be discussed this week.The hearing Wednesday lasted about one minute. Prosecutors said they had received the defense motions and wanted more time to respond. Kelly’s next court date was scheduled for the end of the month.When Associate Judge Lawrence Flood asked Kelly attorney Jennifer Bonjean whether she wanted the singer present, Bonjean said no, since “he does not want to be here.”The new court filings from Bonjean allege that prosecutors have not given the defense enough information about the charges related to “J.P” — known to be Jerhonda Pace — who accuses Kelly of having sexual contact with her when she was underage. Pace was a central witness in Kelly’s New York federal trial.It is unclear, the defense says, how many separate sexual encounters county prosecutors allege Kelly had with the teenage Pace, and they do not have enough information about the specific dates and locations of the alleged acts.

“Even if the Complainant cannot recall precise dates during the relevant time period, she should be able to identify a location of the occurrence or occurrences,” one motion states.The defense also asked Flood to make prosecutors reveal whether they intend to introduce “prior bad acts” evidence against Kelly, that is, accusations of past behavior that are not part of the formal charges.It has been about a year since another of Kelly’s attorneys, Steve Greenberg, filed a formal request to throw out the county case related to Pace. Greenberg said in court months ago that he intends to file a similar request on one of the other cases, presumably the indictment centering on some of the same video footage at issue in the Chicago federal case.Flood in recent months has repeatedly said from the bench he wants to see progress in those cases, but little has happened, with no apparent consequences for the attorneys involved.The four separate Cook County indictments allege Kelly sexually abused or assaulted four people, three of whom were underage girls at the time.All those cases have largely stagnated since federal prosecutors in two states filed double-whammy indictments against the singer in the summer of 2019. The county cases were quickly overshadowed, and Kelly has since been convicted of federal sex crime-related charges in both Chicago and New York.Kelly was convicted in Chicago federal court in September on charges including child pornography related to his years of sexual abuse of his underage goddaughter and other girls. He was acquitted, however, of the explosive allegations that he rigged his initial Cook County trial in the 2000s.His sentencing in Chicago federal court is scheduled for next month.Kelly has already been sentenced to 30 years after a jury in New York found him guilty of racketeering conspiracy charges alleging his musical career doubled as a criminal enterprise aimed at satisfying his predatory sexual desires.mcrepeau@chicagotribune.comjmeisner@chicagotribune.com Kelly’s defense this week filed additional motions saying they could not proceed until prosecutors reveal more specific information about their allegations against Kelly. And prosecutors just turned over “significant” potential evidence to the defense last week, one motion alleges. The disgraced R&B superstar was supposed to attend county court Wednesday for an afternoon hearing, at which attorneys were slated to argue on the defense’s request to dismiss some of his charges. Instead, the hearing was quietly rescheduled for Wednesday morning, no arguments were made, and Kelly stayed in federal lockup. It has been almost a year since Kelly’s attorneys first filed the request that was supposed to be discussed this week. The hearing Wednesday lasted about one minute. Prosecutors said they had received the defense motions and wanted more time to respond. Kelly’s next court date was scheduled for the end of the month. When Associate Judge Lawrence Flood asked Kelly attorney Jennifer Bonjean whether she wanted the singer present, Bonjean said no, since “he does not want to be here.” The new court filings from Bonjean allege that prosecutors have not given the defense enough information about the charges related to “J.P” — known to be Jerhonda Pace — who accuses Kelly of having sexual contact with her when she was underage. Pace was a central witness in Kelly’s New York federal trial. It is unclear, the defense says, how many separate sexual encounters county prosecutors allege Kelly had with the teenage Pace, and they do not have enough information about the specific dates and locations of the alleged acts. “Even if the Complainant cannot recall precise dates during the relevant time period, she should be able to identify a location of the occurrence or occurrences,” one motion states. The defense also asked Flood to make prosecutors reveal whether they intend to introduce “prior bad acts” evidence against Kelly, that is, accusations of past behavior that are not part of the formal charges. It has been about a year since another of Kelly’s attorneys, Steve Greenberg, filed a formal request to throw out the county case related to Pace. Greenberg said in court months ago that he intends to file a similar request on one of the other cases, presumably the indictment centering on some of the same video footage at issue in the Chicago federal case. Flood in recent months has repeatedly said from the bench he wants to see progress in those cases, but little has happened, with no apparent consequences for the attorneys involved. The four separate Cook County indictments allege Kelly sexually abused or assaulted four people, three of whom were underage girls at the time. All those cases have largely stagnated since federal prosecutors in two states filed double-whammy indictments against the singer in the summer of 2019. The county cases were quickly overshadowed, and Kelly has since been convicted of federal sex crime-related charges in both Chicago and New York. Kelly was convicted in Chicago federal court in September on charges including child pornography related to his years of sexual abuse of his underage goddaughter and other girls. He was acquitted, however, of the explosive allegations that he rigged his initial Cook County trial in the 2000s. His sentencing in Chicago federal court is scheduled for next month. Kelly has already been sentenced to 30 years after a jury in New York found him guilty of racketeering conspiracy charges alleging his musical career doubled as a criminal enterprise aimed at satisfying his predatory sexual desires. mcrepeau@chicagotribune.com jmeisner@chicagotribune.com Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune