Genius tips, tricks & beautiful things, straight to your inbox every day. © 2010-2021 Wow Media Products, Inc doing business as PureWow. All rights reserved. Summer may be at its end, but morning show host Kelly Ripa, 52, and her co-host/husband, Mark Consuelos, 52, are making it pretty hard to say goodbye with newly shared photos from their family beach vacay. Earlier this week, the pair shared a montage video on their Instagram profiles, which gives their followers an inside look into their summer getaway. While set to the tune of Beyoncé’s “Summer Renaissance,” the Ripa-Consuelos family (and Riverdale star Cole Sprouse) are having the best time together while on the beach.  In one video, Ripa and Consuelos are happily smiling into the camera in front of a beautiful sky backdrop. As a bonus, we’re also treated to a photo of Consuelos and his youngest son, Joaquin, standing on a dock with their heads wrapped in beach towels. Toward the end of the montage video, we get to see a spicy PDA snap, where Ripa and Consuelos are sharing a kiss in front of a sunset. Then, another photo shows the pair kissing on the beach. In the caption, Ripa wrote, “It’s so good … #SummerRenaissance [sun emoji]  Happy Labor Day!” Fans gushed over the Ripa-Consuelos family in the comments section. One person wrote, “Great pics Kelly. Thx for sharing your family with us.” Another chimed in and said, “So happy you guys enjoyed your summer! But so happy to have you guys back live.” And if that weren’t enough, Ripa shared another photo of her and her husband standing in front of the sunset and sharing a romantic moment (see below). In the photo, the Live Wire author is whispering something into her hubby’s ear. Ripa captioned the photo, “Endless summer [sunset emoji] @instasuelos,” and the photo was snapped by Sprouse himself. So long, summer. We will miss you. Want all the latest celebrity news sent right to your inbox? Subscribe here. Kelly Ripa Shares Steamy Thirst Trap of Husband Mark Consuelos on IG