The singer founded the commercial and voice-over talent agency that became CESD CESD Talent Agency/ Instagram, Paul Jordan Bill Cunningham, the original voice of Barbie's boyfriend Ken for Mattel during the early 1960s, has died. The singer-turned-talent agency founder was 96. Cunningham died on July 15 at his West Hollywood home, CESD Talent Agency told Deadline Thursday. No other details were provided. Cunningham was "among the great innovators and gentlemen of the talent representation business,” CESD partners Ken Slevin and Paul Doherty said in a statement to PEOPLE Thursday. “Bill set the template for client and customer service, particularly in commercial, voice-over and print. He was a warm, gregarious, classy man who made a positive impact on all those he represented and employed. It was our honor to know him and to learn from him.” Related: All About Ruth Handler&#39;s Daughter and Son, After Whom Barbie and Ken Were Named Born in San Francisco, Cunningham moved to Hollywood to pursue an entertainment career before he enlisted in the U.S. Navy. He performed with the Fort Emory Drum and Bugle Corp during his service, touring throughout the Pacific theater. After the war, Cunningham found success as a singer. He performed on NBC's Voices of Walter Schumann and The Tennessee Ernie Ford Show and sang on movie soundtracks for nearly every major Hollywood studio. During this period, he also voiced Ken in Mattel's early Barbie records, decades before Ryan Gosling played Barbie's boyfriend on the big screen. Cunningham also toured with Judy Garland and Dinah Shore. In 1963, Cunningham switched careers, investing his life savings into Pacifics Artists Agency upon encouragement from singer and TV star Peggy Taylor. The startup began with 10 voice-over actors, with Cunningham delivering headshots and bios for his clients to ad agencies in Los Angeles himself, notes Deadline. Mattel, Inc. Related: Meet the &#39;Barbie&#39; Cast: From Past Roles to Off-Screen Relationships The firm was renamed Cunningham & Associates in 1967, and Cunningham opened offices in New York and Chicago in 1971. T.J. Escott, Slevin, and Doherty joined the firm in the 1970s and 1980s. Slevin and Doherty became partners in 2005, and the firm was renamed Cunningham-Escott-Slevin-Doherty (CESD) Talent Agency. CESD bills itself as "one of the nation’s most prestigious commercial, voice-over, print, digital influencer, theatrical/TV-film and young performer talent agencies and a dominant force," according to the firm's website. Cunningham retired in 1989 and published an autobiography, I Wonder What Became of Me, in 2014. His survivors include nephews and nieces Kirk, Kevin, Kristen, Janet, Barbara, and Debbie. For more People news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on People. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.