From the Playboy mansion to Miami riots and miners' strikes, Ken Ross has written a book about his glamorous life Get the latest news from Darlington direct to your inbox with our free email newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Darlington direct to your inbox with our free email newsletter We have more newsletters A Teesside showbiz photographer went from the "backstreets of Boro" to jetting round the world, working with the biggest stars of the eighties. Ken Ross, from North Ormesby, snapped everyone from Elton to Bowie, Rod Stewart, Ringo Starr and George Michael.  He worked on Live Aid as well as Bond movie sets and broke stories worldwide after "getting bored" of his regular tabloid Page Three gigs and decided to move into showbusiness. From glittering Playboy Mansion parties to the miners' strikes, crawling "200 ft underground" on his stomach, Ken has seen it all.  He was even given Honorary Citizenship of Miami and the Golden Key to the city by its Mayor, for his work covering the Cuban refugee crisis and riots. Not bad for a "lad from Doggy" with no training and nothing but a "hand-me-down Kodak box brownie camera" to his name.  READ MORE:Roy 'Chubby' Brown's management speaks out about 'woke culture' as Cheltenham gig cancelled Now 74, he has written a book about his glamorous life. But it all might never have happened if he hadn't taken a "wrong" turn driving home one day, after getting a knock-back from The Sun.  Ken had moved to London and had started selling a "few news pics, small stuff" to get a foot in the door. He'd turned up at the newspaper's offices to flog some of his work.  "The assistant picture editor liked my pics," Ken said, "he told me to come back in an hour because the picture editor was away at lunch. I went back - and the editor didn't like them. Or didn't like me, we never could work out which.  "Being a Northern lad with a broad Middlesbrough accent, he might not have taken to me, who knows?" Deflated, Ken got in his car and "happened to go a different way home" through the busy London streets.  "I drove left rather than right. The traffic was thick and I came to a stop near The Mirror building. I said 'what have I got to lose' - so I walked in as if I owned the place. They bought two of my three sets of pictures. "I was on a high, so I went straight upstairs to the Sunday Mirror and they bought the other set. If I'd gone home the normal way, I would have been finished. The Sun had said 'no' and that was it. I was a boy from Doggy and I was working for the biggest papers in the country." From there, Ken started doing glamour photography for Page Three. "It had a bit of status then," he says, "at the time only the top London photographers did it. "I was the only freelance photographer to be commissioned continually. Angela [Ken's wife] and I opened our own studio. But after a while I wanted to travel. "While Page Three is any photographer's dream, I suppose it's like working in a chocolate factory - eventually I got bored. I wanted to move off it and do showbusiness." He met Rod Stewart at a private club in Berkeley Square. "Those were the days when you just took a chance," said Ken, "we got talking and I arranged to meet his manager next day at his office on Kings Road. "I was a bit presumptuous and told his manager I would go to photograph him in Paris. Two days later I was on a red eye to France to work with Rod. He likes photographers, as long as you are straight with him and give 100%, he's very fair. "We got on well." Six or seven months later, Ken got a phone call from Rod's manager asking if he could go to Hollywood to photograph him. "I went, and when I saw Rod and straightaway he shouted 'ey up bonny lad' because he knew I was northern. One day he said 'we're having a kickaround, a game of football with some mates. And you'll rarely hear me say it, but if I ask you 'please no pictures', you don't take a pic of my pals'. "His friends arrived - and it was the crew from Dallas. It was incredible." Once Ken went out to Miami for a job with entrepreneur Freddie Laker and ended up staying a month, working with the Mafia and covering the Cuban refugee crisis and riots all in the same trip.  "The Sun rang and said 'what are you doing in bed, the Cuban refugees are coming over'," Ken says. "I got down there quick, they were putting up fencing and I managed to get inside.  "Next morning, all the boats were coming across and I managed to get world front covers everywhere. When I got back, I slept for a day and there was another phone call. "The Sun again - 'what are you in bed for, Miami is burning'. The riots had started. I went in an armoured truck and people were throwing molotov cocktails at it. I'll always remember us driving out of there as fast as we could." In 1982 Ken married Angela, an internationally successful model and fellow Northerner from Washington. Her status mean the pair were an 'It Couple' before it couples were a thing. "Everybody loved her," Ken says, "she appeared on the Morecambe and Wise show, The Professionals, the front cover of American Vogue and she was the face of Gossard [underwear brand]. "All the press were at our wedding. Next morning on our honeymoon, they were handing newspapers out at the hotel - we were in the nationals. We were before our time." The couple lives in Eastbourne now. "I was just a boy from Doggy," he says, "I never had any training or even looked at a manual on photography. "Mine was a working family, my dad was a decorated Naval Frogman during the war and later works at the steel works. And my mum, as they say, was a professional northern mother.  "I always say you need a bit of luck, to be in the right place at the right time, but you need to be able to use that. We [Angela and I] were two people who had a dream and we worked at it." * Ken's book 'Showbusiness Photographer The Autobiography - Ken Ross' is available on Amazon and Waterstone's online.  READ NEXT:  Dog dies after plunging into frozen Hemlington Lake as firefighters spot kids walking on ice 'Urinating and defecating' beggars to be targeted as Redcar attempts to clean-up its streets More 20mph zones and £12m park and ride scheme mooted as council maps out transport plan up to 2030 For breaking news in your area direct to your inbox every day, go here to sign up to our free newsletter 