Jimmy Featherstone also says Hollywood heartthrob Ryan Gosling isn't good-looking enough for Ken Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters A real-life Ken doll who has spent £10,000 a year looking like the plastic fantastic model thinks his character in the new ‘Barbie’ film isn't realistic - as he's not gay. Jimmy Featherstone, 23, felt it would be “great” if the role played by Ryan Gosling was attracted to men - saying it would “suit" the persona of the figurine better. And he also believes the leading man - considered a Hollywood heartthrob - wasn’t good-looking enough for Ken, suggesting Harry Styles as a replacement. Jimmy started surgery five years ago to become the real-life fictional character, fit with chiselled facial features and clothes matching Barbie’s famous counterpart. And he’s still “100 per cent all in” with his desired appearance, saying he’s recently had a butterfly lip procedure, a fox bow lift and work on his jaw. But Jimmy thinks Ken’s character in the upcoming film - who is considered among some as a gay icon - should have a sexuality that reflects the doll's identity. He said: “I do think Ken being gay would suit the character more. I think gay men like to take pride in themselves. He’s a good-looking guy, and I think that’s what Ken is all about. So I think that would be great. If the character was gay, it shows people are equal, times have changed. At the end of the day, we are all human, and it doesn’t matter what you are. “With everything going on in the world, with gay rights and LGBT and all that, I think that would get a lot more interest in the movie as well – so why not?" ‘Barbie’, directed by Greta Gerwig, will hit British cinema screens on July 21 this year and has a string of A-list stars – including Helen Mirren, John Cena and Will Ferrell. The film follows the doll after she’s expelled from ‘Barbieland’ for looking less-than-perfect before she sets off for the human world to find "true happiness". Its first full-length trailer was released this week, sending fans of the Mattel toy into a head spin with its playful, bright fluorescent colours. And during the clip, Ken tells Barbie: "I thought I might stay over tonight...because we're girlfriend, boyfriend," giving the impression that he is heterosexual. But Jimmy, from Hull, East Yorkshire, feels aside from the character's presumed sexuality, Ken was not the right part for Ryan Gosling due to his age and appearance. He said: “I think they could have chosen someone a bit better looking on the eyes. I don’t think he’s very attractive. He doesn't look anything like Ken. "I think it would be better if they chose me rather than Ryan. They could have chosen someone like Harry Styles - a young icon - or Joey Essex, for example, he’d be a good one, or maybe Rylan, I like him. “They should have also chosen Gemma Collins to play one of the characters, that would have been fun. But I can see why they’ve gone for a US cast because that’s where Barbie and Ken originally came from - it’s an American company. He added: “In the trailer, there seem to be a few Kens about. I think they’re trying to make it equal for everyone, showing there’s no such thing as ‘the one’ Ken. I think that’s important because they’re trying to target everyone and make it look equal.” Despite his reservations about the film's cast, Jimmy said he would still love to be invited to the London premiere when the film comes out this summer. He added: “It would be good – I wouldn’t turn down the offer!” Jimmy, who previously spent £10,000 a year on different facial procedures, says he’s now happy with the way he looks and cut back on his annual beauty spend. But he still has regular treatments and is happy to be recognised as a real-life Ken doll on the street - confirming he remains "all in" with his plastic fantastic look. He said: “I’m still 100 per cent all in. I’ll get anything done. If there’s anything that comes out new, I’m willing to try it in that kind of industry, with plastics. Recently I’ve had the butterfly lips done and a fox brow lip, where my eyebrows have been cut open and lifted, and then my jaw done - they were the latest ones. I also had my cheeks redone." Singleton Jimmy says he's still looking out for Mr right after opening up about his love life. He added: “My options are open. I’ve had a different outlook on life. Now I’m finding myself and doing what’s best for me. If a relationship comes my way, we’ll see.” 