Last week's Notre Dame-Duke game showed why college football is so special. Leading 14-13 with seconds to go, the Blue Demons needed to just stop the Irish on fourth-and-16 from Duke’s 47 yard line for their biggest victory in decades. Instead, the Blue Devils remembered that basketball’s Midnight Madness was set to start in just a few hours and allowed Irish quarterback Sam Hartman to run for a first down. Then Notre Dame’s Audric Estime ran 30 yards for a touchdown and it was over, 21-14. That’s why Notre Dame is forever a football school and Duke a basketball one. Good night Dukies. The Irish are legit. Meanwhile, I was watching a proud, loyal and sellout crowd in Nebraska see their Huskers get destroyed by No. 2 Michigan, 45-7. The game, if you want to call it that, was over by halftime and more than half the crowd left in silence, opting not to sit in the 93 degree sun-drenching heat. Even Michigan fans were disappointed. What is it with USC? Colorado‘s defense couldn’t tackle a runaway turtle let alone quarterback Caleb Williams and his playmakers. Leading by 27 points, the Trojans played soft, before prevailing, 48-41. As I’ve said all along, talk to me about Coach Prime after September. While correct on Colorado (now 3-2) and critical of how he purged the roster by “persuading” scholarship athletes to transfer voluntarily, I’m no Deion Sanders “hater." In one month he’s become the ambassador for college football. Always remember what you get when you hire Sanders — his name, brand, moxie, commitment and tremendous football acumen. Whether you like it or hate it, learn to love it. As his employer, you are perceived as connected at the hip for all that he promotes or anything he criticizes. Sanders has made millions for Colorado and brought it immeasurable exposure. But the school has deferred its own image or reputation to his entertainment value and persona. Colorado and Sanders are now synonymous with each other. That’s just a fact. On a different level, Sanders is the equivalent of legendary wrestler Ric Flair, who had some prolific quotes himself: “To be the man, you’ve got to beat the man" and “I’m styling and profiling as only I can do.” Does that sound like Sanders? Just enjoy it while you can because he‘s the originator and there will never be a duplicator. Oops! Sorry, he just gets me going. News break! The SEC has a dearth of quarterbacks while the PAC 12 is loaded. Without a quality quarterback, you’re playing from behind (see Alabama, Tennessee, Florida, etc.). LSU coach Brian Kelly left Notre Dame last year for a 10-year, $95-million contract. Although he won the SEC West last year, finishing 10-4, many LSU supporters see him as an “outsider.” He developed a Southern accent at his introduction, but many still haven’t warmed up to him. After losing at Mississippi, the Tigers are 3-2 despite being predicted to be a national contender, Kelly is feeling the criticism and it will only get louder if LSU loses. Utah may have a top coach in Kyle Whittingham, but without quarterback Cameron Rising, who was a late scratch against Oregon State last week (losing 21-7) and may not play the entire year, the Utes are done. There’s a team in Florida nobody is talking about — the Miami Hurricanes. The only worthwhile game left in the ACC is FSU-Miami on Nov. 11. (Sorry North Carolina). ∎So the NCAA reduced the time period to transfer from 60 days to 45 during the winter and spring periods. That should have no impact whatsoever. Maybe do something bold and have transfers sit the first four games the following year. ∎This week the NCAA reversed itself when it declared North Carolina receiver Tez Walker eligible immediately after deciding he was not eligible this year as a third-time transfer. The first decision drew loud criticism from respected Carolina coach Mack Brown and others. Why the change? The NCAA cited “newly presented evidence.” Yeah, I’m sure it was significant. It said here months ago the new transfer rules, ambiguous from the start, would create problems. What the NCAA did was avoid another lawsuit. ∎So Northwestern’s ex-coach Pat Fitzgerald, fired for cause months ago, has sued the school for $130 million, alleging wrongful termination. Why wait? Just pay the man now for his silence just like Michigan State should do for ex-coach Mel Tucker. Stop the charades and get these settlements over with. No. 12 Oklahoma (5-0)+6.5 vs. No. 3 Texas (5-0): I don’t know what they call this game now. Red River Rivalry. Shootout? It really doesn’t matter. Huge national implications. I’m traveling to the historic Cotton Bowl in Dallas to see it. You know about Texas quarterback Quinn Ewers, who’s been electric this year. The Sooners got annihilated last year, 49-0, but starting quarterback Dillon Gabriel was injured and did not play. The Longhorns already defeated Alabama (34-24) and a victory here puts them in great position to qualify for their first CFP. It comes down to Oklahoma’s pass rush. Pressure Ewers or lose big. Turnovers decide this game. Take the points. No. 20 Kentucky (5-0) at No. 1 Georgia (5-0) -14: OK, the Wildcats are undefeated. Again. Like last year, a victory catapults them to the national stage. Fuhgeddaboudit! The Bulldogs have too much talent. The Wildcats are exposed and turn the page to their yearly quest for an NCAA basketball championship. No 10 Notre Dame (5-1) at No. 25 Louisville (5-0): Third straight undefeated team for the Irish. Louisville’s new coach Jeff Brohm who arrived from Purdue, is rolling. Unfortunately, the Cardinals have played a bunch of nobodies. Irish quarterback Hartman was average last week against Duke and will play better. The Irish may have the best defense in the country. The floodgates are open here and the Irish roll. No. 23 LSU -3 at No. 21 Missouri (5-0): LSU just has too much talent but must be disciplined defensively. Coach Kelly stays off the hot seat for another week. Geaux Tigers! My record: 2-2 in top-25 games last week against the spread, 10-4 overall. followtheschreib61@gmail.com This article originally appeared on The Providence Journal: Notre Dame football is for real after last-minute victory at Duke Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Jake Fischer is joined by J.E. Skeets to go through the NBA news of the day and preview the 6 teams that pose the biggest challenge to Team USA at the Paris Olympics. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season.