Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Kaylyn McKenna
 
    Edited By
                        
              Fox Van Allen
 
Updated on:  October 13, 2023 / 10:41 AM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Smartwatches provide an easy way to keep tabs on your heart rate, get alerts on unusual cardiac activity, and even take electrocardiograms (ECGs). While you may be familiar with the fitness tracking features available on popular smartwatch models, you may not realize that these wearables include even more advanced health monitoring tools, including ways to notify emergency services during a major health event.   If your doctor has advised you to monitor your heart health or you're aiming for increased activity and health insights, it could be a great idea to invest in a new smartwatch. All smartwatches are not the same. We've found customer-loved smartwatches from Apple, Samsung, Garmin, Fitbit and more that offer the best heart health monitoring features.   Keeping a close eye on your heart rate is useful for a number of reasons. It can help you track how hard you're working out, help you manage chronic conditions and possibly even let you know when something is wrong.   If you're shopping for a smartwatch for heart health monitoring, it can be hard to know where to start. There are a ton of new features that can sound a bit complicated if you're new to heart monitoring.  To help, we've compiled this guide to help you understand what to look for and which smartwatch will be right for you.          These smartwatches have the features you need to monitor your heart rate, take ECGs and more.            The new Apple Watch Series 9 offers the versatility and functionality most people want from their smartwatch. It runs the WatchOS 10 operating system which comes preinstalled on the watch, along with a collection of apps.  One of the biggest improvements to Apple Watch Series 9 is the introduction of the Apple S9 SiP chip. It improves the speed, battery life and functionality of the watch. For example, it now supports a double-tap gesture that makes it easier to control the watch with just one hand. The new chip also improves how the watch gathers and analyzes data from the accelerometer, gyroscope and optical heart sensor.  There are two case size options -– 41mm and 45mm –- and multiple casing color options including starlight, midnight, silver and (Product)RED. You can also choose between several different case material options (all of which are waterproof). Why we like the Apple Watch 9:  The newest Apple Watch is available directly from Apple (starting at $399) and at retailers such as Amazon and Walmart. You'll get the best price buying from Amazon or Walmart. The Apple Watch Series 8 is a durable smartwatch that is swim-proof, dust-proof and crack-resistant with advanced heart monitoring features. It has a number of health-tracking features, including an optical heart sensor, an electrical heart sensor for ECG, a blood oxygen sensor and a new body temperature sensor.   The watch offers continuous heart rate tracking and can provide notifications when your heart rate goes above and below a set range. Users can also take an ECG reading by placing their finger on the Apple Watch crown and using the ECG app to check for irregular sinus rhythm. These readings are then saved in the Apple Health app.   The Apple Watch is equipped with an Emergency SOS feature. When enabled, the feature can detect falls and call and send your location to local emergency services. It can also be deployed by holding the side button. It also comes with a new crash detection feature, which detects where the wearer is in a severe car crash and alerts emergency services.  You can tap into yoga, meditation and other workout programs via Apple Fitness+. (Apple Fitness+ is a subscription service. It costs $9.99 a month; Apple Watch buyers get the first month free.)   Why we like the Apple Watch 8:  The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 offers ECG functionality when paired with a compatible Samsung Galaxy smartphone. You can take the ECG on your watch and then open the ECG report on your smartphone to dive into your data.       The Galaxy Watch 6 features an advanced bioactive sensor that collects more accurate data compared to prior generations. This data can be managed and tracked in the Samsung Health app. It also offers an advanced workout algorithm, heart rate monitoring and sleep-tracking technology.  The always-on heart monitoring features continually scan your heart rate and alerts you with a notification when it's detected an irregular rhythm that could be atrial fibrillation.   The Galaxy Watch 6 is available in 40mm and 44mm display sizes.   Why we like the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6:  The new Google Pixel Watch 2 offers some significant upgrades from the previous model. First off, it's constructed from tougher glass and boasts a lighter frame made from recycled aluminum. It also offers a broader array of health and fitness tools this time around, including enhanced sensors that better monitor heart rate and blood oxygen levels. You can get high and low heart rate alerts, plus ECG tracking. The watch also now has cEDA (Continuous ElectroDermal Activity) and skin temperature sensors to round out its suite of wellness features. These tools, previously found in Fitbit watches like the Sense 2, are used to measure stress. If a noticeable shift is detected, the watch will prompts you to record your emotions or suggest guided breathing sessions. Of course, it's good for tracking exercise, too. The Pixel Watch 2 offers automatic exercise detection and heart zone coaching to make reaching fitness goals even easier. The watch comes in only one configuration in terms of size: the 41mm case, and a one-size-fits-all wrist strap meant to adjust to any wearer. It does, however, come in multiple colors: black, silver, and gold. You can also choose from Wi-Fi or LTE models.  The Garmin Vivoactive 4S uses Garmin's Pulse Ox technology to track your energy levels, respiration, menstrual cycle, stress, sleep, heart rate, hydration levels and more. It can stream downloaded music from Spotify and Amazon Music. When paired with your smartphone, the watch can receive notifications.                This is a great option for people who want to track just the basics. The smartwatch offers a wrist-based heart rate monitor and is also compatible with chest heart rate monitors (sold separately). You can view heart rate data on the heart rate widget.  This Garmin smartwatch features more than 20 preloaded GPS and indoor sports apps. Want a personal trainer on your wrist? This watch can show you animated workouts via your watch screen.  "It's the fitness [features] where Garmin really shines, and it tracks damn near every bodily function you have. Steps is just the beginning. Lots of pre-programmed workouts along with heart rate and Pulse Ox monitoring. Garmin just buries the competition in the fitness arena." wrote one verified buyer on Amazon.  Available in a variety of colors.   Why we like the Garmin Vivoactive 4S:  The latest in the Charge line from Fitbit, this well-equipped activity and health tracker packs advanced technology into a slender device and features a color touchscreen. The smartphone-enabled smartwatch can help you manage stress and stay on top of heart health and sleep.  When this Fitbit device detects your heart rate above or below your personal heart rate threshold, you can receive a notification on your compatible device. Tap Open, and then tap the notification in the Fitbit app to learn more about your data and complete a survey where you log any potential factors, medications and symptoms. You can use the information you log in the survey to then track your heart health trends and share it with your healthcare provider.  "The Fitbit was a method of keeping myself accountable for my actions, movements, and goals. Did I walk today? How am I sleeping? Am I moving enough to raise my heart levels? How is my stress? Was I active this week?" shared one Amazon reviewer. The Fitbit Charge 5 does a great job of answering these questions while also telling the time."  The Fitbit Charge 5 boasts a 7-day battery life on a single charge.                Why we like the Fitbit Charge 5:  Here are some features to look for when evaluating smartwatch options for heart monitoring. These features can be useful for athletes, those with chronic health conditions or anyone that wants to track their heart metrics. None of these features or readings is a substitute for medical care or formal cardiological tests.          The most basic function to look for is heart rate monitoring. Almost all smartwatches and activity tracker include heart rate monitoring, but some include more advanced monitoring options like heart rate variability monitoring, stress tracking or heart rate alerts. Heart rate alerts can be adjusted based on your own normal resting and active heart rate (what is normal varies from person to person), to provide an alert if your heart is beating outside of it's normal range for a sustained period of time.       When combined with activity tracking, heart rate reading can help you assess how hard you are working during a workout and how many calories you are burning. This is one of the more popular uses of smartwatch heart monitoring.      Many people aren't aware that smartwatches can take ECGs, but the Apple Watch has had ECG functionality for several generations and both Samsung and Google have started offering the feature as well. ECG stands for electrocardiogram (also called an EKG). It is a test that measures the frequency and strength of the electrical signals generated by your heart while it is beating and contracting. The purpose of this test is to check for abnormal cardiac activity such as atrial fibrillation (a type of irregular heart rhythm that occurs when the upper chambers of the heart are out of sync with the lower chambers).   This is a helpful monitoring tool for those with a history of or who are at risk for irregular sinus rhythm. However, it's worth noting that smartwatches does not check for heart attacks, so you should still always go to the ER if you experience unusual chest pain, as there are many cardiac events that will not be detected by any smartwatch. Those that get a reading of atrial fibrillation should also seek appropriate medical care, as the watch is meant as a helpful monitoring tool and not a diagnostic test or replacement for traditional hospital ECGs/EKGs.  Fall detection turns your smartwatch into a trendy, more high-tech Life Alert device. If the watch detects a fall it will give you the option to call 911 or a designated emergency contact or report that you are alright. If you don't clear the notification within a set period of time it will then automatically send an alert to emergency services or your emergency contact.    Fall detection isn't technically a heart health feature. However, if you or the person that you are shopping for need a heart monitoring smartwatch due to a cardiological condition that can lead to falls or fainting, it may help  You'll want a smartwatch that can either pair with your phone or provides a compatible mobile app to view data. This allows you to view reports on your heart rate, exercise activity, ECG readings, blood oxygen, stress levels and other recorded metrics. If you have an iPhone, you may prefer an Apple Watch 8 or for easy pairing. Similarly, Samsung Galaxy smartphone users may get more out of a Samsung Galaxy Watch 6.     Kaylyn McKenna is an expert on deals, travel, luggage, home and more for CBS Essentials. When she's not scouring the internet for the best deals on new luggage or robot vacuums, she spends time with her goldendoodle, Harley, 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Hillary Clinton spoke at the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
         
          President Biden and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are addressing the convention on its first night.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Hillary Clinton brought delegates to their feet highlighting "we are writing a new chapter in American history."
         
          Hillary Clinton spoke at the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
         
          President Biden and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are addressing the convention on its first night.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          First daughter Ashley Biden spoke lovingly about her father, President Biden, as she delivered remarks on the opening night of the Democratic National Convention. See her full address.
         
          First lady Jill Biden delivered heartfelt remarks about her husband, President Biden, while addressing the Democratic National Convention on Monday. See the first lady's full speech.
         
          Georgia Sen. Raphael Warnock called Donald Trump a plague on the American conscious while speaking about Jan. 6 on the opening night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention. See Warnock's full address.
         
          Kentucky abortion access advocate Hadley Duvall and Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear offered scathing criticisms of Donald Trump and the Republican Party on the issue of abortion rights while addressing the Democratic National Convention Monday night. See Duvall and Beshear's full remarks.
         
          Texas Rep. Jasmine Crockett briefly choked up while giving an emotional address at the Democratic National Convention as she recounted meeting Vice President Kamala Harris for the first time. Crockett also compared the backgrounds of Harris and former President Donald Trump.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.