The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Lauren Silva or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Lauren Silva,
                                                    Bindiya Gandhi, M.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Ashwagandha is a nontoxic herb gaining attention in the U.S. for its ability to modulate stress and anxiety. The herb is an important part of centuries-old Ayurveda, the traditional system of medicine in India, and is used to treat a range of conditions, such as rheumatism and insomnia[1]Singh N, Bhalla M, de Jager P, Gilca M. An overview on ashwagandha: a Rasayana (rejuvenator) of Ayurveda. Afr J Tradit Complement Altern Med. 2011;8(5 Suppl):208-213. . “[Its] physiologic effects… are interrelated,” says Andrea Fossati, M.D., an integrative healthcare specialist in Vermont. “For example, less stress equals lower cortisol levels, which equals better blood sugar control.” Still, many clinical trials have tested the herbal substance on a relatively small number of participants. Further and more expansive studies are needed to establish ashwagandha’s claimed benefits, especially over the long term. Ashwagandha is part of a class of plants called adaptogens known for their health benefits when ingested as teas, powders, tinctures and supplements, or in their raw forms. Also known as Indian ginseng, winter cherry or by its scientific name Withania somnifera, ashwagandha is a herbal shrub whose roots and berries are used for their medicinal properties. Research on ashwagandha continues to evolve as scientists around the world study its efficacy against a variety of ailments. Here are a few science-backed benefits of ashwagandha. Ashwagandha is perhaps best known for its stress-relieving properties. Several studies highlight this advantage, observing ashwagandha’s ability to decrease participants’ stress and anxiety levels significantly[2]Pratte MA, Nanavati KB, Young V, Morley CP. An alternative treatment for anxiety: a systematic review of human trial results reported for the Ayurvedic herb ashwagandha (Withania somnifera). J Altern Complement Med. 2014;20(12):901-908. [3]Lopresti AL, Smith SJ, Malvi H, Kodgule R. An investigation into the stress-relieving and pharmacological actions of an ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) extract: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Medicine (Baltimore). 2019;98(37):e17186. . One particular study indicated that ashwagandha can benefit sleep quality as well—researchers confirmed participants slept much better with doses of the herb compared to placebo doses[4]Salve J, Pate S, Debnath K, et al. Adaptogenic and Anxiolytic Effects of Ashwagandha Root Extract in Healthy Adults: A Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo-controlled Clinical Study. Cureus. 2019;11(12): e6466. . A couple of small clinical studies found ashwagandha to be helpful in reducing blood glucose levels and triglycerides (the most common type of fat in the blood)[5]Agnihotri AP, Sontakke SD, Thawani VR, Saoji A, Goswami VS. Effects of Withania somnifera in patients of schizophrenia: a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled pilot trial study. Indian J Pharmacol. 2013;45(4):417-418. . One study likened ashwagandha’s blood sugar-lowering effects to those of medications prescribed for type 2 diabetes[6]Andallu B, Radhika B. Hypoglycemic, diuretic and hypocholesterolemic effect of winter cherry (Withania somnifera, Dunal) root. Indian J Exp Biol. 2000;38(6):607-609. . Researchers continue to study ashwagandha’s efficacy in improving strength and muscle size. One study found participants experienced increased speed and strength[7]Sandhu JS, Shah B, Shenoy S, Chauhan S, Lavekar GS, Padhi MM. Effects of Withania somnifera (Ashwagandha) and Terminalia arjuna (Arjuna) on physical performance and cardiorespiratory endurance in healthy young adults. Int J Ayurveda Res. 2010;1(3):144-149. . Another study observed an increase in muscle power, alongside a lower body fat percentage and reduced cholesterol levels when ashwagandha was consumed[8]Raut AA, Rege NN, Tadvi FM, et al. Exploratory study to evaluate tolerability, safety, and activity of Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) in healthy volunteers. J Ayurveda Integr Med. 2012;3(3):111-114. . Some participants also experienced better sleep, but this study did not compare ashwagandha consumption against a placebo. Ashwagandha treatments produced positive results in another study conducted solely with male participants[9]Wankhede S, Langade D, Joshi K, Sinha SR, Bhattacharyya S. Examining the effect of Withania somnifera supplementation on muscle strength and recovery: a randomized controlled trial. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2015;12:43. . Compared to the placebo group, men who received ashwagandha saw significant gains in muscle strength (measured using bench press and leg extension exercises) and muscle size in their arms and chests, as well as a significant reduction in body fat percentage and post-workout muscle damage. At least one clinical study indicates ashwagandha can benefit women experiencing sexual dysfunction[10]Dongre S, Langade D, Bhattacharyya S. Efficacy and Safety of Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) Root Extract in Improving Sexual Function in Women: A Pilot Study. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:284154. . The administration of ashwagandha resulted in significant improvements in arousal, lubrication, orgasm and satisfaction, as self-reported by the participants. It also significantly improved the number of successful sexual encounters and improved metrics of distress around their sex lives and sexuality. Ashwagandha may also provide reproductive benefits for men. Administering ashwagandha to infertile men has shown to improve sperm quality significantly by rebalancing reproductive hormone levels[11]Gupta A, Mahdi AA, Shukla KK, et al. Efficacy of Withania somnifera on seminal plasma metabolites of infertile males: a proton NMR study at 800 MHz. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013;149(1):208-214. . After one study, 14% of the male patients’ partners became pregnant[12]Mahdi AA, Shukla KK, Ahmad MK, et al. Withania somnifera Improves Semen Quality in Stress-Related Male Fertility [published online ahead of print, 2009 Sep 29]. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2009;2011:576962. . Separately, in a stress-related ashwagandha study, researchers found the herb increased testosterone levels in male but not female participants[13]Lopresti AL, Smith SJ, Malvi H, Kodgule R. An investigation into the stress-relieving and pharmacological actions of an ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) extract: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Medicine (Baltimore). 2019;98(37):e17186. . Another study testing ashwagandha’s effect on muscle strength in men also measured a significant increase in testosterone[14]Wankhede S, Langade D, Joshi K, Sinha SR, Bhattacharyya S. Examining the effect of Withania somnifera supplementation on muscle strength and recovery: a randomized controlled trial. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2015;12:43. . Ashwagandha may help improve cognition, memory and the ability to perform motor responses after instruction. Small studies have found that, compared to a placebo, ashwagandha significantly improved participants’ reaction times during cognition and psychomotor tests (which measure the ability to respond to instructions and perform an indicated action)[15]Pingali U, Pilli R, Fatima N. Effect of standardized aqueous extract of Withania somnifera on tests of cognitive and psychomotor performance in healthy human participants. Pharmacognosy Res. 2014;6(1):12-18. . One study even found that ashwagandha significantly improved participants’ attention spans, as well as their immediate and general memory across a variety of tests[16]Choudhary D, Bhattacharyya S, Bose S. Efficacy and Safety of Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera (L.) Dunal) Root Extract in Improving Memory and Cognitive Functions. J Diet Suppl. 2017;14(6):599-612. . At least two studies have shown that ashwagandha can increase VO2 max levels, which is the maximum amount of oxygen you take in while physically exerting yourself[17]Choudhary B, Shetty A, Langade DG. Efficacy of Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera [L.] Dunal) in improving cardiorespiratory endurance in healthy athletic adults. Ayu. 2015;36(1):63-68. [18]Sandhu JS, Shah B, Shenoy S, Chauhan S, Lavekar GS, Padhi MM. Effects of Withania somnifera (Ashwagandha) and Terminalia arjuna (Arjuna) on physical performance and cardiorespiratory endurance in healthy young adults. Int J Ayurveda Res. 2010;1(3):144-149. . These levels are used in measuring cardiorespiratory endurance—how well the heart and lungs deliver oxygen to muscles during physical activity. Thus, higher VO2 max levels can indicate a healthy heart that performs well under those circumstances. With that said, this one study’s results may not apply universally since it was conducted with healthy, athletic adults exclusively as opposed to a more diverse group of participants. Ashwagandha is a safe and nontoxic plant, but there are a few factors to consider before adding it to your diet. Do you take other medications? It’s a good idea to let your doctor(s) know if you want to add something new to your health routine, including ashwagandha. If you’re already taking other medications, ashwagandha may enhance or weaken their effects. Are there other conditions to consider? Ashwagandha may be unsafe if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, immunocompromised, soon undergoing surgery or have a thyroid condition. It’s also worth noting that some people who are allergic to nightshades or have certain grass allergies don’t tolerate ashwagandha well. If any of these situations apply to you, talk to your doctor or an integrative health specialist to determine whether it’s safe for you to take ashwagandha. What dosage should I take? Experts say that bodies may not absorb all of a 300-milligram dose of ashwagandha, for example. Larger doses may even trigger unwanted side effects, such as vomiting and diarrhea. Instead, take smaller doses more frequently to benefit most from its balancing effects. Where did this ashwagandha come from? Always check the source of your herbs, especially if you’re buying supplement capsules. Start by asking staff members at natural foods or supplements stores for recommendations. If they say any brand will work, do your own research on each company’s certifications, testing practices and product standards. You especially want to check for the presence of any heavy metals, including arsenic, cadmium, lead and mercury, in their products[19]Harris ES, Cao S, Littlefield BA, et al. Heavy metal and pesticide content in commonly prescribed individual raw Chinese Herbal Medicines. Sci Total Environ. 2011;409(20):4297-4305. . Exposure to these metals can result in damage to the liver, kidneys, central nervous system, immune system and reproductive system[20]Ćwieląg-Drabek M, Piekut A, Szymala I, et al. Health risks from consumption of medicinal plant dietary supplements. Food Sci Nutr. 2020;8(7):3535-3544. . Buy Now: Available on Amazon. Ashwagandha roots and berries can be consumed for their medical properties, but typically, you find ashwagandha in supplement capsules or in tablet, gummy, powder, tincture and tea form. Emily Clairmont, a registered dietitian at the University of Vermont Medical Center in Burlington, Vermont,  recommends starting with an ashwagandha tea as a way to introduce the herb into your diet gently and contribute to your hydration as well—a crucial factor to overall health. If you want to get more creative, add the raw form of ashwagandha or an ashwagandha powder directly to your food. For example, you can mix the powder into nut butters, granola, smoothies or overnight oats. Just don’t expose it to high heat, Clairmont says, which would cancel out the herb’s therapeutic benefits and possibly even render it carcinogenic. Instead, keep it over medium heat or toss it into your food toward the end of your food preparation. Ashwagandha may be effective in reducing stress, improving brain function and reducing inflammation, among other benefits, according to available research. Before consuming ashwagandha, make sure to research the manufacturer’s certifications, testing practices and product standards. Ashwagandha is commonly used for its potential ability to reduce stress and anxiety and improve sleep quality. Additionally, research suggests that ashwagandha may support memory and cognitive function, lower blood sugar, build muscle and increase strength, support cardiovascular and immune health and improve reproductive health. Side effects of ashwagandha may include constipation, nasal congestion, cough, drowsiness and loss of appetite. These symptoms can vary based on the individual. If you are considering adding ashwagandha to your wellness regimen, speak with your health care provider first about your unique health needs and whether ashwagandha is right for you. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Lauren Silva, a freelance writer in New York City, believes in feeling good in your body and making that experience accessible to everyone across generations. The proof is in her ever-piling browser tabs and newsletters, which help her stay on top of the latest wellness trends. When she’s not researching sustainable alternatives to her everyday products, Lauren is likely attempting to make a dent in her “TBR” book pile.
			 
				Dr. Bindiya Gandhi is a double board-certified integrative and family medicine physician with expertise in functional and holistic medicine. She is the medical director at Revive Atlanta MD, a comprehensive clinic focused on total body healing, including decreasing inflammation, improving hormonal imbalance, helping women get pregnant, weight loss resistance, chronic stress, gut health and more. She has been featured on The Daily Mail, Fox5 Atlanta, CBS46, 11Alive, wsbtv, Popsugar, mindbodygreen, The Washington Post, well+good, Vogue, Parade, Livestrong, HuffPost and more.
			