Quinoa is gluten-free and packed with nutrients like protein, zinc, fiber, folate, and antioxidants. Quinoa doesn’t take long to prepare, and you can add it to your diet in both sweet and savory dishes. Quinoa has gained popularity as a health food in the United States and other Westernized countries, though people have cultivated it in South America since ancient times. Hundreds of years ago, the Inca people considered this ancient grain a sacred food. In the past couple of decades, quinoa’s popularity has grown exponentially as the demand for easy-to-grow, nutritious, gluten-free grain alternatives has soared.  Not only is quinoa nutrient-dense, but it may offer health benefits, too. This article covers eight health benefits of quinoa and tips on incorporating it into your diet. Quinoa is a grain crop grown for its edible seeds. These seeds are what we call quinoa — pronounced KEEN-wah. Although it’s usually grouped with cereal grains like oats and barley, quinoa is actually a pseudocereal grain. Pseudocereal grains are seeds that are prepared and eaten similarly to grains. Examples include buckwheat and amaranth. Different types of quinoa include: Here is the nutrient breakdown for 1 cup (185 grams) of cooked quinoa: Quinoa is a good source of several important nutrients, including: It also contains fiber and protein, nutrients that help you feel satisfied after eating. Quinoa contains several plant compounds that may benefit health in several ways. Quercetin and kaempferol are two flavonoid plant compounds that have been particularly well studied. These are the main flavonoids found in quinoa. Quercetin and kaempferol have anti-inflammatory qualities and act as antioxidants in the body, meaning they help protect cells from damage caused by unstable molecules called free radicals. Consuming more flavonoid-rich foods like quinoa may help promote overall health and protect against certain diseases and overall mortality. You can significantly increase your total intake of these and other antioxidant compounds by including nutritious foods like quinoa in your diet.  Another important benefit of quinoa is its high fiber content. A 1-cup (185-gram) serving of cooked quinoa contains 5.18 grams of fiber. That’s about 18% of the current 28-gram DV. Quinoa contains more fiber than several other popular grains, like brown rice.  A 1-cup (195-gram) serving of cooked brown rice contains 3.51 grams of fiber, 1.67 grams less than the same serving size of quinoa. Adding fiber-rich foods like quinoa into your diet can help support your digestive health by promoting regular bowel movements and fueling beneficial bacteria in your gut. Eating a high fiber diet can help you maintain a moderate body weight. Fiber helps promote feelings of fullness. Pairing high fiber foods like quinoa with high protein foods can help you feel satisfied after meals and may help you eat a healthful portion size. Some people with gluten intolerance, including those with celiac disease and non-celiac gluten sensitivity, need to avoid foods containing gluten. People following a gluten-free diet must choose gluten-free alternatives to gluten-containing grains like wheat, barley, and rye. Quinoa is naturally gluten-free and makes a nutritious choice for people who want or need to cut gluten from their diet. However, be sure to check the package label to ensure the product is free from cross-contamination. Unlike gluten-free products made with refined ingredients, quinoa provides a good source of nutrients that gluten-free diets often lack, like: Compared to other grains, quinoa is a good source of protein, providing 8 grams per cooked cup (185 grams). It can help contribute to your daily protein intake. Quinoa is often referred to as a complete protein. This is because it contains all nine essential amino acids that your body can’t make on its own. However, some experts argue that quinoa should not be considered a complete protein because it contains low amounts of certain amino acids, like leucine and lysine. For this reason, some consider it a “nearly complete” protein rather than a complete protein. To get all the essential amino acids, experts recommend consuming various protein-containing foods throughout the day. Either way, quinoa is a good source of protein — and incorporating quinoa into your diet can help you meet your daily protein needs. This is especially true for those who follow plant-based diets, like a vegan diet. Combining quinoa with beans, tofu, and mixed vegetables quickly makes a plant-based, protein-rich meal.  Quinoa is high in fiber and contains several vitamins and minerals that are often lacking in many people’s diets. Studies show that many children and adults don’t consume enough vitamins and minerals, including folate, potassium, iron, and magnesium. An estimated 90% of American females and 97% of American males don’t consume the recommended amount of fiber. Not getting enough fiber can affect your health, including by increasing your risk of chronic diseases. Quinoa contains magnesium, potassium, iron, fiber, and folate. Folate is a vitamin that’s especially important during pregnancy due to its role in fetal growth and development. Eating quinoa as part of a nutritious diet may help you reach these recommended levels. It’s important to note that quinoa contains some antinutrients, including:  These can bind with certain nutrients like iron and magnesium, reducing their absorption. However, rinsing, soaking, or sprouting the quinoa before cooking can reduce the antinutrient content and make these minerals more bioavailable. According to a 2022 review, quinoa is also pretty high in oxalates. Oxalates can potentially contribute to recurring kidney stones. Some studies suggest that eating quinoa could benefit certain aspects of your metabolic and cardiovascular health. A 2020 study in 40 older adults had participants eat 0.5 ounces (15 grams) of quinoa flour biscuits daily for 28 days. By the end of the study, the participants who ate the quinoa biscuits had significantly greater reductions in LDL (bad) cholesterol, total cholesterol, and body weight than those who ate wheat-based biscuits. Additional research suggests eating quinoa and quinoa-based products may benefit: A 2017 study included 50 people with excess weight or obesity and had participants consume 1.8 ounces (50 grams) of quinoa daily for 12 weeks. Compared with the control group and a group that consumed 0.88 ounces (25 grams) of quinoa daily, the 1.8-ounce quinoa group had significantly reduced triglyceride levels. While these results suggest quinoa positively affects cardiometabolic health, your overall diet and lifestyle matter most when it comes to decreasing your risk of disease.  Following a dietary pattern rich in nutritious foods like quinoa, vegetables, fruits, fish, and beans is a smart way to protect your health and reduce disease risk factors, such as high blood lipid and high blood sugar levels.  Learn about the possible benefits of eating quinoa if you have diabetes. Quinoa is easy to incorporate into your diet, which can make adding it to an eating plan more sustainable in the long term. Quinoa is also tasty and goes well with many foods. Depending on the type of quinoa, you may need to rinse it with water before you cook it to get rid of saponins. These are found naturally on the outer layer and can taste bitter. However, some brands sell quinoa pre-rinsed, making this step unnecessary. You can also purchase sprouted quinoa, which has a reduced antinutrient content and can help improve nutrient absorption. You can buy quinoa in most health food stores and many supermarkets. Quinoa can be ready to eat in as little as 15–20 minutes. To cook it: It should now have absorbed most of the water and gotten a fluffy look. If done right, it should have a mild, nutty flavor and a satisfying crunch. You can easily find many diverse recipes for quinoa online, including breakfast bowls, lunches, and dinners. You can use quinoa in both sweet and savory recipes.  For example, you can make a savory quinoa and vegetable salad topped with feta and grilled chicken. Or make a sweet breakfast porridge with cooked quinoa, coconut milk, fresh fruit, walnuts, cinnamon, and a drizzle of honey.  Quinoa is technically a seed and is considered part of a small group of grains called pseudocereals, along with amaranth and buckwheat. It’s a smart carbohydrate choice because it contains fiber, minerals, antioxidants, and protein. It’s also gluten-free, delicious, versatile, and easy to prepare. Quinoa is a great carb option to include in your diet. Try this today: You can enjoy quinoa any time of day. You can cook it in bulk and store it in the fridge for easy meal prep. For a meal prep-friendly lunch idea, try layering quinoa, grilled vegetables, feta cheese, beans, and roasted chicken in mason jars and storing them in the fridge. Simply top your salad jar with a bit of olive oil and lemon juice and enjoy! Share this article When it comes to healthy grains, quinoa and rice both provide benefits. Here’s a look at each.  Chia seeds are versatile and packed with nutrients. Here are 7 chia seed benefits, all backed by science.  Quinoa and couscous are two small, grain-like foods often consumed as alternatives to rice and pasta. This article explains the main differences… Quinoa has been called a "superfood" because it's full of nutrients. This article takes a look at what quinoa is and why it's so good for you. Carbs get a bad rap, but numerous healthy foods contain carbs. Here are 12 high carb foods that are incredibly healthy. If you have celiac disease or a gluten sensitivity, it's important to avoid the protein gluten. Here are 8 gluten-free grains you can eat instead. Grains are the edible seeds of plants called cereals, including rice, corn, and wheat. This article takes a close look at grains and their health… Thanks to viral posts on TikTok, the popularity of cottage cheese is skyrocketing. Here are seven healthy claims about the dairy food users are making… New research suggests that the Mediterranean diet may help you feel less stressed and improve your mood, too. Here’s why. In an eight-week study, a vegan diet showed signs of slowing biological aging compared to an omnivorous diet. The Stanford Twin Study recruited… OUR BRANDS