The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Victoria Clayton or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Victoria Clayton,
                                                    Bojana Jankovic Weatherly, M.D., F.A.C.P., M.Sc.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Reiki may sound “new age” to some, but it’s anything but new. In fact, it’s a form of energy healing with roots in ancient cultures. Reiki uses what’s known as universal life force energy—ki or qi—to improve people’s lives and ailments. The term “reiki” comes from the Japanese words “rei,” meaning universal, and “ki,” which means vital life force energy that flows through all living things. Some practitioners describe reiki as acupuncture without the needles. Reiki is a complementary health approach in which practitioners place their hands on or just above different areas of the body. It’s based on an Eastern medicine belief that living beings have energy fields that support their health and vitality. Energy blocks, on the other hand, impede innate flow of energy, causing not only health problems, but also negative life circumstances like financial troubles or relationship problems, according to belief. Energy blocks of any living being can be treated, according to belief, which is why some practitioners also work on animals and plants. Reiki practitioners focus on sensing energy blocks and moving the energy for the greatest good of the client. There are at least 30 slightly different branches of reiki, but Usui is by far the most popular form. Usui is the method practiced and taught in Japan as early as the 1900s by Makao Usui, who is credited as the founder of modern reiki. Usui reiki came to the West via Hawaii in the 1930s thanks to a Japanese-American woman named Hawayo Takata. She traveled back to her native Japan to seek healing for her own physical and mental ailments, including a lung condition, asthma and a nervous breakdown after the death of her husband. One of Makao Usui’s students, Dr. Chujiro Hayashi, taught reiki to Takata. Her healing experience was so profound that Takata returned to Hawaii and became the first person to teach reiki in the West. However, due to the abundance of anti-Japanese and anti-Asian sentiments in the United States around World War II, Takata shied away from using the name “reiki” and instead referred to her establishment on the island of Kauai as a “healing studio,” according to researcher Nat Newton, Ph.D., a Usui reiki master in Orange County, California. “Takata modified some of the teachings for her English-speaking students and ended up training 22 students in reiki as we know it today,” says Newton. Today, thousands of people worldwide are trained in Usui and similar reiki methods. While reiki can easily be done in just about any setting, a typical reiki session takes place in a relaxing environment or treatment room, akin to massage therapy. Newton holds some of her reiki sessions in well-ventilated outdoor spaces. Meanwhile, many reiki practitioners do remote healing where they aren’t even in the same building as the client. In a typical treatment room setting with a reiki practitioner and a client, the client begins face up and fully clothed. They might briefly discuss their ailment or situation they hope to heal. The session might begin with a brief meditation, and then the practitioner uses various hand movements to lightly touch or hover over various parts of the client’s body while they are face up and face down. Throughout the session, the practitioner focuses specifically on their intent for healing. “We usually think about activating whatever is in the highest good for the client,” says Newton. “Sometimes we’ll visualize the client as healed. But always we’ll set a positive intention for whatever they need at the moment that would serve their highest good. We don’t know what that is and don’t presume to know. We let reiki do what it needs to do.” A typical session lasts 30 minutes to an hour, and a client-practitioner discussion uses a good amount of that time, according to Newton. “After the session, I always spend time talking to my clients about what came up for them and perhaps also what I intuited,” she says. The most well-documented benefits of reiki revolve around the relaxation response, which practitioners say invokes the body’s natural healing process. Dr. Rachel Lampert, M.D., a professor of medicine at Yale School of Medicine, and her colleagues studied 37 patients after having a heart attack. The patients were randomized into three groups: patients who simply rested, those who received a single session of reiki treatment from a nurse trained in reiki and those who listened to relaxing music. The researchers measured activity of the autonomic nervous system (ANS), which regulates heart rate, breathing, blood pressure and digestion. Lampert’s team zoomed in on heart rate variability (HRV), a measure of the pattern of heartbeats that’s controlled by the ANS. The higher the HRV after a heart attack, the better the outlook for the patient, explains Lampert. In the Yale study, patients who received reiki had a higher HRV and improved emotional state. “Our study was a very nice demonstration that doing things that are relaxing has benefits,” says Lampert. “We showed increased activity of the healthy arm of the nervous system.” Researchers at Harvard Medical School followed 99 patients at multiple sites to determine the effects of a single reiki session. The study—a single arm effectiveness study published in 2019 in the Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine—found statistically significant improvements in anxiety and depression symptoms, as well as pain and nausea. Additional research suggests reiki helps with depression and insomnia. A 2012 study in the Indian Journal of Positive Psychology looked at 40 women who suffered from depression and anxiety. Half of the group received a reiki treatment twice a week for 10 weeks and the other half received no treatment. The women who received reiki saw significant improvements in both their depression symptoms and sleep quality.



Embrace Tranquility And Unleash Blissful Sleep
CBDfx Night Capsules are the ultimate night cap and perfect just before bed. The capsules help put your mind and body at ease, making sleep not only easier but longer and more restful.



				Shop Now
			
On CBDfx's Website




 Embrace Tranquility And Unleash Blissful Sleep CBDfx Night Capsules are the ultimate night cap and perfect just before bed. The capsules help put your mind and body at ease, making sleep not only easier but longer and more restful. On CBDfx's Website A range of studies address reiki’s role in pain alleviation after knee surgery, the restoration of range of motion in injured shoulders, post-cesarean section recovery, hypertension management and the improvement of quality of life for patients with rheumatoid arthritis or patients undergoing various cancer treatments. Portuguese researcher Zilda Alarcao and her colleagues looked at the impact of reiki treatment versus sham or fake reiki in two groups of patients with blood cancer. Each group contained 58 patients who received an hour-long treatment once a week for four weeks—either someone trained to administer reiki worked on them or someone pretending to do reiki (sham reiki) spent an hour with them. The researchers found the patients who received real reiki showed significantly more improvements than the other group in general, physical, environmental and social dimensions of quality of life using the Portuguese version of the World Health Organization’s Quality of Life survey (WHOQoL-Bref), a well-regarded research tool that measures pain and other quality of life issues after undergoing an intervention. They published their results in 2016 in the European Journal of Integrative Medicine. Multiple studies report no adverse effects of reiki, likely because it’s a noninvasive treatment. Practitioners note clients usually report feeling relaxed after a session, but some feel energized. Depending on the nature of the problem, Newton says some clients also may feel more emotional or have other intense feelings in the days or weeks following a session. While there is a professional code of ethics that governs reiki practitioners, there are no licensing boards like there are for doctors, nurses or even hair stylists. Reiki “master” is the highest level of training, but there’s a wide range of training and expertise among practitioners. To ensure the best result, practitioners advise clients to do their homework—ask a practitioner about their training and credentials, but also find someone you connect with and trust. One potential risk is that clients can misunderstand the role reiki should play in a treatment plan. The code of ethics of the Reiki Alliance, a professional reiki association, clearly states that reiki practitioners work as a complement—not a replacement—to the medical care a patient receives. Reiki is also not a practice intended to instill doubt in other medical treatments and interventions. Clients are strongly discouraged from viewing reiki as a substitute for medical doctors, surgery, therapy or prescribed medications. Clients should also be aware that while reiki—like yoga or meditation—may have roots in spiritual practices from long ago, modern reiki is not a religion. Practitioners and clients come from all walks of life and belief systems. Receiving reiki is not intended to interfere with or change a client’s spiritual or religious beliefs. According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, reiki has been “studied for a variety of conditions, including pain, anxiety, and depression, but most of the research has not been of high quality, and the results have been inconsistent.” Naturally, scientists who study reiki beg to differ with that assessment. They say institutions simply need to catch up with the rapidly evolving science. “At this point, there are probably 60 or more published studies that I can point to that show reiki’s benefit, and yet there’s still this persistent myth that no credible science backs reiki,” says neuroscientist Natalie Dyer, Ph.D, president of the Center for Reiki Research, a nonprofit that aims to advance the scientific knowledge and study of reiki. Dyer acknowledges, however, that some studies have lacked rigor and some have not found statistically significant benefits with reiki. She calls for more high-quality research to understand the practice, how it works and its limitations. In the Yale study of reiki following a heart attack, researchers note that it’s “unknown whether the beneficial effects of reiki treatment over music stem from the presence of another person, the presence of a person with healing intention, the light touch technique, or a combination of factors.” Like any intervention, reiki practitioners warn it isn’t a cure-all and shouldn’t be viewed as such. But it’s deemed safe and potentially effective enough that a considerable number—15% and growing—of U.S. hospitals offer reiki healing specifically. Leading institutes like Yale, Harvard, the University of Minnesota, the University of Arizona, UCLA and others offer reiki as a complement to medical interventions. Costs for reiki sessions vary nationwide, but expect to pay about what you’d pay for a massage. In a major metropolitan area, you might pay $80 to $150 for a one-hour reiki session. Professional associations are a great way to locate reiki practitioners and teachers who take the practices and training seriously. The Reiki Alliance, the International Reiki Association and the International Association of Reiki Practitioners all offer online tools for locating a practitioner in your area. Friedman R, Burg M, Miles P, Forrester L, Lampert R. Effects of Reiki on Autonomic Activity Early After Acute Coronary Syndrome. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2010;56(12):995-6. Baldwin AL, Vitale A, Brownell E. The touchstone process: An ongoing critical evaluation of Reiki in the scientific literature. Holist Nurs Pract. 2010;24:260–276. Dyer NL, Baldwin AL, Rand WL. A Large-Scale Effectiveness Trial of Reiki for Physical and Psychological Health. 2019:1156-1162. Assefi N, Bogart A, Goldberg J, Buchwald D. Reiki for the Treatment of Fibromyalgia: A Randomized Controlled Trial. The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine. 2008;14(9):1115-1122. Salles LF, Vannucci L, Salles A, Silva MJPD. The effect of Reiki on blood hypertension. Acta Paulista de Enfermagem. 2014;27(5):479-484. Alarcão Z, Fonseca JR. The effect of Reiki therapy on quality of life of patients with blood cancer: results from a randomized controlled trial. European Journal of Integrative Medicine. 2016;8(3):239-249. Bondi A, Morgan T, Fowler SB. Effects of Reiki on Pain and Anxiety in Women Hospitalized for Obstetrical- and Gynecological-Related Conditions. Journal of Holistic Nursing. 2020. Shirani N, Abdollahimohammad A, Firouzkouhi M, Masinaeinezhad N, Shahraki-Vahed A. The Effect of Reiki energy therapy on the severity of pain and quality of life in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: A Randomized clinical Trial Study. Med Sci. 2014;23(96):205-210. Buyukbayram Z, Saritas SC. The effect of Reiki and guided imagery intervention on pain and fatigue in oncology patients: A non-randomized controlled study. Explore: The Journal of Science and Healing. 2021;31:1-5. Baldwin AL, Fullmer K, Schwartz GE. Comparison of physical therapy with energy healing for improving range of motion in subjects with restricted shoulder mobility. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2013. Fleisher KA, Mackenzie ER, Frankel ES, Seluzicki C, Casarett D, Mao JJ. Integrative Reiki for Cancer Patients: A Program Evaluation. Integrative Cancer Therapies. 2014;62-67. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Originally from the Midwest, Victoria Clayton is a professional writer working and living in southern California. Her reporting has appeared in the Los Angeles Times, the Atlantic, Los Angeles magazine, Yoga Journal and others. She was a monthly health columnist for MSNBC/NBC.com, she co-authored the book Fearless Pregnancy and she previously contributed to Women’s Health Wisdom. Clayton is also a member of Southern California Science Writers.
			 
				Dr. Bojana Jankovic Weatherly is a double board-certified physician in internal and integrative medicine and a fellow of the American College of Physicians. She practices integrative, internal and functional medicine to deliver optimal, evidence-based care customized to each one of her patients. Dr. Bojana serves patients in her practice in New York City, as well as patients in California, Connecticut and New Jersey via telemedicine. Throughout her academic career, she performed research in endocrinology and oncology, published papers in peer-reviewed journals and presented her work at academic conferences. Her goal is to discover and address the origins of her patients’ conditions and support them in living at their highest level of health.  

Dr. Bojana serves as an advisor and founding physician at The Lanby, an integrative primary care startup in New York City. She was also the co-founder of WellStart Health, a digital therapeutics startup for chronic disease prevention and reversal. She previously worked as the company’s chief medical officer and now serves as its medical advisor. She is on the board of the Environmental Working Group, as well as the board of directors of Lifeline New York, a nonprofit organization that provides support to Serbian hospitals and children in need. She is on the board of Tryall Fund, a nonprofit organization that promotes health and education in Jamaica, as well. Lastly, Dr. Bojana serves on the philanthropic leadership board of Eat REAL, a nonprofit that works to increase access to healthy food and educate families about healthy nutrition.

			