Our fact checking systematically raises standards in public debate and changes the behaviour of powerful actors We’re campaigning to tackle bad information online, protect our elections and improve the quality of information in public debate Our policy work aims to improve the information environment, in order to protect and encourage good public debate Our technology and training work is designed to help everyone work faster and smarter Bad information ruins lives. We’re a team of independent fact checkers and campaigners who find, expose and counter the harm it does 
          Fact checks about medical conditions, the NHS, social care and government funding of national health services
         
          Health misinformation can ruin lives and damage health services. Our health team fact checks claims about health including funding and delivery, and dangerous medical claims, and makes recommendations to improve the quality of public information about health. We are grateful to the Health Foundation and the European Media and Information Fund for their support of this work.
         

 
          As an independent charity, none of our funders have a say in what we choose to check, or our conclusions. More information about our funding.
 
                Fact checks about life expectancy and the reporting of medical risks
             
                Fact checks regarding private finance initiatives and commercialisation and external funding of the NHS
             
                Fact checks related to the impact a changing population has on the NHS
             
                            
                                Mpox is caused by the monkeypox virus. It is not a side effect of vaccination.
                            
                         
                            
                                Contrary to claims in the Telegraph, benefits claims for under-18s with autism and ADHD have not increased by 200,000 since Covid.
                            
                         
                            
                                Vaccines are tested and monitored to a much higher standard than most other medicines.
                            
                         
                Fact checks about health and safety related topics, including food safety standards
             
                Fact checks covering the recruitment, pay and development of NHS junior doctors
             
                Fact checks related to the infrastructure of health care and potential impacts of privatisation
             
                Fact checks about cancer risks, treatments and cures
             
                Fact checks regarding Ambulance and A&E waiting lists and admissions
             
                Fact checks about efficiency and inefficiency in the NHS and the outcomes of the Naylor review
             
                Fact checks about waiting lists, unpaid overtime and availability of health care services
             
                Fact checks about GP waiting lists, appointments, staffing and pharmacists
             
                Fact checks about the reported quality of the NHS, waiting lists and quality of care
             
                Fact checks covering mental health service provisioning, self harm, suicide, anxiety and depression
             
                Fact checks including NHS staff levels and NHS pay
             
                Fact checks about increases and decreases in funding of the NHS, including the number of hospitals being built and record levels of funding
             
                Fact checks addressing conspiracy theories and unreliable health advice relating to vaccines
             
                Fact checks about the coronavirus pandemic, including causes, Covid-19 symptoms, vaccines and side effects
             
                Fact checks about the monkeypox outbreak, including symptoms, transmission, relation to other diseases and the latest information from public health bodies
             Full Fact, 17 Oval Way, London, SE11 5RR Full Fact is a registered charity (no. 1158683) and a non-profit company (no. 06975984) limited by guarantee and registered in England and Wales. © Copyright 2010-2024 Full Fact. Thanks to Bytemark for donating our web hosting.
                        
                        Privacy, terms and conditions.