
	If you purchase something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission.
		 The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Top nominees at the 95th annual Academy Awards will not be leaving the Oscars empty-handed, thanks to a Los Angeles-based company’s “Everyone Wins” gift bags.  Distinctive Assets are behind the often six-figure swag bags distributed to Oscar nominees. Top nominees in the four main acting categories as well as nominees for Best Director will be leaving the awards ceremony with these gifts.  Those nominees include Austin Butler, Colin Farrell, Ana de Armas, Michelle Yeoh, Angela Bassett and Jamie Lee Curtis.  Forbes reports over the past two decades, Oscars gifts have ranged from an Antarctic cruise to a year’s worth of Audi rentals. Brands contribute between $4,000 and as high as $35,000 to be included in the annual selection.  Multiple outlets report that this year’s gift bag is worth an estimated $126,000, which is lower than 2022’s gift bag. That bag was valued at about $140,000.  "While this gift bag does, as always, have an impressive value, that is neither our focus nor goal. This is a straightforward win/win," said Lash Fary, founder of Distinctive Assets. "These nominees are in a unique position to help participating brands immeasurably by simply wearing, using and talking about these products.” Here’s a look at some of the gifts these nominees will be receiving. The full line of skincare products from the brand Miage is a part of the gift bonanza.  ecoMD, a cosmetics brand based in Canada, will have their vegan retinol serum that’s meant to help reduce the signs of aging also in the gift bag.  Lastly, evolvetogether, a top-rated personal care brand, will also have daily essentials.  Nominees can escape to a 10-acre estate in Canada known as The Lifestyle estate. Pictures provided by Distinctive Assets show what appears to be a three story home with a pool in the backyard surrounded by greenery. Forbes reports the getaway is worth $40,000. But that’s not all. A three-night stay at a restored hillside Italian lighthouse is also a part of the selection. The lighthouse is located on Ischia and faces the sea between Panza and Citara Bay. The stay is worth about $9,000. And while this next gift isn't a vacation per se, it's worth sharing. Pieces of Australia land plots supporting Australian conservation efforts are a part of the selection.  Related video: Apartment in 'Good Will Hunting' house available for $4,500 per month You can’t have a swag bag without some treats, right? Snacks from brands like CLIF, Harmless Harvest, m cacao, Posh Pretzels and The Beauty Tea Company are featured.  There’s even a jar of raw honey that’s sustainably sourced from flowers in New Zealand as part of the selection.  The one that jumped off the page was this Japanese milk bread, from the bakers at Ginza Nishikawa. They specialize in one product, which is this milk bread that’s called shokupan. While most breads use milk and margarine, this premium bread is made with fresh cream, butter, honey, alkaline ionized water, and Japanese blended flour. It’s become a sensation not just in Tokyo, but in the United States as well. You could actually get some of that milk bread wherever you are in the country via Goldbelly’s delivery service. One more cool item: a photo shoot kit. The Rescue Kit Company’s mission is to solve wedding day wardrobe mishaps, and their Photo Shoot Kit is part of the “Everyone Wins” gift selections. The kit comes with styling tools most utilized at wedding photo shoots.  Lens cloth, shoe wipes, lint roller and deodorant removing sponge highlight just some of the items in the kit. 






 



The Rescue Kit Company 



				SHOP NOW
			












Rihanna set to perform at the 2023 Oscars
















At the Oscars a year later, The Slap stays in the picture




















Oscars producers have one main goal: Keep you entertained










 Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.