Of all the herbs that I harvest regularly in my garden, I found myself still inundated with mint. I have it in a large pot and it is rather happy on the sunny patio. So much so that it is growing like crazy. Even though the social event of the Kentucky Derby is over, I still hear mint juleps calling. By the most elementary definition, a mint julep is sweetened bourbon that is served over finely crushed ice and garnished with mint. The concoction dates back to the 1660s and was originally called a “julap,” which is the Arabic word for rosewater. It was another hundred plus years before it became an antebellum favorite and made day drinking fashionable. Henry Clay, a senator from Kentucky created quite a following when he brought the recipe with him to Washington in the early 1800s. It wasn’t until 1875 that the mint julep became the official drink of the Kentucky Derby. This happened after the production of bourbon established itself predominantly in the Bluegrass state. Most recipes utilize a simple syrup, bourbon and mint served in a sterling silver cup. The cup is held with a napkin at the bottom to keep it nice and cold. But with all the mint staring at me from the patio, I have pulled out my grandmother’s recipe for mint syrup and it kicks up the julep to a new level. I combine equal amounts (2 cups each) of water and sugar in a saucepan and add 1-1/2 cups of coarsely chopped fresh mint. After bringing it to boiling, I stir it constantly to melt the sugar completely. Then it is immediately removed from the heat, covered and allowed to cool to room temperature. Strain it and store in the refrigerator. It not only sweetens juleps, but is terrific in lemonade or iced tea. Betsy Montgomery of Birmingham writes, “I tried making my own mustard from a combination of different mustard seeds. The recipe is one that my mother used but after making it I find it is so sharp I can hardly use much of it at all. How can I tame it down?” Betsy, It needs a little time to mellow out. After making it, give it at least a week in the refrigerator to allow the flavors of the other ingredients to develop. You will find that it will taste completely different. Tammy Algood is the author of five cookbooks and can be seen on “Volunteer Gardener” on PBS stations in Tennessee. Follow her at www.hauteflavor.com This article originally appeared on Nashville Tennessean: Market basket: Put that harvest of mint to good use in a mint julep New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.