
        Article updated on July 30, 2024 at 9:00 AM PDT
         
    Keep your home safe without breaking the bank. Check out our picks for the best budget-friendly security systems around.
   CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise. SimpliSafe's eight-piece home security kit includes the base station, a keypad control panel, four entry sensors, one motion sensor and a panic button. Don't let all the pieces intimidate you. DIY installation and setup is as easy as it gets, or you can opt for professional installation starting at $125. SimpliSafe home security also comes with the option of DIY or professional monitoring. Self-monitoring using the SimpliSafe app is free unless you want cloud storage for any SimpliSafe security cameras. The top professional plan, Fast Protect, starts at around $30 per month and includes 24/7 professional monitoring, high-priority police, fire and medical dispatch, flood and extreme temperature monitoring, plus unlimited video recording for your SimpliSafe security cameras. Ring's Alarm Pro system is a little pricier, landing at $300 for the starting kit (although you can often find it on sale for less). It brings more value per dollar than any other DIY security system. For that price, you'll get the base device, four entry sensors, one motion detector, a keypad and a Z-Wave range extender. That may not sound particularly exciting until you realize that the base station is also an Eero Wi-Fi 6 mesh router. That enables select Ring security cameras or video doorbells to process their data and store their footage locally. Add that to other perks, like an Alexa Emergency Assist subscription and cellular-powered backup Wi-Fi (if your internet or power goes down), and you've got an incredible product for the price. Ring's highest-level Protect Pro subscription costs $20 per month, which is lower than most of its DIY competitors' $25 to $30 range. CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise. If you're looking to protect your home while on a budget, you have more options than you think. Home security systems are no longer as expensive as they used to be. Sure, there are expensive options that might seem out of your budget but there are several affordable security systems that give professionally installed setups a run for their money. After testing, we've found the best cheap home security systems out there. SimpliSafe's eight-piece DIY kit won out for its user-friendliness and low initial investment cost. SimpliSafe's eight-piece home security kit includes the base station, a keypad control panel, four entry sensors, one motion sensor and a panic button. Don't let all the pieces intimidate you. DIY installation and setup is as easy as it gets, or you can opt for professional installation starting at $125. SimpliSafe home security also comes with the option of DIY or professional monitoring. Self-monitoring using the SimpliSafe app is free unless you want cloud storage for any SimpliSafe security cameras. The top professional plan, Fast Protect, starts at around $30 per month and includes 24/7 professional monitoring, high-priority police, fire and medical dispatch, flood and extreme temperature monitoring, plus unlimited video recording for your SimpliSafe security cameras. Ring's Alarm Pro system is a little pricier, landing at $300 for the starting kit (although you can often find it on sale for less). It brings more value per dollar than any other DIY security system. For that price, you'll get the base device, four entry sensors, one motion detector, a keypad and a Z-Wave range extender. That may not sound particularly exciting until you realize that the base station is also an Eero Wi-Fi 6 mesh router. That enables select Ring security cameras or video doorbells to process their data and store their footage locally. Add that to other perks, like an Alexa Emergency Assist subscription and cellular-powered backup Wi-Fi (if your internet or power goes down), and you've got an incredible product for the price. Ring's highest-level Protect Pro subscription costs $20 per month, which is lower than most of its DIY competitors' $25 to $30 range. The CNET home security editors have tested out every major home security system over the years. We haven't listed every single one here since some, such as AT&T Digital Life are no longer available. Read more: How to Turn Your Old iPhone or Android Into a Home Security Camera for Free Hands-on testing is core to our evaluations of any home security products. In short, when it comes to home security systems, we pay special attention to the user experience, the promised features, reliability and overall value, along with a few other elements. We do the testing in a real home environment over at least a full week. If you want to read more about our review process, check out our in-depth article on how we test home security systems and services. Ultimately, you'll have to answer this question for yourself. Home security systems do deter burglars. Depending on where you live, a few hundred dollars may be a cost worth incurring to avoid the risk of burglaries or damaged property. Home security systems range in price anywhere from $100 to thousands of dollars. Generally, the larger the space you hope to cover — including the number of entryways you want to monitor — the more expensive the system. Many systems allow you to pick your devices a la carte, and most monitors shouldn't cost more than $30 apiece. If you're looking for reliable, budget-friendly picks, you shouldn't spend more than a few hundred dollars on home security. Likewise, you shouldn't be paying more than $25 or $30 at the most for monthly monitoring unless you're using a professionally installed system.