Caz Icke’s startup, SoleSense uses shoe sensors and a real-time biofeedback application to provide personalised digital physiotherapy to stroke patients We have more newsletters We have more newsletters  A startup for stroke rehabilitation has won the Best Elevator Pitch at Bristol's Tech-Xpo 2023 showcase.  Caz Icke’s startup, SoleSense uses shoe sensors and a real-time biofeedback application to provide personalised digital physiotherapy to stroke patients. Founded in 2019, SoleSense was conceived by Ms Icke's own experience as a specialist neurorehabilitation physio working with stroke patients. She found that the national average for NHS physiotherapy provision is "nowhere near enough" to give the 100,000 stroke survivors per year in the UK the rehabilitation time they need. The startup joined the University of Bristol’s tech incubator, SETsquared Bristol, in 2022 in order to join a community of healthtech and tech startups and to get support with fundraising. Prior to this, Ms Icke was a recipient of SETsquared Bristol’s Enterprising Women, a business support programme fully funded by NatWest. Read more:Bristol-based Science Creates launches engineering biology accelerator programme SoleSense can be used as an adjunct for clinicians and individuals alike and is designed to enable patients to do more independent rehabilitation. Patients can wear the insoles continuously to improve performance in balance and walking, enabling them to track their own progress and set collaborative goals with their therapist. Now in its 19th year, Tech-Xpo is SETsquared Bristol’s flagship showcase which was held on June 28 at Bristol Harbour Hotel. SoleSense pitched in front of an audience of over 100 investors and business movers and shakers, competing against 10 other innovative technology companies. Previous Tech-Xpo winners have gone on to achieve notable success. Ferryx, the 2021 winner, closed its first investment round of £300k shortly afterwards and has since launched its gut health supplement, Ferrocalm. KETS Quantum Security, the 2020 winner, has raised £3.1m pre-series A to pioneer quantum encryption on a chip, and last year’s winner, Inclued, has seen its chief executive and founder Joyann Boyce named 30 under 30 by Rife Magazine and Change Maker by BIMA100 in the same year as winning Tech-Xpo. Ms Icke, SoleSense director said: “It was a great pleasure to take part in Tech-Xpo; the warm atmosphere and friendly camaraderie made it easy to relax and enjoy the moment, with winning the icing on the cake! It is always great to receive such a boost on a journey that can be pretty challenging, especially as a sole founder. SETsquared has given me brilliant support and I’m really looking forward to the next stage of raising funds to grow the business.” Kimberley Brook, SETsquared Bristol’s director, said: “SoleSense was a very popular choice at Tech-Xpo, which was no mean feat considering the exceptional line-up of talent and pitching prowess on show. Caz is one of Bristol’s leading female clinical entrepreneurs, has won prestigious grants and has a bright future.” Like this story? Why not sign up to get the latest South West business news straight to your inbox. 