Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 21 Dec, 2022, 14:35 GMT Share this article LONDON, Dec. 21, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Global Vitamin Water Market was worth USD 830.15 Million in 2021 and expected to reach USD 2208.22 Million by 2028, registering a CAGR of 15% over the forecast period. Vitamin water is referred to as a type of beverage which is enriched with water-soluble vitamins including Vitamin B and Vitamin C coupled with other essential nutrients. It is further integrated with certain herbal extracts along with flavoured additives. It is fat free in nature since its basic ingredients do not contain calories. The regulated consumption of vitamin water aids in weight loss, enhances body immunity, reduces signs of aging while offering other health benefits. Get Sample of Report@ https://brandessenceresearch.com/downloadSample/PostId/2197   Global Vitamin Water Market Outlook (2022-2028) The growing health cognizance of the masses, growing prevalence of lifestyle-based ailments, along with the changing lifestyle trends of the masses are adding momentum to the progression of this business vertical. Also, increase in the geriatric population base, rising disposable income levels of individuals, and growing consumer inclination towards nutrient-rich benefits are creating lucrative opportunities for this marketplace to prosper. Moreover, rising product demand in the sports and fitness industry along with hectic lifestyle of the masses are augmenting the outlook of this industry sphere. Furthermore, rapid urbanization, growing R&D activities, along with the influx of advanced technologies in the food & beverage processing vertical are positively swaying the dynamics of the Global Vitamin Water Market. On the contrary, experts suggest that excessive consumption of vitamin water leads to the occurrence of various chronic diseases. This in turn is hindering the remuneration scope of this business vertical. Competitive Hierarchy The prominent players characterizing the competitive terrain of Global Vitamin Water Market are Danone S.A., Keurig Dr Pepper Inc., Essentia Water LLC (Nestlé USA), Frucor Suntory (Suntory Holdings Limited), Karma Culture LLC, Keurig Dr Pepper Inc., PepsiCo Inc., The Coca-Cola Company, Vitamin Well, VOSS of Norway AS, Talking Rain Company Beverage, and The Alkaline Water Company Inc. These players are striving hard to enhance their overall market position. They are participating in the formulation of various growth inducing strategies such as mergers & acquisitions, collaborations, partnerships, and new product launches, among others to witness robust financial gains and emerge as global leaders. Segmental Outlook By Type By Distribution Channel: By Packaging By Calories Per Serving By Category Free By Sales Channel Get Methodology @ https://brandessenceresearch.com/requestMethodology/PostId/2197   Region-Wise InsightsWhich is the leading region in the Global Vitamin Water Market?Asia Pacific is projected to lead the industry in terms of revenue share. This is attributable to the growing health awareness of the masses, rise in the number of fitness enthusiasts, increasing R&D investments in the field, presence of potential players, and surging per capita income levels of the masses.  Comparing the historical outlook and ongoing trends of this market The industry sphere is witnessing robust traction over the forecast duration owing to the emergence of various growth propellants across the globe. There has been a rising pervasiveness of lifestyle-based diseases like obesity across the globe. This is credited to the hectic lifestyle of the masses which does not allow them to devote much time into their physical well-being. People have started consuming ready to eat and processed food on a daily basis as they are unable to prepared home-cooked health meals due to professional commitments. This has made them highly vulnerable to a wide array of chronic and lifestyle-based diseases. Therefore, they are on a look out for alternative options to maintain their daily nutrient count. This has increased the popularity of nutrient-rich beverages like vitamin water. These factors are stimulating the dynamics of this business vertical. Sports and fitness enthusiasts are one of the prime consumers of vitamin water. It is evident that one requires high endurance level and strength to carry out strenuous fitness and sports-based activities. Due to various factors, these people might not obtain every nutrient required by their body in their daily meal. This shifts their inclination towards health supplements and other related products. The regulated consumption of vitamin water not only prevents dehydration but also powers these individuals with vital nutrients. This in turn enhances their strength and endurance levels while helping them to stay fit. On Special Requirement Vitamin Water Market Report is also available for below region: North America Europe Major Developments Flow Beverage Corp. Launches Vitamin-Infused Water in Three Delicious Flavors On July 8th, 2022; Flow Beverage Corp. revealed the formal debut of 3 original organic flavors in its Flow Vitamin-Infused Water sequence: Citrus, Cherry, and Elderberry. Flow Vitamin-Infused Water is already now offered to consumers directly in the United States at flowhydration.com, including early access accessible to existing Flow customers. Vitaday offers Latte flavored vitamin water with vitamin B and natural caffeine On November 5th, 2022; Thailand's General Beverage has expanded its Vitaday Cafe Series including the introduction of Vitaday Cafe Series Latte Flavored Vitamin Water. Vitamin B complex meets the appropriate Thai RDIs: Vitamin B9 - 150% RDI, Vitamin B12 - 200% RDI, Vitamin B3, B5, and B7 - 110% RDI, as well as Vitamin B1 and B6 - 100% RDI. The vitamin B combination relieves exhaustion and enhances nervous systems and brain performance, making people feel lighter and more active. 'Mansome Vitamin Water' launches two new formulas to meet the demands of health-conscious working men On November 16th, 2022; TCP Group introduced two novel Mansome Vitamin Water formulas, "Mansome Vitamin Water with Ginkgo, Green Tea, and Ginseng" as well as "Mansome Vitamin Water with L-Glutathione and Sea Buckthorn," both of which offer healthy, vitamin water with zero sweeteners and zero kcal - a regular daily beverage that fulfills the requirements of a brand-new era of working individual that aim to remain fit and healthy. Purchase Copy of Report @ https://brandessenceresearch.com/Checkout?report_id=2197   Related Reports: i-Factor: Live Market intelligence platform  I-Factor is our guaranteed seal to keep our clients ahead of the competition, always. This knowledge platform delivers real-time updates on key economic indicators, competitive landscape, changing demand, trends, customized regional insights, and more. The platform visualizes key data points to help make decision making agile, trustworthy, and holistic. Register for free trial here at https://brandessenceresearch.com/i-factor/login/userRegister  Brandessence Market Research & Consulting Pvt ltd.  Brandessence Market Research publishes market research reports & business insights produced by highly qualified and experienced industry analysts. Our research reports are available in a wide range of industry verticals including aviation, food & beverage, healthcare, ICT, Construction, Chemicals and lot more. Brand Essence Market Research report will be best fit for senior executives, business development managers, marketing managers, consultants, CEOs, CIOs, COOs, and Directors, governments, agencies, organizations and Ph.D. Students. We have a delivery center in Pune, India and our sales office is in London.  Follow Us: Linkedin   Blog:What is Market Research?What is Market Sizing? How to Measure Your TAM, SAM, and SOM Contact: Mr. Vishal Sawant  Email: vishal@brandessenceresearch.com  Email: Sales@brandessenceresearch.com  Corporate Sales: +44-2038074155  Asia Office: +917447409162  Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1392316/BEMR_Logo.jpg According to a comprehensive research report by Brandessence Market Research (BMRC), "MHealth Market Size, Share & Trends Analysis Report By... According to a comprehensive research report by Brandessence Market Research (BMRC), "Medical Supplies Market Size, Share & Trends Analysis Report By ... Beverages Fitness/Wellness