BLOOMFIELD, Conn., Dec. 19, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Cigna Corporation, a global health service company, has been named an industry leader in corporate sustainability for the sixth consecutive year on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), the most prestigious honor for corporate responsibility and sustainability performances. This honor also earns inclusion on both the Dow Jones Sustainability™ World Index (DJSI World) and the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index (DJSI North America). 



 "We're proud to be a mission-driven company – devoted to improving the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve," said Kari Stevens, senior vice president, chief counsel, and corporate secretary at Cigna. "This honor acknowledges the work we've done, and we are proud to be named as a leader in corporate sustainability. As we look ahead, we'll continue to lead with innovation and do our part to make the world a better place." Cigna's environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) framework reflects the company's commitments and societal impact focusing on four key pillars – healthy environment, healthy society, healthy workforce, and healthy company. Cigna's efforts to build powerful connections and inclusive business practices help improve health and well-being and contribute to a thriving society. Among others, these actions include: The DJSI, including the DJSI World, were launched in 1999 as the pioneering series of global sustainability benchmarks available in the market. The index family is comprised of global, regional, and country benchmarks. About CignaCigna Corporation CI is a global health services company dedicated to improving the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve. Cigna delivers choice, predictability, affordability and access to quality care through integrated capabilities and connected, personalized solutions that advance whole person health. All products and services are provided exclusively by or through operating subsidiaries of Cigna Corporation, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth companies or their affiliates, and Express Scripts companies or their affiliates. Such products and services include an integrated suite of health services, such as medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy, vision, supplemental benefits, and other related products. Cigna maintains sales capability in over 30 countries and jurisdictions, and has more than 190 million customer relationships around the world. To learn more about Cigna®, including links to follow us on Facebook or Twitter, visit www.cigna.com. Media ContactMeaghan MacDonald1 (860) 840-1212meaghan.macdonald@cigna.com    View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cigna-named-corporate-sustainability-leader-by-dow-jones-for-sixth-consecutive-year-301706300.html SOURCE  Cigna © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.