An individual pursuit of power, at any price, threatens the stability of any enterprise, let alone a democracy. What we witnessed last week was unfathomable. To gain the speakership of the House, U.S. Rep. Kevin McCarthy was willing to put winning the office over the democratic principles of our nation. There is no moral compass. These actions will also affect us as Oklahomans. The U.S. government depends on three independent branches to carry out their obligations under the Constitution. The speaker of the House, who is second in line to the presidency, holds immense power. The speaker, along with the majority leader, decide what legislation goes to the floor. McCarthy’s quest for speakership has been ongoing for almost a decade. He leads with his ego and has made deals for votes from the Freedom Caucus ― some of whom pursued pardons for their potential criminal liability for the Jan. 6, 2021, insurrection. At the remembrance ceremony at the Capitol on Jan. 6, only one Republican bothered to show up at the event recognizing the law enforcement officers who protected them that day. Two-thirds of the Republicans in the House, as well as many Oklahoma House members, voted against certifying the election. Now, we are depending on them to govern and lead. Troubled waters are likely ahead. The facts are undeniable. Owning our history is the only way we will not repeat it. Where is the next generation of the independent lions of the House and Senate we revere from the past? Today's representatives are more focused on narrow, self-serving agendas rather than the good of the people. Governing is at risk. The debacle in Congress reflects a leadership vacuum in the Grand Old Party. A few rebel members of the Freedom Caucus forced 15 votes for the next speaker. The inability to come together by this party to timely select a speaker was watched closely by our allies and adversaries alike. The optics were not good. There was almost a physical fight on the floor of the House. This “hostage” holding was not for any political mission other than to ensure McCarthy didn’t win unless these few are empowered by appeasement and acceptance of radical conditions. In his efforts to become speaker, McCarthy seemingly sold out the power of the office to a few, thereby, setting a dangerous precedent. Appeasement never works. History shows trusting to give power to a few to compromise for the sake of acquiesce can lead to undermining a democratic government. Far too often, the majority will not even act firmly to stand up to the few. Our lawmakers need the courage to uphold the principles of governing all of the people. It is their sworn oath. This democracy can succeed only if governed by men and women of the highest integrity who are not consumed with vindictive agendas or self-interests that leads to corruption ― financially, politically and morally. Significant votes are ahead. Legislation will come to the floor, hopefully, to address and raise the debt ceiling. To fail to pass this bill will jeopardize funding of the government, jobs of those in the government, national security and the credit rating of the United States. That’s nothing to play around with. The power of the speaker to move meaningful legislation forward was compromised by his focus on winning the position seemingly at any cost. The results for the next two years may negatively reshape government, disrupting the function of our government as intended. Last week's embarrassment reinforces the sad state of a major division in the nation and a few willing to impede all. The only losers are the American people. The stability of our democracy will be called into question, and the 20 disruptive House members seemingly do not care. How is holding an entire governing body in the House at bay for power for a radical minority different in reality from a continuation of the insurrectionists’ goals of Jan. 6, 2021? It is still an aim to dismantle the pillars of our democracy under the guise that it is for democracy. We the people ― the mantra of our nation ― is a model for democracy. Washington warned too much power in one party creates the opportunity for unscrupulous men and women to forget the essence of our form of government. Without oversight and accountability by the people, democracy is not guaranteed. It is up to us to hold our elected accountable for us to hold onto our democracy. We cannot assume that what happens in Congress does not affect each of us. It does. Last week's House debacle is not who we are. We need to use our voices and demand reasonable governance. Phil G. Busey Sr. is chairman and CEO of DRG and The Busey Group of Cos. This article originally appeared on Oklahoman: Guest: After House speaker debacle, we must demand reasonable governance New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.