After a month of fights, strikes, censures, and name-calling, can Kevin McCarthy control House? Choose your preferred player: For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a 10-digit phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the
        podcast in your app: We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up
          manually: 
How does this work?
 
We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet
We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer,
          click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed,  check our FAQ.
 Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Kevin McCarthy has always had his eyes on one job - Speaker of the House. But after Republicans won Congress’s lower chamber by a razor thin majority, the party’s right wing extracted major concessions before handing over the gavel. When the GOP accepted a deal with the Biden administration to raise the nation’s debt ceiling, House hardliners felt betrayed. Now McCarthy faces renewed attacks on his leadership from within his own party. With important legislation that still needs to be passed, and little wiggle room for dissent, how does McCarthy hang on? Guest: Rachael Bade, POLITICO Senior Washington Correspondent If you enjoy this show, please consider signing up for Slate Plus. Slate Plus members get benefits like zero ads on any Slate podcast, bonus episodes of shows like Slow Burn and Amicus—and you’ll be supporting the work we do here on What Next. Sign up now at slate.com/whatnextplus to help support our work. Podcast production by Elena Schwartz, Paige Osburn, Anna Phillips, Madeline Ducharme and Rob Gunther. Social:@marysdesk on Twitterhttps://twitter.com/marysdesk The problem with the news right now? It’s everywhere. And each day, it can feel like we’re all just mindlessly scrolling. It’s why we created What Next. This short daily show is here to help you make sense of things. When the news feels overwhelming, we’re here to help you answer: What next? Look for new episodes every weekday morning. Mary Harris is the host and managing editor of What Next, Slate's new daily news podcast. She has reported throughout the public radio system, for NPR, Marketplace, and WNYC. Slate is published by The Slate
          Group, a Graham Holdings Company. All contents ©
        2024
        The Slate Group LLC. All rights reserved.