Now Reading   Published 12-15-22 Submitted by KeyBank KENNETT SQUARE, Pa., December 15, 2022 /CSRwire/ - Family Promise of Southern Chester County (FPSCC) has received a charitable grant from KeyBank Foundation in the amount of $300,000 payable over three years. This represents the largest grant that FPSCC has ever received from a single entity and will help fund its Every Child Deserves a Home: Promise House program. FPSCC was created in 2015 to address the growing concern for families with children experiencing homelessness in the communities defined by the five Southern Chester County school districts: Kennett Consolidated, Avon Grove, Oxford, and Unionville-Chadds Ford. As of January 2022, the Chester County Partnership to End Homelessness counted 402 persons experiencing homelessness in this defined area; 42% of this population were families with children. In the Promise House program, FPSCC rents apartments from landlords to be used as emergency housing. The Promise House allows families to stay in housing for up to ninety days. During this time, a FPSCC case manager works with families to establish and address goals, including gaining or improving employment, household budgeting/financial literacy, securing permanent housing, and connecting to entitlements (i. e. childcare, housing subsidies, food stamps, health care). Families also receive life skills training, such as how to utilize public transportation, improve their credit and financial situation, and build social networks, helping them to break the cycle of poverty and homelessness. “We are extremely grateful to the KeyBank Foundation for their impact grant supporting our new Promise House program, enabling Family Promise to rent apartments from landlords and use them as emergency housing for families experiencing homelessness,” said FPSCC Board President Burt Rothenberger. “This three-year grant provides the funding stability we need to develop, refine, and expand this program into one of our core programs for moving families to housing and financial sustainability.” Three of FPSCC’s current apartments have been rented from the Square Roots Collective, a collection of social enterprises focused on opportunities to advance the Kennett Square community toward an ecosystem in which everyone can thrive. “We are excited at KeyBank’s recognition of the important work that Family Promise is doing to help those facing poverty in Southern Chester County,” said Luke Zubrod, Square Roots Collective Chief of Staff. “We have long admired Family Promise’s passion for helping equip their clients with the knowledge and tools to transition to stable lives and are confident this gift will make an important contribution toward that end.” With KeyBank Foundation’s funding, FPSCC will be able to hire an additional case worker to assist more families and creates a partnership with KeyBank to provide financial literacy training to families. The grant will also enable FPSCC to expand the Promise House program to five apartments in the Kennett Square area to house even more families on an emergency basis. “KeyBank joins Family Promise in the belief that every child in our community and their families should have safe and stable housing. As a community-minded bank, we are committed to providing access to capital and support to neighborhoods and neighbors who face financial barriers,” said KeyBank’s Market President, Jamie Tranfalia. “We are pleased to provide Promise House with needed resources that will lift up at-risk families across Southern Chester County.” About Family Promise of Southern Chester County: 
Family Promise of Southern Chester County is committed to helping children and their families experiencing homelessness in the Avondale, Kennett Consolidated, Octorara, Oxford, and Unionville-Chadds Ford school districts. Its goal is to help families achieve lasting self-sufficiency and stability by providing comprehensive case management services, as well as shelter and meals through a network of congregations and volunteers until they find sustainable housing. Family Promise of Southern Chester County is part of a national, nonprofit initiative founded in 1988 with over 200 affiliates across the US changing the lives of families. To volunteer, make a donation, or provide services, please contact Family Promise of Southern Chester County at www.familypromisescc.org. About KeyBank Foundation: 
KeyBank Foundation serves to fulfill KeyBank’s purpose to help clients and communities thrive, and its mission is to support organizations and programs that prepare people for thriving futures. The Foundation’s mission is advanced through three funding priorities – neighbors, education, and workforce – and through community service. To provide meaningful philanthropy that transforms lives, KeyBank Foundation listens carefully to understand the unique characteristics and needs of its communities and then backs solutions with targeted philanthropic investments. KeyBank Foundation is a nonprofit charitable foundation, funded by KeyCorp. About KeyBank/KeyCorp: 
KeyCorp's roots trace back nearly 200 years to Albany, New York. Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, Key is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $190.1 billion on September 30, 2022. Key provides deposit, lending, cash management, and investment services to individuals and businesses in 15 states under the name KeyBank National Association through a network of approximately 1,000 branches and approximately 1,300 ATMs. Key also provides a broad range of sophisticated corporate and investment banking products, such as merger and acquisition advice, public and private debt and equity, syndications, and derivatives to middle market companies in selected industries throughout the United States under the KeyBanc Capital Markets trade name. For more information, visit https://www.key.com/. KeyBank is Member FDIC. Media contacts: 
FPSCC: Liberty Breen, Development Manager | 610-444-0400 | lbreen@familypromisescc.org
KeyBank: Karen Crane, Communications Manager | 203-789-2752 | karen_crane@keybank.com KeyCorp's roots trace back 190 years to Albany, New York. Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, Key is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $176.2 billion at March 31, 2021. Key provides deposit, lending, cash management, and investment services to individuals and businesses in 15 states under the name KeyBank National Association through a network of approximately 1,100 branches and more than 1,400 ATMs. Key also provides a broad range of sophisticated corporate and investment banking products, such as merger and acquisition advice, public and private debt and equity, syndications and derivatives to middle market companies in selected industries throughout the United States under the KeyBanc Capital Markets trade name. For more information, visit https://www.key.com/. KeyBank is Member FDIC.  KeyCorp's roots trace back 190 years to Albany, New York. Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, Key is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $176.2 billion at March 31, 2021. Key provides deposit, lending, cash management, and investment services to individuals and businesses in 15 states under the name KeyBank National Association through a network of approximately 1,100 branches and more than 1,400 ATMs. Key also provides a broad range of sophisticated corporate and investment banking products, such as merger and acquisition advice, public and private debt and equity, syndications and derivatives to middle market companies in selected industries throughout the United States under the KeyBanc Capital Markets trade name. For more information, visit https://www.key.com/. KeyBank is Member FDIC.  More from KeyBank