Get alerted any time new stories match your search criteria. Create an alert to follow a developing story, keep current on a competitor, or monitor industry news. 
Overwrite Existing Alert:

 
Sign In
 Thank You! Don’t forget you can visit MyAlerts to manage your alerts at any time. New Service Makes Documents More Accessible Life Health > Health Insurance 

By Allison Bell
 


News



October 26, 2023 at 02:05 PM



Share & Print
 R.R. Donnelly & Sons has added a service that could help health insurers, Medicare plan sellers and financial advisors do a better job of serving clients who have a hard time using ordinary English-language documents. The Chicago-based printer is introducing the Accessibility Hub by RRD. The new program can provide insurance documents and other documents translated into languages such as Spanish. It can also provide onsite interpretation, online interpretation, transcription services and subtitling services. Up Next Listen to free podcasts to get the info you need to solve business challenges! Foundation Planning Guide for Advisors The 4-Step Guide to Creating Holistic Risk Profiles For people with visual differences, hearing differences or other sensory differences, it can provide large-print documents, Braille documents, text-to-speech recognition technology, assistive screen readers, web accessibility testing, telecommunication relay services and sign language support services. R.R. Donnelly said it developed the program to help health plans and health care providers comply with new Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Medicare document accessibility rules that take effect Jan. 1. The new program can also help clients comply with Americans with Disability Act standards and other established accessibility regulations. Credit: elypse/Adobe Stock NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
Request academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to
 [email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing.
 Up Next