Reliance Jio on Tuesday announced the largest-ever launch of its True 5G services across 50 cities. With this, Jlo users across 184 cities are now enjoying Jio True 5G services.  



 Reliance Jio has become the first and the only operator to launch 5G services in most of these cities. Jio users in these cities will be invited to the Jio Welcome Offer, to experience Unlimited Data at up to 1 Gbps+ speeds, at no additional cost, starting today.  Commenting on the occasion, Jio Spokesperson said, "We are thrilled to launch Jio True 5G services in 50 additional cities across 17 states and union territories, taking the total count to 184 cities. This is by far one of the largest rollouts of 5G services, not just in India, but anywhere in the world. We have stepped up the speed and intensity of True 5G rollout across the nation because we want every Jio user to enjoy the transformational benefits of Jio True 5G technology in the new year 2023."      
Related Stories

Reliance Jio net profit up 28% to Rs 4,518 crore for September quarterReliance Jio and OnePlus teamed up to bring 'True 5G' ecosystem: Know-more Reliance Jio Rs 749 plan with 90 days validity launched: Here are the details  "The entire nation will be able to enjoy and benefit from Jio True 5G services by December 2023. We are grateful to the State govemments of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab  Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal for their continuous support our quest to digitize every region." Jio True 5G has a three-fold advantage that makes it the only TRUE 5G network in India: Top News Kolkata rape-murder case: Why until late night there was no FIR? questions SC Shreyas Talpade reacts strongly to death rumours, says 'I am alive, happy and healthy' History in T20 WC Qualifiers! Yuvraj Singh's joint record for most runs in T20I over shattered Related Technology News Oppo A3 and Oppo A3x 4G launched globally: Features, price and availability Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users Latest News Udaipur stabbing incident: Teenage victim cremated amid tight security  India TV Sports Wrap on August 20: Today's top 10 trending news stories  Box Office Report: Stree 2 passes Monday test with flying colours, crosses 200 crores mark in 5 days  Just 11 minutes of walk can help reduce risk of untimely death, know how and why it is effective  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Delhi: Rain lashes several parts of the national capital bringing respite from humid weather conditions    Annamalai criticises Rahul Gandhi's remarks on lateral entry in UPSC     Coffee Par Kurukshetra: What is the terrifying truth of Kolkata incident?    Aaj Ki Baat: Accused to undergo polygraph test. Will truth surface?    Haqiqat Kya Hai: What happened that night... Has the CBI uncovered every detail?    Kolkata rape-murder case LIVE: Police to send notice to ex-principal for disclosing victim identity   Rahul Gandhi highlights plight of gig workers, shares Uber ride experience | WATCH   Himachal Pradesh: 107 roads closed amid heavy rains, yellow alert issued   CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why   ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash   After China, Russia, FBI claims Iran hacks Trump and Biden-Harris campaigns ahead of elections   Clinton rouses Democrats, salutes Harris for working to break 'the hardest glass ceiling' | WATCH    'I love you': Biden turns emotional as his daughter Ashley introduces him on DNC stage | VIDEO    Harris makes surprise appearence at DNC, praises Biden for 'historic' role, says 'forever grateful'     'Biden, you can't hide': Protesters break through security fence near site of Democratic Convention   Shreyas Talpade reacts strongly to death rumours, says 'I am alive, happy and healthy'   Box Office Report: Stree 2 passes Monday test with flying colours, crosses 200 crores mark in 5 days   The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    History in T20 WC Qualifiers! Yuvraj Singh's joint record for most runs in T20I over shattered   Jalal Yunus steps down as Bangladesh Cricket Board director in 'greater interest of cricket'   Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Highlights: North Delhi successfully chase down 176 to register maiden win   Naseem Shah returns as Pakistan announce playing XI for first Test against Bangladesh   Oppo A3 and Oppo A3x 4G launched globally: Features, price and availability   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Champai Soren likely to join BJP | How this may affect Jharkhand political landscape ahead of polls   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    Stock market update: Nifty surges above 24,600, Sensex rises 200 points   DDA launches housing schemes: 40,000 discounted flats on offer, prices start at Rs 11.5 lakh    Domestic air traffic increases to 7.3 per cent to 1.29 crore on annual basis in July   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore   Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study  