New Delhi, Jan 16 (IANS) As Indian startups face turbulence in the global funding winter, experts on Monday said they need to reserve cash, create a long-term goal and adopt a culture of customer feedback to survive in 2023. On the occasion of the ‘National Startup Day’, envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year, industry experts said that the founders must continuously monitor the trends which are happening in the world. Indian startups fired more than 18,000 employees in 2022 amid a funding winter and macroeconomic uncertainty. “Investing in R&D can be one of the finest ways to actually tackle disruption. Make sure that as a business, you keep some of your profits or your balance sheet reserves for investing into R&D to actually learn more,” Dr Ritesh Malik, Director, Alliance for Digital India Foundation, or ADIF, told IANS. “If you feel that there is a platform like Instagram where the go-to-market strategy is more efficient, start learning Instagram and start promoting your products there,” he added. According to Tejas Khoday, Co-Founder and CEO of trading platform FYERS, this year is special as India has emerged to be the third largest startup ecosystem in the world. “While the past year was turbulent with IPOs of several well-known startups not doing too well, the ongoing funding winter and related layoffs, in the long run, all this will be a blip on the radar,” he said. That said, this will help the ecosystem to mature and hopefully we will see startups achieve a better balance between scale and profitability in 2023, Khoday noted. While interacting with over 150 startups, PM Modi last year announced the commemoration of National Startup Day on January 16 every year. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry marked an entire week as National Startup Week, from January 10 to 16. According to Malik, startups must hear back from their customers. “The more you hear from your customers, the more you will be able to understand their changing needs. And the more your product becomes dynamic and you constantly change that product to the whims and fantasies of the customer,” he noted. Ravish Naresh, CEO and Co-founder of Khatabook, said that there is a stronger acknowledgment of Indian startups’ role in solving core problems of emerging economies to bridge the socio-economic gaps. “This year, our primary aim is to turn profitable and scale up the digital lending offerings to meet the unmet credit demand of Indian MSME businesses. We are optimistic about the Indian economy and its opportunities for the startup ecosystem,” he said. –IANS na/dpb The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired John Abraham’s latest film, Vedaa, has been receiving positive feedback since its release on August The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) is proud to announce that renowned Indian actor Pankaj The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired Award winning composer and music maestro A.R. Rahman was felicitated with the prestigious ‘Excellence in Song Rote Rote Movie Ghudchadi Singer Jubin Nautiyal Featuring Sanjay Dutt, Raveena Tondon, Parth Samthaan Song Name – New Woman Featuring – LISA and Rosalia Check out New Woman Song Taylor Swift’s final series of shows for the European leg of her Eras tour at Ankita Lokhande recently shared a fun moment on her Instagram Stories, revealing that her husband, Devoleena Bhattacharjee, a beloved figure in Indian television, has thrilled her fans with the heartwarming Shaheer Sheikh recently returned from his vacation and made a heartfelt visit to his best Actress Disha Parmar recently shared an adorable moment with her daughter, Navya, on Instagram, capturing “Kota Factory,” once hailed for its relatable depiction of student life in Kota, has unfortunately “The Legend of Hanuman” Season 4 continues to impress with its blend of stunning animation, “Gullak” Season 4, much anticipated by fans of the charming Mishra family, unfortunately fails to “Blackout,” starring Vikrant Massey, is a thriller that strives to keep viewers on the edge glamsham.com® (since 1999) is an English language news / information platform with an aim to connect with people with information about the  entertainment industry.