The firm closed a standalone store during the pandemic but is set to make a comeback Get the latest news from Newcastle straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Newcastle straight to your inbox We have more newsletters  Shoe retailer Dune London is set to return to Newcastle city centre with the opening of a new store, documents reveal.   The popular footwear firm has applied for permission to make changes to a unit within the upmarket Central Arcade building close to Monument, at 136-138 Grainger Street, which was the Cath Kidston store for eight years before closing its doors in 2020. The move marks a return to a standalone store for Dune London, which had its own shop within Eldon Square before its closure during the pandemic. It also serves as a vote of confidence in the city centre, as well as Central Arcade. Central Exchange, the Grade II-listed triangular property which includes Central Arcade, was snapped up real estate billionaires the Reuben Brothers last October, who paid ‘significantly’ more than the £11.75m asking price.  Read more: Healthy cafe Island Poke set to bring 'slice of paradise' to Newcastle The deal means Reuben Brothers now owns a large share of Newcastle city centre land and property, having already acquired Monument Mall and a separate retail parade in Grainger Street, with its largest acquisitions sitting next to its £100m-plus developments taking shape in Pilgrim Street.  The real estate entrepreneurs own the entire Pilgrim Street site, stretching from the former Odeon Cinema plot down to Swan House roundabout. Dune has submitted an application to make some alterations inside the store, which was also a successful Office Shoes store for many years.  In its application, made on its behalf by an Edinburgh based interiors firm, says: “Dune London will take over the existing, empty retail unit provided by the landlord. There will of no works carried out to the fabric of the building.   “The internal shop fit will comprise of retail joinery installation, new flooring, decoration and install of movable midfloor units and cash desk. All existing internal partitions, walls, ceilings, skirting, doors and windows will be retained and made good where necessary to ensure the appearance of the shell building is not altered.”   Since closing its shop in Eldon Square, the firm has operated a franchise within Fenwick department store and its nearest standalone unit has been in the Metrocentre.  READ NEXT 