By Jade Watkins for Daily Mail Australia   Published:  00:16 EDT, 30 May 2023   |  Updated:  11:41 EDT, 30 May 2023      27 View  comments  He is smitten with his girlfriend Katarina Deme, and was even seen looking at diamond engagement rings during a shopping trip to Tiffany & Co. earlier this month. And The Kid Laroi was seen packing on the PDA with the stunning model as they stepped out for lunch in New York City on Monday. The Aussie rapper appeared to be trying his best to cheer up his beautiful partner while leaving popular eatery Sadelle's in the Soho area. Laroi, 19, whose real name is Charlton Howard, kissed her hand and planted a smooch on her cheek as they strolled out of the venue. Both were dressed casually for the outing, with Katarina, 19, wearing a low-cut singlet top teamed with baggy jeans and Adidas sneakers. The Kid Laroi, 19, was seen packing on the PDA with his stunning model girlfriend Katarina Deme during lunch in New York City on Monday  Meanwhile, Laroi flaunted his arm tattoo in a sleeveless hooded top paired with baggy black trousers. It comes after the singer was pictured looking at diamond engagement rings at a Tiffany & Co. store in Los Angeles earlier this month. He has been dating model Katarina for almost three years. The Sydney-born musician said in March last year the couple was already talking marriage despite their young age. 'We're just taking life how it goes. But sure, I would love to get married to Kat one day,' the Without You star told Vogue Australia.  Laroi, 19, whose real name is Charlton Howard, was seen kissing her hand and trying to plant a smooch on her cheek as they left popular eatery Sadelle's in the Soho area Both were dressed casually for the outing, with Katarina, 19, wearing a low-cut singlet top teamed with baggy jeans and Adidas sneakers  During an earlier interview with The Kyle and Jackie O Show, Laroi revealed how he first met his girlfriend. The Indigenous Australian hip-hop star said he never expected to fall in love so young, but did so soon after relocating from Sydney to LA, where Katarina is based. 'We met through a mutual friend that I had when I came around here,' he said. 'Around the time that I met her, I just put out the whole F*ck Love project and was not in the vibe of love. But you can't control that type of stuff. It was so ironic.' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group