HAVE you got an eye for designer handbags but not the bank balance to go with it? Well, if you're also a fan of Disney, then you may just want to listen up...because fashion fans have been going wild for a £10 bag in Poundland that's a Cath Kidston dupe. But while they bear striking similarities, the replica version is a whopping £65 cheaper. Elsewhere, others noted out the bag looks almost identical to one from the Disney x Firefly range - and with it's similar tan colour, sturdy straps and Bambi embroidered stitching, there's no denying they have an uncanny resemblance.  Eagle-eyed shopper Denise Mitsides rushed online to money-saving Facebook group Extreme Couponing and Bargains UK and shared a snap of her Disney-inspired bag which is emblazoned with an image of Bambi. Alongside the photo, she penned: "Disney Bambi handbag at pepco (Poundland's fashion range) only £10.  "It was so cute I just had to take it home with me.  "The only other one similar is a Cath Kidston one for £75." She added: "Also comes with shoulder strap, one side pocket and has ‘Disney Classics’ tag." FABULOUS FIVER: SPEND £5 AND GET A £25 WELCOME BONUS It wasn't long before the post racked up over 300 likes and hundreds of comments, with Disney fans all eager to get their hands on the bargain bag. "I NEED THIS!" wrote one, followed by the love heart eye emoji. A second penned: "Wow that's beautiful." A third wrote: "Brilliant." Meanwhile, a fourth noted: "That is cute!" Another commented: "We need this." A further added: "Would love one of them." And one more chimed in: "Oh I love this." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/