UK Edition The fashion designer Cath Kidston has been banned from driving for six months after she admitted to looking at her mobile phone while in a traffic jam in Hyde Park. She was seen by a police officer operating an illuminated phone as her blue Mercedes-Benz began to move. She was travelling on West Carriage Drive, which bisects Hyde Park in central London, on January 31. Kidston, 64, who was awarded an MBE for services to business in 2010, already had six points on her licence after two speeding offences; one committed in May last year and the other in 2020. She entered a guilty plea at Lavender Hill magistrates’ court using an online system and in September apologised for the offence. “I admit looking at the phone on the seat. I had been in a long stationary traffic jam and looked at my phone when the traffic started to move. I apologise,” she told the court via email. Abigail Akano, for the prosecution, told the court the officer was on duty and in full uniform when they caught Kidston. She said: “The defendant had a mobile phone in their hand, in their left hand, and the screen was illuminated. The defendant was operating the device with her right hand.” When Kidston, who lives in Notting Hill, was stopped and spoken to by the officer she said she was checking a message on her phone. “It was pointed out she would be reported for that matter,” said Akano. At the hearing Kidston was given six penalty points on top of the six she already had and was disqualified from driving for six months. She must also pay a £666 fine, a surcharge of £266 and prosecution costs of £110. Kidston sold a majority stake in her eponymous company in 2010 shortly after being awarded her MBE but stayed on as its creative director for four years. She opened the company’s first shop in 1993 on Clarendon Cross, a narrow street linking Holland Park and Notting Hill, after investing £15,000 of her savings. In 2009, the year before she sold the company, it reported profits of £4.6 million and sales of £31.3 million with more than30 shops around the world. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.