The latest drop this morning includes several new prints with prices starting from £6 Accio purse! Cath Kidston's latest Harry Potter collaboration dropped this morning and muggles have already been snapping it up, with some of the most popular items already showing as low in stock online. The retailer, which is known for its retro prints, regularly incorporates pop-culture icons in its products. On Monday a new batch of products inspired by JK Rowling's boy wizard hit store shelves and online in the firm's second Harry Potter x Cath Kidston collab with bags, clothing, tea towels, kitchenware and more all available.  Prices range from £6 for a pair of Forbidden Forest children's socks up to £140 for a herbology print dress which is available in sizes 6-18.  The intricate designs in this latest collaboration with all things Hogwarts have been inspired by Harry, Hermione, Ron and the gang's school lessons. Potions, herbology, charms and care of magical creatures are all covered, with dozens of tiny details entwined within floral prints in Cath Kidston's usual vintage style.  The eight different prints available also include imagery including the Forbidden Forest, Dobby, pixies and various pets and iconic animals like Crookshanks, Trevor the Frog, Norbert the dragon, Fawkes, Thestral and even Hedwig taking centre stage.  But the print that has caused the biggest stir on launch day is a stunning blue and purple patronus print, with a £22 make up case and matching £28 washbag coming up as limited stock just hours after the range went on sale. The cute oilcloth make-up bag comes with a matching mini mirror. The print is also available in a book bag. The navy print includes references to Harry, Hermione, Luna and Lily alongside some of their patronus, the magical creatures that they can summon to protect them from harm. Regular collaborations taking inspiration from Disney, Harry Potter and the Roald Dahl books have all previously proved popular with shoppers. This is the second Harry Potter collaboration unveiled by the brand so far, but eagle-eyed fans on Instagram have spotted that some of the adult pyjamas and other items shown in promotional videos circulated on social media have yet to be launched. The first 70 customers shopping at the firm's flagship central London store who spent over £50 on the drop today were also given a free wand to mark the occasion. Many fans took to social media to praise the products and the unusual prints, although some were disappointed not all products were available in all designs. One said: "Where are all the items in the promos, ie women's PJs? I'm unable to find them."  Another added: "Hope you have more items for adults and not only for kids."