GO AD FREE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES More on KentOnline News you can trust 21°C | 9°C 5 day forecast   Home   Ashford   News   Article A footwear and clothing brand is returning to a Kent shopping centre after 15 years away. Vans closed at the Ashford Designer Outlet in 2008 - before the centre’s huge extension - but will make its come-back just before Christmas. It is one of several new brands opening at the popular mall, with Rituals also set to launch, while Grind Coffee is already serving customers. Speaking about Vans’ return, deputy centre manager Peter Heritage said: “Vans is a really cool brand. “It has a history based in the skateboarding culture but our customers are absolutely going to love it. “It’s often a brand which is mentioned by customers as one which is wanted, so for us to be able to tick another great brand off and please our customers even more, is something we’re really happy about.” It will take over the former Sole Trader unit, which recently moved elsewhere within the centre. Beauty brand Rituals will open inside the former Cath Kidston unit, which exited the outlet in the summer. Mr Heritage said: “It's a brilliant brand and has been extremely popular within our other McArthurGlen centres. “We would never want to lose a brand like Cath Kidston - they’re a great brand - but the unit is ideal for Rituals so it was an easy decision for us to put them there. “Rituals is not just beauty, it’s home products as well and it really compliments what we already have.” Other stores which have recently opened their doors at the Ashford Designer Outlet include Columbia sportswear, which launched on Thursday, and London-based brand Grind Coffee. Columbia is located next-door to Puma while Grind, which opened two weeks ago, sits inside a food truck opposite M&S. Mr Heritage added: “The coffee lovers are going mad for it. “We’ve seen several people who are coming into the centre specifically for the coffee.” As well as drinks, the coffee company also sells gifts, candles, coffee pods and beans. Calvin Klein is also set to relocate into a bigger unit in the extension-side of the centre, opposite Tommy Hilfiger. Coming in at about 5,000 sq ft, it will be one of the biggest shops at the outlet following the move. “We’re very excited about that and it will open mid-December,” Mr Heritage added. “The brand is very happy with how it’s doing so they want a bigger store to be able to give customers a new experience.” Clarins also recently welcomed customers for the first time, having launched last weekend. Late night shopping at the outlet kicks off on October 26 and stores will be open from 10am until 8pm. Trying to find the right nursery, school, college, university or training provider in Kent or Medway? Our Education Directory has everything you could possibly need! This website and its associated newspaper are members of the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) © KM Group 2024