
Prime
 The primary objective of this initiative is to revolutionise the agricultural landscape by facilitating digital payments. PHOTO | iStock 
By 
The Citizen Reporter
 Media/news company Mwananchi Communications Limited  Dar es Salaam. Farmers in Tanzania have for years been grappling with multiple challenges ranging from a lack of access to market information, financing, inputs, technical knowledge, and access to markets to sell their produce. They also contend with such issues as delayed payments, the costs and risks associated with carrying cash and the high administrative costs of cash management at the administrative level. It was against this backdrop that Tigo Tanzania, through its Mobile Financial Services, Tigo Pesa, intervened with a view to providing practical solutions to farmers’ financial transactions and making payments for their produce faster, easier, and more convenient. Therefore, in 2017, Tigo Tanzania, recognising the challenges faced by farmers in Tanzania, took a proactive step and introduced a ground-breaking initiative named “Tigo Kilimo.” The primary objective of this initiative is to revolutionise the agricultural landscape by facilitating digital payments and fostering financial inclusion for farmers across various regions of the country. Tigo Kilimo kicked off its journey by forming strategic partnerships with different farmers’ cooperative unions (AMCOS) in two key regions: Mtwara and Lindi for cashewnut farming, and the lake zone regions for cotton and tobacco production. Additionally, the initiative extended its support to the farmers cultivating cloves in Zanzibar via the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation (ZSTC). So far, Tigo is currently successfully implementing the digital payment system for cashew nut, tea, sesame, clove, and cotton farmers in various parts of the county. Commenting on Tigo’s support for Tanzanian farmers, Tigo’s Chief Executive Officer Kamal Okba said: “The Tigo Kilimo initiative we introduced at Tigo Pesa has undeniably made a significant impact on farmers and their cooperative unions and societies, particularly in terms of financial inclusion, in addition to being the best approach to foster strategic partnerships with various agricultural communities”. Through the arrangement, farmers are given the option to choose their preferred payment option, i.e., through their bank accounts or through their Tigo Pesa wallets, with most of them preferring the latter because of its convenience. “Since I started using Tigo Pesa, I have never regretted it because I now receive the payment for my crops faster than before; it’s also very safe because I do not have to carry cash long distances, which was previously risky”, says Ezekiel Simanyara from Kilwa in Southern Tanzania. According to company sources, Tigo has so far distributed funds through the Tigo Kilimo initiative to more than 50,000 farmers, supporting an estimated 30,000 families in their ecosystem. The same case applies to the cotton project, which is implemented in the Simiyu and Shinyanga regions and involves over 3,200 registered cotton farmers. In a remarkable collaboration between Tigo Pesa and Zanzibar State Trading Corporation (ZSTC), the 2022 season witnessed a momentous milestone as payments were made possible to 5,500 clove farmers in Zanzibar. According to Chief Officer for Tigo Pesa, Angelica Pesha, “This innovative approach has empowered farmers to access formal financial services, enabling them to make informed decisions, invest in their farms, and gradually uplift their socio-economic status. Tigo Kilimo serves as a shining example of how technology can drive positive change in the agricultural sector, promoting sustainable growth and prosperity for farming communities in Tanzania.” Okba said: “Tigo Kilimo’s achievement has hugely been attributed to the stable Tigo network across the country following the ongoing network improvement and modernization initiative set to cost the company 1 trillion Tanzanian shillings. Conclusively, Tigo Pesa services are available everywhere in Tanzania, including the rural areas, due to our partnership with the United Republic of Tanzania through UCSAF, which aims at strengthening our network in these areas”. These efforts are a gesture to boost the government’s efforts in driving financial inclusion by paying farmers through Tigo Pesa, the company is building an inclusive financial system in a coordinated manner. 
We come to you.
We are always looking for ways to improve our stories. Let us know what you liked and what we can improve on.
 
The story follows four children who flee from various parts of the country, seeking refuge in the belly of Dar es Salaam, hoping to escape poverty. 
According to the chairperson of Losiming’ori Village, Lazaro Laizer, the source once bubbling with gushing fresh water turned into a dusty gorge in 2021 due to effects of climate change 
The court will hear the case continuously from tomorrow until Friday, August 23, to ensure timely justice and address all aspects of the case. 
If you have an Ad-blocker please disable it and reload the page or try again later.
 
Nation Media Group © 2024
 
It's free!
 
Access the best of The Citizen's Independent Journalism
