There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the Financial sector as 3 analysts just weighed in on Intercorp Financial Services (IFS – Research Report), Progressive (PGR – Research Report) and Ellington Financial (EFC – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. Intercorp Financial Services (IFS) Bank of America Securities analyst Ernesto Gabilondo  maintained a Buy rating on Intercorp Financial Services today and set a price target of $34.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $23.48. According to TipRanks.com, Gabilondo is a 1-star analyst with an average return of -2.8% and a 64.3% success rate. Gabilondo covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Grupo Financiero Galicia SA, Grupo Supervielle SA, and Banco Macro SA. Intercorp Financial Services has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $34.00.
		  See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Progressive (PGR) In a report released today, Joshua Shanker  from Bank of America Securities maintained a Buy rating on Progressive, with a price target of $197.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $134.38. According to TipRanks.com, Shanker is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 6.8% and a 56.0% success rate. Shanker covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as American International Group, Corebridge Financial, Inc., and Marsh & Mclennan Companies. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Progressive with a $147.07 average price target, implying an 8.9% upside from current levels. In a report issued on May 3, Evercore ISI also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $153.00 price target.
		  Ellington Financial (EFC) In a report released yesterday, Michael Diana  from Maxim Group reiterated a Buy rating on Ellington Financial, with a price target of $15.50. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $12.24. According to TipRanks.com, Diana is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 8.2% and a 43.5% success rate. Diana covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as First Savings Financial Group, Generation Income Properties, and Westamerica Bancorporation. Currently, the analyst consensus on Ellington Financial is a Strong Buy with an average price target of $14.25. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on IFS:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks