 Simply register at no cost.   Questions or problems? Email [email protected] or call 0711 046 000.  •Widows have been registered as Pokot Turkana and Marakwet Women Peace Network (Potuma), sensitising women in the region on peace and reconciliation. • Former minister Linah Kilimo, a network official, says the cost and effect of banditry was heavy on families and they support government efforts to restore security. Elgeyo Marakwet has so far registered more than 400 widows who lost their husbands as a result of banditry  in the Kerio Valley. The widows have been registered under the Pokot Turkana and Marakwet Women Peace Network (Potuma) which is informing women in the region on peace and reconciliation. Former minister Linah Kilimo, who is an official of the network, says the cost and effect of banditry was heavy on families and they fully support government efforts to restore security in stricken counties. “How I wish we could really stop these killings in Kerio Valley because we are increasing the number of widows and orphans. The killings are so costly to many families in the region,” Kilimo said. She was speaking at  a women leaders forum in Eldoret organised under the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb). It was attended by more than 100 women leaders from the counties in the region including Deputy Governor for Nandi Dr Yulita Mitei and her Trans Nzoia counterpart Phillomena Kapkory. Kilimo said women and children suffer most in the banditry attacks and through Noreb and Potusa they would move to mobilise women to actively participate in peace and reconciliation initiatives. Dr Mitei said as women leaders they fully support the move taken by the government to deploy KDF to backup security operations in the region to help restore security. “There is need for a holistic approach, however, so that communities own the peace initiatives and participate in peace efforts,” Dr Mitei said. She said women should have a voice in peace issues because they understand better the effects of conflicts. The meeting was also addressed by Nandi Governor Stephen Sang who is also chairman of Noreb. He said governors in the North Rift would push long-term solutions to the banditry problem in the region including economic transformation to create jobs for youth. Sang said they fully support the ongoing security operation in the region but it should also be used to revive stalled economic projects.  Sang said job opportunities have to be created for youth who will be forced to abandon banditry. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, who is also chairman of the Noreb, said they welcome the KDF deployment to back up the security operation in counties affected by banditry. Sang says governors from the region they discussed with President William Ruto the need for KDF to help open up infrastructure and also drill boreholes for water to residents. "What we are asking the government is that we want a permanent solution and KDF has the capacity to even build dams and other projects in the region that has suffered economic marginalisation," Sang said. He said KDF should work with relevant development agencies like KVDA and the National Irrigation Board, among others, to ensure that major projects are done to transform communities Sang said economic empowerment would be the main solution to the challenges in the region ,apart from the security operation.  (Edited by V. Graham Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000 · [email protected]  