Kim Zolciak appears to be drowning in a pool of debt amid her newly re-established divorce from Kroy Biermann. Saks/Capital One filed a lawsuit against the former “Real Housewives of Atlanta” star, 45, for more than $150,000 in unpaid credit card fees, according to court documents obtained by Page Six Friday. She hadn’t made payments on the bill since September 2022, when she paid $4,179. However, since then, charges and fees have racked up to a total outstanding balance of $156,080.64 plus all court costs. The new suit was filed Thursday, the same day that Biermann, 37, refiled his dissolution of marriage paperwork at Fulton County Superior Court in Georgia, where the estranged couple resides. Zolciak’s rep declined Page Six’s request for comment on the latest debt. The “Don’t Be Tardy” star and her estranged husband have been dealing with financial issues long before their marriage came to an end. In May, it was revealed that the reality stars owe the IRS $1.1 million in unpaid taxes, interest and penalties from 2013, 2017 and 2018. Their mansion also went into foreclosure multiple times, with the most recent default taking place in February. However, they settled that debt and were able to avoid an auction on their home. Target then sued Zolciak in June, claiming she owed them $2,482.24 in unpaid credit card fees. The former “Housewife”‘s eldest daughter, Brielle Biermann, also recently fell behind on her bills. American Express sued the 26-year-old this week for failing to pay an outstanding balance of $12,870.25 on her credit card. We were told at the time that the influencer planned to fulfill her payment the next day. Meanwhile, Kroy has also faced legal action due to their money woes. BMW Financial Services sued the former Atlanta Falcons player for skipping out on car payments on a luxe vehicle worth $400,100. Kroy’s attorney put the blame on Zolciak at the time, telling TMZ, “Mr. Biermann never imagined that he would find himself in this position, having a car repossessed. “But this is the fallout when folks find themselves spending way beyond their means. Kroy retired and no longer receives that NFL salary. … I don’t think anyone told Kim.” Kroy himself has accused Zolciak of spending too much. In bodycam footage from a police visit to their home released in July, the athlete alleged to cops that the former Bravolebrity bet $700,000 in “illegal” online gambling. “It’s probably been going on for pretty much our entire marriage and it’s gotten significantly worse,” he claimed.  Zolciak did not respond to the allegations but she once admitted to having a gambling habit. In a 2014 episode of “Don’t Be Tardy,” she disclosed she once lost $250,000 while betting in the Bahamas. Aside from the gambling, several employment factors may have contributed to the family’s financial status. Kroy was cut from the Buffalo Bills in September 2016, ending his professional NFL career. Four years later, he was accused of owing his former agent $22,000 in unpaid fees. The family, which also includes Ariana, 21, Kroy Jr. “KJ”, 12, Kash, 11, and twins Kaia and Kane, 9, then saw their reality TV fame dwindle when “Don’t Be Tardy” was canceled after eight seasons in May 2021. The financial strain added stress to Kroy and Zolciak’s relationship, multiple sources claimed when the pair first raced each other to the courthouse to file for divorce in May. For more Page Six reality TV updates … However, the estranged couple decided to briefly call off the split after sources told us in July that the married duo had been “getting along” again and decided to work through their issues. A month later, Kroy filed for divorce again amid reports that he and his ex had a blowout fight about finances that finally tore them apart for good. A source told TMZ at the time, “They’ve gotten ridiculously petty over who hasn’t paid bills. They’re counting down to pennies.” Zolciak has seemingly tried to cover her losses by selling her daughter’s designer goods for profit. 

 Advertisement