Please view the main text area of the page by skipping the main menu. The page may not be displayed properly if the JavaScript is deactivated on your browser. 
Japan's National Daily Since 1922 April 23, 2023 (Mainichi Japan) Japanese version 
    NARA -- A hotel with mixed features of Japanese and Western architecture in this ancient Japanese capital was designed by a renowned Japanese architect, and has remained standing since opening in 1909.
 
    Nara Hotel, built in the style of a palace and made of Japanese cypress, is located on a hill in a corner of Nara Park, where many deer spend their time in peace and quiet. It was founded in 1909 to welcome foreigners visiting Japan, whose number rapidly increased after the Russo-Japanese War. Kingo Tatsuno (1854-1919) designed the hotel to harmonize with the landscape of Nara, the ancient capital of the country. The ornamental roof tiles called "shibi," which look like the tail of a bird or fish and can be seen on the Great Buddha Hall of Nara's Todai-ji temple and elsewhere, are attached as a protective charm against fire, and the walls are plastered.
 
    Upon entering the hotel's main building, a chandelier modeled after the hanging lanterns of Kasugataisha Shrine, also in the same city, stands out in the 9-meter-high double-height coffered ceiling. The German-style mantelpiece in front of the reception is combined with a vermilion torii shrine gate, symbolizing Nara Hotel's eclectic style of Japanese and Western architecture.
 
    As an international guest house of the Kansai region, many world-famous celebrities have stayed at the hotel, including Albert Einstein, Puyi the last emperor of China, Charlie Chaplin, Helen Keller and Audrey Hepburn.
 
    Throughout its long history, the hotel has retained its beautiful appearance even though experiencing changes in management and confiscation by the U.S. military after World War II.
 
    (Japanese original by Ai Kawahira, Osaka Photo Department)
 
    * * *
 
    The Japanese version of this article was originally published on March 26, 2023.
 
    * * *
 
    This series explores Japan's architectural wonders and secrets of yesteryear. Read more Retro Japan articles here.
 
More Articles
  Copyright THE MAINICHI NEWSPAPERS. All rights reserved.