
GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links.
 Nanjiani says he shared a set with Harry Styles in an alternative post-credit scene that was never used. By 
    Hayley Williams
   on December 14, 2022 at 10:26PM PST 2021's The Eternals could have seen Kingo and Eros meet in a post-credit scene, according to actor Kumail Nanjiani. In an appearance on the Happy Sad Confused podcast (via Entertainment Weekly), Nanjiani revealed that he shot "a very different sort of post-credit sequence" for the Eternals that would have seen his character on screen alongside Harry Styles. While Nanjiani was wary of giving away too many details, he explained that the two characters didn't really interact per se. "We didn't really talk. We just sort of made eyes at each other from afar," Nanjiani explained, before adding: "I don't really know what I'm allowed to say." You need a javascript enabled browser to watch videos. 
        Want us to remember this setting for all your devices?
       Sign up or Sign in now!
       
        By clicking 'enter', you agree to GameSpot's
                        Terms of Use and
        Privacy Policy enter Now Playing: Who Are Marvel's Eternals? The mid-credit scene that ended up making it to our screens introduced Harry Styles as Eros, but didn't feature Nanjiani, as his character Kingo had been abducted in a previous scene. Nanjiani also talked about the experience of working alongside Styles for the film, even if they didn't share a scene together in the end. "I started hearing rumblings of it here and there and I thought it was bullshit," he recounted. "I was like, 'The guy from One Direction? No way.' And then you show up to work one day and there's gorgeous Harry Styles. 'Hey, mate!' And I'm like, 'Hey? What are you doing here, man?'" When asked about his future with The Eternals and his character Kingo, Nanjiani wasn't sure whether he'd be asked to return to the role. "I genuinely do not know if my character is gonna come back at all," he said. "I would love to come back and do it, but I genuinely, genuinely, genuinely don't know. It sucks. I would love to go back and do it again!" Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Use your keyboard! Log in to comment 