Bloober Team is bringing this classic PS2 horror game to PS5, so here's what we know about the Silent Hill 2 remake release date, as well as the latest news. 

                    Echo Apsey                
 
Published: Jul 3, 2024  When is the Silent Hill 2 remake release date? Developer Bloober Team is overhauling Konami’s beloved horror game for PS5 players, as the studio is set to deliver the first proper Silent Hill game in a decade. It has been a long wait, but we’re now fast approaching the Silent Hill 2 remake release date. Silent Hill 2 is often regarded as one of the best horror games ever made, and we’re surprised a current-gen refresh hasn’t happened sooner. With updated visuals and general enhancements to gameplay, the Silent Hill 2 remake should take one of the best games of the PS2 era and elevate it to a new level on current-gen hardware.  The Silent Hill 2 remake release date is set for Tuesday, October 8, 2024. It is set to launch only on the PS5 console. Those who pre-order the Deluxe Edition of the game will get two days of early access, so the earliest you can technically play the game is October 6. This release date was finally confirmed during the May 2024 PlayStation State of Play broadcast. A 2024 release for the Silent Hill 2 remake had been on the cards for a while. An investor call in April of this year indicated that the studio was close to shipping the game. CEO Piotr Babieno said that the studio is “in the final stages of work on Silent Hill 2.” Even before an official announcement was made on its release date, Silent Hill 2 also appeared in official PlayStation blog posts and montages looking ahead to games that were launching in 2024, where it appeared alongside the likes of Stellar Blade, Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth, and Rise of the Ronin. As you can tell, there is a strong Sony affiliation for Silent Hill 2, and the game will be launching as a PS5 exclusive (in terms of the console landscape, at least). Here’s everything else we know about the platforms it’s coming to both at launch and in the future.   The Silent Hill 2 remake will launch on PS5 and PC. The game is set to be a 12-month console exclusive for PS5, so it won’t hit Xbox Series X|S consoles until at least a year after its initial launch. There is no guarantee it will even hit Xbox once that agreement ends, but we’d be surprised if Konami didn’t bring the SH2 remake across to Microsoft’s platform eventually. Xbox fans of a certain vintage will remember the launch of the original game on the first Xbox, or the remaster (yes, the one with the Comic Sans font) that hit Xbox 360.  During the January 2024 PlayStation State of Play, a combat reveal trailer aired. Here we can see beautifully remade gameplay snippets taken from various points in the game. Enemies are far more aggressive than they were in the original Silent Hill 2, but fortunately, you’ll have a familiar arsenal of makeshift weaponry and guns to deal with them. We’ve also spotted a struggle system for when monsters get too close, akin to that found in the Resident Evil series. Following a Silent Hill Transmission stream in May, Konami released a chunky 13-minute slice of gameplay to give fans a real sense of how Silent Hill 2 would look and feel.  The Silent Hill 2 remake has two editions: Standard (digital, physical) and Deluxe (digital). Buying the Standard Edition will, unsurprisingly, only give you the game. Meanwhile, the Deluxe Edition will additionally net you a digital artbook and soundtrack, as well as an in-game Pyramid Head Mask made out of a pizza box – creative. The Silent Hill 2 Standard Edition will set you back $69.99, while the Deluxe Edition comes in at $79.99. Considering the only really interesting bonus perk is that Pyramid Head Mask cosmetic item, we’d suggest you save ten bucks and opt for the base version unless you’re a hardcore fan. It’s also worth noting that pre-ordering either edition on PS5 will reward you with both the Mira the Dog and Robbie the Rabbit masks. Suffice to say, you won’t be missing out on the cosmetics front if you opt against the Deluxe Edition. You can check out what said masks look like here. That is everything we know about the Silent Hill 2 remake release date. There’s not long to go now, and we doubt there’s much more of the game that Bloober and Konami can show, but if any more info comes to light, we’ll be sure to keep you posted. If you want a bit more horror before then, check out our guides on the best PS5 horror games and the best Xbox horror games for more jump scare-filled delights. 

                    Echo Apsey                 Echo has years of experience writing about PS5, Xbox, and the best games and franchises that console players love. They joined The Loadout in 2021 as a staff writer and worked their way up to be the site's guides editor, before departing in 2023.

They've written hundreds of guides on games such as Call of Duty, XDefiant, Spider-Man 2, Starfield, and many more. They were also the custodian of The Loadout's various PS Plus games and Xbox Game Pass games lists, informing subscribers about any new, departing, or interesting games that they could play.

In their time writing, they have attended industry events like Gamescom and WASD. Additionally, they have conducted interviews with the teams behind Lords of the Fallen, Blue Protocol, Dying Light 2, and more since beginning their writing journey at university.            