Monday, 19 August 23 Jun 2023 Because of the Noordhoek lagoon's unique habitat, kite surfers will have to move to other spots. The Table Mountain National Park (TMNP) said the activity was a banned in the lagoon. Horse riders have also complained, saying their horses are spooked by the kites. TMNP said that, following complaints and consultation, it had limited some of the activities at the lagoon. Signs were put up, stating "no kite-boarding", but it was removed.  "Table Mountain National Park management has again assessed the situation and reiterates the decision that kite-boarding is not permitted at Noordhoek lagoon," a statement said.  It said:  It said the lagoon provided a rare habitat as a refuge for roosting birds, driven from rocky shore roosts by high levels of human disturbances.  It is a vital breeding ground for the African Black Oystercatcher - a threatened species - it supports breeding pairs of White-fronted Plover, and the pan is a significant "commuting zone" for Cape Clawless Otters as they move between the sea and the Noordhoek wetlands.  READ | Teenager from Italy stuns judges to be crowned the King of the Air at Bloubergstrand There is a danger that the dune ecosystem could be disturbed - and, if the vegetation is denuded, erosion will set in.  "It is hoped that, while some in the kite-boarding fraternity may not welcome this ruling, their support can be relied on, in the interests of conserving this precious ecosystem." Cape Town is one of the most popular kite-surfing destinations in the world because of its strong wind.      1h ago Indulge in the finer things 
                    News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life. 
                 Free to listen for subscribers 
                    News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
                 Can you ace them all? 
                    Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz

                 SA Money Daily 
                    The biggest business, economic and market news of the day, by Fin24 deputy editor, Ahmed Areff.
                 16 Aug 07 Aug 01 Aug 19 Jul 15 Jul 30 Jun  
                    Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
                 13 Aug 16 Jul 30 Jun 19 Jun Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24. 7h ago 9h ago 12 Aug 12 Aug