Experienced operator Great betting odds Large range of sports and markets Up to $500 Risk-Free First Bet Bonuses & Promotions Banking & Payout Speed Key Features Security & Trust Customer Support User Experience Betting Odds 1-5 days Experienced operator Great betting odds Large range of sports and markets 1-5 days  William Hill is one of the oldest names and most established brands in the industry, with its superb offering of sports betting markets, sharp odds, and key features. Caesars completed its acquisition of the U.S. arm of William Hill, the British sports betting operator, in April 2021. Players in the U.S. now have access to Caesars Sportsbook. William Hill Sports is known to come up with some great promotional campaigns from time to time.  Sign-up bonusThe sportsbook now gives new customers a risk-free bet of up to $500. You will have to use the William Hill bonus code C500 when registering to be eligible for the offer. After that, place a pre-match or in-play bet of $10 or more at odds of at least 1.80. If your wager settles as a loss, you will get your stake back as a free bet up to $500 the following day. Odds boosts and enhanced oddsEvery day William Hill presents multiple markets with enhanced odds to give bettors better returns. The deals usually focus on popular sports but cover plenty of events to make sure that all customers can find something just right. The selections are marked with the Enhanced Odds logo on the site for easy access. Ongoing bonuses and promotionsWilliam Hill is constantly offering bettors new promotions based on the sports that are happening at that time. For example, get your money back if the fighter you choose in boxing or MMA loses by split decision. Or earn free cash by correctly picking three or more soccer games during the stated promotional period. Scratch of the DayPlay William Hill's 'Scratch of the Day' game to earn a variety of prizes, including bonus bets, odds boosts, and other exclusive offers. You must match three prizes to receive the reward, which has varying terms and conditions depending on the prize.  Deposit options The banking system supports secure deposits in USD through a variety of online payment methods. Withdrawal options
Most of the same banking methods used for deposits can also be used to cash out your winnings after betting at William Hill Sports. Withdrawal options Most of the same banking methods used for deposits can also be used to cash out your winnings after betting at William Hill Sports. Although it may be one of the oldest operators in the world, William Hill is definitely modern. It has plenty of awesome features meant to make the online betting experience more enjoyable and more profitable. Live betting is a huge attraction at the William Hill Sportsbook. It gives bettors the option to place their wagers while the events are still taking place. This allows for experienced users to quickly take advantage of opportunities as they arise. The live betting section on the site is always very busy and packed with markets. This betting site has a huge live-streaming platform that shows major events from popular sports. It is known as WHTV and has a full schedule of matches from soccer, tennis, cricket, basketball, and quite a few other sports. There is even live video streaming for greyhounds racing and live commentary on the William Hill radio channel. William Hill Poker is part of the iPoker Network, ensuring great traffic for low and medium stakes. Users can check out the many cash tables, take part in big tournaments, and even enjoy some special variations of online poker. The network also has quite a few special promotions for extra rewards. Known as the "Cash in my bet" feature at William Hill, this function gives users the freedom to settle all or a part of their bet at any time. As a result, you can collect your winnings or minimize potential losses when the match is starting to move in a particular way. The cash-out feature applies to single bets and parlays but is only available on selected events. Although William Hill is mostly known for its sports betting options, the site also has several sections with online casino games. You can find hundreds of online slots, including top creations from leading studios, along with roulette, blackjack, and many other games. William Hill casino offers an exclusive bonus for newcomers. The William Hill mobile betting app is available for Android and iOS devices. Users can download it from the Google Play Store or from the Apple App Store. Both versions are free and easy to install. The mobile sportsbook has a dedicated interface with user-friendly controls. Mobile bettors have access to the same sports, markets, and promotions from any regulated location in the United States. William Hill ensures online security and a safe gambling environment. The website is properly encrypted at all times, on every page. The operator uses top SSL encryption with 128-bit keys. The company is registered in Gibraltar and regulated by the Gibraltar Gambling Commissioner. It also has a license from the UK Gambling Commission. Users can set deposit limits and use other tools to control their activity and ensure responsible betting. Gibraltar Gambling Commissioner UK Gambling Commission The website's customer support team offers a dedicated help section that is very easy to navigate, despite covering a multitude of topics. The well-organized help center can help users regarding banking, promotions, sports rules, and much more. It also features a contact page with a message form for sending emails, a live chat button, and phone numbers. Overall, William Hill is certainly a top online sportsbook that players can trust at all times. It has a very long history and continues to innovate and push the industry forward. Awesome mobile appThe betting app for iOS and Android is definitely a highlight of the William Hill review. It is very easy to use and it gives clients access to the full range of betting options. You can bet and watch live sports through the application. Reliable sportsbookWilliam Hill is easily one of the most reliable brands for sports betting and more. The site is fully secure, offers a wide range of bet types, and the odds are generally very good. It is easy to see that this bookmaker has decades of experience in the industry. Retail locationsOne of the great things about betting with William Hill is that you’re never far from a retail location where you can deposit and withdraw your cash.  Definitely! The site is one of the biggest and most famous in the world. In New Jersey, it is regulated by the NJDGE. No. The William Hill sportsbook is not available in the US. No, bitcoin is not currently supported on the site. Instead, various other convenient deposit methods will be available in the cashier. Yes, you can opt to withdraw real money funds from the account whenever you want to. You will have to submit some documents and verify your account ahead of time. William Hill will process withdrawals within 72 hours during business days, but it’s often much faster. The best way to get assistance is to opt for the William Hill live chat function from the help section. It is quick and easy to use. You can also contact the staff by email, phone, and Twitter. 
                            Christian Stringer is a Content Editor who joined Covers in 2022 — managing, editing, and publishing commercial content related to the North American sports betting and iGaming industries. Christian holds a BA from Mount Allison University, which led to extended stays in Italy and the British Virgin Islands, providing him with a global outlook on all things entertainment. A lifelong sports fan with a love of sailing, skiing, basketball, and football, Christian spent a decade as an award-winning account executive managing clients that included Rootz, ComeOn!, EastLink, and the largest poker site in the world, GG Poker. He went on to program sportsbook and online casino campaigns, bingo, 50/50, and lottery games while developing strong connections with First Nations gaming providers and affiliates. This unique perspective and over 30 sportsbook reviews provide keen insight he hopes will help educate new and experienced sports bettors.
                     
                    If you choose to make use of any information on this website including online sports betting services from any websites that may be featured on this website, we strongly recommend that you carefully check your local laws before doing so. It is your sole responsibility to understand your local laws and observe them strictly. Covers does not provide any advice or guidance as to the legality of online sports betting or other online gambling activities within your jurisdiction and you are responsible for complying with laws that are applicable to you in your relevant locality. Covers disclaims all liability associated with your use of this website and use of any information contained on it. As a condition of using this website, you agree to hold the owner of this website harmless from any claims arising from your use of any services on any third party website that may be featured by Covers.

                