Markets 


 Hot Stocks 


 Fear & Greed Index 


 
            Latest Market News 


 
            Hot Stocks 


 
            Amazon founder Jeff Bezos hired an investment firm to research a possible bid for the NFL Washington Commanders team, two people familiar with the situation told the Washington Post.
     
            The Washington Post, which Bezos owns, reported that the firm he is working with is New York-based Allen & Company, according to the newspaper’s sources. Hiring the firm doesn’t mean Bezos will buy the team or that he will even bid — but does signal some level of interest.
     
            A spokesperson for Bezos declined to comment to both CNN and The Washington Post regarding the report. 
     
            In November, the Washington Commanders owner Dan Snyder and his wife Tayna announced that they hired Bank of America Securities to consider a possible sale of the team. 
 
            That same month, in an interview CNN’s Chloe Melas, the billionaire businessman was asked if he was seeking to buy the team.
     
            “Yes, I’ve heard that buzz,” Bezos said with a smirk. Bezos pointed out that he “grew up in Houston, Texas, and I played football growing up as a kid.”
     
            “It is my favorite sport,” he said in the interview. “So we’ll just have to wait and see.”
     
- CNN’s Rob McLean contributed to this report
 Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.  CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.