This year marks the 111th Anniversary of Tokyo’s gift of 3,000 cherry trees to DC. Want to do more than stroll along the Tidal Basin to view them? Here are other blossom-themed events around DC. Cherry Blossom Water Taxi 
Departs from The Wharf, Old Town, National Harbor, and Georgetown
City Experiences is offering a Cherry Blossom Water Taxi with four round-trip routes. The ride is an under an hour and offers up-close views of the blossoms. Details: Daily from Thursday, March 16 through Saturday, March 18 with cruises running hourly starting at 11:30am; $24. Cherry Blossom Premier Lunch Cruise
580 Water St., SW
This afternoon cruise, also from City Experiences, departs from Pier 4 at the Wharf and lets you view the blossoms against a backdrop of DC landmarks. The two-hour boat ride includes a three-course lunch (drinks cost extra). There are other cruise options too, including a dinnertime ride with fireworks.
Details: Friday, March 24 through Saturday, April 15 from noon to 2 PM; $75. “Blossoming Flowers in Japanese Art and Poetry” Exhibit
1150 18th St., NW
The Japanese Information and Culture Center, part of the Embassy of Japan, is featuring an exhibit called “Blossoming Flowers in Japanese Art and Poetry” throughout the spring. Check out paintings from the Embassy’s collection, as well as haiku and visual art created by students in DC.
Details: Friday, March 17 through Friday, May 5; open Monday through Friday from 10 AM to 4:30 PM; free. Cherry Blossom Electric Bike Tours 
210 North Lee St., Alexandria
Pedago is offering three-hour guided tours to view the cherry blossoms on electric bicycles. The tours begin in Old Town Alexandria and go through East Potomac Park. Riders must be age 14 and up to ride alone, and reservations can be made online, by calling 571-312-5168, or, emailing info@pedegoalexandria.com.
Details: March 20 through April 16 (or when cherry blossoms are in bloom) with departures at 10:30 AM and 2:30 PM on weekends and by appointment on weekdays; $69 per bike.  Cherry Blossom Afternoon Tea
2401 M St., NW
West End’s Fairmont hotel is offering an afternoon tea overlooking the blooms in its courtyard. The themed menu includes a curried chicken and cherry marmalade sandwich and a cherry montblanc tart.
Details: Friday, Saturday and Sunday beginning Friday, March 24 through Sunday, April 2, with seatings from 1 to 4 PM; $75 per person; email wdc.holidaysorders.dl@fairmont.com for reservations. Blossom Kite Festival
130 17th St., NW
This annual festival at the Washington Monument will have activities, kite competitions, music, and performances. Visitors can bring their own kites, buy one at the festival, or pick up a kite to decorate for free. Kitemaker Mikio Toki will show off his traditional Edo-style kites, and the Wings over Washington kite club will lead demonstrations and performances.
Details: Saturday, March 25 from 10 AM to 4:30 PM; free. NoMa in Bloom Festival
227 Harry Thomas Way, NE
At Alethia Tanner Park, the NoMA Business Improvement District is hosting a festival with kite-making and flying, local DJs, face-painting, and food trucks. Neighbors DC will host a pop-up artisan market, and Chalk Riot will make a cherry blossom-themed mural.
Details: Sunday, April 2 from 11 AM to 3 PM; free. Petalpalooza
355 Water St., SE
This family-friendly spring celebration at Navy Yard park The Yards includes an art walk with interactive installations, and a fireworks show with music at 8:30 PM.
Details: Saturday, April 8 from 1 to 9 PM; free. Ramen Heads Film Screening
1050 Independence Ave., SW
The National Museum of Asian Art will show Koki Shigeno’s Ramen Heads, a documentary about ramen chef Osama Tomita, as part of the National Cherry Blossom Festival. The screening in the Meyer Auditorium will be followed by a free tasting from Ramen by Uzu.
Details: Sunday, April 9 from 2 to 4 PM; free. Wunder Garten Cherryfest
The NoMa beer garden will host dance parties on Friday and Saturday nights throughout the spring with DJs, live music, games, raffles, and specialty cocktails. On Friday, March 31, the theme for the dance party is Nicki Minaj’s Pink Friday.
Details: Fridays and Saturdays from March 20 through April 9 at 8 PM; free. The National Cherry Blossom Festival Parade
Constitution Ave. between Seventh and 17th sts., NW
The annual parade will feature elaborate floats, colorful balloons, marching bands, and performers. The parade is free to the public along the route on Constitution Avenue between Ninth and 15th Streets, or visitors can buy reserved seats in advance in other areas.
Details: Saturday, April 15 from 10 AM to 12 PM; Free, or purchase tickets for $25 to $40. Sakura Matsuri – Japanese Street Festival
Pennsylvania Ave. between Third and Seventh sts., NW
Celebrate Japanese culture with a weekend of musical performances, cultural exhibitions, artisan vendors, and food and drink. Attendees can purchase tickets for one or both days.
Details: Saturday, April 15 from 10:30 AM to 6 PM and Sunday, April 16 from 10:30 AM to 4 PM; $12-20. This post has been updated.
More: Cherry Blossom EventsCherry blossoms 2023


Join the conversation!


 Share


 Tweet







Katie Kenny

Editorial Fellow






