The Princess Royal will have an important role at the Coronation this weekend, so what’s her go to food that will help her through the day Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters As the second eldest child of the late Queen and now sister to the King, Princess Anne has spent most of her life as a working royal, carrying out often day-long engagements. And last year, even with the loss of her mother, she carried out 214 royal engagements. Known as ‘the hardest-working-royal’ Anne will also play a key role in this Saturday’s Coronation celebrations. Earlier this week it was announced that The Princess Royal would take on the role of the “personal aide-de-camp.” This role will involve her riding on horseback behind the carriage transporting Charles and Camilla back to the palace after the ceremony, reports the Mirror. Despite being 72, the Princess doesn’t look to be slowing down anytime soon but what does keep the royal princess going each day?  Read More: The Coronation: King Charles' sweet gesture for Kate Middleton days ahead of event  Breakfast  Anne is said to start her day with a bowl of fruit, and she has a very strange request for banans in the morning. A former chef for the royal family, Darren McGrady, shared with TODAY: “Princess Anne almost always prefers the bananas almost black - over ripe - because they digest easier.” Palace staff have said the Princess Royal prefers to kick her day off with a bowl of fruit, which includes bananas just how she likes them, overripe and on the verge of going mouldy. While many people would just peel and eat a banana with their hands, it is common knowledge the royal family eat using cutlery. Darren said: “First, the ends of the banana are cut off. Then the banana peel is sliced down the middle from end to en so the unpeeled fruit can be opened. The fruit is then sliced into circles and eaten with a fork.” Lunch Much like her brother the King, Anne tends to skip lunch and instead is believed to have fruit rations stored in her handbag for when she’s feeling a little hungry. She has previously pulled a Kiwi fruit out ‘she keeps for emergencies,’ something daughter Zara Tindall says she always has. Zara shared: “She always has a Kiwi fruit.” Dinner Are you a fan of pheasant? Well Princess Anne is and she shared her perfect meal when guest editing an edition of Country Life magazine in 2020. With fancy dishes often associated with the royal family, it’s not hard to imagine that The Princess Royal is partial to a dish of devilled pheasant. Executive chef at the Ritz, John Williams shared the recipe for making devilled pheasant. He said: “Basically, a couple of whole pheasants are poached, then taken off the bone, shredded and kept warm in poaching juices.” “You just add fresh whipped cream, left in the fridge for an hour to stiffen, mixed with a good amount of Green Label mango chutney.” Ready to explore more? Follow Curiously on  TikTok  ,  Instagram  ,  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Up Next:   Coronation weekend: Everything you need to know ahead of King Charles' crowning     Kate Middleton breaks silence on whether she hopes to have another child     Coronation treasures up for grabs at Bristol’s ‘time warp’ sale     Emily Maitlis 'felt sick' before Prince Andrew Newsnight interview but he 'seemed jolly' after   