




Alexander Kuptsikevich

FxPro Financial Services Limited


 The Reserve Bank of New Zealand left its key rate unchanged for the second time at 5.5%. Most analysts predicted this decision, but it created positive momentum in the NZDUSD, which at one point added about 1% to the day's lows set before publication. The RBNZ's mood has clearly shifted from raising the rate to keeping it at the current restrictive level for an extended period of time. The Central Bank notes a decline in activity in the sectors most sensitive to interest rates. In addition, they emphasise the reduction of labour shortage due to migrants and softening demand. The positive reaction of the currency market to the Central Bank's comments has a chance to be the starting point for a corrective recovery or even the beginning of the growth of NZD, which by mid-August was at historic lows against CHF and multi-year lows against EUR & GBP. NZDUSD lost about 7.4% in about a month, and the intraday dip was at its lowest since last November at 0.5930. On the daily timeframes, the RSI flirted with oversold territory the day before, which hasn't been seen since October 2022. A rise out of this area is a bullish signal, which was also well worked out by NZDUSD, adding over 15% in the last two months. 
                Trade Responsibly. CFDs and Spread Betting are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. 77.37% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs and Spread Betting with this provider. The Analysts' opinions are for informational purposes only and should not be considered as a recommendation or trading advice.
             AUD/USD touches a one-month peak during the Asian session on Tuesday amid the divergent Fed-RBA policy outlook. Apart from this, the prevalent risk-on environment and the latest optimism over a possible economic stimulus from China's government act as a tailwind for the risk-sensitive Aussie.  USD/JPY attracts some sellers for the third straight day on Tuesday. Bets for an imminent start of the Fed’s rate-cutting cycle in September drag the USD to a fresh seven-month low. In contrast, the BoJ is anticipated to hike rates again later this year, which, along with geopolitical risks, underpins the JPY and exerts pressure on the pair. Gold price hovers around $2,500 during the early Asian session on Tuesday. The rising expectation of the interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve in September and further US dollar weakness are likely to underpin the precious metal in the near term. Cardano slipped out of the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization on Monday following a bearish signal across several of its on-chain metrics. ADA has largely underperformed in the current cycle compared to other altcoins. There have been no material forecast changes to the economic or inflation outlooks. This month, the forecast remains at 2.9% global GDP growth and 3.6% global CPI inflation for 2024. In the United States, a "soft landing" is still anticipated, although recession risks are acknowledged to be increasing. VERIFIED In this review, the FXStreet team provides an independent and thorough analysis based on direct testing and real experiences with Moneta Markets – an excellent broker for novice to intermediate forex traders who want to broaden their knowledge base. Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer. Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts. Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and omissions may occur. Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, clients or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.