Princess Power Season 3’s release date is highly anticipated, considering the success of the previous two installments. The series is based on the book titled Princesses Wear Pants by Savannah Guthrie and Allison Oppenheim and focuses on four princesses from four different fruit kingdoms – Blueberry, Kiwi, Pineapple, and Raspberry – who work together to make their citizens’ lives better. Here’s all the Princess Power Season 3 release date information we know so far, and all the details on when it is coming out. Season 1 of Princess Power was released in January 2023 on Netflix while the second installment came out recently in August 2023. While there is no official confirmation on the renewal or a release date for the third season, it will all depend on the success of Season 2 which will decide the fate of a third installment. Owing to the success of the first season of the Netflix kids’ show, a second season premiered on August 28, 2023. Considering this pattern, a third season is highly likely and will probably be released in early 2024 as per previous release patterns. As of now, nothing is written in stone. Many characters have lent their voices to the characters of the series, including Trinity Jo-Li Bliss, Dana Heath, Luna Bella Zamora, Madison Calderon, Andrew Rannells, Tan France, Rita Moreno, Alanna Ubach, and several others. If the second season finds enough success, Princess Power Season 3 might be released sometime in early 2024. However, no official date has been confirmed yet nor has there been any news of a renewal. The official synopsis for Princess Power reads: “Princess friends from four different Fruitdoms — Blueberry, Kiwi, Pineapple, and Raspberry — spring into action to make their worlds a better place.“ Ahead of its debut on October 12, the official character descriptions for the main characters of Netflix’s upcoming horror drama…    Horror   Maggie Dela Paz  29 mins ago A new feature film based on the classic CBS crime drama Murder, She Wrote is in the works at Universal…    Movies   Noah Dominguez  6 hours ago Why do we create games that involve pissing off evil spirits? It seems like a bad idea to invoke the…    Movies   Stephen Wilds  14 hours ago The Conjuring Universe continues with The Nun II, a sequel to the 2018 movie. Ever since the first movie by…    Movies   Jonathan Sim  14 hours ago The post Princess Power Season 3 Release Date Rumors: Is It Coming Out? appeared first on ComingSoon.net - Movie Trailers, TV & Streaming News, and More. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.