Indigenous Services Canada (ISC) works collaboratively with partners to improve access to high quality services for First Nations, Inuit and Métis. Our vision is to support and empower Indigenous peoples to independently deliver services and address the socio-economic conditions in their communities. Wildfire evacuation information Register for Indian status, get, renew or replace a status card. Learn about the Indian Register, band membership, temporary confirmation of registration. Health care services and non-insured health benefits, COVID-19 resources, careers, fighting drug and substance abuse, environmental health, food safety, healthy pregnancy. Elementary and secondary education programs for First Nations students. Distinctions-based post-secondary strategies for First Nations, Inuit and Métis Nation students. Family and child services, family violence prevention, on-reserve income assistance, Jordan's Principle, urban programs, supporting Inuit children. Programs, services, initiatives for Indigenous and northern communities and organizations. Achieving clean drinking water, ending long-term drinking water advisories, new short-term water advisories, improving water and wastewater systems on reserve, training programs. Programs that support improved housing on reserves. Programs to support community infrastructure such as schools, roads, and waste management facilities on reserves. Participate in ongoing engagements, learn what was heard in recently-held engagements and find out about the duty to consult. Tools, information and resources for Survivors, communities, and researchers to help address and heal from the legacy of residential schools. Working to establish a new fiscal relationship that moves towards sufficient, predictable and sustained funding for First Nations communities. Programs to support the implementation of strong, effective and sustainable governments in First Nations and Inuit communities. Programs that support Indigenous businesses, develop land on reserve and assist in land management strategies. Resources for First Nations communities to prevent, prepare for, respond to and recover from emergencies. Developing natural resources and protecting the environment in First Nations communities. Government of Canada programs and services for First Nations, Inuit and Métis. Learn more about Indigenous peoples and communities. Learn about treaty annuity payments, estate services, and trust moneys. Minister of Indigenous Services More: ISC news A fair Canada is one where the government continues making meaningful progress in the journey of reconciliation by working in partnership with Indigenous Peoples. This Action Plan provides a roadmap of actions Canada needs to take in partnership with Indigenous peoples to implement the principles and rights set out in the UN Declaration and to further advance reconciliation in a tangible way.