We use cookies and similar technologies. You can use the settings below to accept all cookies (which we recommend to give you the best experience) or to enable specific categories of cookies as explained below. Find out more by reading our Cookie Policy.   Popular Search Terms The Priority Services Register (PSR) is a free and voluntary system that your supplier uses to ensure the correct support is given to its most vulnerable customers. It is a system designed and overseen by Ofgem to better ensure that individuals with special requirements have access to additional support from their energy supplier as and when they require it. This support varies by supplier and by an individual’s circumstances, but can include: Large-format or Braille bills Advanced notice of service interruption Priority in a power cut Quarterly meter readings. Ofgem made changes to broaden the Register's eligibility to ensure that people are considered based on their circumstances — not just a list of characteristics. Previously, only aspects like age and disability were considered. Now, though, customers simply need to identify themselves to the supplier, who will then assess their circumstances and offer appropriate available services to suit them. This is good news as more consumers will get the assistance they need, but it means there is not a definitive set of rules to check your eligibility against. However, generally, you could be eligible for the Priority Services Register if: You need to be supported in a particular way You would struggle to maintain your well-being if you lost your energy supply for any amount of time You’re of pensionable age You are disabled You are chronically ill or have a long-term medical condition You have hearing or visual impairment or other communication needs You have children under the age of five living with you You have a mental health condition that causes you difficulty in understanding your bill You cannot top up your pre-payment meter due to injury You need extra support due to temporary circumstances. This will vary based on your needs and your supplier. We’ve collected information from some of the bigger suppliers, so you can get an idea what your supplier might offer to you. British Gas's Priority Services Register services include: Supply Interruption Warnings to let you know when you might be without power Free annual gas safety checks if you meet certain conditions Large print, Braille, CD or quarterly call communication options Password and nominee schemes so you can easily identify visitors from British Gas Moving your meters if you can't reach them Quarterly meter readings. EDF Energy's Priority Services Register services include: Alternative billing formats for those with visual impairments Free gas safety checks Bill nominee scheme so you can let a family member handle your account management Password scheme so you can easily identify visitors from EDF Energy Regular meter readings. E.ON Next's Priority Services Register services include: Arrangement for your bills to a family member or carer who is looking after your account Large-print or Braille bills Free annual gas safety check for your meter and appliances Minicom or textphone facilities to allow for easy communication Priority reconnection if an energy supply is interrupted Advance notice if the supply has to be stopped Free movement of a prepayment meter if it's in a difficult place to reach Password security on your account to identify that a call or visitor is genuinely from E.ON Next Free quarterly meter readings for those who have difficulty getting to their meters. Octopus Energy's Priority Services Register services include: Allowing you to nominate someone else to manage your account for you Installing a free smart meter Installing a smart prepayment meter Allowing you to set a pass phrase to help identify their representatives Help reading your statements and bills Free gas safety checks if you meet certain criteria. OVO Energy's priority services register services include: Quarterly meter readings Free prepayment meter relocation to enable easier access Alternative format statements including audio, large print, Braille, and black and white Free annual gas safety checks Duplicate communication to be sent to a nominated third party Provision of passwords for home visitors Longer notice period of planned supply interruption. ScottishPower's priority services register services include: Free annual gas safety check by a fully qualified engineer on request Password service to authenticate anyone visiting the customer's home on behalf of ScottishPower Alternative format bills including large format, Braille, compact disc and audio cassette Nominate a friend or relative to receive bills with the Protected Service Scheme and help ensure they get paid on time. If you would like to have access to additional services from your energy supplier, you simply need to sign up to the Priority Services Register through your current supplier. You can also ask your supplier to forward your details to your network operator if you're dependent on a consistent energy supply for medical reasons. If you've signed up to the Priority Services Register but haven't had confirmation from your supplier that you've been added to it, get in touch and ask it to confirm. Yes. You simply need to notify your new supplier that you are a vulnerable customer, and they will share their available services with you. If you're eligible for the Priority Services scheme, it's likely you'll also qualify for government initiatives to help with the cost of your energy bill. Use our interactive tool below to find out what you could be eligible for: Discover all you need to know about the government-funded Warm Home Discount scheme - a guide to help eligible homes save money on their energy bills in 2023 and 2024. Are you eligible for a Cold Weather Payment this year? Find out if you could claim £25 for every week of cold weather this winter. Get help paying your energy bills. There are options for those struggling - find out if you are eligible for an energy grant or a rebate on your energy bills. Scan the QR code below to start tracking your energy usage © 2000-2024 Uswitch Limited. An RVU Company. Broadband, mobiles, banking, insurance and energy utility comparison Uswitch Limited is a credit broker, not a lender, for consumer credit products.Uswitch Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) under firm reference number 312850. You can check this on the Financial Services Register by visiting the FCA website.  Uswitch Limited is registered in England and Wales (Company No. 03612689) The Cooperage, 5 Copper Row, London, SE1 2LH.