We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Healthline only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. HUM Nutrition, Persona, and two other brands made our dietitians’ list of the best personalized vitamin services. Healthline’s dietitians looked at 12 of the most popular personalized vitamin services on the market, and only 5 services ultimately passed both our dietitians’ review and our internal vetting process. Vitamin subscription services take the guesswork out of vitamin purchases by offering suggestions based on questionnaires or blood testing. These companies also automatically ship monthly refills so that you never run out. Some even package your daily vitamins in individual envelopes, making it easy to grab your day’s supply without opening multiple vitamin bottles. Disclaimer: Some products below were provided to Healthline testers for free. However, our reviews are ours and have not been reviewed, approved, or endorsed by the supplement manufacturers.  Most of the services below require you to sign up for recurring monthly shipments, and each product typically contains 30 servings. Therefore, the monthly cost of a service depends on the product(s) you select and the total number of products you choose to receive each month.  Unlike many other subscription services, vitamin subscriptions generally do not charge separate membership or subscription fees. Why we chose it: HUM Nutrition earned our spot as the best overall, thanks to its wide variety of products, commitment to quality (every product is third-party tested for purity and potency), and access to registered dietitians (RDs) who can address questions or concerns about your supplement routine. How it works: HUM Nutrition offers a variety of supplements that aim to address specific issues such as insomnia, anxiety, and food cravings. While HUM’s products are formulated based on scientific research, keep in mind that there’s no guarantee these supplements will produce the results you’re hoping for. HUM Nutrition first asks you to take an online health assessment, then provides you with a health report and supplement recommendations based on your answers. It also has RDs available to make personalized recommendations. To help cut down on the cost, HUM Nutrition offers a discount if you order three or more products per month. If you commit to a 3-month VIP membership, you can save an additional 20% per month. Shipping is free on orders over $50 and costs $5.95 otherwise. “I tested HUM Private Party [probiotic] for about a month. I took the pill once a day with water, not with food, as directed. The capsule was small and easy to swallow, and I had no side effects.  “I’ve tried a few products from HUM Nutrition. They have been great with shipping. I like that they are non-GMO certified, part of the Clean Label Project, and devoted to avoiding putting more plastic in our oceans.” — Christina Snyder, Healthline editor Read more about HUM Nutrition in our comprehensive review. “I tested HUM Private Party [probiotic] for about a month. I took the pill once a day with water, not with food, as directed. The capsule was small and easy to swallow, and I had no side effects.  “I’ve tried a few products from HUM Nutrition. They have been great with shipping. I like that they are non-GMO certified, part of the Clean Label Project, and devoted to avoiding putting more plastic in our oceans.” — Christina Snyder, Healthline editor Read more about HUM Nutrition in our comprehensive review. Why we chose it: If you’ve ever had a hard time finding a protein powder that truly fits your needs, then you’ll want to check out Gainful. The service offers a variety of personalized workout supplements, including protein powders, hydration formulas, pre-workout blends, and performance boosters to help you meet your fitness goals. How it works: To get started with Gainful, you’ll first fill out information about your activity level, health and fitness goals, and typical eating pattern using an online quiz. The company then uses your responses to provide a curated supplement regimen to fit your needs. Gainful provides detailed information about the ingredients and nutritional content of each product and allows you to add or remove any of the recommended supplements to build your own subscription. Products are manufactured in facilities that adhere to the current good manufacturing practices (CGMPs) established by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). However, the supplements are not third-party tested for purity and potency. Shipping is free on orders over $60 and costs $5.99 otherwise. “Gainful’s personalized sports nutrition supplements are high quality, and I found them very easy to use. My custom protein powder blended well, and I appreciated the versatility of an unflavored powder. The Flavor Packs also added a really nice, mild flavor. “I also enjoyed the Hydration packets. They had a good taste and were convenient for traveling. Overall, I think it’s nice that these products were totally customized to support my diet and activity levels.” — SaVanna Shoemaker, MS, RDN, LD, Healthline contributor Learn more about Gainful in our comprehensive review. “Gainful’s personalized sports nutrition supplements are high quality, and I found them very easy to use. My custom protein powder blended well, and I appreciated the versatility of an unflavored powder. The Flavor Packs also added a really nice, mild flavor. “I also enjoyed the Hydration packets. They had a good taste and were convenient for traveling. Overall, I think it’s nice that these products were totally customized to support my diet and activity levels.” — SaVanna Shoemaker, MS, RDN, LD, Healthline contributor Learn more about Gainful in our comprehensive review. Why we chose it: Founded by an OB-GYN alongside a team of experts in women’s health, Perelel is unique in that its prenatal blends are formulated for each trimester. During testing, we liked the convenience of the daily packs. Not only are they handy for traveling, but they also come in handy on days when you’re dealing with serious pregnancy brain. How it works: Perelel is a supplement company that offers convenient daily supplement packs formulated to provide nutritional support for various stages of the reproductive cycle. The service offers both subscriptions and one-time purchases. As an added convenience, the company automatically updates your Trimester Prenatal Pack subscription as you move through each stage of pregnancy. Perelel also recently debuted its new Cycle Support packs, which is designed to ease side effects associated with your menstrual cycle. Additionally, the service offers several stand-alone supplements, including probiotics, iron, and an herbal blend to support libido. Perelel offers a 3-second survey on its website to help you find the right product for you. Shipping is free for subscriptions over $34 and one-time purchases over $58.50. Otherwise, there’s a $7 shipping fee. “Because I struggle with remembering to take all of my vitamins when pregnant, I was excited to try Perelel’s daily packs. While I’ve only been taking them for a few months, so far I’ve been very impressed. “Not only are the daily packs convenient, but I also like that I don’t have to remember to reorder my supplements each month. “As an added bonus, I’ve found all of the pills to be easy to swallow and haven’t experienced any negative side effects, like fishy burps. The only downside is the omega-3 supplement doesn’t taste great if you let it sit on your tongue for a second too long, so I recommend swallowing it quickly.” — Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor Learn more about Perelel in our comprehensive review. “Because I struggle with remembering to take all of my vitamins when pregnant, I was excited to try Perelel’s daily packs. While I’ve only been taking them for a few months, so far I’ve been very impressed. “Not only are the daily packs convenient, but I also like that I don’t have to remember to reorder my supplements each month. “As an added bonus, I’ve found all of the pills to be easy to swallow and haven’t experienced any negative side effects, like fishy burps. The only downside is the omega-3 supplement doesn’t taste great if you let it sit on your tongue for a second too long, so I recommend swallowing it quickly.” — Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor Learn more about Perelel in our comprehensive review. Why we chose it: If you dislike taking multiple supplements or you prefer the smaller footprint of a single bottle versus a box of daily packs, Vous Vitamin may be a good fit for you. How it works: Vous Vitamin is a unique service that offers a completely personalized multivitamin tablet containing a blend of vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients based on your answers to an online health quiz. You can also purchase an omega-3 supplement or Situational Supplements, which are formulated to address specific needs, such as Mountain Rescue for altitude sickness, Recovery Act for hangovers, Power Up for energy, and Immune Blast for immune function. While Vous Vitamin supplements are not third-party tested, all the products are CGMP certified by NSF International. The company also states that its supplements are extensively tested in-house for quality. Shipping is free with a subscription. “Vous Vitamin, unlike some other vitamin services, delivered a personalized vitamin tablet, and all I had to do was take the daily dose of 2 tablets per day. “I liked the supplement overall and found that it saved a lot of space on my counter compared to vitamin packs or multiple supplement bottles.” — SaVanna Shoemaker, MS, RDN, LD, Healthline contributor “Vous Vitamin, unlike some other vitamin services, delivered a personalized vitamin tablet, and all I had to do was take the daily dose of 2 tablets per day. “I liked the supplement overall and found that it saved a lot of space on my counter compared to vitamin packs or multiple supplement bottles.” — SaVanna Shoemaker, MS, RDN, LD, Healthline contributor Why we chose it: If you don’t mind the higher price tag, Persona may be worth considering for its wide variety of products and access to a team of RDs, pharmacists, and other health experts who can answer your questions. How it works: Persona offers several supplement products, including a wide variety of letter vitamins, supplement blends, and herbal supplements delivered in daily packs. Personalized recommendations are based on the results of an online quiz, though you can also manually select products if you already know which supplements you’re interested in. Depending on the supplements recommended to you, a monthly supply may cost $100 or more, though you can customize your shipment to suit your budget. Shipping is free on orders over $50 and costs $8 otherwise. While the company claims that it tests supplements multiple times throughout the manufacturing process, Persona products are not tested for purity and potency by a third-party organization. You can read more about Persona Nutrition in our expert review. Know that a personalized vitamin service isn’t always appropriate, and most people do not need to take multiple supplements, especially if you eat a well-rounded diet. Unless you have a need you’ve discussed with your dietitian or other trusted healthcare professional, you might consider something more straightforward. Ritual is one brand that does a solid job of curating bioavailable ingredients by age and sex. Thorne is a well-tested brand that makes a variety of supplements with high quality ingredients. Check out our other picks for best vitamin brands. Here’s a quick look at how our top picks compare: 3rd = Third-party tested, RD = Access to registered dieticians We determined the best-personalized vitamins and vitamin subscription services using the following criteria: When choosing a vitamin subscription service, there are several factors to consider, such as the type of personalization offered, access to health professionals, cost, and brand reputation.  If you’d rather pick and choose the supplements you want, a service such as Ritual may work best. However, if you want recommendations based on your health needs, choose an online health assessment or blood testing service. Some services, such as VitaminLab, will provide a customized vitamin based on blood and DNA tests that you upload. VitaminLab also offers vitamins based on an online self-assessment. Several companies, including HUM Nutrition, offer access to health professionals, such as dietitians, for questions and supplement guidance. Vitamin subscription services can cost $25–$100 or more monthly.  Finally, make sure that the vitamin subscription service you choose is reputable and transparent. This means that the company’s products are manufactured in facilities that adhere to the CGMPs.  Because the FDA doesn’t regulate dietary supplements the same way it does pharmaceuticals, it’s also a good idea to choose third-party tested supplements to verify that the contents of the bottle match what is listed on the label.  Whether a personalized vitamin service is worth it depends on the service and whether you value its convenience. These services can be particularly beneficial for people who are unsure which supplements they should be taking and who regularly forget to reorder them.  Some services offer additional features, such as access to a dietitian, that may make them worth a slightly higher cost. Still, remember that these services are typically more expensive than buying supplements from a local or online pharmacy.  Additionally, the health quizzes that many personalized vitamin companies use are not a substitute for a thorough medical review by a healthcare professional. Personalized vitamin quizzes may recommend more supplements than you need.  Before clicking the subscribe button, it’s best to share your supplement recommendations with a trusted healthcare professional, such as a doctor or dietitian.  All of the subscription services above offer personalized vitamins and customized supplement recommendations based on the results of a health screening or questionnaire.  However, companies may not disclose these products’ exact ingredients or amounts. Therefore, you should be especially careful when choosing reputable companies to buy personalized vitamins. The brands above are all very transparent about their supplements and ingredients. While they may offer individualized recommendations and personal vitamin packs, their supplements disclose ingredients and vital information. Personalized vitamins like Vous Vitamins works a bit differently than other custom vitamin services and builds one tailored multivitamins versus a vitamin pack with multiple capsules. This costs $30 a month billed every 3 months if you subscribe. Personalized vitamins like Vous Vitamins works a bit differently than other custom vitamin services and builds one tailored multivitamins versus a vitamin pack with multiple capsules. This costs $30 a month billed every 3 months if you subscribe. Most people don’t need a comprehensive, personalized vitamin regimen. It can be beneficial if you’re looking to fill gaps in your diet or have specific issues you’re hoping to address, such as low energy or trouble sleeping. However, it’s important to discuss these issues with a trusted, qualified healthcare professional to make sure there’s not a different underlying cause for your symptoms. Most people don’t need a comprehensive, personalized vitamin regimen. It can be beneficial if you’re looking to fill gaps in your diet or have specific issues you’re hoping to address, such as low energy or trouble sleeping. However, it’s important to discuss these issues with a trusted, qualified healthcare professional to make sure there’s not a different underlying cause for your symptoms.  Most people can meet their nutritional needs by following a healthy diet.   However, vitamins can be beneficial in some cases, especially for people with certain health conditions or restrictive diets.   Your doctor or dietitian can help determine whether you may benefit from adding vitamins or other supplements to your routine.  Most people can meet their nutritional needs by following a healthy diet.   However, vitamins can be beneficial in some cases, especially for people with certain health conditions or restrictive diets.   Your doctor or dietitian can help determine whether you may benefit from adding vitamins or other supplements to your routine.  Personalized supplements provide the same vitamins and minerals as regular supplements and are generally safe for most healthy adults when used as directed.   However, if you have any underlying health conditions or are taking medications, it’s best to check in with a doctor before adding new supplements to your routine. And, whenever possible, it’s best to opt for products that have been through third-party testing, which can help ensure safety and quality.  Personalized supplements provide the same vitamins and minerals as regular supplements and are generally safe for most healthy adults when used as directed.   However, if you have any underlying health conditions or are taking medications, it’s best to check in with a doctor before adding new supplements to your routine. And, whenever possible, it’s best to opt for products that have been through third-party testing, which can help ensure safety and quality. Many vitamin brands provide customized supplement recommendations based on factors such as your age, sex, and health goals. Vous Vitamin also offers personalized vitamins that are formulated with a unique blend of nutrients tailored to your needs. Many vitamin brands provide customized supplement recommendations based on factors such as your age, sex, and health goals. Vous Vitamin also offers personalized vitamins that are formulated with a unique blend of nutrients tailored to your needs. Vitamin subscription services are a convenient solution to choosing and purchasing vitamins and supplements. Many offer helpful recommendations based on individual health assessments. It’s also easier to remember to take your vitamins when they arrive at your door each month—some of them even come in dated daily packs.  The most important factors to consider are the trustworthiness of the company and the quality of its products. The personalized vitamin subscription services featured here are a great starting point in your search. They offer monthly vitamins and supplements for several unique needs and budgets. Share this article Find out if Care/of or Ritual is the better personalized subscription service for you in our expert comparison.  Our dietitian tried Care/of for 30 days to see if it's worth the subscription. Learn everything you need to know about this personalized vitamin… Nurish by Nature Made offers an affordable alternative to similar personalized vitamin subscription services. See if our tester thinks it is worth the… HUM Nutrition delivers personalized vitamins right to your door. See what our registered dietitian and testers have to say about the vitamin… Persona Nutrition delivers personalized vitamins right to your door. See what our expert has to say about this vitamin subscription service. With so much information packed onto every product label, it can be tricky to know where to start when looking to add a supplement to your diet. This… Certain circumstances, such as nutrient deficiencies, conditions causing malabsorption, inadequate access to food, and life stages like pregnancy, may… Liquid and powder vitamins absorb faster than pills or gummies. But numerous other factors can affect absorption, such as your age, your diet, and the… Vitamin K1 helps your blood clot and has other health benefits. Most people can get enough vitamin K1 from a healthy diet with dark green leafy… OUR BRANDS