 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Omaha Steaks is our top pick for online meat delivery Claudia Totir / Getty Images  If you occasionally crave a marbled and buttery ribeye or a juicy, loaded burger — but may not have a budget for high-end steakhouse dinners or access to a reliable local butcher — then an online meat delivery service may fit the bill (or grill). Having high-quality steaks and other meats delivered directly to your home can beef up your dinner repertoire, making it easy to enjoy butcher-quality proteins from the comfort of your home.
  Whether you're looking for some strips of thick-cut bacon, grass-fed steaks, or are curious about what camel tastes like, there is a service for you. We've rounded up the best online meat delivery services to fit your needs and preferences. We looked at factors like value, quality, and customer service to determine which companies deserved a spot on our list.
  Omaha Steaks is one of the most well-known and iconic mail-order meat delivery companies, with a plethora of ordering options and price points to choose from.
 Variety of options and add-ons Frequent sales and promotions 100% money-back guarantee Loyalty rewards program Some customers may prefer smaller-scale butchers Website choices can feel overwhelming Shipping minimum  Omaha Steaks is a fifth-generation family business. Originally set up as a small, family-run Nebraska butcher, the company quickly grew to provide high-end steaks and meats on railway dining cars and eventually became the famed mail-order delivery service that it is today.
  Customers can select from a wide array of pre-selected packages or build their own. You can even add wine gift packs, sides and starters, and desserts, such as the famous caramel apple tartlets. Meats and specialties include everything from ribeyes to seafood. If you're looking for a gift, Omaha Steaks has plenty of curated options.
  Craving a Peter Luger's porterhouse from New York City or Joe's KC BBQ brisket from Kansas City? Now, you can bring your favorites right to your doorstep, thanks to Goldbelly, which sources some of the nation's most popular and sought-after meats and treats and ships directly to your home.
 Hundreds of choices Helpful search filters Large selection of comfort foods and sides Not all items qualify for free shipping Many items may be considered a splurge  With Goldbelly's extensive website, customers can choose items from famous restaurants and food purveyors from across the U.S., boasting everything from New York City steaks to Southern barbecue to Oprah's favorite chicken pot pies. Since items are shipped from various suppliers from across the country, shipping rates and dates vary, though there are plenty of items that ship for free as well. Customers can also use Goldbelly's detailed search filters to shop based on criteria like free shipping, editors' picks, or a specified shipping date, to name just a few.
  If you're looking to splurge on your next wine and cheese night, you can wow your guests with unusual selections like Frenchette's Pâté de Campagne or a container of Russ & Daughters' famed chopped liver.
 Snake River Farms  Located in American Falls, Idaho, Snake River Farms has been breeding Wagyu with high-quality cattle since the 1980s. With entire control over its supply chain — from ranching to its processing facility — this specialty beef producer offers premium products known for exceptional flavor and marbling.
 Cows are grass-fed and humanely raised Large selection of cuts available Offers high-quality Kurobuta pork Minimum cart value required for checkout Many items may be considered a splurge  From Wagyu steaks to brisket to seafood and even pre-smoked barbeque, Snake River Farms offers an array of superior meat and seafood. Most of their products arrive flash-frozen and individually sealed in air-tight packaging, while dry-aged products are shipped fresh overnight. We've used the service before, and we loved the practical and convenient shipping, including the insulated (and entirely reusable) tote bag.
  Those who are interested in a club loyalty program can choose from different membership levels, where you earn points every time you shop. Customers can choose their preferred delivery date at checkout, and deliveries can be scheduled up to 14 days from the date of order. 
  If you love dining out at fancy steakhouses but prefer cooking at home, consider DeBragga. This high-end purveyor of fine meats supplies some of New York City's finest restaurants and luxury hotels, and now, thanks to its online meat delivery service, home cooks as well.
 Wide variety of high-quality meats In-depth educational resources Orders ship overnight Meats are cut to order Additional delivery fee plus shipping minimum Items are on the expensive side  For decades, family-run DeBragga has been supplying some of the nation's most elegant hotels and restaurants with premiere cuts of meat. And now, you can experience luxury meats without ever leaving home, thanks to the online butcher delivery service. Customers can build their shipments and select from a large à la carte menu of steaks, poultry, pork, lamb, veal, charcuterie, and pantry items. DeBragga offers curated sets such as a burger comparison kit or Japanese Miyazaki Kobe-style beef packs, which can also make excellent gifts. Items are sent fresh or frozen, depending on the item, and all orders ship overnight.
  Fossil Farms offers plenty of diverse meats for the more adventurous carnivore, including alligator, camel, yak, and kangaroo.
 Diverse selection Chef-curated recipes High standard of sourcing Geared toward more adventurous meat eaters Some state delivery restrictions No weekend deliveries  If you love the idea of trying a meat product less commonly enjoyed, Fossil Farms is a great option. For over 25 years, this boutique meat purveyor has been sourcing unique meats for customers and restaurants. Customers can build shipments from a wide array of proteins, such as wild boar, elk, ostrich, pheasants, quail, and even kangaroo.
  For more traditional meat lovers, this service also markets high-end meats, like Piedmontese-certified beef, free-roaming chicken, and Berkshire pork. Fossil Farms also offers a free loyalty rewards program for their email subscribers, and there are a variety of prepackaged specials, such as the Exotic & Wild Game Starter Kit or Birds of a Feather pack.
  Most meats are frozen and shipped with ice packs and dry ice for two-day shipping. Note that laws for game meat vary by state, so check the website to see what rules apply in your area.
  Chicago Steak Company lets you enjoy steakhouse favorites like Tomahawk ribeyes and porterhouse steaks from the comfort of home.
 Industry leader in dry-aged beef Variety of meat assortments and packages Resourceful educational materials On the pricier side Website experience is a bit clunky  Since 1865, Chicago Steak Company has been procuring Midwestern-raised Prime steaks that are hand-carved by butchers, preserving a historic butchering tradition. The company is renowned for its large dry-aging facility, which dry-ages steaks for six weeks. Customers can select from a wide variety of filets, ribeyes, strip steaks, sirloins, t-bones, and assortment packages. If you want to spice up your order, you can also choose from a bevy of seafood, desserts, sides, and merchandise options, including branded seasonings.
  You can filter and search for items by price, cut, and grade, as well as for more unusual offerings such as Wagyu Kobe-style steaks or USDA Prime wet-aged steaks. All steaks are vacuum-sealed and flash-frozen, and every shipment is labeled with a unique registration number to guarantee quality assurance.
  Good Chop holds itself to a high standard for its pork production; animals are sourced from farms that house pigs in climate-controlled barns, and farmers are Pork Quality Assurance Plus trained to ensure high standards of pig farming.
 Can choose from a wide selection of meat and seafood Build your own custom box Curbside recyclable packaging  Subscription only Boxes are expensive  Good Chop's monthly subscription model is completely customizable, which sets it apart. The company offers a medium box for six items, a large box of 12, or an extra-large box with 18 selections. You can set your delivery frequency for four, six, or eight weeks, and customers can mix and match their shipments to include a variety of beef, chicken, pork, and seafood selected from over 25 menu items. Proteins are pre-portioned and frozen at peak freshness before being shipped with dry ice.
  After your first box is ordered, you can change the delivery date for future orders. All food choices must be made up to five days before the scheduled delivery date. You can cancel your subscription within your account, but it must be done prior to the five-day shipment window.
  With over 100 years of experience, Omaha Steak's family-run operation is our top choice, providing customers with a wide selection of meats and proteins in a variety of cuts, grades, and price points. With an excellent assortment of gift options, sweet and savory add-ons, and wine sets, the choices are myriad. With frequent sales, promotions, and a rewards program, Omaha Steak is a smart choice for an online meat delivery service.
  Certain meat delivery services use a subscription model, where you receive your meat delivery on a recurring schedule. Other companies also have curated and preselected gifts and sets. Count on building your cart, inputting your credit card payment details, confirming delivery and shipping information, and waiting for your meat to arrive at your doorstep in a matter of days or even overnight. For those who may be a little hesitant about cooking certain cuts at home, most butcher delivery services have detailed cooking instructions and recipe ideas on their website.
  While many meat delivery services use small-scale producers, there are plenty of opportunities to buy meat in bulk or at wholesale. Companies such as DeBragga that supply meat to restaurants and hotels will have more options to feed a larger crowd. Other butchers also market larger quantities of meat, which are ideal for gatherings or just a great excuse to fill up your deep freezer.
  It depends on the particular meat delivery service. Some services will only sell vacuum-sealed and flash-frozen meats, while other services specialize in fresh meats. Regardless of the company's preferred method, count on your meat arriving with plenty of insulation, ice packs, and even dry ice. Shipments tend to arrive in a matter of days or even overnight to reduce spoilage.
  In general, meat delivery services can be a bit more expensive than going to your local supermarket. However, most meat delivery services offer a range of quality and sourcing options you won't find elsewhere. Many meats available via online butchers are sourced from local ranchers and family farmers, and adhere to strict standards, such as certified organic, grass-fed, or free-range. Many online meat delivery services do offer a one-time discount or regular sales or promotions, and some services even feature loyalty programs.
  We independently reviewed over 30 online meat delivery services. We looked at multiple factors, including the variety of meat delivery offerings, pricing, animal welfare standards, shipping fees and shipping timelines, delivery areas, customer service, and gift options. Using this information, we compiled this data to determine which services would be selected as the top choices across a variety of categories.
