At UW Food Services, we pride ourselves on serving fresh, house-made, delicious food created by Red Seal Certified chefs and cooks.  Food Services prioritizes the campus community's needs and we work closely with them to help create healthy, nourishing foods you will enjoy.  We have a registered dietitian on staff to support the community members in making informed and nutritious food choices.        Introducing Our Value Picks for 2024! Elevate your dining experience without breaking the bank! Introducing UW Food Services' NEW Value Picks—now you can find SIX deals at several of our locations across campus. Embrace the fusion of flavors, affordable prices, and convenient accessibility as you explore the culinary delights that our value picks bring to your dining experience! Fall into Flavour: Discover Our Upcoming Events Each term, UW Food Services hosts a variety of fun, free, educational, and interactive events across campus. Whether you are calmly kicking back with fresh coffee and a good book or studying like mad with empty mugs and stacks of textbooks, the end of term is drawing to a close! In collaboration with the Region of Waterloo Library, Baden Coffee Company has released a behind-the-bean interview. Introduction This is your WINNING choice for tonight’s FIRED UP AT REV! A whole bunch of vegan deliciousness built into 1 amazing slider. A carrot a day keeps the doctor away, animals are my friends and I don’t eat my friends!!   Introduction What is plant-based and why did I select plant-based chicken sesame soba noodles?  Follow us on social media for news, events, updates, & more!   Work for us Feedback & Comments Catering & Event Services University Club The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg, and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is co-ordinated within the Office of Indigenous Relations.