News and resources on payments systems, innovations and initiatives worldwide. This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. Klarna, the AI powered global payments network and shopping destination, announces its launch in Romania and the main services the company will be providing to companies and end-users. 
08 June 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. According to Klarna’s consumer research, 45% of Romanians prefer an interest-free, Buy Now, Pay Later service for their more expensive purchases, while 54% of Romanians using the internet think that new technology encourages improvement in the financial industry, through more transparent and fair services.So, starting today, Romanians can access the interest-free Pay-in-3 solution, alongside the Klarna app, both of which guarantee fast, secure and effortless payments.Over the past two years, Klarna has been expanding its presence in Central and Eastern Europe, with leading local and international brands integrating Klarna’s flexible payment options. This integration has further boosted Klarna’s already impressive roster of over 500,000 retailer partners worldwide. All of this is possible due to Klarna’s offer of alternative payment solutions, such as Pay-in-3, which allows the end user to split their payment into interest-free 3 installments and allows merchants to offer flexible payment options to their clients.Amongst the brands already available through the Klarna platform are: ABOUT YOU, Tommy Hilfiger, BSB Fashion, Zoot, Footshop, with more launching in the upcoming months. Companies interested in joining Klarna can expect to meet the world’s greatest shoppers:  2 out of 3 Klarna users are millennials or Gen Z;  1 out of 6 orders completed with Klarna are made by new customers of the bands;  Active shoppers: 85% of Romanians who use the internet, shop online at least once a month.“Our objective is to offer both businesses and their customers a smoooth shopping experience. From browsing to owning, we deliver more than is expected of a payment service and go the extra mile for our users. Most of all, the Pay-in-3 solution is the first brick in the foundation we’re laying down in Romania - a foundation on which we hope to build strong, long-lasting relationships with our merchant partners, as well as provide a great experience for our customers” - states Sebastian Siemiatkowski, Klarna’s CEO and Co-founder.With the “Pay in 3” solution, consumers who choose Klarna at checkout are able to split their purchases into three interest-free payments paid every 30 days from the time of purchase. This way, consumers can spread the cost of their purchases evenly and receive the product before they pay the full amount. The monthly payments are simply charged to the consumer’s regular debit card.Similarly, Romanian consumers can “Pay in 3” at integrated retail partners using the Klarna App. With over 25 million monthly active users globally, the Klarna App unites a broad range of features that make the entire shopping journey easier and more enjoyable, while driving high-intent shoppers to Klarna’s retail partners.“As a longstanding partner of Klarna, we are excited to be a part of the launch in Romania and provide our customers with all the benefits of the platform. From the alternative payment methods, such as the “Pay in 3” solution, to the Klarna app, we are looking forward to offering our Romanian customers the perks that come with extending our partnership to the local market” says Tom Dupont, Director of Market Operations Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) at ABOUT YOU.Lukasz Dwulit, Head of Klarna Romania, adds: “We have been looking into the Romanian market for quite some time. Now, with the incredible developments in e-commerce and overall online shopping habits, the time has come for us to reach out and provide our platform to the small and big businesses that want to increase their customers’ brand loyalty while providing them with a frictionless shopping experience.”Klarna is available in 22 markets, in the past years expanding to Greece, the Czech Republic, and Poland, with over 500,000 businesses and more than 150 million customers worldwide. Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre