UK Edition Klarna has said that it is on course to return to profit after losses at the Swedish “buy now, pay later” giant narrowed in the first quarter of the year. The Stockholm-based group said its operating losses fell to SwKr1.19 billion (£89.4 million) in the three months to the end of March, an improvement from the SwKr2.45 billion deficit it reported a year earlier. On an adjusted basis its losses improved by 78 per cent, according to its latest results. Sebastian Siemiatkowski, Klarna’s chief executive who co-founded the business in 2005, said: “We are on track to achieve profitability this year.” A return to the black would be a significant boost for Klarna, which last reported an annual profit in 2018. The company was a pioneer of the nascent but fast-growing “buy now, pay later” industry. Its credit services are used by 150 million shoppers through more than 500,000 merchants in 45 countries and it has payments partnerships with companies including Airbnb and Samsung. It has come under pressure in recent years, however, amid growing regulatory concerns about the credit it offers, which enables shoppers to split up payments for purchases. It was once Europe’s most valuable privately owned fintech company after a fundraising in June 2021 put a $45.6 billion price-tag on the business, buoyed by investor enthusiasm for technology companies during the Covid-19 pandemic, when online shopping boomed. Since then, however, valuations in the fintech and tech sectors have fallen sharply amid the recent sharp rise in interest rates. Klarna has been a big casualty of this rout and its valuation fell by 85 per cent to $6.7 billion in a fundraising last summer. It also embarked on two rounds of job cuts last year. The UK is now clamping down on “buy now, pay later” models because of concerns that consumers are building up unaffordable debts using this type of credit. These worries have been made worse by the cost of living crisis. In February the government set out plans for the Financial Conduct Authority to regulate the industry. Andrew Griffith, the City minister, said that there should be “clear protections in place”. A review into unsecured credit conducted by the authority in 2021 had warned that “buy now, pay later” products represented “a significant potential consumer harm”. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.