
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  Dublin, Oct. 04, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The "United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Business and investment Opportunities Databook - 75+ KPIs on BNPL market Size, End-Use Sectors, Market Share, Product Analysis, Business Model, Demographics - Q2 2023 Update" report has been added to  ResearchAndMarkets's  offering.BNPL payments in the United Kingdom are expected to grow by 17.8% on an annual basis to reach US$33.8 billion in 2023. Medium to long term growth story of BNPL industry in United Kingdom remains strong. BNPL payment adoption is expected to grow steadily over the forecast period, recording a CAGR of 10.9% during 2023-2028. The BNPL Gross Merchandise Value in the United Kingdom will increase from US$28.7 billion in 2022 to reach US$56.8 billion by 2028.The BNPL payment industry in United Kingdom has recorded strong growth over the last four quarters, supported by increased ecommerce penetration.With the surging cost of living in the United Kingdom, more shoppers are turning to buy now pay later schemes to manage their cash flow. According to the publisher,, over 36% of consumers have used BNPL more than once because of rising inflation and cost of living. Millennials and Gen Z consumers are the ones using the payment method more frequently.The most popular category where consumers are using the payment method includes consumer electronics products, such as smartphones, TVs, and computers. This is followed by clothing, home improvement, and health and wellness products, among others. The growing usage of BNPL schemes, due to the cost of living, is also driving consumer debt in the United Kingdom.  BNPL firms are offering value-added services to their consumers to build brand loyalty in the United Kingdom  The competition in the BNPL space has increased significantly over the last two years. To gain a competitive advantage and build brand loyalty, BNPL providers are moving beyond flexible payment schemes. In November 2022, Klarna, one of the leading players in the United Kingdom BNPL industry, announced the launch of a search and compare tool within its app for consumers in the United Kingdom. The add-on feature will allow consumers to look out for the best deals when shopping online. The launch of the feature builds upon the acquisition of PriceRunner, a comparison-shopping service, which Klarna acquired in April 2022. Over the last 12 months, Klarna has swiftly moved beyond flexible payment schemes to offer more and more features to its customers. The launch of the search and compare tool is part of the firm's super app strategy through which Klarna aims to offer everything online experience to consumers within its app.  Firms are raising a funding round to support product development and onboard more merchants in the United Kingdom  Even though the BNPL sector has been under stringent regulatory scrutiny, the business model has continued to gain rapid momentum among both merchants and consumers. As a result of this growing demand, venture capital firms are also betting on players with strong fundamentals in the United Kingdom market. In October 2022, Tymit, the United Kingdom-based BNPL firm, announced that the firm had raised US$26.7 million or £23 million in a Series A funding round, which was led by Frasers Group. The firm is planning to use the freshly infused capital to further support its white-label BNPL product development and for onboarding more merchants in the country.The consumer installment credit market has become increasingly competitive in the United Kingdom over the last few years. White-label solutions that enable merchants to offer their own BNPL service under their brand are expected to gain increasing traction from the short to medium-term perspective. Consequently, the publisher expects more venture capital and private equity firms to invest their dollars in firms like Tymit over the next three to four years.This report provides a detailed data centric analysis of Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) industry, covering market opportunities and risks across a range of retail categories. With over 75 KPIs at country level, this report provides a comprehensive understanding of BNPL market dynamics, market size and forecast, and market share statistics.It breaks down market opportunity by type of business model, sales channels (offline and online), and distribution models. In addition, it provides a snapshot of consumer behaviour and retail spend dynamics in United Kingdom. KPIs in both value and volume term help in getting in-depth understanding of end market dynamics.   Reasons to buy     Get a comprehensive understanding of market dynamics for Buy Now Pay Later: Identify market opportunities, major trends, and forecasting (2019-2028). Understand market trends through crucial KPIs like Gross Merchandise Value, Volume, and Average Value per Transaction, to stay ahead of the curve.   Insights by end-use sectors: Evaluate new opportunities across multiple end-use sectors, and obtain market dynamics by end-use sectors in order to swiftly catch up with the latest and upcoming developments in BNPL markets.   Market-specific strategies: Identify growth segments focused on specific opportunities, and analysing market-specific risks and important trends in the BNPL sector with our exclusive blend of quantitative forecasting and innovative insights.   Gain knowledge of consumer attitudes and actions: This report identifies and interprets important Buy Now Pay Later KPIs, such as spend by age, gender, and income level, using data from a proprietary survey.   Develop proactive and lucrative business strategies through market intelligence and forward-looking analysis of BNPL market spend and major opportunities in United Kingdom.     Scope     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Market Share Analysis by Key Players     Klarna   Clearpay   Laybuy   Payl8r   Openpay   paypal   Zilch   Playter Pay   Zip   Divido   Perkbox   ezyVet   IKEA   AppToPay     United Kingdom BNPL Market Size and Spending Pattern, 2019-2028     Gross Merchandise Value Trend Analysis   Average Value Per Transaction Trend Analysis   Transaction Volume Trend Analysis     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Revenue Analysis, 2019-2028     Buy Now Pay Later Revenues   Buy Now Pay Later Share by Revenue Segments   Buy Now Pay Later Revenue by Merchant Commission   Buy Now Pay Later Revenue by Missed Payment Fee Revenue   Buy Now Pay Later Revenue by Pay Now & Other Income     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Operational KPIs & Statistics, 2019-2028     Buy Now Pay Later Active Consumer Base   Buy Now Pay Later Bad Debt     United Kingdom BNPL by Purpose, 2019-2028     Convenience - Short Term Loans   Credit - Long Term Loans     United Kingdom BNPL by Business Model, 2019-2028     Two-Party (BNPL offered by retailers)   Three-Party BNPL Offering     United Kingdom BNPL by Merchant Ecosystem, 2019-2028     Open Loop System   Closed Loop System     United Kingdom BNPL by Distribution Model Analysis, 2019-2028     Standalone   Banks & Payment Service Providers   Marketplaces     United Kingdom BNPL Analysis by Channel, 2019-2028     Online Channel   POS Channel     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Retail Shopping: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     Gross Merchandise Value Trend Analysis   Average Value Per Transaction Trend Analysis   Transaction Volume Trend Analysis     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Home Improvement: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     Gross Merchandise Value Trend Analysis   Average Value Per Transaction Trend Analysis   Transaction Volume Trend Analysis     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Travel/Entertainment: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     Gross Merchandise Value Trend Analysis   Average Value per Transaction Trend Analysis   Transaction Volume Trend Analysis     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Services: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     Gross Merchandise Value Trend Analysis   Average Value Per Transaction Trend Analysis   Transaction Volume Trend Analysis     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Automotive: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     Gross Merchandise Value Trend Analysis   Average Value Per Transaction Trend Analysis   Transaction Volume Trend Analysis     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Healthcare and Wellness: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     Gross Merchandise Value Trend Analysis   Average Value Per Transaction Trend Analysis   Transaction Volume Trend Analysis     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Groceries: Market Size and Forecast     Gross Merchandise Value Trend Analysis   Average Value Per Transaction Trend Analysis   Transaction Volume Trend Analysis     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Analysis by Consumer Attitude and Behaviour     Sales Uplift by Product Category   Share by Age Group   Share by Income   Share by Gender   Adoption Rationale   For more information about this report visit     About ResearchAndMarkets  ResearchAndMarkets is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.   Attachment     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Market      United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Market United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Market Tags BNPL Buy Now Pay Later Credit and Loans Credit Market Loans  id="media-image-1" loading="lazy" src=' />MENAFN04102023004107003653ID1107186671  In November 2022, Klarna, one of the leading players in the United Kingdom BNPL industry, announced the launch of a search and compare tool within its app for consumers in the United Kingdom. The add-on feature will allow consumers to look out for the best deals when shopping online. The launch of the feature builds upon the acquisition of PriceRunner, a comparison-shopping service, which Klarna acquired in April 2022. Over the last 12 months, Klarna has swiftly moved beyond flexible payment schemes to offer more and more features to its customers. The launch of the search and compare tool is part of the firm's super app strategy through which Klarna aims to offer everything online experience to consumers within its app.  Firms are raising a funding round to support product development and onboard more merchants in the United Kingdom  Even though the BNPL sector has been under stringent regulatory scrutiny, the business model has continued to gain rapid momentum among both merchants and consumers. As a result of this growing demand, venture capital firms are also betting on players with strong fundamentals in the United Kingdom market. In October 2022, Tymit, the United Kingdom-based BNPL firm, announced that the firm had raised US$26.7 million or £23 million in a Series A funding round, which was led by Frasers Group. The firm is planning to use the freshly infused capital to further support its white-label BNPL product development and for onboarding more merchants in the country.The consumer installment credit market has become increasingly competitive in the United Kingdom over the last few years. White-label solutions that enable merchants to offer their own BNPL service under their brand are expected to gain increasing traction from the short to medium-term perspective. Consequently, the publisher expects more venture capital and private equity firms to invest their dollars in firms like Tymit over the next three to four years.This report provides a detailed data centric analysis of Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) industry, covering market opportunities and risks across a range of retail categories. With over 75 KPIs at country level, this report provides a comprehensive understanding of BNPL market dynamics, market size and forecast, and market share statistics.It breaks down market opportunity by type of business model, sales channels (offline and online), and distribution models. In addition, it provides a snapshot of consumer behaviour and retail spend dynamics in United Kingdom. KPIs in both value and volume term help in getting in-depth understanding of end market dynamics.   Reasons to buy     Scope     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Market Share Analysis by Key Players     United Kingdom BNPL Market Size and Spending Pattern, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Revenue Analysis, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Operational KPIs & Statistics, 2019-2028     United Kingdom BNPL by Purpose, 2019-2028     United Kingdom BNPL by Business Model, 2019-2028     United Kingdom BNPL by Merchant Ecosystem, 2019-2028     United Kingdom BNPL by Distribution Model Analysis, 2019-2028     United Kingdom BNPL Analysis by Channel, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Retail Shopping: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Home Improvement: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Travel/Entertainment: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Services: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Automotive: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Healthcare and Wellness: Market Size and Forecast, 2019-2028     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later in Groceries: Market Size and Forecast     United Kingdom Buy Now Pay Later Analysis by Consumer Attitude and Behaviour   For more information about this report visit     About ResearchAndMarkets  ResearchAndMarkets is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.   Attachment   MENAFN04102023004107003653ID1107186671 MENAFN04102023004107003653ID1107186671 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN