Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	July 27, 2023   	
				         European financial services provider Mollie has announced a new integration and joint marketing effort with Klaviyo, a marketing automation and customer data platform that drives revenue growth for businesses of all sizes.
Through the new integration, merchants of the two firms can now use the information collected from payment transactions within Klaviyo’s platform to personalise customer communications and marketing email flows to grow revenues.
In addition, Klaviyo and Mollie will collaborate with their joint agency partners to empower merchants to leverage this payment information to create more tailored marketing automation strategies.
Klaviyo makes it easy for marketers to centralise and use every piece of their customer data to deliver hyper-personalized experiences across all their channels. Mollie powers the growth of over 130,000 businesses across Europe by offering advanced solutions to accept payments, online and in-person.
This initial integration enables Klaviyo’s customer’s access to Mollie’s unique set of APIs to personalise their marketing email flows, whilst enhancing revenue.
Rich Gardner, SVP of Global Strategic Partnerships at Klaviyo said, “Marketing automation not only improves customer retention, but creates new revenue streams. Access to Mollie’s transaction and order data allows our joint customers to improve the quality of experience of their end customers. We are delighted to be working with Mollie – a key provider for merchants across Europe, offering reliable and secure payment processing. Our integration enables our customers to connect the power of payments to the automation tools they already love.”
Philippe Daly, at Mollie added, “We are excited to integrate with Klaviyo, a company that not only offers the ‘best in class’ marketing automation solutions, but understands the value in access to simplified, smart customer data. An interoperable tech stack is a crucial contributor to growth for merchants of all sizes, and that’s why our integration is available via direct API for custom-built platforms, as well as popular e-commerce platforms – including BigCommerce, Shopify, Salesforce Commerce Cloud, WooCommerce, Wix and Prestashop – to enable as many customers as possible to benefit from this integration.”
 European financial services provider Mollie has announced a new integration and joint marketing effort with Klaviyo, a marketing automation and customer data platform that drives revenue growth for businesses of all sizes. Through the new integration, merchants of the two firms can now use the information collected from payment transactions within Klaviyo’s platform to personalise customer communications and marketing email flows to grow revenues. In addition, Klaviyo and Mollie will collaborate with their joint agency partners to empower merchants to leverage this payment information to create more tailored marketing automation strategies. Klaviyo makes it easy for marketers to centralise and use every piece of their customer data to deliver hyper-personalized experiences across all their channels. Mollie powers the growth of over 130,000 businesses across Europe by offering advanced solutions to accept payments, online and in-person. This initial integration enables Klaviyo’s customer’s access to Mollie’s unique set of APIs to personalise their marketing email flows, whilst enhancing revenue. Rich Gardner, SVP of Global Strategic Partnerships at Klaviyo said, “Marketing automation not only improves customer retention, but creates new revenue streams. Access to Mollie’s transaction and order data allows our joint customers to improve the quality of experience of their end customers. We are delighted to be working with Mollie – a key provider for merchants across Europe, offering reliable and secure payment processing. Our integration enables our customers to connect the power of payments to the automation tools they already love.” Philippe Daly, at Mollie added, “We are excited to integrate with Klaviyo, a company that not only offers the ‘best in class’ marketing automation solutions, but understands the value in access to simplified, smart customer data. An interoperable tech stack is a crucial contributor to growth for merchants of all sizes, and that’s why our integration is available via direct API for custom-built platforms, as well as popular e-commerce platforms – including BigCommerce, Shopify, Salesforce Commerce Cloud, WooCommerce, Wix and Prestashop – to enable as many customers as possible to benefit from this integration.” July 27, 2023 July 27, 2023 July 19, 2024 Europe August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
