Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Adapted from Haro Aso's manga, Alice In Borderland is one of the most popular TV shows on Netflix, and the King Of Spades is one of the most unforgettable games and characters. There have been two seasons so far and fans can't get enough. The general premise centers around characters who are playing games in Tokyo. The ratings have been consistently high, and it's one of the most fun shows to discuss with other fans.
                         The mystery of the King of Spades in Alice In Borderland is one of the most gripping parts of the series. While not a lot is known about him, the show has shared a few details. Watching the players figure out how to battle this huge threat is one of the most exciting storylines.
      RELATED: Alice in Borderland: Who is Behind the Games?
                     Yuzuha Usagi (Tao Tsuchiya) and Ryōhei Arisu (Kento Yamazaki) are the two main characters in Alice In Borderland. They become teammates when they realize that they are living in a Tokyo that has been forever changed. They have to keep playing games and if they don't win them, their visa will expire and they will die. Alice In Borderland succeeds on two levels: because the main premise is entertaining and because the characters are so well-developed.
                         There are many smart Alice In Borderland characters and the show does a great job of fleshing out the people who are playing these fascinating games. Usagi and Arisu are at the center of the story and over time, they start to like each other as more than friends. This love story is important because it proves that the show has it all, from thrills to romance.
                         There are sad moments in Alice In Borderland, too, including Asuagi's backstory. She is grieving her dad, which allows viewers to see a glimpse of who she was prior to meeting Arisu, who is wise and loves to play video games. Viewers learn enough about who they were before they began living in this eerie world to sympathize with them on their journeys. The stakes remain high throughout both seasons 1 and 2 of Alice In Borderland.
                         There are many important aspects of Alice In Borderland, including the card suits, and the King of Spades (Ayumi Tanida) is a meaningful character whose identity is never completely shared. However, viewers learn enough to remain invested in the plot and characters. The King of Spades, or Survival, is an incredibly hard game that can be played anywhere. If someone murders the King of Spades, they get a longer visa. It's easy to see, of course, how the players become invested in finding out more about this character. Having a longer visa is, undeniably, one of the most appealing thing in this world.
      Alice In Borderland viewers learn more about the King of Spades in episode 7 of season 2, but he still remains a huge mystery. While the show changes some things from the manga, it's helpful to go back to the source material to find out more about this character. In the manga, he was a tough mercenary, Isao Shirabi, who nobody wanted to mess with. This character has a dark backstory: he murdered his friend Apache so Apache doesn't have to suffer. Apache is an Alice In Borderland manga character not in the show. This allows viewers to see things from his perspective, although he still remains a terrifying character.
                         When players enter the King of Spades/Survival game, it's the beginning of the Second Stage. The characters figure out some ways to win against him. Most notably, Aguni runs toward the King of Spades, which is terrifying to watch. The players realize that the King of Spades in Alice In Borderland has a weak spot in his eyes. Trying to get as high up as possible could also be a way to avoid detection. Most importantly, it's dangerous to try to fight this character in groups, as he likes to kill a group of people all at once.
                         There are two ways that this game could go. In one potential scenario, the King of Spades murders the players, and the game shifts to "Game Over." On the other hand, a player could murder the King of Spades, and it's called "Game Clear." Every moment involving the King of Spades in Alice In Borderland is fast-paced and interesting.
                         Well-developed and interesting characters like the King Of Spades are just one reason why fans are eager to learn if season 3 of Alice In Borderland is going to happen. There are still a lot of great stories to be told in this world, especially since season 2 of Alice In Borderland left questions.
      NEXT: Alice In Borderland: Jack Of Hearts Game, Explained
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Fans of Netflix's Alice in Borderland looking for something to binge after season 3 can try these sci-fi series with similar vibes. Megumi is currently still stuck with Sukuna. He will eventually try to break free and fight back against Sukuna in JJK. Dexter: Resurrection will continue Dexter Morgan's dark story, but what do fans think is going to happen in the new series? Gamescom announces its annual award nominees for the year, but the Nintendo category is notably absent from the list. Universal gives the first look into one of its newest coasters, Stardust Racers, a part of the Epic Universe expansion coming next year. Some Fallout 76 players are calling on Bethesda for a cosmetic change they believe will significantly improve the way certain characters look. The upcoming adult take on the classic Jackbox party game formula, Jackbox Naughty Pack, gets a release date.