A MUM has created a miracle product to make flying with kids easier after enduring a "horrible" experience with her own. Louisa Williams, from Tweed Heads, Australia, had a "10-hour nightmare of screaming children" after her plane was forced to turn around because of a nearby volcano. The mum decided to take matters into her own hands - and has since created a nifty gadget which will make travelling at 10,000 feet with kids a less chaotic affair.  An inflatable cushion - named the Kooshy Kloud - is a versatile tool boasting soft plush materials and an impressive ergonomic design.  So how does it work? The cosy contraption - weighing a portable 150 grams - wraps your tot in complete comfort within the plane seat. Better still, there is an option which allows you to personalise the cushion's firmness to guarantee optimal comfort for the child. Mum-of-two Louisa described the rapid ascent of the business. She said: "My dad was an entrepreneur and so while I had been working in HR with the Victoria Police, I always had an entrepreneurial spirit. “I was on maternity leave when I first started my business. “Originally it was supposed to be a side hustle, but within weeks it was selling out.” The entrepreneur has doubled down on her efforts to help concerned parents ensure a stress-free journey on board. Louisa's popular foldable tray table prevents kids from fiddling with the real table - considered to be the most unhygienic part of the plane. Her Kooshy Bands Headphones also provide a well-fitted alternative to their bulky counterparts offered by cabin crew.  The Kooshy Kloud has attracted near-unanimous praise online. One reviewer wrote: "Had an excellent experience with the Kloud on a recent trip to Bali with a 5.5yo and 2yo. "Both kids were able to sit or sleep comfortable without me having to prop them up or hang on to them, which meant I landed without the tense shoulders or sore legs I usually do." Another chimed in: "Super compact when folded in your bag, but easily inflatable in seconds on the plane or in the car.  "An incredible solution when you’re in transit and just cannot get comfortable in your seat.  "I’ve use it for both my kids and myself and will continue to do so for the years it will last!" ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)