Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Project Zomboid was initially released in 2013 on Steam and has experienced a rise in popularity recently. Let's Plays, tutorials, and fact videos have been increasing across social media, and this has convinced some players to pick up the isometric zombie survival game. The game has become popular for its take on realistic gameplay, making for a steep learning curve. The tutorial even tricks players into luring zombies to their location by making a loud noise, showcasing the often brutal nature of survival games.
     Players looking to find the best build to survive Project Zomboid's brutal apocalyptic Kentucky can find everything they need below.                     When the grind becomes too difficult, or if players want a different game with the same feeling, various titles fit within the same genre. After all, survival horror is a pretty broad genre that is full to the brim with some great video games, and even an itch as unique as Project Zomboid can be scratched in just the right way by the following games.
      Updated on May 28, 2024, by Ritwik Mitra: Survival games have become all the rage in the modern era, and Project Zomboid is a great example of a title that relies on simple visuals and focuses more on its interesting gameplay to keep things fresh and engaging. This has certainly worked out for the title, with Project Zomboid attracting a ton of interest despite facing its fair share of hitches during development. The survival horror title is a blast to play through and lets players interact with a wealth of gameplay systems to keep things fresh and engaging, and fans can't wait to see what the 1.0 release of this title has in store for them. Until that release comes to pass, players can check out all these great survival games in the same vein as Project Zomboid, of which there are now a few more included on this list thanks to its latest update.
   Terraria is one of the most fleshed-out survival games out there, and is absolutely jam-packed with content. It's a testament to the amazing work of the developers of this title that it continues to be updated with new feature, keeping things fresh and engaging, especially for players who are jumping back into the game after taking a hiatus.
                         While the ever-present threat of zombies in Project Zomboid is absent in Terraria, there are moments during exploration when Terraria certainly ramps up the tension. Still, it's definitely a far cozier experience, and something worth checking out for fans who want to enjoy a more light-hearted experience.
                          If zombies are the major threat in Project Zomboid, then the thing that players need to always be wary of in Rust are other people. Sure, there are other threats in the game that players should watch out for, but the true volatility of Rust comes from the duality of man.
                         Alliances can crumble at a moment's notice, and players must be wary of other survivors no matter how much progress they've made on a map. These raids and betrayals can be truly soul-crushing, but that's a huge part of what makes Rust such an unforgettable experience. The highs are high and the lows are bottomless.
                          A classic survival game with horror elements that fans of the genre are likely quite familiar with, Don't Starve is an indie gem that made a big name for itself in the mid-2010s. It's a safe recommendation for fans of Project Zomboid, with players having to prepare in the morning hours to deal with the threat that comes from the arrival of darkness at the end of the day.
     Don't Starve is full of terrifying creatures, but not all of them are easy to kill or get away from, these are some of the hardest mobs in the game.                     As the nights progress, the game gets harder and harder. Each failure in Don't Starve serves as a lesson, compelling the player to do everything in their power to ensure that they can survive for longer the next time around out, and start to solve the mystery at the core of this game.
       The Forest is an excellent survival horror game that sticks players in a forested area where they must struggle to survive while being hounded by a group of cannibals. This makes for a tense gameplay loop as players gather resources and survive grueling combat scenarios.
                         The sequel to this title is proving to be bigger and better than its predecessor, with Sons of the Forest providing an excellent experience in every way. Fans of Project Zomboid will love how this game forces them to be on their toes as they try to avoid the cannibals trying to tear them apart, all while interacting with the game's many nuanced systems.
       Dying Light was a nice surprise, letting players enjoy a fun zombie-killing title with engaging parkour and decent crafting mechanics. Techland was more than impressed by the success of this title and wasted no time in the development and release of a sequel.
                         With meaningful choices and better gameplay mechanics than before, Dying Light 2 certainly was a step up in some departments. The uninteresting story and bloated open world took away a bit from this experience, but players who want to kill zombies in creative ways and take out their frustration at the undead after failing in Project Zomboid time and time again will be more than happy with what this title achieved.
                          A legendary video game that needs no introduction, The Last of Us was a huge step forward for Naughty Dog. The game spawned a massive fanbase, a divisive sequel, and one of the greatest TV adaptations a video game has ever received.
     These quotes from the Last of Us Part 1 remake will be remembered by fans due to their hard-hitting impact on the game's storyline.                      In a game where the threat of the Infected is ever-present, the fact that humans are the real threat is a testament to the evils of mankind and how the collapse of society can bring out the worst side in people. Players who have been betrayed during multiplayer sessions of Project Zomboid can testify to the truth present in this statement.
                          At a glance, 7 Days to Die doesn't seem to bring anything new to the survival genre. The age-old combination of scavenging for resources and dealing with the zombie apocalypse has been done in many titles. However, there are many things that fans of the game will slowly come to appreciate as they play through this title.
                         Easily the most notable mechanic is the weekly assault that the zombies stage on players. This makes each week a grueling exercise as players try to reinforce their defenses and stock up on weapons to tackle the threat of the aggressive undead each and every week. Unlike the ever-present threat of the zombies in Project Zomboid, the threat posed by zombies in 7 Days to Die is relatively less until the seventh day, when things get truly chaotic.
                          Players who want to see how engaging procedural generation can be should look no further than RimWorld. For a game where everything is randomized, most people will have a deeper attachment to the colonists they have to manage than most other single-player experiences out there.
                         The learning curve for RimWorld is extremely steep, and the title is not for players looking to relax from the get-go. However, once players master the gameplay systems of the game, there's something oddly cathartic about building a huge base and slowly populating it with new members. Fans of Project Zomboid will be familiar with this feeling, especially since this title comes packaged with its own complicated gameplay systems that take a while to wrap one's head around.
                          In most survival games, eating food is important to ensure that players don't end up starving at inopportune moments. Despite the importance of food in these games, many people will resort to eating the same cost-efficient food over and over again instead of trying to experiment with this mechanic. It's this particular mechanic that Valheim has perfected, rewarding players for diversifying their intake of meat, vegetables, and everything else along the same lines.
     Survival games come in many forms, and these side-scrolling titles are among the genre's best efforts.                     Of course, this is just a small part of what makes Valheim such a magical experience. The game's mix of exploration, survival, and combat is truly magical and will keep players invested for hours on end, especially if they love Project Zomboid for the same reasons. With this title currently in Early Access, fans can't wait to see what the full experience will have in store for them.
       NEO Scavenger is one of the hardest and most challenging games out there, with players suffering death after death as they realize the wealth of mistakes they can make in this chilling experience. Players wake up with little to nothing on their person and have to explore a harsh world where raiders and monsters are constant threats that the scavenger will need to manage at every step of the way. Think of Project Zomboid, but the threat of zombies is replaced by more varied encounters instead.
                         While this title may seem a bit too unforgiving at times, players who decide to give this game the time it deserves will love what it brings to the table. Combat is a stressful affair that players should always avoid if they don't have enough resources, and every corner of the map should be looted if players want to make the most of what this game has to offer.
                          Speaking of brutal games like Project Zomboid, another title that comes to mind is Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead. This game pulls no punches with its tough gameplay loop and will force players to conform to its systems as they die agonizing deaths over and over again because of their hubris.
                         However, players who understand the brutal nature of this title and try to adhere to its gameplay will realize just how amazing Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead really is. The procedurally generated world is filled to the brim with secrets and surprises that are a lot of fun to experience and will keep players hooked to the point where major threats turn into minor issues after a point!
                         If the survival, crafting, and scary zombie chases are the main draw of Project Zomboid, then this mobile game scratches a very similar itch. With an isometric view, scrounging up random things as weapons, and stealing the clothing off of zombies' backs, players can bring the terrifying experience to their smartphones.
     These video game zombies are famous simply for the fact that they do a little more than just groan—they can actually form words.                     Players begin with a home plot that they can scavenge and build their bases on. Everything outside their home plot consumes energy, but this regenerates at an okay speed. Just like Project Zomboid, pre-existing resources, and crafted resources must be used to progress in the game and fortify home bases. The zombies are quite scary as well, especially when big, or toxic, or big and toxic zombies can be found in areas of medium to high danger.
                         If Project Zomboid started players out already infected, this game is almost the same experience. The Last Stand: Aftermath is a rogue-lite zombie survival game that makes players build on the successes and failures of each of their characters. Death is guaranteed, but the progress and items gained during each adventure are saved.
                         Set in a compound named “The End,” this base is the last hope for humanity in Union City. Infected individuals are exiled and tasked with gathering all they can to help their community before they die. Players can gather materials and resources on their journey to craft tools, weapons, and medicines.
                         For horror-addicted gamers on a budget, Dead Frontier 2 is a free-to-play MMO zombie survival horror game. The game offers a third-person shooter perspective, as opposed to the isometric view of Project Zomboid, and the stunning graphics show off the gruesome and scary zombie designs.
                         The game can be solo play or with up to 8 friends, mirroring the delightful zombie-bashing bonding time with old friends that Project Zomboid provides. Players must explore areas outside of Fairview City where the original game took place. Leveling up involves zombie slaying, looting, and completing in-game quests. The game also features a player marketplace and numerous ways to chat and interact with other survivors.
                          While Darkwood lacks the zombies, the game is even scarier than being chased by a horde of zombies while extremely over-encumbered and fatigued. Darkwood has a semi-open world, with unlockable areas bound to the storyline. Like Project Zomboid, there is a crafting system, skills, stealth, and combat. For players who like the game mechanics of Project Zomboid but seek an impactful story with various choices and endings, this ticks all the boxes.
     Capcom's Resident Evil has made zombies synonymous with survival horror, but there are plenty of games that trade the living dead for other monsters.                     A similar pro/con skill system is implemented, with positive skills needing to be balanced with negative ones. Due to the day/night cycle, popular in horror games, players must plan their defenses to survive the nighttime, with barricades and trap-making. If they survive, they can use their credibility to trade for better and more expensive items with the trader.
                         Some players would have seen advertisements for this when scrolling social media, and State of Survival: Zombie War is a zombie version of a city-building and base-building game, crafting, and farming simulation along with its scary zombies. Six months after the zombie outbreak, players and friends can band together to survive and deal with the hordes.
                         While surviving and building their bases, players can rescue and recruit other survivors and roam around the world in search of supplies. Players can work towards finding a cure for the zombie virus by researching.
                         If the stress of running away from dozens of zombies is all that some players wanted from Project Zomboid, then Into the Dead 1 and 2 conveniently puts it in the pockets of players. Players run through different areas facing hordes of zombies from a first-person perspective.
     Not all video game zombies come across as dangerous, but some are downright intimidating.                     What would players do to save their families in the zombie apocalypse? As they run, players arm themselves with scattered weapons and ammo drops. Zombies can either be shot or dodged, and the gameplay experience recreates the feeling of jumping every fence possible to get away from zombies in Project Zomboid. The game has three different endings to discover from seven chapters of gameplay.
                         The characters and world of SurrounDead don’t look too different from that of Project Zomboid. The graphics are like a 3D version of Project Zomboid, and at a glance, SurrounDead looks like a graphics mod. In this world, it has been 5 years since the start of the virus, and nothing has gotten better. Everything is in ruins and zombies run rampant.
                         Players can search for weapons and equipment in the open world and build up home bases with barricades, like in Project Zomboid. In true survival fashion, players must maintain their character’s stats while exploring.
      Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We hope you like the items we recommend and discuss! Game Rant has affiliate and sponsored partnerships, so we receive a share of the revenue from some of your purchases. This won’t affect the price you pay and helps us offer the best product recommendations. We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful. Your comment has not been saved This thread is open for discussion. Be the first to post your thoughts.  A new Minecraft update seemingly removes a feature from the game that was present for 14 years, despite not actually doing anything. Pokemon GO is adding a Generation 8 Pokemon to the game that will change how some battles play out. The Vizored are powerful Soul Reapers with Hollow powers, but who's the strongest of the team? A new game published by PQube reveals strong influences from classic JRPGs, especially from Sega's 2000 classic Skies of Arcadia. The world of Cyberpunk 2077 has only been touched on, and anime is the perfect medium to give fans more of it. Yu-Gi-Oh!, one of, if not the most, popular staples of anime and manga history, but it wasn't always about card games. Call of Duty fans have another way to gain early access to the upcoming Black Ops 6 beta before it officially begins on Friday, August 30.