Digital and Communications Officer at Scottish CND As the forces of uniformity, conformity and homogeneity spread inexorably towards a society in which everyone tends to look the same, eat the same thing, listen to the same music and receive the same sources of news and information, pushback… While attending the Nuclear Ban Forum in Vienna (just after the 40th Anniversary of Faslane Peace Camp in June 2022) I interviewed Hauke, a peace activist from Germany. Here, he shares his experience protesting nuclear weapons at Faslane in Scotland.… A pandemic of crises touching human beings all over the world is leading to a crisis of mental health. As part of our course of Nonviolent Journalism delivered over the summer, we gave our students the task to interview someone.… The Russia-Ukraine war has reminded the world of enduring tensions between ex-soviet countries – even 30 years after the Soviet Union’s dissolution. The death of Gorbachev, final president of the Soviet Union, in August 2022, has continued the discourse. Known… “A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.” Azimov’s First Rule of Robotics From autocorrect to social media algorithms, Artificial Intelligence (AI) is everywhere. The technology is growing exponentially… The Internet is like a bottle of wine. With it, you can lift your mood, appear more confident than you really are – perhaps do things you wouldn’t normally. A key difference: we don’t let children consume alcohol. It makes… At the Nuclear Ban Forum in Vienna on Saturday the 18th of June, an Israeli and an Iranian joined forces to share their vision for a ground-breaking treaty between Middle Eastern states. Sharon Dolev, a peace activist for over 35… PressenzaAn international news agency dedicated to news about peace and nonviolence with offices in Athens, Barcelona, Berlin, Bogotá, Bordeaux, Brussels, Budapest, Buenos Aires, Córdoba (Argentina), Florence, Lima, London, Madrid, Manila, Mar del Plata, Mexico City, Milan, Montreal, Moscow, Munich, New Delhi, New York, Palermo, Paris, Porto, Quito, Rome, San José de Costa Rica, Santiago de Chile, Sao Paulo, Turin, Valencia and Vienna. We use cookies to analyse our traffic and to embed third party content. By clicking "Accept", you agree to the use of cookies.