Years ago, I had a conversation with a colleague that has stuck with me ever since. My colleague, come hell or high water, would look perfect for work every single day. Her hair was a shampoo commercial come to life. Her outfits were perfectly tailored, and she was rarely seen without a heel. Incredulous, I begged to know how she found the time and energy to always look good. Her answer was simple: She had to fake it to make it. Taking those extra self-care steps in the morning gave her the push she needed at work and in her daily life. This is the attitude I've since adopted when it comes to workouts. If I don't have a cute outfit prepped and ready for a workout class, odds are, I won't want to go. However, the minute there's a flattering sports bra, skort, or pair of leggings to look forward to, I can muster the energy I need to leave the house. Cute workout clothes can do wonders for a person's attitude and eagerness to move their body. Take it from me! If my activewear drawer wasn't full of matching sets from lululemon, Old Navy and Knix, my hot girl walks would feel less hot girl summer, more sad girl moving. Therefore, from one clothing-motivated person to the next, I've selected 13 cute fitness staples to help motivate your summer workouts. With options from just $15, scroll below to find your new favourite workout clothes. This StretchTech skort is made with a stretchy, breathable fabric with quick-drying powers and UV sun protection — perfect for workouts, weekends and more. $47 at Old Navy This tennis tank has a built-in shelf bra and is made with lululemon's fastest-drying fabric to help keep you at the top of your game. $68 at lululemon These billowy shorts from FP Movement feature a high-rise fit with pleated detailing at the sides. "I'd been wanting shorts for the court that were as flattering as a skirt and these fit the bill!" writes one shopper. $63 at FP Movement These fast-drying shorts have a high waist and wide panel with concealed pocket for storing small valuables. $15 at H&M Whether you're on the court or the street, this skirt and sweater vest set from The Upside is worthy of a first place style trophy. $140 at Anthropologie Compressive and squat-proof, these high-rise bike shorts feature extra deep side pockets perfect for keys, phones, wallets or for when you don’t know what to do with your hands. $58 at Girlfriend Collective This trendy open-back bralette smooths and sculpts without pinching or feeling restrictive. The flattering bralette features piping details and interior lining with removable pads. $54 at Abercrombie This breathable, sports-friendly dress features an open back with cross straps and a built-in shorts liner with hidden pockets. $100 at Outdoor Voices This chic little sports top offers medium support, making it suitable for moderate-intensity workouts. The sports bra is available in four colours: Purple, teal, black and white. $20 at H&M These sweat-wicking, bum-sculpting shorts have earned hundreds of five-star reviews from Sweaty Betty shoppers, who call them "amazing" and say they're "perfect" for gym classes, cycling, weight training and more. $104 at Sweaty Betty These are the "best workout leggings," according to Knix shoppers. "They are so comfortable and don't ride up or loose shape." $98 at Knix Girlfriend Collective's Cleo Halter Bra is made from 90 per cent recycled plastic bottles (RPET) and 10 per cent spandex and is available in sizes XXS to 6XL. $46 at Girlfriend Collective  Alo's five-inch seamless ribbed shorts have a front-smoothing panel for commando comfort and four-way stretch. $58 at Alo Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA! Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.