 If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, SheKnows may receive an affiliate commission.  Fear of leaking during menstruation is something even adults get worried about, but that’s even more so when you’re a teen. Thankfully, there are so many brands out there offering teen-friendly period products to help alleviate some of that stress and make being on their period a little more comfortable. One innovative brand that has really changed the game when it comes to period products is Knix. Their “little sister” brand, Kt by Knix just dropped new leakproof activewear for teens that can help them stay comfy and confident during their period and beyond. More from SheKnows I Used These Menstrual Discs for My Periods for the Last Year & I'm Never Going Back to Tampons A 2022 study by PUMA and Modibodi found that three out of five teens skip playing sports due to “fear of leaking or revealing their period.” With Kt by Knix’s new leakproof leggings and shorts, teens can move freely and go about their day without needing a friend to check to make sure nothing’s showing — as many of us have likely done at some point. Not only that, they don’t have to worry about putting on a tampon or have to deal with the bulkiness of pads as KT by Knix’s activewear can absorb up to 30 ml or six tampons worth of liquid. Plus, it doesn’t hurt that the leggings were designed to be cute! Check out Kt by Knix’s new leakproof activewear for teens below. Click here to read the full article.  Our mission at SheKnows is to empower and inspire women, and we only feature products we think you’ll love as much as we do. Please note that if you purchase something by clicking on a link within this story, we may receive a small commission of the sale. The Kt by Knix Leakproof Active Leggings come in two colors including atmosphere, which is a cute teal color that will add a fun pop of color to any outfit. It features a discreet built-in liner and a leakproof technology that can hold up to six pads worth of blood. It’s also quick-drying, moisture-wicking, and has a “flattering high-waisted fit” and a supportive waistband. The leggings are pretty stylish, no one will be able tell those leggings were made for period days. Price: $70 Buy Now You can’t go wrong with a pair of classic black leggings. Like the cute teal version above, these leggings are lightweight, full length, and feature a four-way stretch fabric made for movement. Not to mention, have a high absorbency. Plus, since they’re black, teens can wear these with pretty much anything. Both the leggings and shorts below have a size range of XXS to XXL. Price: $70 Buy Now Not only did the brand release a couple of pairs of leggings, they also dropped new period-proof high performance-shorts. It’s made with the same leakproof technology as the leggings above, and can hold up to six pads worth of blood. There’s even a third “extra-absorbent” layer built in to prevent leaks from happening. These are available in black and atmosphere. Price: $50 Buy Now Be sure to check out KT by Knix’s new period-proof activewear for teens today, as well as their other offerings for both tweens and teens. Before you go, be sure to check out the slideshow below. Best of SheKnows 28 Celebrity Sex Quotes That'll Have You Hot Under the Collar 13 Celebrities Living With Autoimmune Disorders 11 Celebs Who Battled Sex Addiction Sign up for SheKnows' Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.