Live Platform is a new cloud-based hub for all Live Suite applications and services. Organized into four content categories, the hub enables users to manage their entire workflow in one location. Image courtesy of Desktop Metal. Desktop Metal has launched Live Suite—a package of premium software applications with new functionality for users of the company’s Additive Manufacturing 2.0 systems across Team DM brands. Building on the company’s Live Sinter simulation software, Live Suite enables users to make their digital design data come alive easily and accurately in 3D printed metal, polymer and ceramic parts, according to Desktop Metal. Live Sinter uses an advanced multiphysics approach based on graphics processing units to simulate the end-to-end printing and sintering process—generating new design shapes that will deliver the desired final part within tight tolerances. Live Sinter applies machine learning to calibrate this simulation process to match real-world results for a large install base of binder jet systems. “AM 2.0 is a digital manufacturing process that is ultimately powered by software, and we believe Live Suite offers the most intuitive and powerful AM software on the market,” says Ric Fulop, founder and CEO of Desktop Metal. “Live Suite is the culmination of 6 years of development by our talented global software team to make AM technology easy to use and ensure it delivers the highest quality results with the most intelligent approaches.” Live Suite will come standard with most new hardware this year, and it eliminates the need for users to purchase other 3D printing software programs to use their equipment. “Our strategy remains focused on keeping digital manufacturing accessible, so our users have the tools they want and don’t pay for expensive features they don’t need,” Fulop adds. Live Platform is a cloud-based hub for all Live Suite applications and services. Organized into four content categories—build, manage, learn, and support—the hub enables users to manage their entire workflow in one location with security. Live Platform is also the new central administration hub for Live Suite, with the ability to provision and manage Desktop Metal 3D printing systems and users, as well as access firmware updates, knowledge and technical support. A new Business Units feature allows larger companies with multiple users and departments to manage 3D printer permissions and controls for groups. Customers can use Live Platform to add on a range of application-specific options, such as part serialization or optimized build instructions for specific parts ranging from dentures to valves. Examples of special add-on features include Autopilot, which automates build preparation for dental and additional part-specific applications and Live Monitor, which will soon be available to remotely view jobs as they progress through printers and ancillary equipment. Users of existing Desktop Metal equipment will see updates to their software starting today or by year’s end, as noted in a schedule of the Live Suite rollout detailed in release notes located in the Knowledge Base. Additionally, customers can watch a Get Started video in the Academy. To learn more about Live Suite, click here. Sources: Press materials received from the company and additional information gleaned from the company’s website. DE’s editors contribute news and new product announcements to Digital Engineering.
Press releases may be sent to them via  [email protected].