University Grants Commission (UGC) recently released a set of draft guidelines to incorporate Indian Knowledge in Higher Education Curricula’. With this, UGC aims to encourage colleges and universities develop courses for introducing students to the Indian Knowledge System (IKS). These draft guidelines propose that every student enrolled in an undergraduate or postgraduate programme “should be encouraged to take credit courses in IKS amounting to at least five per cent” of the total mandated credits, which a student is expected to earn to obtain a degree. The guidelines have been presented to the stakeholders for suggestions which have to be submitted by April 30. To understand the viewpoint of various stakeholders, we talked to some college principals, professors and students on the same. Here’s what they have to say.  Dr Poonam Verma, Principal, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, DU  Indian Knowledge System has been a part of higher education curriculum since the introduction on National Education Policy 2020. The UGC guidelines are an expansion of their scope as it will offer students the opportunity to learn an ancient Indian concept with relation to their course. It is a relevant initiative to promote the Indian knowledge system in essence of its relevance and use in today’s world. However, the real question is on the implementation of these guidelines. At first, it should be optional rather than mandatory for students to not feel burdened with an additional subject. M M Ansari, former UGC Member  The UGC guidelines lack objective assessment and look more superficial. It is unlikely that students will take up these courses given the changing study environment and increased burden on them. Another factor is the employability factor of such courses. The youth today is aligned towards employable courses hence their interest in taking a credit based course which offers zero return of investment will be slim. Moreover, we are all aware about the shortage of faculty situations in central universities. UGC’s intend in introducing these credit courses might be well but the implementation part is not well though of. Dr Aman Mittal Vice President of Lovely Professional University  The circular suggests that such courses could be offered as electives or as part of a compulsory foundation course. It is important to note that the UGC is not asking institutions to focus solely on such courses. Rather, as we understand the aim is to offer courses that cover a broad range of topics related to Indian culture, including its history, literature, art, music, philosophy and medicine. Such courses can provide students with a deeper understanding of their cultural heritage and help them develop a sense of pride in their identity. Many countries around the world offer courses that promote their culture and values. In fact, such courses are often a mandatory part of the curriculum in many countries. Therefore, it is not uncommon for universities and colleges to offer courses that promote their country’s culture and heritage. Dr Rajesh Kumar, Professor of Practice, Manav Rachna International Institute of Research and Studies  Technological advancement and artificial intelligence are here to stay and become an integral part of our lives. Interestingly enough, this race of technology is not able to wipe out or render redundant the whole bulk of ancient acknowledge of health, medicine and the holistic development of an individual. It is not only relevant but also science itself is proving the efficacy of its systems and methods through research. The UGC has done well by taking this step of integrating both the ancient and modern. Chinmaya Singh Rawat, MA in Mass Communication student at GGSIPU, Delhi   The introduction of the credit course seems to be a far cry from the reality of students. With employment rates being questionable in a post-COVID era, these courses seem burdensome if their introduction turns out to be a compulsion for the students. Courses like BAMS (Ayurveda) are already under scrutiny in the medical communities. Priyanshu Dixit, BA Political Science (H) student at Kirorimal College, DU  Indian Knowledge System and historical concepts seem interesting. Nowadays even influencers on social media platforms like Instagram create short videos on these concepts. So learning them as a credit subject sounds exciting. However, this should initially be launched as an optional credit and only with larger participation from students it should be mandated in the near future. Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only TISS will now use CAT 2024 scores for admission to three PG programmes for the 2025-26 academic session. Registration for CAT 2024 is open until September 13. TISS will provide all relevant information on its website. Previously, TISS used TISS NET scores.  