UNESCO Pan-African Forum for the Culture of Peace Public access to information is a key component of UNESCO's commitment to transparency and its accountability. Based on human rights and fundamental freedoms, the 2005 Convention ultimately provides a new framework for informed, transparent and  UNESCO’s e-Platform on intercultural dialogue is designed for organizations and individuals to learn from shared knowledge or experiences from infl Established in 2002, the GEM Report is an editorially independent report, hosted and published by UNESCO. To recovery and beyond: The report takes stock of the global progress on the adoption and implementation of legal guarantees on Access to Info Addressing culture as a global public good For almost 75 years, the UNESCO Courier has served as a platform for international debates on issues that concern the entire pla Lifelong learning is key to overcoming global challenges and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Main UNESCO website UNESCO Digital Library website. The Value of water Groundwater, making the invisible visible UNESCO Story The world's indigenous people are the guardians of profound cultural traditions that have distinct languages and unique ancestral knowledge systems associated with the land that has been passed down through generations. The Khoisan – often also referred to as the ‘san’, is a collective term used to refer to the various indigenous hunter-gatherer tribes from regions around Southern Africa who depend on the natural environment to fulfill their basic daily needs. While the various Khoisan tribes are assimilated due to the click sound in their lingo and similar physical features, they have distinct groups with unique identities and varying dialects such as the Hai//om, Ju/'Hoansi, ! Xu (or Vasekele), Kwe (or Khwe), //Khau-/eisi, and Naro,! to name a few.  Mr. Cwi N/ani, a 50-year-old man from the Ju/'Hoansi tribe formed part of the commemorations of the 2023 International Day of the Worlds Indigenous Peoples hosted on the 9th of August, at Outapi, Omusati region, in northern Namibia. He expressed the intentionality in passing on indigenous knowledge to the younger generation through storytelling and traversing practices, to keep the culture thriving for generations to come. He, however, expressed dismay at the numerous influences that tempt the Ju/'Hoansi youth to deviate from their indigenous way of life - often with negative consequences. He pointed out modernization associated with climate change, alcohol abuse, food scarcity, and children and elderly neglect as a few of the key challenges. Before alcohol became so common in their community, they relied on the youth as the workforce to hunt and gather for the families. However, now youth are seized by alcohol while in pursuit of modern life. Furthermore, the migration of youth to the nearest towns also worries Cwi because these young people often fall prey to modern social woes such as cheap labour, illegal prostitution, and other forms of abuse. The commemorations reinforced Indigenous youth as the torchbearers of cultural continuity and the custodians of their communities' values and traditions under the theme 'Indigenous Youth as Agents of Change for Self-determination'. Cwi was well pleased with the thoughtfulness of the theme which shone a light on the spirits of indigenous youth and acknowledged their contribution to cultural preservation, environmental stewardship, and social progress for sustainability.  The culmination of various indigenous groups from Namibia on the day featured unique arts, crafts, music, dance, and storytelling as expressions of their unique cultural identities. These expressions are essential manifestations of their collective memory and cultural heritage. Cwi further expressed his gratitude for the recognition that indigenous people are getting in Namibia, as well as events such as the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples, that are vital to raising awareness of their cultures and rights. He concluded that although it is difficult to keep their culture and indigenous way of life alive in the modern world, he is hopeful that as the world continues to recognize and celebrate indigenous people; the indigenous youth will develop a sense of pride in their identity and become instrumental in bringing positive changes in their communities. He is also determined to keep teaching the youth about indigenous knowledge systems and he embraces positive modern developments such as Education for All which gives their youth a chance to access education.  Language, as a critical component of preserving Indigenous systems, has propelled UNESCO to commit support towards initiatives that preserve, promote, and revitalize indigenous languages, ensuring that they continue to flourish and thrive for generations to come. To strengthen this commitment, UNESCO is serving as a lead UN Agency for the implementation of the Global Action Plan for the International Decade of Indigenous Languages 2022-2032, in cooperation with other relevant UN Agencies. The International Decade of Indigenous Languages aims to draw global attention to the critical situation of many indigenous languages and to mobilize stakeholders and resources for their preservation, revitalization, and promotion.  To localize the global plan, UNESCO is supporting the development of Namibia’s National Action Plan aligned with the Global Action Plan. The National Action Plan provides guidance for government agencies and competent bodies, as well as for civil society organizations and other public-private stakeholders to develop their own institutional plans according to the country's needs. 