A furry stowaway threatened to delay a Victorian island’s only transport service to the mainland. “I’ve just got to work and this is the first thing I’ve got to deal with… what are you doing here?” the ferry master Lachie says in a video supplied to Yahoo News Australia. Filmed last Friday morning, the short clip below shows a large male koala sitting in the car docking bay. “Come on, off the ferry. Do you have your pass on you?” he jokes. The koala doesn’t move. Lachie lets out a low sigh. It was getting close to 5am, and passengers at Raymond Island would be relying on Lachie to get them across the water to catch the connecting train to Melbourne from Bairnsdale. Cath Winzer, one of the island’s volunteer wildlife rescuers, was fast asleep when she received a phone alert asking for help. By the time she arrived at the harbour, she was running on adrenaline and didn’t register the bitter cold. She’d hoped to quickly grab the koala in a towel and then return home to bed, but when she arrived the koala had wandered across the ferry and was balancing precariously above the water. “He’d got to the worst possible place… so that was a bit of a concern,” Cath told Yahoo. “My biggest worry was that he’d go in the drink. But actually, I had to think about myself too, because I thought if I go up after him and he fights back things could go pear-shaped. I can swim but I didn’t fancy going in at 5 o’clock in the morning." Using a long-armed fishing net Cath was able to coax the koala back to safety and inspect him for injuries, and after giving him the all-clear he was set free again. While encountering a koala on a ferry may seem unusual, volunteers at Koalas of Raymond Island are frequently called to help care for disorientated animals. The charity’s president Shelley Robinson told Yahoo the animals can be frightened by dogs, people or loud noises, causing them to flee towards the water. “They end up in ferries, yachts, and catamarans,” she said. Incidents tend to spike during holiday season when tourists flock to the island, but this month the team also found themselves at capacity. Caring for so many koalas is costly for the volunteer-run organisation, with blood tests and X-rays costing over $500 if they use veterinary services on the island. Tragic end for rescued koala after 'way too common' mistake Fear for koalas amid plan to solve housing shortage Koala joey clings to mum after car crash While the group is now periodically assisted by Wildlife Victoria’s free travelling vet service, they still desperately require donations to help care for the area’s wildlife. You can find out more about their work here. Love Australia's weird and wonderful environment? Get our new weekly newsletter showcasing the week’s best stories. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... The answer may not be what you’re expecting. The 29-year-old went for one of her most daring looks while out with her sister. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. An Australian has captured a chilling detail in a video of a family canoeing across a seemingly harmless lake. The TLC star has certainly come a long way. Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’s running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said wit Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. Ayman Mohyeldin explained why this message is especially effective right now. Souths are set to come down hard on Latrell Mitchell and demand change. Read more here. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process "He's so stupid." A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend Police have seized a loaded shotgun from an unusual place in an investigation into criminal gang activities, with the gun taken for forensic examination. Home and Away's Emily Weir has stepped out in a sheer Logies 2024 dress which left very little to the imagination. Read more. Harley Reid has been called out after the brutal Eagles loss to Carlton. Find out more here. The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC.