
                For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript.
                Here are the 
                    instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
                
 Sectors 



 Save to read list



                                        Published by Bella Weetch,
                                        Editorial Assistant
                                        

Tanks and Terminals,
                                Wednesday, 14 December 2022 10:00

 Koch Engineered Solutions (KES) has announced a strategic collaboration with Percepto, an autonomous inspection and monitoring solution provider, to assist its industrial customers in identifying key opportunities to control and reduce emissions with artificial intelligence (AI) software delivered by Percepto’s drone-in-a-box solution. KES' subsidiary, Koch Specialty Plant Services (KSPS), a leader in onsite vessel fabrication and process critical equipment installation and plant services, is offering Percepto’s portfolio of Percepto Air MaxTM and Percepto Air Max OGITM drones to a range of industrial facilities. This offering will be packaged as a turnkey solution to customers as KSPS Aerial Inspection Solutions Powered by Percepto. The only drone-in-a-box solution with an integrated optical gas imaging camera, Percepto Air Max OGI enables operators to save time and resources by conducting remote high-frequency, high-quality visual and thermal inspections that can detect failures and visible leaks with AI-powered change detection. As a Koch Disruptive Technologies portfolio company, Percepto has deployed similar technology at Koch Fertilizer in the Enid, Oklahoma, US facility – an example of how Koch Labs® capability approach allows start-ups and business partners to develop and test their technology in real-world environments. “Percepto’s technology has helped Koch company employees better assess risk, improve safety, reduce costs and truly transform their roles. With more industrial customers looking to improve their emissions controls and regulatory compliance, Percepto’s solutions are a key differentiator in this field,” said Tom Concienne, President, KSPS. “Consistent with Koch’s stewardship vision to responsibly create more value while consuming fewer resources, we continuously seek new ways to apply new technologies to monitor and reduce emissions and believe we can help our customers do just that.” Percepto’s Autonomous Inspection & Monitoring (AIM) software provides customers with AI-powered reports of anomalies and trends. This data allows for effective collaboration between stakeholders, utilising Percepto’s software to view such trends via geotag on a map. This technology provided one US refinery customer with approximately US$15 million in savings, for just one month of autonomous OGI inspections. Additionally, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has granted Percepto a nationwide waiver for Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) operations, empowering US-based Percepto customers whose sites comply with the waiver's criteria to utilise remotely-operated drones. As a result, industrial customers benefit from automated drone inspection and monitoring, without waiting for site-specific FAA approvals. “Industrial customers using Percepto software have been able to minimise downtime, streamline compliance, reduce operational costs, optimise LDAR, speed up response time and critically, improve safety while monitoring and finding ways to reduce their emissions,” said Ariel Avitan, Chief Commercial Officer, Percepto. “We’re excited to lead the revolution of unmanned inspections that helps industrial facilities optimise their operations and reach their ESG goals, and this partnership with KES is a tremendous next step.” Read the article online at: https://www.tanksterminals.com/terminals/14122022/koch-engineered-solutions-announces-collaboration-with-percepto/ 



 The developer of the first LNG export facility in Mexico has shipped an initial cargo this month, with the LNG sailing via the Panama Canal to Mexico’s LNG import terminal in Baja California Sur.  Embed article link: (copy the HTML code below): 
                            This content is available to registered readers of our magazine only. Please sign in or register for free.
                         
Register for free »
Get started now for absolutely FREE, no credit card required.
 Already a member? Sign in here 
                            Copyright © 2024 Palladian Publications Ltd. All rights reserved | Tel: +44 (0)1252 718 999 |
                            Email: enquiries@tanksterminals.com
