By Ali Daher For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  17:55 EDT, 10 January 2023   |  Updated:  10:05 EDT, 11 January 2023      View  comments  Sunrise host David 'Kochie' Koch has found himself at the centre of yet another online scam. The 66-year-old, who was previously the unwitting spokesperson for erectile dysfunction pills, was left fuming this week after he discovered yet another fraudulent advert using his name. The latest scam tries to lure people to click on a link by alluding to Koch being involved in a 'shocking scandal', or promising to reveal how the finance expert has accumulated wealth. Sunrise host David 'Kochie' Koch has found himself at the centre of yet another online scam  Koch uploaded a screenshot on Instagram on Saturday of a fake online article that claimed to reveal how much money he 'really earned'.  'Beware… 2023 and the financial scams keep on coming more than ever,' he wrote. 'The one on the left came up on @realestateaus as I was scrolling the site. Koch uploaded a screenshot on Instagram on Saturday of a fake online article that claimed to reveal how much money he 'really earned' 'The one on the right was sent to me yesterday from Instagram. 'They are scams trying to con you by illegally using my image and attributing fictitious comments to me.' It comes after Koch found himself at the centre of an online scam relating to Bitcoin investment in 2019.  It comes after Koch found himself at the centre of an online scam relating to Bitcoin investment in 2019 The Channel Seven presenter alerted fans of the hoax with a lengthy post on Instagram, writing: 'SCAM WARNING; ANY STORY OR ADVERTISEMENT CLAIMING THE KOCH’S RECOMMEND BITCOIN AS AN INVESTMENT IS A SCAM.' 'It is driving us crazy the con artists using Libby and I as bait to lure people into investing in Bitcoin,' Koch continued. 'Facebook are doing their best to take them down but then they pop back up using different offshore servers,' he added.  The financial journalist alerted fans of the hoax with a lengthy post on Instagram In 2018, Koch was also forced to deny any association with fraudulent online adverts promoting erectile dysfunction treatment. He tweeted: 'For those who might be tempted... be warned the erectile dysfunction advertisements doing the rounds online using my image are fake.' Report scams to the ACCC via the Scamwatch website In 2018, Koch was also forced to deny any association with fraudulent online adverts promoting erectile dysfunction treatment  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group