Durham, North Carolina-based AQUALIS, a provider of sustainable water management services, announced Monday that it has acquired the assets of Stormwater Solutions Engineering, LLC, a Milwaukee-based civil engineering firm specializing in managing the treatment, storage and safe passage of stormwater. AQUALIS is a portfolio company of New Jersey-based DFW Capital Partners. Stormwater Solutions Engineering is Click here to purchase a sharable paywall bypass link for this Insider-only article. 
 Sign up for the BizTimes email newsletter Stay up-to-date on the people, companies and issues that impact business in Milwaukee and Southeast Wisconsin Share new hires, promotions and employee accolades with the region's business leaders. Up-to-the-minute business news, thoughtful analysis and valuable strategic insights for Milwaukee and Southeastern Wisconsin business leaders. Copyright © 2024 BizTimes - Milwaukee Business News. All Rights Reserved. “This opportunity represents a pivotal point in AQUALIS’ history as we expand our portfolio of services to include sustainable water engineering,” said Erin Zaske, chief development officer of AQUALIS. “For more than 20 years, AQUALIS has provided robust stormwater maintenance programs for clients throughout the United States and worked on countless rehabilitation and repair projects, all of which we have captured significant asset data to provide quality solutions to our customers and remain forward-thinking in our approach. By adding Stormwater Solutions Engineering’s capabilities to our portfolio of services, we will enhance the customer experience by creating all-inclusive, comprehensive sustainable water management solutions– from planning to construction to post-construction management programs. We are thrilled to invest in this remarkable company and its people. We look forward to building on Stormwater Solutions Engineering’s success and existing customer relationships while bringing a well-rounded service offering to our existing clientele.” Stormwater Solutions Engineering’s expertise lies largely in flood management, water quality, drainage design, integrated site design, site evaluations, stormwater inspections and maintenance. “After 21 years as Stormwater Solutions Engineering we are excited to join forces with the national presence that is AQUALIS, to broaden our reach across the U.S., further fulfilling our mission of improving the built and natural environments within communities through sustainable engineering and design,” said Carrie Bristoll-Groll, CEO of Stormwater Solutions Engineering. “We see AQUALIS as completing us in the full life cycle that is missing in so many stormwater projects. Bringing our engineering services to their existing stormwater solutions feels like next generation in water management, truly managing a project cradle to grave, and back to the cradle again.” Bristoll-Groll will join AQUALIS as executive vice president of engineering services and will lead AQUALIS’ engineering team throughout the country. Stay up-to-date with our free email newsletter Keep up with the issues, companies and people that matter most to business in the Milwaukee metro area. By subscribing you agree to our privacy policy.