Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Kohl's shares spiked Wednesday as the struggling retailer posted a surprise profit and affirmed its full-year guidance while it chases a turnaround. Shares of the company closed more than 7% higher Wednesday, after jumping even higher earlier in the day. Across the retail industry, Walmart, Target, Foot Locker and others have spoken about how high food prices have made selling clothing, sneakers and other discretionary merchandise tougher. Kohl's, however, has had to tackle a more fundamental hurdle: Proving that its brand still resonates with shoppers and getting back on track with consistent sales growth. On a call with analysts, Kohl's CEO Tom Kingsbury and CFO Jill Timm stressed changes the retailer has made to win back customers and attract new ones. It is opening more Sephora shops, expanding in merchandise categories like pet and home decor and featuring gift-giving items ahead of holidays. Every time shoppers walk into a store, Kingsbury said they now see "something new, something different, something very giftable, and a different look." Kohl's reiterated its full-year outlook. It said it expects net sales to range between a decline of 2% and 4%, including the approximately 1% impact from having one more week of sales this year. It said it expects earnings per share to range from $2.10 to $2.70, excluding nonrecurring charges. Here's how the retailer did for the quarter that ended April 29 compared with what Wall Street was anticipating, based on a survey of analysts by Refinitiv: In the fiscal first quarter, Kohl's net sales fell 3.3% to $3.36 billion from $3.47 billion in the year-ago period. Comparable sales declined 4.3% in the quarter, roughly in line with the 4.5% drop expected by Wall Street, according to StreetAccount. The company reported net income of $14 million, or 13 cents per share, compared with $14 million, or 11 cents per share, a year earlier. Kohl's surprise quarterly profit comes after multiple quarters of disappointing sales and a sinking stock price. Last year, the retailer became a target for activist investors Ancora Holdings and Macellum Capital, which pushed the company to oust its then-CEO Michelle Gass and shake up its board. Kohl's also discussed and then ended a bid last year to sell its business to Vitamin Shoppe owner Franchise Group. Since then, Kohl's has tapped its new CEO Kingsbury, former chief executive of off-price retailer Burlington Stores. He stepped into the role as interim CEO and later the permanent one after Gass, its former CEO, left to become the next leader of Levi Strauss. Over the past year, Kohl's efforts to reinvent itself and woo shoppers have run into challenges as middle-income consumers feel pinched by inflation and buy fewer discretionary items, such as clothing. That contributed to a big loss in Kohl's holiday quarter and weak outlook, which the Wisconsin-based company reiterated Wednesday. On the analyst call, Kingsbury said "the middle-income customer is being squeezed," but said Kohl's can attract those shoppers by emphasizing value. Despite a challenging economic backdrop, Kohl's made progress in the fiscal first quarter. Store traffic rose and when shoppers visited stores, they put more items in their baskets, Kingsbury said. Average ticket declined as Kohl's had clearance events to sell through extra merchandise. Inventory was $3.5 billion at the end of the quarter, a drop of 6% year over year. Investors have closely watched those levels, since the glut of merchandise at many retailers has led to higher markdowns and lower profits. Kohl's margins improved in the quarter, as costs of freight and online shipping costs dropped and the company got more strategic about markdowns. Kingsbury said the company wants to simplify markdowns for customers, but also have targeted offers and clearance events instead of across-the-board cuts. During the quarter, Kohl's had its strongest sales performance in February. March came in lower than the company anticipated and April was in line with its expectations, Kingsbury said. May sales so far have been slower than anticipated, Timm said. She said Kohl's plans to make up for the weakness in June, which was a weaker sales period in the year-ago quarter. She added that some company changes will boost Kohl's in the back half of the year, including efforts to bring in fresh products under Kohl's new chief merchant and open new Sephora stores. Kohl's hired Nick Jones, a retail veteran and former chief merchant from U.K.-based department store Marks & Spencer, as its chief merchandising and digital officer in February. Sephora has also been one of Kohl's biggest traffic and sales drivers. It began opening Sephora shops in its stores two years ago. It plans to add the shops to all of its more than 1,100 stores, and will have more than 900 by the end of the year, Kingsbury said. Beauty sales at Kohl's increased 150% year over year, he said. At the Sephora locations open for the past two years, comparable beauty sales grew by the mid-teens. Sales trends at the newer shops also surpassed expectations and gave people more reasons to visit stores, he said. "We are bringing in new customers and they are shopping at more than twice the frequency of our average customer," he said. Shares of Kohl's closed Tuesday at $19.27. That's less than half of its 52-high, which was $47.63. The company's stock has tumbled nearly 23% so far this year — even as the S&P 500 has risen about 8% and the retail-focused XRT has fallen nearly 2%. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by