DOWNERS GROVE, IL — A semi truck was burglarized, items were stolen from Home Depot and other crimes were reported on Downers Grove police blotter from late May and early June.  Semi Truck Burglarized in 3000 Block of Finley Road Someone broke the window on a semi truck while it was parked in a lot in the 3000 block of Finley Road. The victim told police someone used a rock to break the window sometime between the night of June 3 and the morning of June 4. Police say nothing was reported stolen.  Retail Theft Reported at Home Depot Police were called to the Home Depot at 2000 Butterfield Rd. for a report of a retail theft. A loss prevention employee told police a man came into the store just before 1:30 p.m. and began filling his cart with garden planters. He also took a five gallon bucket and began to fill it with other items. According to police, the man then left the store through the gardening area without paying. Dominik Rajter was charged in connection with the incident.  Items Stolen from Kohl's  Police were called to the Kohl's at 2920 Finley Rd. on June 1 for a report of a retail theft. Employees told police a man got dropped off in a dark-colored SUV, went into the store, put a vacuum and a coffee maker into a shopping cart. He then left without paying and appeared to get into an SUV that drove off.  Purse Stolen in 5200 Block of Main Street A woman told police her purse was stolen from behind the desk of a building in the 5200 block of Main Street on the morning on June 7. The woman discovered the theft when she got a phone call from her bank notifying her of a possible fraud attempt. Inside the purse were debit and credit cards, a driver's license and a car key. Someone later found the purse near the intersection of Lee and Gilbert Avenues and brought it to the Downers Grove police station.  Semi Truck Damaged in 1500 block of Butterfield Road Police say the window of a semi truck was smashed while it was parked near the Chipotle in the 1500 block of Butterfield Road. It did not appear anyone had gone through the truck's interior, according to the crime blotter. The incident took place sometime around midnight on June 10.  Anyone with information about these incidents is urged to contact the Downers Grove Police Department at 630-434-5600.   Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts. To request removal of your name from an arrest report, submit these required items to arrestreports@patch.com.