MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS The department store chain is bringing aboard a new legal chief as it seeks to gain sales traction after a tumultuous 2022 marked by an exodus of executives and a failed attempt to sell itself. January 27, 2023 at 12:53 PM  2 minute read Retail Reporter Kohl’s Corp., the department store giant based in the Milwaukee suburb of Menomonee Falls, has hired Jennie Kent as chief legal officer and secretary. Kent comes to Kohl’s from Quad, a 12,000-employee, publicly traded integrated marketing company based in Sussex, another Milwaukee suburb. She’s been there 12 years, starting out as assistant general counsel. She became vice president and general counsel in 2013 and eventually rose to become executive vice president and chief people and legal officer. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Chris O'Malley By James Palmer By Trudy Knockless By Trudy Knockless 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder 'If Only We Had Full Staffing': This Legal Sector Is Spread Thin, but Negotiating Higher Rates The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies Women, Influence & Power in Law Awards honors women lawyers who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession. WIPL is the original global forum facilitating women-to-women exchange on leadership and legal issues. 
                                        JOB DESCRIPTION SUMMARY      Pulsar Title Insurance Company Inc., a commercial and residential title insurance underwriter based in the Bato...
                                 
                                        RECRUITMENT BONUS Newly hired employees from this recruitment may be eligible to receive bonus payments up to $3,000!*   FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE: ...
                                 
                                        Morristown, NJ; New York, NY Description: Fox Rothschild has an opening in multiple offices for a Counsel in our Litigation Department. The ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Corporate Counsel now! Already have an account? Sign In Predictive reporting, trend analysis, peer guidance and a practical playbook to help general counsels succeed in their increasingly high stakes roles as risk managers and corporate strategists The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.