Chili crisp, saucy noodles, teeny cookies, ready-to-eat stews, and plant-based sausages make this summer simple and spicy.  If you're anything like me, you could easily spend hours perusing Whole Foods for new products, but you've got neither the time nor the cash to spend assessing everything that catches your attention. That's where Food & Wine comes in. Every month, I try out Whole Foods' latest products — including their own 365 brand items and any other exciting releases — to see which items are actually worth your money. 
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  This month there are a lot of sauces and easy-to-prep food options to make the last of summer spicier and more relaxed. Fill up your cart with all my August picks.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  If Milk Bar knows how to do something especially well, it’s tiny confections that pack tons of flavor. These bite-sized cookies have a satisfying crunch, and deliver the nostalgia of eating Famous Amos in my school cafeteria. Make no mistake though, these are much more gourmet than any snack you had as a kid. The cookies come in Cinnamon Toast, Pretzel-y Chocolate Chip, Vanilla Butter Crunch, and Brown Butter Chocolate Chip. While they’re all delightful I highly recommend the brown butter version which have a deliciously nutty depth to them, or the vanilla ones which are buttery and reminiscent of the Dansk cookies that never seem to be in the tin.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  More flavorful than most tortilla chips but not so seasoned that they delve into Dorito territory (though I wouldn’t be mad about that) these tortilla chips really strike a perfect flavor balance. I love the Spicy Green Chili flavor because let’s be honest, I love anything salsa verde or green chili, but also because has just the right amount of kick to keep them interesting enough that I can eat the whole bag sans dip.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  I am a chili crisp fiend, I have 3-4 different jars in my pantry at all times, and they’re all in rotation. But sometimes I want that spicy, flavorful oil without all the extra seeds, garlic, and chili flakes — just pure spicy goodness and that’s where Fly By Jing Sichuan Gold comes in. Essentially a flavorful hot oil, it’s a lot more versatile than your typical chili crisp thanks to its smooth, hot sauce-like texture, but still delivers on that tingly Sichuan flavor. I’ve really been putting this on everything and have yet to find a dish that it doesn’t make pop.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  These bratwurst links belong at your next cookout, whether you like to eat a plant-based diet or not. The bratwursts are full of flavor and have a delightful texture thanks to a casing that’s easy to crisp up for a perfect bite. As someone who doesn’t typically seek out meat alternatives, I was truly surprised by how spot on-these sausages were and how quickly my household made our way through them.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  A good home cook plans ahead and always has the ingredients to make a fabulous meal at a moment’s notice. A genius home cook has pre-packaged noodles on hand for when the good cook is off duty. Omsom’s new saucy noodles are perfect for the latter. Like most products of their kind, these noodles take little to no prep and come together in a flash. Unlike some of their counterparts, they also come with rich, flavorful sauces that give the impression of a dish that took a lot longer to put together. Make sure to grab a box of chile sesame or soy garlic the next time you’re at Whole Foods, future off-duty you will thank you.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  Call me wacky but I love a grain or legume in a bag that you can microwave and get on your table quickly. I’m really excited about these Mina Moroccan Stews — newly available at Whole Foods — which are super flavorful and come together in a flash. They’ve made for great lunches on days when I don’t have enough room in my bag for Tupperware or I need something that doesn’t have to be refrigerated right away. All four varieties are great but my favorites are the Hummus (chickpea stew) and Addis (lentil stew).
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  We've established my love of chili crisp, but I love an equally textural salsa macha too. SOMOS's new salsa macha has quickly become a favorite, making it onto everything from eggs and soups to stir-fries and pasta. The salsa has plenty of sesame and pumpkin seeds and almonds for a subtle nuttiness and crunch. One thing to note though, while it's labeled as being medium spicy, I don’t find it to be particularly hot which means I mostly use it to add some extra flavor and texture to my food. On the bright side, a sauce that’s not too spicy means it can go with everything and be easily paired with something like say, the aforementioned Sichuan Gold, for a bit more heat. If you try anything from this list, definitely try this, my household are such fans that I’m almost due for a trip to Whole Foods to pick up another jar.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  For mornings when I want a hearty breakfast but don’t have the time or desire to put one together these waffle sandwiches are the move. Made of a brioche-like liege waffle with a touch of maple and yummy chicken sausage, they’re sweet, salty and just the thing to wake up to.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  I love the simplicity of a good sugar cookie and these pre-made and pre-portioned sugar cookies from Sweet Loren make it even better by taking out all the work. Just grab a sheet pan, pop the cookies in the oven, and get in on that cozy, just-baked goodness we all love.
 Courtesy of Momofuku  Unlike most hot honeys, this one has pepper flakes that somehow make it feel more luxurious. Fair warning that because of those flakes it is a bit hotter than most other hot honeys I've tried, but no complaints about that here. Grab a jar and add it to your cheeseboards, sandwiches, and more for an extra special flavor boost.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  Non-stick spray is my number one weapon in the kitchen and lately, I’ve been loving La Tourangelle’s sunflower version. If non-stick isn’t for you they’ve also started selling regular sunflower oil that’s equally good.
 Courtesy of Whole Foods Market  Whole Foods is really shaking up the pasta aisle and has added tons of options for every kind of pasta fan. For those who like to stick to the classics, 177-year-old Italian pasta brand, Pasta Rummo has bucatini, shells, mezzi rigatoni, and more (including several gluten-free options) available at Whole Foods. For those who love a fun shape, Goodles, makers of excellent mac and cheese, now have some fun shapes to highlight your favorite sauce. My favorite are the curveballs, which are almost fully pinched in elbow noodles — super small and fun. Finally, this being the summer of Barbie, DiMartino has some Barbie Pennette Rigate Tiny Cut Penne packaged in on-brand hot pink because all Barbies love some good pasta.
