Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? We analyzed and taste-tested shopping carts full of products to find the 50 best. CONVENIENCE, DEMAND, AND probably all those damn ads on social media are fueling the multi-trillion-dollar market for packaged grocery stores goods.  To cut through the glut of well-marketed junk food—and celebrate the 20th anniversary of our Best Foods for Men awards—we searched hundreds of product labels to find the 20 most-nutritious and delicious products released within the last year. And, because the best diet is a varied diet, we added 30 of our favorite all-time favorites to help round out the list. What makes an award-winner, you ask? Each year, our editors scan supermarket shelves (IRL and online) to find food and drinks with the most protein, fiber, and healthy fats for the fewest empty calories and added sugars. We also prize organic and minimally processed foods. And we taste-test everything. Here are the 50 Best Foods for Men award-winners for 2023. The first 20 are new(ish). The remaining 30 are the oldies-but-goodies.  And they’re all as nutritious as they are delicious. These formidable chips have a bracing heat that can stand up to beef bulgogi or bibimbap. They’re pretty great snacked straight out of the tub too. The tender, lightly smoky fish in this easy-open can has 15 grams of protein and offers an excellent source of heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids. Slide the chicken breast, cauliflower penne, tomato sauce, and vegetables from the bag and into a skillet with oil. In six minutes, you have a high-protein feast. These leaves come from a holly bush, which makes them sweet, not bitter, like most green teas. Yes, it still delivers a nice ride of caffeine. They’re dark-chocolate-covered bon bons made with a blend of milk and Greek yogurt. One contains 35 calories. Too many cold brands mask the off-flavors of crummy beans with added milks and sugars. Not, Stok, which offer just this potent-yet-balanced brew. Supremely creamy hummus, elevated by a small mound of sweet-tangy roasted tomatoes and red peppers. It’s great as a salad “dressing.” This vegan frozen meal contains an impressive 18 grams of protein per serving and tastes pretty close to chili. They satisfy like chicken nuggets, but have way more in the way of omega-3s. All they need is a squeeze of fresh lemon juice. Just blend these pre-portioned bags of blueberries, bananas, blackberries, cherries—along with small cubes that include acai and flaxseeds—with a liquid and go. Sizzle these zucchini, carrot, and red bell pepper strips with the included no-sugar-added sauce and check “eating more vegetables” off your goals list. They’re overnight oats, without all the work and waiting. One 5-oz tub has 200 calories, 6 grams of protein, 5 grams of fiber, and no added sugar. They have a Cheez-It vibe, but are made with fresh, not powdered cheese, so a handful has 6 grams. They’re good as croutons too. This breakfast bake, studded with tater tots, has a fortifying 26 grams of protein per bowl. Top it with some salsa for even more flavor. This mix of oats, quinoa, amaranth, chia, and almonds is what so few good-for-you cereals aren’t: satisfying. Chunks of tomato and onion. Pops of garlic and basil. Silky smooth texture. Who needs sugar? This powerfully spicy salsa has a finely chopped consistency and just-made freshness that make it equally well matched for tacos and scrambled eggs. Not like Stevia-sweetened “zero sugar.” Just no sugar at all. So you can enjoy the taste in all its  beefy-peppery glory. It’s die-cut, which isn’t a gimmick. Those micro-grooves actually help sauces cling to the pasta better, which means more good stuff in every bite. This luscious PB has no added sugar and slathers on rich and creamy. It’ll dethrone whatever brand currently sits in your pantry. Here’s How Protein Shakes Help With Weight Loss What the Heck Is Going on With Decaf Coffee?  30 High-Protein Recipes That Require Zero Cooking Yes, What You Eat Can Impact Your Skin Health It's Called 'Nature’s Viagra.' Does It Work?  Are All Processed Foods Unhealthy?  The Supplement Industry Is Coming for Your Kids The Best Pre-Workout Treats for Your Next Workout What to Do When a Hunger Pang Strikes 6 Different Kinds of Salt and How to Use Them The Science on Fasting-Mimicking Diets Editor-Approved Creatine Supplements for Gains A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.