Our shopping editor put it to the test.  This article is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Contact a qualified medical professional before engaging in any physical activity, or making any changes to your diet, medication or lifestyle. Kidneys play a vital role in your health, from filtering blood, balancing fluids, removing waste products from your blood and more. However, it's estimated that one in 10 Canadians suffers from chronic kidney disease (CKD). Over time, CKD can lead to other health problems, such as heart disease. To help your kidney health, avoid consuming too much sodium, potassium and phosphorous. Too much of these minerals in your bloodstream can put additional stress on your kidneys to adequately filter them. Kidney disease can often go untreated as the signs and symptoms aren't always apparent until the disease is advanced. If you have a family history of kidney disease or you're concerned about your kidney health, contact your doctor to learn more about what you can do. Additionally, here are seven suggested foods to avoid when thinking about your diet. Yes, this is sad news for guacamole lovers everywhere, but it's true — avocados aren't great for your kidneys since they're high in potassium. An average-sized avocado weighing about 200 grams can contain around 970 milligrams of potassium, nearly half the recommended dose for someone with kidney disease. Canned foods, including soups and sauces, are high in sodium, potentially raising your blood pressure. Since those with kidney disease are already prone to sodium buildup and high blood pressure, adding extra sodium can adversely affect your health. But choosing lower sodium varieties or those labelled "no salt added," as well as rinsing canned goods, can decrease sodium content by 33 per cent. Bananas are a potassium-rich food that can help you meet your daily requirement, but they may not be the best option for people with kidney disease. Your kidneys usually regulate your potassium levels, but filtering excess potassium is difficult for those with kidney disease. In fact, someone with chronic kidney disease should limit their potassium intake to 2,000 to 3,000 milligrams per day. Be aware, as a single large banana contains 500 milligrams of potassium. A single can of artificially dyed pop has about 10 teaspoons of sugar — it's basically liquid candy. Over time, a diet too high in sugar can cause health problems like diabetes and kidney disease. Pop also contains high levels of phosphoric additives. High phosphorus levels in urine are linked to kidney stones and can lead to kidney disease over time. Just drinking two cans of pop per day can increase your risk of developing kidney disease down the road. Do your kidneys a favour and watch out for "phos" words in the ingredients list on the back of your carbonated beverages. Dairy products — such as milk, cheese and yogurt — are a natural source of potassium and phosphorus. If your kidneys are damaged, too much phosphorus consumption can cause a buildup in the blood. The imbalance between calcium and phosphorus can then withdraw calcium from your bones. If you want to maintain a healthy phosphorus and calcium balance but love dairy products, consider dairy alternatives, such as rice or almond milk. Dried fruits are healthy when eaten in small doses, but they're also ingredient-dense and high in sugar and potassium. For example, 200 grams of raisins can have up to 493 calories, while a whole fresh apple has fewer than 100 calories. If you enjoy dried fruits, look for low-potassium options, like dried apples or cranberries. Brown rice is a good source of fibre, vitamins and minerals. However, it's higher in potassium and phosphorus than white rice. One cup of cooked brown rice contains 150 milligrams of phosphorus and 154 milligrams of potassium, while one cup of cooked white rice contains only 68 milligrams of phosphorus and 55 milligrams of potassium. If you're looking out for your kidney health, opt for white rice instead of brown. Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA! Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... Joe Biden, Raphael Warnock, Hillary Clinton and more all dunked on the former president during their speeches on Monday night. JD Vance, the Republican vice presidential nominee, may have earned some side-eyed glances in Philadelphia on Monday after he asked workers at Pat’s King of Steaks why they didn’t serve Swiss cheese on their sandwiches.Vance, who was in Philadelphia campaigning, made the pilgrimage to the famous steak sandwich joint on Monday after a speech at a waste management facility. Pat’s, alongside its South Philly cross-street rival Geno’s Steaks, is one of the most famous steak sandwich shops in the Cit The “Late Show” host had to correct one thing Biden said about the former president at the Democratic National Convention. After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Former President Trump said late Monday that he would participate in a tele-town hall hosted by Fox News next month instead of a debate on the network, after the Harris campaign made clear the vice president would not participate. “Rather than the debate on September 4th, I have agreed to do a Tele-Town Hall, anchored… Imagine trading in stuff you don't want anymore to get groceries. Talk about a budget-friendly swap. That's what Costco offers through its Trade-In program -- and you don't even have to be a Costco... Trump has often boasted of the "great relationship" he had with the British monarch. Biden loyalists saw last night’s schedule fiasco as a new blow after the indignities of recent weeks.At the first night of the Democratic National Convention—which was supposed to be dedicated to thanking him—the president was still speaking after midnight when many TV viewers, and voters, on the East Coast were tucked up in bed.DNC organizers put the lag down to “raucous applause” in the “electric atmosphere” of the convention hall.Read more at The Daily Beast.Get the Daily Beast's biggest scoo The supermodel shared news of a new launch for her fragrance brand, Orebella - read more The Princess of Wales and her sister, Pippa Middleton, prove they're just like us in unearthed photo Peyton Manning knows a thing or two about great quarterback play, having won two Super Bowls and earned a spot in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. At this past weekend's Fanatics Fest, he listed his five top quarterbacks in the NFL. While not a surprising list, it does… Ayman Mohyeldin explained why this message is especially effective right now. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The model slipped into the house's poplin mini during a NYC stroll - see more The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Yellowstone National Park on Sunday issued its annual reminder that the bison rut is underway, advising tourists to “use extra caution and give bison extra space during this time.” If anyone wonders why they should be more careful Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Friends of Prince William and Kate Middleton have told the Daily Beast that William took offense at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle publicly referring to his wife as Kate rather than Catherine, “even when they were sending her get-well-soon messages after her cancer diagnosis.”The apparent reluctance on Harry and Meghan’s part to call the Princess of Wales by her preferred name was “an entirely unnecessary and deliberate irritation” the friend said, and may have contributed to William and Kate’s Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’ running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said with