From a reusable water bottle to a wireless audio transmitter, these gadgets will make your travel experience easier. This article is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Contact a qualified medical professional before engaging in any physical activity, or making any changes to your diet, medication or lifestyle. Feeling excited about sharing your food with your pets during the holidays is natural. After all, giving your pets a little table scrap after a sumptuous feast can't be that harmful — or can it? The fact is, many festive foods can damage your pet's health. Giving your pets certain foods may put them at risk of severe illnesses you can otherwise avoid. Before sharing your holiday food with your pets, make sure you know which foods are safe for them and which ones aren't. Here's what you need to remember. It's best to avoid the following foods to keep this festive season safe and healthy for your furry friends. If you cook up a beautiful turkey or whole chicken for a feast, keep the poultry bones away from your pets. Poultry bones can break easily during the cooking process. While humans usually know to eat around bones, pets do not. The bones can cause internal punctures when your pet accidentally swallows the cracked and splintered parts. Other possible risks of giving your dog poultry bones include choking, gastrointestinal obstruction and vomiting. Never share cooked bones, and clear your table to avoid any overeager pets from grabbing them. Turkey meat in moderation is OK, but avoid offering turkey skin due to its high-fat content, leading some pets to experience symptoms of pancreatitis, like abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting and fever. Contact your vet immediately if you notice a combination of these symptoms. You likely know pets shouldn't eat chocolate because of its caffeine content. But this isn't the only food component to avoid. Both chocolate and tea contain the naturally occurring substance theobromine, which has similar effects as caffeine and is just as poisonous to cats and dogs. Theobromine and caffeine stimulate the heart and dilate blood vessels. Pets are more sensitive to the effect since they can't metabolize it as efficiently as humans. Head over to your vet as soon as possible if your pet ingests anything containing caffeine and theobromine. You might think a few licks of sweet eggnog won't do any harm, but the safety issue with pets and alcohol lies in the amount they drink. Signs of alcohol toxicity in your pet include slower breathing, low body temperature, low blood pressure, weakness and vomiting. Remember alcohol isn't restricted to drinks only. Many festive pastries may contain alcohol, and raw bread dough containing yeast has an alcohol content, too. Onions and garlic make great seasonings for your holiday foods, but they're not suitable for your pets. Whether raw, cooked or in a powder, both vegetables can cause anemia — a deficiency of red blood cells. You'll also want to keep your pets away from avocados. This fruit contains persin, which can lead to diarrhea or even damage your pet's heart. Not all nuts are dangerous to your pet. But many nuts, such as almonds, pecans and walnuts, contain fats that can lead to vomiting and diarrhea. As the fat found in turkey skin can lead to pancreatitis, so can the fat found in these nuts. Additionally, macadamia nuts are toxic to dogs. If they ingest any, you may see weakness, depression, vomiting or tremors. Not all holiday foods are dangerous for your cozy companions! Enjoy some of these delicious treats with your pets. While you should avoid turkey skin, you can share fully cooked, boneless turkey breast with your pet. Of course, make sure what you set aside for them is free of seasoning and stuffing, as there could be onions, garlic and fat. Turkey meat itself also contains some fat. Give a small amount of white meat, which is lower in fat than dark meat. There are safe and healthy veggies for your pets, including cauliflower, carrots, celery, green beans and sweet potato. Just be sure the vegetables aren't covered in gravy, butter or anything too fatty. Baked bread is an excellent low-calorie filler for your dog. Just be sure there's nothing uncooked in your bread. Raw and uncooked foods can contain bacteria and parasites, which are usually killed in the cooking process. Along with sweet potatoes, you can also give your pet some white potatoes, as long as they're cooked. Raw potato contains solanine, which is toxic to dogs, causing vomiting and diarrhea. Cooked potatoes have less solanine than raw potatoes. However, offering cooked potatoes in moderation is wise to avoid solanine poisoning. The health benefits of pumpkin are plentiful. Pumpkin is rich in nutrients, such as vitamin A, iron and folate. High in fibre and soothing for the stomach, this low-calorie treat can even help with weight loss if you swap it for a portion of kibble. Raw but prepared pumpkin seeds are great when you want to add variety to snacks, as pumpkin seeds contain many antioxidants to help cardiovascular health, for example. But how you prepare pumpkin dishes makes all the difference for pet safety. Avoid sweetened pumpkin pie mixes, which contain many sugars and spices. Also, make sure you give the correct amount of pumpkin or pumpkin seeds based on your pet's weight. For instance, about 5 ml (1 tsp) of canned pumpkin per 4.5 kg (around 10 lbs) each day is suitable. If your pet loves naturally sweet foods, you may want to add apples to their diet. Apples benefit your pet's health, containing antioxidants, vitamin C, fibre, anti-inflammatory phytonutrients and water. First, prepare apples safely for your pet by removing the stem, core and all seeds. Then, peel the fruit, cut it into small chunks and serve it to your pet! Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA! Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 After nearly a year of challenges on and off the ice, Patrik Laine is ready for a fresh start. Former President Trump attacked CNN commentator Van Jones on Sunday as a “lowlife” who never thanked him for helping pass a bipartisan bill in 2018 that reformed parts of the criminal justice system. “Lightweight Political commentator Van Jones begged me, while in the Oval Office and with tears flowing from his eyes, to help get… Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death Khelif was Algeria’s first woman to ever win a gold medal in boxing at the Paris 2024 Olympics