You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Aug 5, 2024, 11:11am GrubHub, Uber Eats, Instacart, DoorDash, Shipt, Postmates—the list of companies delivering your dinner and seeing to your late-night munchies has multiplied like extra takeout chopsticks in the silverware drawer. Gone are the days where your delivery options were limited to your local Chinese food or pizza places. Gone too, are the days of paying someone in cash at the door. Now, with the best credit cards for food delivery services you can earn rewards and receive delivery credits and other benefits. Our editors are committed to bringing you unbiased ratings and information. Our editorial content is not influenced by advertisers. We use data-driven methodologies to evaluate financial products and companies, so all are measured equally. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and the credit card methodology for the ratings below. Up to 5x Reward Rate 
Earn 5x on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3x on dining, select streaming services and online groceries, 2x on allRead More  60,000 bonus points $95 21.49%-28.49% Variable 
						
							Excellent, Good							(700 - 749)						 Like the more expensive Chase Sapphire Reserve®, the Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card offers benefits with DoorDash, among other partners, but at a lower price point. What We Like With the Sapphire Preferred, you can unlock a complimentary subscription to DashPass for a minimum of one year (activate by December 31, 2027). The modest annual fee also grants access to other perks, including hotel statement credits, select travel insurance and 10% bonus points on all eligible purchases made that year on your card anniversary. What We Don’t Like The annual $50 hotel credit helps offset the $95 annual fee, but it can only be redeemed via Chase Travel℠. Who It’s Best For The Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card is an excellent option for both travel reward novices and points and miles experts. Its low annual fee makes it an easy point of entry to travel rewards but doesn’t skimp on benefits. I​​t’s the granddaddy of travel credit cards, but it still earns its reputation as one of the best around with solid bonus categories, strong travel protections, a great set of domestic and international transfer partners and a reasonable annual fee to boot. You can’t go wrong with it as your first travel credit card. Up to 5X Reward Rate 
Earn unlimited 5% back at Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market, and on Chase Travel purchases with an eligible PrimeRead More  Get a $100 Amazon Gift Card $0 20.49% - 29.24% Variable 
						
							Good, Excellent							(700 - 749)						 The Prime Visa offers cash-back rewards at restaurants, Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods (including delivery of prepared foods), plus bountiful rewards at Amazon.com where at-home chefs can find specialty ingredients. What We Like In addition to a welcome offer of a $100 Amazon gift card upon approval with an eligible Prime membership, the card also includes secondary rental collision damage waiver coverage, extended warranty and purchase protections, lost and delayed baggage protection, roadside dispatch, travel accident insurance and access to emergency assistance. Eligible Prime cardmembers also earn 10% back or more on a rotating selection of items and categories on Amazon.com for even more savings. What We Don’t Like While the Prime Visa has no annual fee, you are required to have an Amazon Prime membership to be eligible for the card and earn at these rates, which starts at $139 per year or $69 for students. Who It’s Best For The Prime Visa is an excellent option for people with a Prime membership who make frequent Amazon and Whole Food purchases and want to receive a generous return on their spending. The card is a no-brainer for Amazon Prime members. You’ll be hard-pressed to find another card that offers such a great rewards rate on so many different types of purchases. Up to 10x Reward Rate 
Earn 5x total points on flights and 10x total points on hotels and car rentals when you purchase travel throughRead More  60,000 bonus points $550 22.49%-29.49% Variable 
						
							Excellent							(750 - 850)						 The Chase Sapphire Reserve® isn’t for the occasional traveler due to its high annual fee. But those who can make the most of the card’s bonus categories benefits will get their money’s worth and then some. What We Like The Chase Sapphire Reserve® earns bonus points on restaurant delivery and offers a complimentary DashPass subscription for a minimum of one year plus $5 in DoorDash credits each month (activate by December 31, 2027). It also offers a welcome bonus of 60,000 bonus points after spending $4,000 on purchases in the first three months from account opening. And as a Visa Infinite Card, the Chase Sapphire Reserve® offers a complimentary Shipt membership for on-demand delivery from local stores including Target and CVS. What We Don’t Like The card requires excellent credit for approval and has a high annual fee of $550. Who It’s Best For The Sapphire Reserve makes a lot of sense for frequent travelers who will use the card’s premium travel perks. The Chase Sapphire Reserve card is one of the most valuable flexible rewards credit cards thanks to its lucrative bonus categories and easy-to-use travel credit. Cardholders can offset the annual fee and get great value when redeeming Chase Ultimate Rewards points earned on the card, thanks to partnerships with numerous airlines and hotels and its convenient travel booking portal, Chase Travel℠. 5X Reward Rate 
Earn 5 Membership Rewards Points per dollar on prepaid hotels booked with American Express Travel and on flights booked directlyRead More  Earn 80,000 points $695 See Pay Over Time APR 
						
							Good,Excellent							(700 - 749)						 The Platinum Card® from American Express (Terms apply, see rates & fees) offers Uber Cash when you link the card to an Uber account—a total of up to $200 per year redeemed monthly. Since Uber Cash is good for U.S. rides or Eats, you won’t be limited to just food delivery credits. You can use the credits to either dine in or go out. What We Like The card comes with a truckload of benefits that, if fully utilized, far exceed the annual cost of card ownership. Some of the credits include an up to $200 airline incidental fee credit on an airline you enroll with each year, an up to $199 CLEAR® Plus credit, up to $155 in statement credits toward a Walmart+ membership and an up to $240 digital entertainment credit, received as $20 statement credits monthly. Enrollment is required for select benefits. The card also includes expansive lounge access, myriad travel benefits and hotel status. What We Don’t Like This card has a lofty annual fee of $695. Also, taking full advantage of the credits and perks takes a bit of effort. Who It’s Best For The Platinum Card® from American Express is best for frequent travelers who want to elevate their travel style and fully maximize the card’s benefits. Being an Amex Platinum cardholder grants access to the International Airline Program, which can save you money on first and business class seats on more than 20 airlines as well as premium economy tickets for you and up to seven traveling companions. Start your search on the Amex Travel website to find international flights departing or arriving in the U.S. on any of those premium cabins. Up to 4X Reward Rate 
Earn 4X Membership Rewards® points at restaurants worldwide, on up to $50,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X; EarnRead More  Earn 60,000 points + earn up to $100 back $325 See Pay Over Time APR 
						
							Excellent/Good							(700 - 749)						 The American Express® Gold Card (Terms apply, see rates & fees) has excellent rewards on restaurants and delivery. Monthly credits to popular services also appeal to those who depend on food delivery as a dining staple. What We Like The card provides up to $120 in annual statement credits for eligible restaurants (including Grubhub), payable as $10 per month credits, and up to $120 in annual Uber Cash credits, also payable as $10 per month credits. The card also includes monthly $7 credits to Dunkin’ and semi-annual $50 credits to Resy restaurants. Enrollment is required for select benefits. What We Don’t Like The dining credits are issued in small amounts rather than as a lump sum and are only redeemable at a handful of restaurants and delivery services. If you forget to use them you’re out of luck, making it harder to break even on the annual fee of $325. Beginning Jan. 1, 2025, there’s also a cap of $50,000 per calendar year on your accelerated earnings at restaurants, though that’s high enough that it likely won’t impact most cardholders. Who It’s Best For The American Express® Gold Card is an excellent choice for anyone who spends frequently in the dining and grocery categories. It’s also among the top travel rewards credit cards, making it a well-rounded credit card for most people. This card makes it easy to earn Membership Rewards points while doing regular grocery shopping since the card earns bonus points at supermarkets. And for the nights that cardholders don’t want to cook, they can make use of the monthly dining and Uber credits (which can be used on Uber Eats orders). Up to 8% Cash Back 
Earn unlimited 3% cash back on dining, entertainment, popular streaming services and at grocery stores (excluding superstores like Walmart® andRead More  Earn $200 Cash Bonus $0 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) 
						
							Excellent, Good							(700 - 749)						 If you prefer your food delivery rewards as cash back, check out the Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card. It earns on all types of dining, whether eating in, taking out or having it delivered to your door. What We Like In addition to the standard rewards on the SavorOne, through November 14, 2024 cardholders can earn 10% cash back on Uber and Uber Eats purchases and receive complimentary Uber One membership credits. New cardholders can also take advantage of an introductory APR offer for even more value: 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 15 months; 19.99% – 29.99% variable APR after that; 3% balance transfer fee for the first 15 months, 4% at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer you (rates & fees). What We Don’t Like To take advantage of the 5% back on hotels and rental cars, cardholders are required to book with the Capital One travel portal. Who It’s Best For If you spend heavily on dining out, groceries and entertainment, the unique earning power of the Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card is for you. Theme park lovers and concertgoers will have a hard time finding an equivalent reward rate elsewhere. Up to 10% Reward Rate 
Earn 10% cash back on purchases made through Uber & Uber Eats through 11/14/2024, unlimited 3% cash back on dining,Read More  Earn $50 bonus $0 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) 
						
							Average, Fair, Limited													 Students will likely appreciate that the Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card offers fantastic rewards and benefits with Uber and Uber Eats. What We Like SavorOne Rewards for Students cardholders earn a whopping 10% on Uber and Uber Eats purchases. Plus, through November 14, 2024, Capital One promises to cover their monthly membership fee for Uber One which provides additional savings. The Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card (rates & fees) has no annual fee and doesn’t charge foreign transaction fees so it’s even a good choice for students who plan to travel abroad. The card also offers extended warranty and a complimentary concierge service. What We Don’t Like Students who aren’t prepared to take on the responsibility of a credit card and who end up carrying a balance could easily find themselves in financial trouble with this card’s high APR. Who It’s Best For Students who are just getting started with building credit and want to order in so they can spend more time studying should consider the Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card for its increased earning rates. Up to 6% Reward Rate 
Earn 6% cash back at U.S. supermarkets, on up to $6,000 per year in purchases (then 1%); Earn 6% cashRead More  Earn $250 $0 intro annual fee for the first year, then $95 19.24%-29.99% Variable 
						
							Excellent/Good							(700 - 749)						 The Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express (Terms apply, see rates & fees) earns high rewards at supermarkets whether you pick groceries up yourself or have them delivered. What We Like In addition to higher-than-average earnings on U.S. supermarkets and select streaming services, cardholders can enjoy up to $7 in monthly credits after spending at least $9.99 each month on an eligible subscription to The Disney Bundle for streaming shows at home. Enrollment required. The card also comes with a 0% introductory APR for 12 months on purchases and balance transfers requested within the first 60 days of account opening, followed by a variable APR of 19.24%-29.99% variable. A balance transfer fee of $5 or 3%, whichever is greater, applies. What We Don’t Like The elevated earnings on U.S. supermarkets are capped at $6,000 per year and the Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express charges foreign transaction fees so this isn’t a card you’d want to take abroad. Who It’s Best For Since the Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express’s annual fee is waived during the first year of card ownership, it’s a low-risk option to try for at least a year to see if it is a good fit for your spending habits, especially if you spend a significant amount on groceries, streaming services, transit, or gas. You’ll have a hard time finding a better cash-back rate on groceries and streaming, and the Disney Bundle credit nearly neutralizes the cost of the annual fee. Up to 4X Reward Rate 
Earn 4 points per dollar on dining, takeout, and restaurant delivery and 2 points per dollar at grocery stores, groceryRead More  20,000 bonus points $0 18.24% - 29.24% (Variable) 
						
							Excellent Credit							(750 - 850)						 The U.S. Bank Altitude® Go Visa Signature® Card* serves up plenty of perks in a tidy no annual fee package. And the biggest draw is strong earnings on dining, takeout and restaurant delivery. What We Like With a $15 streaming credit after 11 consecutive billing cycles of paying for a streaming service with the card, you could say the Altitude Go incentivizes you to stay on the couch and order in. As a Visa Signature card, you’ll also get benefits including ID theft Navigator protection, access to the Visa Signature Luxury Hotel collection and access to travel and emergency assistance services. What We Don’t Like The high variable annual fee is something to take note of. Cardholders should exercise caution regarding their statement due date and be sure to pay off their cards in full each month. Who It’s Best For With top-tier earnings on dining, takeout, and restaurant delivery, anyone who regularly enjoys the luxury of someone else preparing their meals will benefit from this card. Up to 4% cash back 
4% cash back on DoorDash and Caviar orders, 3% cash back on dining when purchased directly from a restaurant, 2%Read More  Free Dash Pass for a year $0 20.24% - 28.99% variable 
						
							Good, Excellent							(700 - 749)						 If you’re loyal to DoorDash, you’ll want to look at the DoorDash Rewards Mastercard®. It comes with rewards on your deliveries plus a free year of DashPass and the ability to earn it again by spending on your card. What We Like For a no annual fee card, the benefits on this card add up—assuming you use DoorDash regularly. A complimentary DashPass in your first year of card membership saves on delivery and service fees and earns bonus credits on takeout. Cardholders can also receive $5 off their first order each month during their Free Year of DashPass (expires 9/30/2024). What We Don’t Like The $10,000 annual spending required to renew another 12 months of free DashPass membership is steep and could be better spent on credit cards with stronger overall rewards. Who It’s Best For If you regularly order from DoorDash, Caviar or both, this no-annual-fee card could be the one for you. Forbes Advisor compared dozens of options to find and rank the best credit cards for food delivery. Factors considered include: Forbes Advisor rates cards both as stand-alone products (the card rating on the review) and compared to others in a specific use case. Sometimes, cards with average stand-alone ratings may still rank highly on a particular list according to how a person looking for a card in that category may value certain card features. For instance, a card considered mediocre overall could be the top card on a list of rewards cards with no annual fee. That’s because the card might offer limited features compared to other rewards cards, but after we remove cards that charge an annual fee, it’s the best card that remains. Forbes Advisor uses data from multiple government agencies to determine how much a typical cardholder might spend. We use the same numbers for cards in the same category to make sure we are comparing cards the same way. The bonus categories for spending included with each card are factored into our determination of how many rewards a cardholder could expect to earn if they use the card as a consumer normally would. Forbes Advisor re-evaluates each credit card list at least every 12 months to determine if any cards need to be added and/or removed. However, a list could be updated sooner if significant changes are made to the mentioned cards or if a new credit card is announced that’s likely to impact the category. To learn more about our rating and review methodology and editorial process, check out our guide on how Forbes Advisor rates credit cards. With so many options available, picking the right credit card for food delivery can seem as much a hassle as cooking something yourself—or trying to decide where to order from. Before applying, here are some questions to ask yourself: No single credit card is the best option for every family, every purchase or every budget. We've picked the best credit cards in a way designed to be the most helpful to the widest variety of readers. Food delivery has become a frequent service for many people. If it also has in your household, choosing one of the best credit cards for food delivery could save you money and help you earn big rewards in the long run. However, occasional users might be as well or even better off with a credit card focusing on more general spending. To view rates and fees for The Platinum Card® from American Express please visit this page.
To view rates and fees for American Express® Gold Card please visit this page.
To view rates and fees for Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express please visit this page.
For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the benefits may be provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. Yes, generally most food delivery services such as DoorDash, Uber Eats and Grubhub are considered dining transactions on most credit cards. A few card agreements may exclude online food delivery services so it’s important to check the terms of your card. You do not necessarily need a credit card for food delivery services. Many online services accept debit cards or prepaid credit cards for payment. Some apps also allow you to connect a bank account or other digital financial service, such as Venmo. Even if you choose to pay by credit card, any card will do the trick, including more general cash-back credit cards or ones not specifically geared to delivery, like the best credit cards for restaurants. Yes, you can order food with a credit card on nearly all restaurant websites, food delivery sites and apps or even when ordering by phone. Restaurants offering delivery services outside of a delivery service app or website will typically be categorized as dining or restaurant purchases. 
*The information for the following card(s) has been collected independently by Forbes Advisor: U.S. Bank Altitude® Go Visa Signature® Card. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer.
 
                With more than 50 million redeemed miles under her belt, Becky Pokora is a rewards travel expert. She's been writing about credit cards and reward travel since 2011 with articles on Forbes Advisor, BoardingArea, The Points Guy and more. Her redemptions have helped her travel to more than 50 countries and all seven continents.            