The problem is that Hong Kong’s plastic waste is kept out of sight and out of mind. Waste management is so effective we hardly think about it. This is not to say that used plastic is collected, sorted and recycled optimally. It certainly is not. Out of sight may be nice in our daily lives. But out of mind is an obstacle to innovation, which is premised on solving problems. A lack of understanding of global problems, and more perniciously, a lack of interest, is a mindset problem. Solving it requires breaking out of the parochialism that has plagued Hong Kong in recent years. For example, in life and health technology, Germany-based Wasser 3.0 is working to remove microplastics from municipal drinking water. In fintech, the Plastic Bank, operating in the Philippines, Indonesia, Brazil and Egypt, has pioneered social plastic credits. Artificial intelligence and data science are becoming essential tools in the processing of recycled plastic. UK-based Topolytics uses big data to map the movement of plastics, while Lebanon-based Diwama uses AI-assisted imaging in waste-sorting. Advanced manufacturing is perhaps the most dynamic of the strategic industries for plastic, applicable across the value chain. The Philippines-based Plastic Flamingo has created plastic “lumber”, Japan’s Lixil Group is producing a high-quality paving material from plastic waste and Israel-based UBQ can recycle plastic even when it’s contaminated by food waste. 01:37 Countries agree to end plastic pollution in historic UN resolution One of the most intractable problems in India and lower-income regions is the widespread consumption of multilayer, multi-material sachet packaging, which can neither be recycled nor easily eliminated, and so must be burned, dumped or downcycled. 02:15 Philippine plastic waste crisis spirals as buyers choose cheap sachet packaging In most of the world where plastic has become an acute problem, structural constraints have slowed the development of solutions. Public services like waste collection are limited. Infrastructure is underdeveloped. Public policy and financial incentives to motivate investment are slow to materialise, compounded by weak local operational capacity. Hong Kong enjoys the relative luxury of a world-class infrastructure to manage its waste. But on the issue of plastic, like many others, there is no real understanding of the scale of the problem, even in the surrounding region, creating blind spots to the opportunities. It is only by appreciating the vast differences in socio-economic development that commercial applications for the majority can be uncovered and captured. Indonesia’s industry and government are responding to the threat posed by unmitigated plastic waste to ecosystem health, economic productivity and quality of life. Hong Kong’s innovation and technology leaders would benefit from studying the case of Indonesia, not because it is similar to Hong Kong, but precisely because it is very different. If Hong Kong is to become an international innovation and technology hub, it will need to manage its considerable assets and resources to create new ventures, even developing entire new industries. To do so, entrepreneurs, policymakers, investors and industry leaders need to understand problems beyond the rarefied environment of Hong Kong. Low-carbon transition, universal water and sanitation, services for marginalised urban residents, and global food security are just a few. Working to solve the catastrophic plastic waste crisis will be a good start. Eric Stryson is managing director of the Global Institute For Tomorrow