ACHIEVING SOCIAL IMPACT The Master aims to provide the expertise needed to understand technological innovation, the challenges and opportunities it poses, and to train agents who can steer and govern this innovation through public policy. Learn by doing, through case studies, workshops, active visits to research centres, group works and policy laboratories. Exchange ideas and knowledge with international students and a global faculty. Engage with experts from the ILO and the ITCILO, officials from other international organizations, the expertise of the leading technical university Politecnico di Torino, global practitioners and academia Global trends show that technological innovation, digital transformation and the revolution in artificial intelligence are shaping unprecedented and challenging future scenarios. Public-policy and decision-making processes need to adapt their strategies to respond promptly and effectively to forthcoming challenges and shape a sustainable future from an economic, social and environmental perspective.   To deal with the future challenges posed by technological change, the International Training Centre of the ILO (ITCILO), under the auspices of the Turin School of Development (TSD) and in partnership with the Politecnico di Torino, is offering this Master in Technology and Public Policy - Achieving Social Impact.   Taught by a global faculty, participants will be able to: - understand the features of technological innovation in various fields, from digitalization, green energy and the circular economy to space economy, e-health and the silver economy; - thoroughly examine the links between technological innovation processes and public-policy production; - analyse the social, economic, legal and cultural determinants of technology and its impacts on both the economy and society; - assess public-policy interventions in response to issues arising from the use of new technologies; - design public-policy responses to targeted questions in different technological and institutional contexts and explore how new forms of innovation can contribute to social, economic and ecological sustainability.   Participants will acquire a combination of scientific, technical and policy-analysis tools, techniques and skills for recognizing and anticipating change, while responding to complex situations in their respective fields.   Throughout the course, participants will be supported in the design and development of a specific project addressing challenges posed by the continuous process of technological innovation. This will constitute their final thesis. The Master is intended for officials and/or professionals working in the public administration and international organizations in the fields of economic, technological, industrial and social policy; experts in the public affairs departments of technology companies; practitioners in the field of industrial and employment relations from both the private and the public sector; officials of trade unions and employers' organizations; policy analysts working for national and international think tanks, financial institutions, research departments of banks, insurance companies and foundations; young graduates who intend to pursue a career in public administration, international organizations, NGOs, strategy and policy consultancy firms and leading technology companies.   The essential requirements for admission are a Bachelor's Degree (minimum three years' duration), fluency in English, ability to use a computer and access to the internet. Participants will acquire tools and expertise to  This one-year Master programme is intensive by design. It combines a distance-learning module, a face-to-face component and the preparation of the final thesis. The Master is delivered as a First-level Master’s Degree by the Politecnico di Torino. 1 November 2024 to 25 April 2025 Students learn and practice through an online platform and live webinars Topics covered include:     28 April to 27 June 2025 Students will learn and practice through live classes held by an international faculty. Classes will be held in presence at the ITCILO Campus in Turin. Topics covered include:     30 June to 31 October 2025 Through home-based research, participants complete an original written project related to a specific challenge as final thesis. The project should be based on a specific economic, social and ecological challenge and testable at the country or community level. Tutors and professors will provide guidance. The unique learning path offered by this Master merges theoretical and practical learning methodologies and ensures an extraordinary transfer of knowledge and competences with a multidisciplinary and applied approach. For more than 160 years , Politecnico di Torino has been among the most prestigious European institutions in the fields of learning, research, technological transfer and services . In nowadays ever-changing scenario, PoliTO arises as a leading university worldwide (top 25%) with top-quality study paths in all fields of engineering, architecture, design, and urban planning. Learn more Get updates, stories, and practical information delivered straight to your inbox. International Training Centre of the ILO
Viale Maestri del Lavoro, 10
10127 Turin - Italy
 International Training Centre of the ILO
Viale Maestri del Lavoro, 10
10127 Turin - Italy © 2022 International Training Centre of the ILO. All rights reserved. Privacy.
 © 2022 International Training Centre of the ILO. All rights reserved. Privacy.