Involta, a data center, hybrid IT and cloud-forward consulting firm, ramps up its channel program with the appointment of Michael Joffe, Vice President of Channel. Joffe brings more than 20 years of global experience across the digital infrastructure and technology industries and has a track record of building strategic channel partner programs, including generating multi-cloud data services revenue across multiple markets with hyperscale cloud partners. “Michael’s proven channel success, combined with his keen ability to incubate, launch and scale revenue, makes him a key addition to Involta’s leadership team, especially as we continue our rapid growth trajectory and explore new markets,” said Jim Buie, president and CEO of Involta. “Throughout his vibrant career, Michael’s leadership has helped drive invaluable alliances in the channel with leading organizations, and we are thrilled he will be taking Involta’s channel program to the next level of growth.” Prior to Involta, Joffe held channel-partner-focused roles at several major technology companies, including Lumen, Cisco Systems and Microsoft. Most recently, Joffe was Global Director of Strategic Alliances at Genesys, where he was responsible for key SaaS partnerships resulting in substantial direct pipeline revenue. He also defined, led and championed joint product integration strategies that led to significant expansion into broader markets. “It is such an exciting time to be joining the Involta team and exploring new ways to make our best-in-class cloud, data center and security product offerings even more channel and partner-friendly,” Joffe said. “I’m looking forward to expanding the company’s channel reach while cultivating innovation-focused partnerships to further support Involta’s position as a leader in the digital infrastructure industry.” For more information about Involta’s strategic partnerships and to learn more about its colocation, cloud and security solutions, visit involta.com. ChannelVision is a B2B bi-monthly print magazine and digital content properties read and followed by channel partners selling all manner of voice, data, access, IT and managed services — both on-premises and in the cloud. ChannelVision is a highly focused and efficient way for service providers and hardware and software companies to market to experienced channel partners targeting the small/medium business and enterprises spaces. Contact us: channelvision@bekapublishing.com Copyright © 2024 ChannelVision Magazine