The Kraft Heinz Company (Nasdaq: KHC) has published its 2023 Environmental Social Governance ("ESG") Report, which outlines the company's progress toward achieving its goals of nourishing communities and supporting environmental sustainability through innovative initiatives and partnerships. October 17, 2023 The Kraft Heinz Company (Nasdaq: KHC) has published its 2023 Environmental Social Governance ("ESG") Report, which outlines the company's progress toward achieving its ambitious goals of nourishing communities and supporting environmental sustainability through innovative initiatives and partnerships. The report showcases the advancements made across three pivotal pillars: Healthy Living & Community Support, Environmental Stewardship, and Responsible Sourcing. Miguel Patricio, CEO and chair of the Board of Directors at Kraft Heinz, expressed the company's commitment to responsible leadership in the food industry.  "As we work to lead the future of food, we strive to do so responsibly. And as one of the largest food and beverage companies in the world, we embrace the opportunity that comes with our size and scale to have a profound impact on communities around the world and in the lives of consumers, customers, employees, and partners," he said in a statement. "Together, we are pioneering and advancing solutions that are transforming the products we bring to market to make a lasting, positive impact around us." Under the pillar of Healthy Living & Community Support, Kraft Heinz has undertaken various initiatives. These include the development of data-driven strategies for diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging (DEI&B), leading to an increase in the representation of women in global management positions and people of color in U.S. salaried positions. The company has also strengthened partnerships related to hunger relief, nutrition support, and sustainable food sources. In 2022, Kraft Heinz provided approximately 334 million meals to those in need, making significant progress towards its goal of delivering 1.5 billion meals by 2025. Additionally, the company has made strides in improving the nutrition of its product portfolio, reducing approximately 47 million pounds of total sugar globally. Notably, Capri Sun reduced sugar by 40 percent and ABC® lowered sugar content by 10 percent in its SOTO sweet soy sauce. Waste360 Staff Staff, Informa - Waste360 You May Also Like Copyright © 2024. All rights reserved. Informa Markets, a trading division of Informa PLC.