Or wait...  
News
 
Business 
 
Market trends 
 
Science 
 
Policy 
 
Food safety & quality 
 
Views 
 
Promotional features 
 Site Archive Multimedia 
Sectors
 
Bakery 
 
Beverage 
 
Confectionery 
 
Dairy 
 
Healthy foods 
 
Meat 
 
Prepared foods 
 
Snacks 
 Site Archive Multimedia 
Trends
 
Diet & health 
 
Sustainability 
 
Reformulation 
 
Alternative proteins 
 
Food tech 
 
Start-ups 
 
Innovation & NPD 
 
Packaging & labelling 
 Site Archive Multimedia Resources
 Type of resources Events
 
All events 
 
Shows & conferences 
 
Online events 
 
Editorial webinars 
 Events 

 
23-Mar-2023
                            - Last updated on
                                23-Mar-2023 at 09:03 GMT                         Related tags
Positive Nutrition Summit 2022

 Next week, FoodNavigator will throw a spotlight on innovative approaches to healthier food and drink at Positive Nutrition: Healthy Innovation for the Mass Market. The face-to-face event will run over three days (29-31 March) in central London. Delegates will hear keynote presentations and fireside chats from PepsiCo​, Nomad Foods​, Piccolo​, The Kraft Heinz Company​, GenM​, Danone North America​, and Alexandra Rose Charity​, amongst others. Our full list of speakers can be found here​. In appreciation of our FoodNavigator readers we are offering a unique discount code. To take advantage of this offer, use the code FNREADER25​ ​and you'll benefit from 25% off the ticket price. Being an in-person event, we’ve packed the agenda with quality networking opportunities for you to connect with your peers and discuss the innovation opportunity presented by healthy innovation for the mass market. Highlights include a welcome reception at the venue, a social evening out in central London, and networking lunches. On the content side of things, topics covered will include reformulation approaches to a range of categories, including PepsiCo’s better-for-you snacks. We’ll examine how innovation is shaping the drinks of tomorrow – from collagen-infused water to alcohol-free beverages. Plant-based will also be put under the microscope as we ask how the next wave of meat- and dairy-free products can reinvigorate excitement in the sector. The role of functional ingredients in boosting mental and physical wellbeing is another big topic in nutrition forward formulation, and one we’ll explore through the lens of food as medicine. How food and beverage makers are targeting specific age groups, from infants to ageing populations, will be examined as we ask how brands can better cater to age-related needs. Further details on the programme and available here​. For more information or to register, click HERE​.   Copyright - Unless otherwise stated all contents of this web site are © 2024 - William Reed Ltd - All Rights Reserved - Full details for the use of materials on this site can be found in the Terms & Conditions Related topics
Science
 Upcoming editorial webinars On-demand webinars