businessRetail By  Maria HalkiasStaff writer By  Maria HalkiasStaff writer 8:23 AM on Jul 19, 2023 CDT It took 21 minutes for the line to file in at H-E-B’s 6 a.m. grand opening in McKinney on Wednesday. The staff clapped and cheered as more than 400 shoppers walked in to high fives and fist pumps. Shoppers all had some reason to be there: Brazilian beef, fresh fruit that “lasts a long time,” pink princess philodendrons, $25 gift cards, freebies and a basket valued at $500 for a few folks first in line. Jessica Bustamente, 24 of McKinney, arrived at 4:45 p.m. Tuesday to be first. She sat under a white tent that H-E-B had set up for the 107-degree temperatures to get the $500 basket. “I was 10th in line in Plano and saw her basket,” Bustamente said pointing to Jennifer Burkman, 46, of Frisco who was wearing a special t-shirt with her H-E-B store openings checked off. “The basket is worth it.” The latest on retail openings, closings and trends in D-FW. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy It’s a point of pride. This city wasn’t going to be left out of H-E-B history-making. The retailer’s first opening for its long-awaited Dallas-Fort Worth expansion was in Frisco in September with a line of 1,500 people waiting to get in. A couple of months later in November, Plano had a smaller crowd of about 250. “We have received an exciting and positive response ever since we announced our first location and continue to adapt and grow as we learn from each opening,” said Mabrie Jackson, H-E-B senior director of public affairs. The San Antonio-based supermarket chain had $38 billion in sales last year from more than 430 stores in Texas and Mexico, including a location on the southern reaches of the Dallas-Fort Worth metro in Waxahachie. But after years of buying property and making plans, it finally opened last year in Frisco, with much enthusiasm. The H-E-B at 8700 Eldorado Parkway in McKinney is 118,000 square feet and takes 750 employees to run, from in-store meat cutters and seafood preparers, deli, cheese and bakery, tortilleria, Sushiya sushi and Meal Simple take-home individual and family-size prepared foods. It has a restaurant, H-E-B’s True Texas BBQ restaurant, and a pharmacy too, each with a drive-through. Home decor, kitchen goods, floral and outdoor plants are included as the store tries to be a one-stop shop. Veronica Bonfim, 54, of McKinney showed up at a more reasonable 2:30 a.m. She was a longtime Waco H-E-B shopper. “I grew up in New Mexico, but for us, it started with the Whataburger condiments. They had it first,” Bonfim said. “Then we discovered they had Picanha (Brazilian beef).” “I just wanted to be here,” Bonfim said, adding she does most of her grocery shopping at Walmart and Target but will be doing most of it now at H-E-B. Crystal Dover, 42, of McKinney said she’s new to H-E-B. “We just started shopping there for the first time in Frisco. Their food is so much better. The meat is tender and the fresh fruit lasts longer,” Dover said. Before H-E-B came to the market, Dover said she shopped at Walmart and the Kroger across the street where she’s careful to look at the expiration dates. But what makes shoppers line up early to go grocery shopping? Debi Ladd, 62, of McKinney, said she got up at 3:25 a.m. and remembered the H-E-B circular that came in the mail the day before with a plant she wanted to buy. She brought her WinCo insulated bag with her for ribs and hot dogs. Ladd, a cancer survivor, said when she woke up she decided “Why not?” “This is fun. It’s a food adventure,” she said. “To me, this is the amusement park of grocery stores.” Twitter: @MariaHalkias Looking for more retail coverage? Click here to read all retail news and updates. Click here to subscribe to D-FW Retail and more newsletters from The Dallas Morning News. Maria Halkias, Staff writer. Maria Halkias has covered the retail scene for The Dallas Morning News since 1993. She has chronicled the stark changes in grocery, malls, e-commerce, major bankruptcies and local retail entrepreneurs. 