4.7 This no-fuss, high-earning cash back card is ideal for those who want to earn lucrative rewards for everyday spending with little work.  Annual fee $0 Rewards rate 1%-5% Bonus offer Earn $200 cash back after you spend $1,500 on purchases in the first 6 months of account opening. This bonus offer will be fulfilled as 20,000 ThankYou® Points, which can be redeemed for $200 cash back. Intro APR 0% intro APR on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 15 months Ongoing APR APR: 19.24%-29.24% Variable APR Cash Advance APR: 29.99%, Variable Penalty APR: Up to 29.99%, Variable Balance transfer fee Balance transfer fee applies with this offer 5% of each balance transfer; $5 minimum Foreign transaction fee 3% No annual fee 5% bonus categories Intro APR Period Low rate outside bonus categories The Citi Custom Cash® Card is a competitive contender in the 5% cash back arena. It earns 5% back in one eligible spend category, on up to $500 each billing cycle, and an unlimited 1% back on other purchases. What sets the $0-annual-fee card apart from other 5%-back options is the fact that your rewards are automated and adjusted based on your spending habits each billing cycle. Similar cards typically require cardholders to activate bonus categories each quarter. The automated rewards from the Citi Custom Cash® Card can be a big draw for those looking to earn outsized earnings without added effort, but could be a downside for those looking to maximize rewards on every purchase. While the 5% earning options on the Citi Custom Cash® Card include useful everyday categories like dining and groceries, the $500 cap on those rewards largely limits how much you can earn. And if your spending patterns tend to vary greatly, you may be better off with a more flexible and potentially more lucrative 5% cash back card. » MORE: Best 5% cash back credit cards Card type: Cash back. Annual fee: $0. Sign-up bonus: Earn $200 cash back after you spend $1,500 on purchases in the first 6 months of account opening. This bonus offer will be fulfilled as 20,000 ThankYou® Points, which can be redeemed for $200 cash back. Rewards:  5% cash back on up to $500 spent in your highest spend category per billing cycle (from a list of eligible options, see below). 1% back on other purchases. Special offer through June 30, 2025: Additional 4% back on on hotels, car rentals, and attractions booked on Citi's travel portal.   Rewards are earned in the form of ThankYou Points, which can be redeemed for cash back as a direct deposit, check or statement credit at a value of 1 cent per point. Other redemption options include gift cards, travel or purchases made on Amazon.com. Note that points values will vary depending on what you choose to redeem them for. For example, points redeemed for gift cards might yield a value of 1 cent each, while shopping at Amazon.com will get you a value of 0.8 cent per point in some cases. APR: 0% intro APR for 15 months on purchases and balance transfers and then the ongoing 19.24%-29.24% Variable APR. Foreign transaction fee: 3%. Balance transfer fee: $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. » MORE: Benefits of the Citi Custom Cash Card The Citi Custom Cash® Card earns 5% cash back in your top eligible spending category, on up to $500 each billing cycle (1% back after that). Cardholders can earn this elevated 5% cash back rate in one of 10 fixed bonus categories: Grocery stores. Restaurants. Gas stations. Streaming services. Drugstores. Home improvement stores. Fitness clubs. Select travel. Select transit. Live entertainment. The ability to earn lucrative ongoing rewards in broad and useful everyday spending categories makes the Citi Custom Cash® Card especially valuable, especially considering its $0 annual fee. Some comparable $0-annual-fee, 5% cash back contenders, like the Chase Freedom Flex® and the Discover it® Cash Back, have bonus categories that are chosen by the issuer and that change every three months. The options offered might not be common expense categories for you and therefore might not match up with your spending. (Both of these cards earn 5% cash back on up to $1,500 per quarter in spending in the rotating, issuer-selected categories, and 1% on other spending. To earn the 5%, you have to "activate" or opt into the categories online.)   And while another top 5% cash back card, the U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa Signature® Card, lets you chose your 5% categories, options featured tend to be more narrow and may not yield much everyday value for your spending. (More on this card later.) » SEE: Best credit cards for wellness Since the Citi Custom Cash® Card earns ThankYou points, you can combine rewards with other Citi cards that also earn ThankYou points. This is especially valuable for travelers who have the Citi Strata Premier℠ Card, since you can then transfer your rewards to all of Citi's airline, hotel and retail transfer partners.  With the Citi Custom Cash® Card, in each billing cycle your 5% cash back is automatically adjusted based on your spending in the card’s eligible bonus categories. For example, if you earn 5% back for restaurant spending in one cycle, but begin to spend more heavily at grocery stores the next billing cycle, your bonus category will automatically adjust. You’ll then earn 5% for every dollar you spend on groceries (until you hit the $500 spending cap each billing cycle) and 1% per dollar on all other non-bonus category spending. Compared with most other 5% bonus category cards, the Citi Custom Cash® Card is low maintenance. That's because other such cards typically require you to activate your bonus categories, which means you have to remember to activate your rewards every quarter. Additionally, because rewards on many other cards do not automatically adjust each billing cycle, it can be difficult to keep track of how your spending habits may change from one quarter to another. New cardholders are eligible for the following welcome offer: Earn $200 cash back after you spend $1,500 on purchases in the first 6 months of account opening. This bonus offer will be fulfilled as 20,000 ThankYou® Points, which can be redeemed for $200 cash back. For a $0-annual-fee card, this bonus can get you a nice chunk of change, if you spend the required minimum. Additionally, the card comes with a lengthy introductory interest-free offer that is on par with what other 5% cash back cards feature: 0% intro APR for 15 months on purchases and balance transfers and then the ongoing 19.24%-29.24% Variable APR. This long interest-free window allows you extra time to pay down a large purchase or debts transferred from other cards. Finally, for a limited time, the card is offering extra cash back on certain travel purchased through Citi. You earn an additional 4% cash back on hotels, car rentals, and attractions — but not airfare — booked on Citi's travel portal.  » MORE: Which 5% rotating bonus category card should you choose? The Citi Custom Cash® Card earns 5% on up to $500 spent in your highest spend category per billing cycle, then 1% back on all other spending. If you were to max out the 5% bonus category by spending $500 each billing cycle, you’d earn a meager $25 (excluding the 1% back you can earn thereafter). Plus, if your spending is greatest in a bonus category that lends itself to high monthly spending, such as groceries, it wouldn’t take you much time to hit the card’s bonus cap. The U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa Signature® Card is a 5% cash-back card that features a more generous spending cap. It earns 5% back on the first $2,000 in combined eligible purchases each quarter in two categories that you choose (see the options below). However, unlike the Citi Custom Cash® Card, cardholders must opt in to bonus categories each quarter to earn the elevated rewards rate. Here's the full list of 5% categories on the U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa Signature® Card:  Fast food. Home utilities. TV, internet and streaming. Department stores. Cell phone providers. Electronics stores. Sporting goods stores. Movie theaters. Gyms/fitness centers. Furniture stores. Ground transportation. Select clothing stores. » MORE: NerdWallet's best credit cards for groceries While your 5% earning category can change to reflect your spending habits, you’re limited to earning elevated rewards on just one spending category per billing cycle. And non-bonus category spending will only get you 1%. If your spending typically varies within a one-month period, you won’t earn high rewards for all of it. If you have to pay close attention to how much you're spending in certain categories each month, the card becomes higher maintenance for you in order to maximize your earnings. There are other 5%-back cards that offer ongoing bonus tiers on additional spending. The aforementioned U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa Signature® Card, for example, earns 2% cash-back in one "everyday" category of your choice, in addition to the two 5%-back categories you can choose. Similarly, the Chase Freedom Flex® offers 3% back on dining and drugstores, along with the 5% you’ll earn in quarterly bonus categories. For a predictable and easy card that still gets you a solid cash back rate, consider the Citi Double Cash® Card. It earns a flat rate of 2% back: 1% when you make a purchase and the other 1% when you pay your bill. Or, consider pairing the Citi Custom Cash® Card with the Citi Double Cash® Card. If you plan your spending, you could earn 5% on one top category each cycle and 2% on all other purchases. To see other credit card offers, check out NerdWallet's best credit cards. » MORE: Credit cards that earn 2% cash back or more The Citi Custom Cash® Card stands out among other 5% cash-back cards for its automatically adjusted bonus category. Although cardholders will be able to easily earn high rewards in useful categories like dining and groceries, the billing cycle spending cap limits how much can be earned with the card. If you’re willing to put in some work to maximize your rewards and increase your spending cap, a different 5% cash back card might be a better option for you. » MORE: NerdWallet's best cash back credit cards This card earns 5% back on the first $2,000 in combined eligible purchases each quarter in two categories that you choose, as well as 2% in an "everyday" category you choose and 1% on other spending.  NerdWallet reviews credit cards with an eye toward both the quantitative and qualitative features of a card. Quantitative features are those that boil down to dollars and cents, such as fees, interest rates, rewards (including earning rates and redemption values) and the cash value of benefits and perks. Qualitative factors are those that affect how easy or difficult it is for a typical cardholder to get good value from the card. They include such things as the ease of application, simplicity of the rewards structure, the likelihood of using certain features, and whether a card is well-suited to everyday use or is best reserved for specific purchases. Our star ratings serve as a general gauge of how each card compares with others in its class, but star ratings are intended to be just one consideration when a consumer is choosing a credit card. Learn how NerdWallet rates credit cards. Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105