Business By  Maria HalkiasStaff writer By  Maria HalkiasStaff writer 7:00 AM on May 31, 2023 CDT H-E-B is opening its new e-commerce fulfillment center in Plano this summer, but that doesn’t mean people in Dallas will be eligible for its grocery deliveries yet. The facility is hiring 125 people to take over more of the delivery and curbside business for H-E-B’s Plano and Frisco stores and two more that open this summer first in McKinney and then in Allen. A second store in Frisco is under construction in Denton County near Little Elm. The 55,000-square-foot fulfillment center is attached to the Plano store that opened on the southwest corner of Preston Road and Spring Creek Parkway in November. Become a business insider with the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Customers will see more slots open for both curbside and deliveries from the speedier operation, said Kedar Patel, H-E-B’s group vice president of e-commerce fulfillment. The goal is to make orders faster, and more accurate with fewer substitutions, but also to free up store aisles and to give employees more time to help in-store customers, he said. The robots pick items from bins and deliver orders to an employee at a packing station. The robots pick from several thousand products stored in the fulfillment center that H-E-B knows are commonly purchased by its online shoppers, Patel said. The tens of thousands of items in the store are accessible to complete orders if needed. While refrigerated red H-E-B trucks will transport orders to nearby stores for customer pickup, deliveries to customers’ homes will be made by H-E-B drivers in regular vehicles that aren’t refrigerated. That’s why even with the new fulfillment center, deliveries will be made within a 5-7 mile radius of the existing Plano and Frisco stores, as well as new stores opening this year in McKinney and Allen. The Plano facility is the first e-commerce fulfillment center in North Texas for H-E-B, a chain of 420 stores in Texas and Mexico with sales last year of $34 billion. It’s the sixth such in-store fulfillment center. Another e-commerce fulfillment center opened last year and is attached to a Leander store in Central Texas near Georgetown and Austin. Three more are in the San Antonio market and one is in Katy, west of Houston. What will it take for H-E-B groceries to be delivered to Dallas addresses? It’s going to take H-E-B stores built nearby in Dallas neighborhoods, Patel said. The company’s Dallas-based Central Market division has been making deliveries from its six stores in Dallas-Fort Worth for several years. H-E-B’s technology operating the fulfillment center is proprietary and was developed by H-E-B’s tech center opened in Austin after the purchase of delivery service Favor.  Last week, Walmart opened its second of what it calls a micro fulfillment center inside the Walmart Supercenter across from its headquarters in Bentonville. Grocers were building up their e-commerce networks well before the pandemic and then accelerated investments in curbside and delivery during the health crisis. While online grocery shopping growth rates have subsided from pandemic peaks, grocers are still spending money on e-commerce because the channel is still expected to grow as a share of total grocery spending. H-E-B, followed by Costco, in January, supplanted Amazon as the top U.S. grocer in the latest industry rankings from the Dunnhumby retailer preference index. Walmart said that it’s starting to roll out its in-store automated fulfillment centers for online customer orders, but none have been announced in North Texas yet. Two years ago, it was going to use a closed North Dallas store on North Central Expressway just north of I-635 for a dedicated online fulfillment center but never followed through after closing the store. The first one for Walmart opened in a store in Salem, N.H., in January 2020. Walmart uses Alphabot robotics storage and retrieval system designed for the retailer by Massachusetts-based Alert Innovation. Kroger last summer opened its automated e-commerce center in southern Dallas that serves as a source for deliveries around D-FW and to hubs located as far as Austin, San Antonio and Oklahoma City. Twitter: @MariaHalkias Looking for more retail coverage? Click here to read all retail news and updates. Click here to subscribe to D-FW Retail and more newsletters from The Dallas Morning News. Maria Halkias, Staff writer. Maria Halkias has covered the retail scene for The Dallas Morning News since 1993. She has chronicled the stark changes in grocery, malls, e-commerce, major bankruptcies and local retail entrepreneurs. 