FOUNTAIN, Colo. — The City of Fountain is getting its first King Soopers store. King Soopers will anchor a 21-acre shopping development at the southeast corner of Mesa Ridge Parkway and Syracuse Street in Fountain. "We are excited to join the Fountain community and to serve the residents of the Fountain Valley at this future location," King Soopers Corporate Affairs Manager Jessica Trowbridge said. "At King Soopers we are 'Fresh for Everyone' and we look forward to providing fresh, affordable and delicious food, in a one-stop shopping location." The city said the new store will benefit residents by broadening access to fresh food, a pharmacy and an assortment of goods and services. The 21-acre site development is estimated to open by 2025. "Our city has continued to experience a lack of grocery and retail services to meet the demand of our growing community," Fountain Mayor Sharon Thompson said. "We are appreciative that Kroger has recognized the need and are delighted that they are investing in the Fountain area to establish their premier brand of services in our community." "We’ve looked forward to this day for quite some time," said Russell Perkins of Evergreen Devco, the developer of the project. "The city staff and residents have been clear about the need for additional retail services — particularly in the grocery category. It’s been awesome to work with city leadership to finally make this a reality and we expect this shopping center to generate some excitement." "To support this development, the city is expanding its city transit system to ensure equitable access to grocery and retail services is met by our residents throughout the City of Fountain," Thompson said. The new Fountain King Soopers is the second new grocery store announced in Colorado this week. The Town of Frederick announced a 123,000-square-foot King Soopers Marketplace store will open at Colorado Boulevard and Highway 52, north of the Denver metro area. SUGGESTED VIDEOS: Colorado Guide Watch more from 9NEWS on the free 9NEWS+ app for Roku and Fire TV. 9NEWS+ has multiple live daily shows including 9NEWS Mornings, Next with Kyle Clark and 9NEWS+ Daily, an original streaming program. 9NEWS+ is where you can watch live breaking news, weather updates, and press conferences. You can also replay recent newscasts and find videos on demand of our top stories, local politics, investigations and Colorado specific features. To download 9NEWS+ on Roku search for KUSA. To download 9NEWS+ on Fire TV search for 9NEWS. RELATED: Watch 9NEWS for free on ROKU, Apple TV, Fire TV Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     In Other News Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.